[{"Title":"Very funny if you live in Smith's world","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"58 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I guess that people can be split in two ways - those that like Kevin Smith's films and those that don't.  From watching his films, he seems to like his characters to exist in his strange world where things are exaggerated and ridiculous characters do unrealistic things.That sums up Mallrats - it's the story of two friends who both lose their girlfriends and then spend the rest of the day hanging around in the local mall.  Whilst hanging around they meet friends and get into scrapes as they strive to get their girlfriends back.I suppose if you looked at it coolly it's all a bit silly - fully of ridiculous situations and scrapes that are resolved in unbelievable ways. But then if you accept Smith's world of comic book style adventures and cartoon film making then this is great.  Whereas his later Chasing Amy brings adult subjects into the comedy - this is pure cartoon comedy, although understand it's not dumb like slapstick - but crazy, clever humour with plenty of jokes occuring all around the main action.OK the overall plot is weak at best, but the story is more about the characters and the situations along the journey to the end of the film and here is where Smith wins.  He has created crazy characters that are funny and often exaggerated versions of people or of people's reactions to situations (witness the magic-eye poster guy for an example of exaggerated humour).Lee is fantastic, this is the role he was made for - he reacts in an exaggerated way to everything and really hams it up.  I suppose he's a comic-book reading loser but in this world he is funny and in control.  He is loud and abusive to others and it's great!  Jeremy London is a weak straight man and doesn't really convince.Jay & Silent Bob are good as always - although for most of the movie they exist in their own little subplot of taking on the mall police.  Again their adventures are exaggerated for humour.If you hated Clerks and Smith's other movies then you'll hate this. However if this world is one that appeals to you then you'll love this movie's reckless abandonment of reality and enjoy the adventures involved in a trip to the mall. "},{"Title":"Best watched with eyes closed?","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"53 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As most Smith fanboys know, Mallrats has been trashed critically, financially (bad box-office) and by a lot of Smith's own fan-base.Personally I like it. Even without watching the DVD with commentary by Smith its obvious that this outing was backed by Hollywood, emitting a polish and lack of gloom that his other films don't have and thus gaining flack over its lack of Indie look and feel and hammy storyline. Had this film been in black in white, shot using a cheaper production method, or had a less happier ending, it possibly would have fared better with the fans than it did.Listen to the dialogue though and its soon apparent this is indeed pure Smith. And it shines. The long diatribes about seemingly nothing, the anti-establishment rumblings of Brody (who ironically spends a lot of the film clarifying escalator ettiquite and other mall law), and a bigger involvement of Jay and Bob (but not too much) make this as good, if not better than the other Kevin Smith films and quite possibly my favourite of his.Its hard to rate this film, you'll either really like it and give it a 10 or tuck into another chocolate pretzel after giving it a 1.  "},{"Title":"Wow is the only thing to say here.","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"44 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this is an incredible movie and if your a clerks fan (which I'm assuming is the only Kevin smith film you've seen because its blasphemous to watch them out of order) then this is even better. mallrats is the kind of movie you watch once on DVD and don't take it out of the drawer, because you know you'll wanna watch it later. its laugh out loud funny and anyone remotely interested in the inner workings of a geek or, like me, you are a geek, then this will give voice to the geek generation and make it cool. Recently, The OC has made comic books cool in the form of Seth Cohen. but before there was Seth, there was Brodie.easily the greatest character lee has ever played and the best character that Smith has ever written, Brodie is obsessed with two things, Comics and himself. and as long as the two are together, he doesn't care. which is exactly what must be changed. ill let you find out how.jay and silent bob make a welcome comeback in a slightly more central role with a lot more to do. with hilarious results.i originally put 8 for this movie. but thinking about it again its a 10 and its going in my movies ) l8er days PaUl ) "},{"Title":"Excellent satire","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"39 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is really extremely funny.That is, if you are into either Comics, Science Fiction or Shopping Malls.The basic idea is simple Two dumped guys try to win their girl-friends back, and their brilliant strategy is to hang around in the local shopping mall.What makes the movie work is the wonderful mix of slap stick humor, intelligent puns and gross sexual innuendos. The actors are excellent in their roles, and I was surprised to see Ben Affleck and Claire Forlani, two coming actors, credited for supporting roles.For a comic fan this movie is a awfully funny experience. But I can imagine that the film looses some of its appeal when you are not familiar with the Marvel and DC comic heroes and the strange passion (and science) of collecting comic books.And to everybody who has also failed in seeing a sailboat in those dumb 3-D-pictures, this movie provides some comfort... "},{"Title":"It's not there to win any awards. It's not there as a cinematic masterpiece. It's just there.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The second movie in Kevin Smith's 5 film View Askewniverse series is Mallrats - a charming comedy about two losers, who, after being dumped by their girlfriends decide to spend a day at the mall. - and try and win their girls back. Jason Lee and Jeremy London play the dumped-and-depressed duo of ex-boyfriends who both succeed in bringing to life the characters of . Shannen Doherty and Claire Forlani - the two ex-girlfriends also perform well here. It's been said - not just by critics and fans, but by Kevin Smith himself, that Mallrats is a bad movie - and by far the worst of his 5. Personally, I rate this 3rd... with Dogma in front, and Chasing Amy last - I found this movie to be funny, charming and completely entertaining. Ben Affleck's character was also funny to watch. Jay & Silent Bob appear to add the cartoon comedy flavour, while Stan Lee cameos in an hilarious performance of himself.I liked the script and the way that the movie was paced, although at times seemed like the scenes were stretched further than they should be. The sets were good and the lighting and cinematography is good also. I don't really have any major gripes about this film, it's just that, there are better movies in Kevin Smith's series. "},{"Title":"enjoyable humor","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Many people are down on this movie, but I found it funny and enjoyable. I wish the movie was a little bit longer and there was room for more stuff it seems. Jason Lee does a great job as Brodie the bum Bruce, Jeremy London stinks as T.S. Quint. Mallrats has memorable lines and scenes. Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith are stellar as well as the rest of the cast of characters except for Ben Affleck who I can do without in this movie. I think you will like this film if you enjoy the mall. "},{"Title":"Wacky Comedy in a Shopping Mall","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Mallrats' but is the kind of film you either like or don't like which is pretty much the case with any Kevin Smith movie. I liked it. I enjoyed all the dirty street humour, the awkwardness, the characters and the concept.It's full of slapstick comedies, comic book 'adventure' and some witty (and dirty) dialogues. Even though many of the situations are unrealistic, it's hilarious.'Mallrats' is about two friends who both lose their girlfriends. The two friends spend the rest of the day in the mall discussing things and what to do about them. In the mall they meet some friends, enemies, and weirdos. Though the plot isn't what would be referred to as a work of 'genius', it's more the characters and the funny situations that will stick to mind.The only sequence I didn't like was the toilet humour bit, about making the hand stink. That sort of brought down the film a little. The film was already on the right track with its funny characters and funny situations. There was no need for toilet humour.London and Lee play the two friends. London is okay while Lee is very good. He pretty much steals every scene. Doherty and Forlani are adequate. Lauren Adams is brilliant in a brief role and Affleck is good as the evil Salesman. Mewes and Smith are alright (though some may feel that they go a little over the top).So all in all, you'll meet some very weird (and not-so-weird) characters and exaggerated situations but I think you'll at least have some good laughs. It's one of the better comedies from a country that has made dozens of blockbuster garbage like 'American Pie'. "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats tells the story of two friends who are dumped by their girlfriends on the same day. They seek solace at the local mall where they hang out all day doing nothing but talk about their girlfriends and comic books. They get into a series of situations that eventually leads to the two enlisting the help of slackers Jay and Silent Bob to get their girlfriends back. This is the second film in the New Jersey series by Kevin Smith. This entry is miles better than its predecessor Clerks.I loved how Kevin Smith did this movie. Kevin Smith is a comic book geek, so I'm glad he made a movie to portray that taste. Comic book lovers will truly enjoy all the references and parodies within the film. I know I did. That's what made the movie even more enjoyable to me. The appearance of Stan Lee was the cherry on the ice cream for me. Aside from that, this movie is just paced and styled better than Clerks was. This was non stop laughs whereas Clerks was more of a satirical black comedy. Also, a lot happened throughout the film even though it only takes place within a day and within the same mall, rather than Clerks which was slow moving and downright boring in some parts.I enjoyed the acting in this movie. Jason Lee is hilarious as comic book fanatic Brodie Bruce. Jay and Silent Bob have a lot more to do in this film than in Clerks, and they make some of the funniest scenes in the movie.Overall, Kevin Smith had his practice with Clerks, so he had the resources to make a better film, and he certainly did. If you liked Clerks, or even if you didn't, you'll love Mallrats.8/10 "},{"Title":"Oh please everybody, this movie is great!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"42 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To everybody who did not like this movie You are not obviously Kevin Smith fans. I am, and everyone one of the NJ3 are great. This one is just different. Shannen Doherty is surprisingly cool in this one, and Jason Lee is hysterical. Jay and Silent Bob are hysterical as usual, and everyone else is great. Watch if you are a Smith fan, just keep an open mind.  "},{"Title":"My Ultimate in Pubescent Guilty Pleasures","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After being dumped by their girlfriends, T.S. Quint(Jeremy London) and Brodie Bruce (Jason Lee) go to the mall to keep their minds off the situation. Soon, however, thoughts turn to getting their ladies back and the dynamic duo will have to fight mall security, a fashionable male (Ben Affleck) and a game show producer (Michael Rooker) in order to succeed.Writing a fair review of Mallrats is one of the hardest things for me to do, and it is no surprise that I have not done so in all the years I have been writing reviews. The film came out when I was fourteen, and I went to see it with my cousin at the local mall after a rousing bus trip. We had seen the ambiguous advertisements in the back of comic books for months and just knew this was something we had to see. Once in the theater, we were practically alone -- there were only three other people, including a younger woman and her grandmother, both of whom walked out early on.For whatever reason, I identified with this film. I had not yet seen Clerks and I did not have the background in film to really understand all the references to Jaws or Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid or Apocalypse Now. But the potty humor mixed with the intelligent dialogue (even about scatological topics) hit home with me, and even now -- seventeen years later -- it remains my favorite film, despite my knowing full well it is not critically wonderful and often sexually crude.I have given the film a high rating because I simply cannot get enough of it. I have the trading cards that were sold at the time, I have visited the Eden Prairie Center where the movie was filmed (it is in Minnesota, not New jersey, strangely enough). But, I want to stress this my high rating does not by any means indicate this is a critically beautiful film. Read the reviews of the professionals at the time (Ebert, Maltin, and others) and you will see that it was more or less expected to bomb (although I think in hindsight many more people found the film to their liking).Are there flaws? You bet. Watch Jeremy London, for example. A horrible, horrible actor. Even with these odd, scripted conversations he comes off as forced, and if you watch him while another actor is speaking, you can see him physically preparing himself to speak his lines. He cannot become the character of T.S. Quint, he can only be Jeremy London. Shannon Doherty, likewise, just does not seem to hack it... she is a better actress than many, but this film just did not work for her. She comes off as a reject from Empire Records, and some lines she delivers make it seem she is not familiar with the subject matter.Despite the flaws, I am still praising this film. Watch Clerks first (even though this one takes place first in chronological order). If you like Clerks, try this one. Then try Chasing Amy. All three are great. Personally, I think Kevin Smith's films went downhill after that (although Red State is redeeming). He may disagree and I know many of the fans do. But if you do not mind intelligent potty humor, Mallrats is for you. "}{"Title":"Actors? We don't need no steenkin' actors","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" From the opening joke about a guy who is multiply arrested for sticking cats up his backside - to get the gerbil out - my heart sank. If Jason Mewes is the best actor in a film you know you have real trouble. I can only assume this was a misguided attempt to make a John Hughes movie but a bit edgier for an older audience. Unfortunately no one can deliver even the good lines naturally and it fails to create an air of Askewniverse. It's just bad actors in contrived situations moving their hands a lot.In the intervening years Jason Lee has learned to act, Ben Affleck remains a mysterious practical joke that Hollywood continues to perpetrate on the world. "},{"Title":"Wretched Wretched Wretched","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is good at one thing and that is making chains of bad movies! Add another link because the acting in this one is pathetic and the humor is 6th grade at best. Even that is pushing it. If you don't like Kevin Smith movies, this is one you will hate as well. I could only bear 20 minutes of this waste of film space! "},{"Title":"Truly, genuinely horrible","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is about two of the most unlikable, unsympathetic losers ever portrayed in recent memory.  They get dumped by their girlfriends - really they should get dumped by the entire world.  They are self-centered in the extreme, immature in the extreme, and incredibly annoying.  The whole movie is based on a single gimmick  take an actual conversation, transcribe it into Microsoft Word, then use the thesaurus tool to replace every adjective with more obscure ones.  That's it.  It goes on without pause for the entire film - people talk about nothing in this clever way.  I just saw the film last night and I honestly can't remember a single topic of any conversation that took place.  Needless to say, the two main characters are beyond shallow.  They don't have any personalities other than that they like video games, comic books, and they just will not stop talking - ever.  Even though they never say anything.  We're supposed to be impressed by the clever use of oddball words, for instance calling a pool table a gaming table. Man, wouldn't you just love to sit through two hours of people doing this?  Let me tell you, it makes Pauly Shore and his screwball take on Valley Girl talk seem enjoyable by comparison.There are other characters  Shannon Doherty puts in a cameo.  She's really the only likable character in the movie, and says about the only funny line. Some other girl who's name doesn't deserve to be remembered plays the other loser's girlfriend.  She recites a few lines of dialog at the beginning, a few more towards the end.  Another girl named Gwen starts out all right, she's like Kelly Bundy from Married with Children, except twice as slutty, but by the end of her part she's speaking via the thesaurus as well.  Jay and Silent Bob?  Jay is a stoner who acts like he's got to go to the bathroom really bad;  Bob is just a fat idiot who spends the whole movie pointing his hand at things and trying to use the force to move objects. There's also a comic book writer who shows up to inject a large amount of padding into a scene.  The head doofus asks him if that guy from the Fantastic Four who was made out of rock, well, was his you-know-what made out of rock as well?  Is that wacky or what?  Ha ha.  This goes on and on.Overall, this movie is flat out unwatchable.  The special features on the DVD are a joke as well.  It's advertised as having over an hour of deleted scenes.  The first ten minutes of these deleted scenes consists of a film of an unused script.  Actual film of the script, you know, hold the camera in front of the paper and slowly pan down.  About two thirds of the scenes are the writer talking about the scenes.  There's supposedly a trailer on the DVD as well - good luck trying to find it. "},{"Title":"Did Kevin Smith set out to make the worst film in history?","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've seen some bad films in my time. I've seen some films that could most charitably be described as rotten. But 'Mallrats' beat them all. It not only made my list of the ten worst movies of all time, it took first place on the list.I kept waiting for someone to act. No one ever did. I waited for the director to show that he had some idea of what film making is all about. That never happened. I thought that, at least, the writing would eventually show that there was some reason why this film was made, but when the credits finally, mercifully, rolled, no reason whatever had yet appeared.I'll say this for the movie, though it didn't score a perfect '10' and so achieve the distinction of being a total loss. There was one scene where, for between three and ten seconds, something approaching reality actually took place. That was when T.S.'s old girlfriend kicked him in the groin.I just hope that audiences and the motion picture industry don't hold this movie against the cast. Perhaps, just perhaps, a few of them may actually have the ability to entertain. If so, in this movie, they never got a chance to show it.If Mr. Smith decides he wants to produce and direct another film, I'd strongly advise him to get a fifth grader to write his screenplay. He'd be light years ahead.  "},{"Title":"You can't go wrong with Kevin Smith!!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"20 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Granted, it's weaker than his other three films to date. On the other hand, a weak Kevin Smith movie is stronger than a strong film by most other writers/directors. This film is hilarious! It takes mall culture to a higher level! A good contrast to Richard Linklater's/Eric Bogosian's Suburbia, though it's better than Suburbia in most ways. Many of the pop culture refs and the satire of young adult life make this film even cooler! And how the hell did he get Stan Lee to appear? (And he was surprisingly really good!)This is Shannen Doherty's best role (mainly because she's hardly ever on screen;), Jason Lee's best role, and Jeremy London's best role (not to be confused with twin brother Jason who was the awesome Randall Pink Floyd in Dazed and Confused...though Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams were both in Dazed as well...)Look for an amusing role played by Ethan Suplee (Seth in American History X)Overall this film just plain rocks! It's got great quirky writing, great direction, solid acting, a three-nippled topless clairvoyant, a hilarious love connection parody, a 15 year old nympho (played by the amusing Claire Forlani), Stan Lee...what more could one ask for?? It's not his best, it has flaws, but it's still classic Smith! An easy 7/10! "},{"Title":"Mallrats (1995)","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Mallrats' (1995) was Kevin Smith's ('Clerks' 1994) second feature and first Hollywood movie. Before this, his idea of a big budget film was $30,000 movie with the help of friends and local actors. The budget for this movie was now $6,000,000 and had a much larger crew and professional actors. The film was released in October of 1995 and met with both critical and box office failure, only boxing 2,000,000. The movie, however found success on home video and has since become a cult classic.The film's main problem is that Kevin Smith, famous for making movies different from the mainstream comedies, tries to hard to make a normal comedy. He rich dialog is wasted on un-lovable characters with a weak plot. "},{"Title":"To learn that of life's lessons&#133; just take a trip to the mall.","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After being dumped by their girlfriends, T.S and Brodie decide to head to the mall for the day to forget their worries. But after all the mayhem they manage to get up to in the mall, they just can't get their ex-girlfriends off their mind. So the two team up with the help of Jay and Silent Bob to come up with a plan to win them back. Though, they got the likes of T.S' girlfriend's dad and that of a scummy store manager to overcome before winning back their girls.Don't you just love the self-loathing, slacker generation! After the huge and promising success that was Clerks for director/writer Kevin Smith. Obiviously there was pressure to repeat that winning formula with his follow up. Even though Mallrats is a more bigger and polished studio bound production of Clerks set in the mall, it just didn't take off at all. It came and went by with little interest. Maybe it doesn't hold that fundamentally cunning humour and smarting realism that made the low budget film Clerks originally quirky and fresh. I'm not a big fan of Smith's work, as I've only caught his first three flicks and I still think his third film Chasing Amy is the best. But this commercially mainstream project isn't all a failure, because the film still does come up with an entertaining tale of laid-back characters with a muster of jokes set-up in a mall. Definitely much more crass and juvenile are the gags this time and somewhat the humour tries to be funny than naturally being it. But what compensates it is that there was a continuous roll with one after another, so if one didn't work out there's another that would hopefully evoke a laugh. The film is actually made up of little episodes that happen throughout the day with something endlessly popping up and many characters deciding to make a scene. It's all over the place you can say. There are some memorably comical sequences like that of the Stan Lee cameo, the Easter bunny and that of the cheesy date game show. But there's one lewd segment involving chocolate pretzels, which will make you barf.What makes this quite fun is that of the lively performances of Jason Lee's self-absorbed Brodie and the always reliable pairing of Jay and Silent Bob. Also adding to the enjoyable mess are Shannon Doherty, Claire Forlani, Jeremy London, Joey Lauren Adams, Priscilla Barnes, Michael Rooker and a slimy performance by Ben Affleck. The spontaneous dialog is self-conscious with its referential gags and it's filled with a carefree attitude and pure nonsense amongst the stemming wisdom and frankness. Especially those facts considering that of the mall's customs and the respect it deserves. Heck! I should know, as I had a friend that persistently visited the mall everyday&#133; just to be there for the sake of it. Though, I thought it turned into moralistic babble in the dying stages. But these things don't take away from sarcastic interplay and skits that are generated throughout the running time, even though it really seems like an eccentric melodrama with humorous overtones at times. A nice bubblegum rock soundtrack crops up to mould itself within the context and the camera-work has a professional touch too. The best way to take it is to see it as good undemanding fun!Smith tried outdoing himself here, but sometimes it doesn't work and it seems more conventional than his other films, but that doesn't stop this from being alluringly amusing and satisfying when you comes to the ending credits. "},{"Title":"A Cursed Afflection","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.  Another show about a show as a poor substitute for the scaffolding of the Divine Comedy used for `Clerks.'  What is interesting is the DVD commentary which tells us a lot about Ben Affleck. Some bad actors don't annoy me, but Ben and Matt really do. That's because of the damage they did to the mind behind the art in `Good Will.'  Here, you get a feel for where Ben comes from, and Kevin bears some of the blame. The idea is `Hey! let's get a buncho friends together and make a movie. It will be about superficialities, but that's the point.' But Kevin knows who he is goofing on and it is all in good fun. Ben doesn't, and it isn't. Kevin is smarter than his subject, Ben very much dumber.  He convinced Smith and Mosier to help him out, so they produced `Will,' leveraging their own goodwill. With `Will' the vision was less tight than with a Smith-written bit so the studio was able to gloss it up.  But you can see Ben in his real persona here. As his career grows (as it surely will) this film will become more and more a goof on him than a goof on Jay. You can see the influence of Bob and Jay in Will's characters. "},{"Title":"Not so clever","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow! Bad acting and a not very witty script mixed with a lame plot. What is Mallrats? This film was a wannabe Marx Brothers movie, without humor. I have never seen lines delivered with such little inspiration. It was almost like the characters got one read off of a cue card and that was a wrap. I am sure that Smith thought the jokes were witty as hell on paper, but they lost something in the transition to the spoken word.I loved Clerks and Chasing Amy, but this movie sucked! "},{"Title":"Why oh why","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film and its characters and the dialogue are so unbearably bad I thought I would vomit. I made it through the end because of the trusty forward button on my DVD player. And because it was a free rental. And I guess because I wanted to see how this silly movie ended.Crude language and concept aside- yes there's a spoiler coming up-Jason Lee's character wins his girlfriend, Shannen Doherty back by outing a statutory rape video in which Ben Affleck's character appears- all of the characters are incredibly unsympathetic. They never learn or change. Sure, it's a comedy, so there ought to be a necessary level of one-dimensionalism at play, but how these two men got girlfriends in the first place is beyond me. I'll be quite glad to be one of those people who just don't get it! "}{"Title":"Mr. Smith Goes to the Mall","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's Easter in an apparently upscale American community. After they are dumped by their girlfriends, best friends Jason Lee (as Brodie Bruce) and Jeremy London (as T.S. Quint) decide to go to the local mall. They want to hang out and have a cookie. Naturally, their ex-girlfriends are there. Shannen Doherty (as Rene Mosier) is with her new lover, fashionable male Ben Affleck (as Shannon Hamilton). Joey Lauren Adams (as Gwen Turner) is going to appear on a Dating Game-type TV show as a favor to her father...By adopting a slacker look, Mr. Lee is somewhat convincing. However, the cast appears around ten years too old for the situation. Possibly directed to appear fidgety, Mr. London looks uncomfortable. Then considered the biggest star in the cast, top-billed Ms. Doherty essays her usual high-school impersonation. Mallrats like Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith (as Jay and Silent Bob) appear. Mr. Smith is also the writer and director. Introduced in front of a store selling gerbils, Smith shows some quirky, anal humor.** Mallrats (10/25/95) Kevin Smith ~ Jason Lee, Jeremy London, Shannen Doherty, Ben Affleck "},{"Title":"Just Plain Bad","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith is not a good director. God only knows why some people enjoy his work, and it's an even greater mystery why studios keep giving him money to make his awful films. The only decent movie he's ever made was 'Zack and Miri', and that was because he deviated almost entirely from his usual style. Mallrats, however, is typical of his style. The writing is bad, the jokes are bad, the setups are bad and the plot is bad. It's nearly unwatchable. You have zero sympathy for the protagonists, who are hopeless losers, and the secondary characters are no better. Oh, but that's the point, some would say... it's suburban nihilism. Its the essence of '90s teen angst and slacker culture. It's brilliant! Nope, sorry. Not buying it. I was a teenager in the '90s. I lived through it. And believe me, this film is garbage, just like the rest of the Kevin Smith 'ode to slackers' collection, including the inexplicably beloved Clerks. "},{"Title":"What went wrong???","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing the truly excellent 'Clerks', director Kevin smith's first feature, I had high expectations of 'Mallrats' and have to say that I was dissapointed.True its not the worst film ever but its not a tuch on 'Clerks'. Here's whyThe characters Brodie (Jason Lee) is a good character, the 'Randal' of 'Mallrats if you like but I found T.C highly annoying and irritating. T.c is meant to be the' straight guy' to Brodie's wise-ass but he just angers me. All he does is whine (Thats all Dante did but...)The script 'Clerks' had a brilliant script, the dialouge was well observed and real without being meaningless. 'Mallrats' script isnt bad but its not as clever or as well realised as clerks.Jay and Silent Bob IMHO, these two characters cant carry a film on their own (JASBSB is a prime example of this). In mallrats they're normally supporting roles are made to be more main, more involved in the story. IMO they are weak characters and Mewes' acting is extemely poor.While this film isnt terrible, it is the 2nd worst film in the new jersey trilogy. JASBSB is the worst. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Prostitution, Kevin Smith cashes in his thirty pieces of silver","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Imagine if you will the Hollywood system taking a concept of great charm, originality, and fiery wit and thinking they can emulate it by bringing it down to it's lowest possible denominator. 'Mallrats' wishes in it's wildest dreams that it can be a 'Clerks' but unfortunately for the audience 'Mallrats' plays like a 'Meet the Spartans'-'Epic Movie' type parody of 'Clerks'. Kevin Smith is a great writer and 'Clerks' is a four star film but he is 100% to blame for the failure of 'Mallrats' and it is a failure of epic proportions.I felt as I watched the film I became detached from it as you often do with a bad movie. My mind wandered to a stupid Hollywood producer sitting above the shoulder of a Kevin Smith hot off 'Clerks' and giving him a few million dollars or so to 'reproduce' that success but to dumb it down for the masses. Smith obliged.What is the problem with 'Mallrats'? Well it plays like a bad sitcom. It's jokes are incredibly stupid and have a laugh track type quality to them. Don't get me wrong conceptually the thing is very reminiscent of the structure of the superior 'Clerks'. What 'Clerks' did that 'Mallrats' fails to do is to develop characters. Yes Dante and Randal went into filthy rants about the world but they were fully dimensional human beings with motive to their laziness and we liked them. TS and Brodie are cartoons with catch phrases and camera winking. Randal's brilliant monologue about 'Return of the Jedi' is reproduced a little bit in 'Mallrats' with references to comics and 'Star Wars' but 'Mallrats' doesn't create characters that would organically talk in that fashion. I guess that is my main problem with the picture everything seems so incredibly and painfully fake. "},{"Title":"Hasn't Aged Well","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats is the second major film directed and written by Kevin Smith. Mallrats at the time was criticized as one of his worst films. The result is generally the same (gross-out gags, silly jokes, intelligent- speaking college-age teens who talk about nothing but modern culture (as in entertainment), a constant stream of profanity and vulgarity)Mallrats has a very think yet simple plot. Has Brodie (Jason Lee), and his friend T.S. (Jeremy London) being broken up by their respective girlfriends, Brandi (Claire Forlani) and Rene (Shannen Doherty). So they decide to hang out at the mall. They eventually end up meeting characters Jay and Silent Bob, as well as their ex-girlfriends. The film is predictable as in it is ultimately tat they will win back their girlfriends, but the quest is how they do it, and their obstacles along the way. In which, they end up on a game show. The finale is somewhat dis interesting, although it provides for entertainment.Mallrats provides some entertainment, but in general of rewatching the film, I have found many of the jokes and gags to be cheesy, outdated, and general not funny. "},{"Title":"For those who think hanging around the mall is boring and a waste of time Mallrats proves it beyond doubt.","Date":"23 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Let's play Kevin Smith movie BingoComic-book references.Fluid jokes and potty talk.Dirty stuff discussed at length but never shown.Gross outs.More swearing.Samey-sounding indie rock.Star Wars and superhero references.Jay & Silent Bob.And Bingo was his name-O!All of this is built around a featherweight plot designed to get characters from cunnilingus-related story A to prison-sex joke B.In the case of Mallrats T.S. and Brody are buddies and both are unceremoniously dumped on the same morning, T.S. by the vacuous and Avatar-looking Claire Forlani, Brody by Shannon Doherty in her biggest role since 90210&#x85; what range! The boys decide screw it, let's go to the mall.Brody is a frequent visitor and knows the mall back to front, it is fair to say that he is quite passionate about the mall and the value that it has for society, in fact between Brody and T.S. they seem to know almost everyone in the damn place.And so on and so forth The characters talk like no-one actually talks, only in a Smith way not a Tarantino way, there is generally pointless human interaction between the leads and the usual Kevin Smith regulars (Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, etc), and the entire plot revolves around the boys trying to sabotage a game show run by T.S.'s ex's Father.The ending is farcical, it seems like much more time was spent shoehorning in pop culture references and dirty jokes than the actual story, much like Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, which at least had better jokes and knew it was dumb.I would be willing to forgive this if the thing was just funnier. But the fact is that it isn't, the reason Mallrats was caned by the critics isn't because of the potty talk and innuendo (even if it was), it was because in between all that there is a distinct lack of actual jokes.I know Kevin Smith has done some good stuff in between this and the execrable Cop Out. I remain a big fan of Clerks, thought Dogma was both funny and creative and even liked Clerks 2 much more than I expected, but like the girl with the little curl when he is good he is very, very good, but when he is lazy he is just boring.Final Rating &#x96; 5 / 10. For those who think that hanging around the mall is a boring, unfunny waste of time (basically every guy over 18); Mallrats proves it beyond doubt. "},{"Title":"Mr.Smith goes to Hollywood","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A comedy really can't get much lighter than this one. There isn't really any story worth talking about, there isn't even anything particularly memorable about it at all, but I enjoyed it while it lasted. Guys walk around in the mall, meet people, walk around some more. There aren't even that many real jokes, it's just the whole situation that gets a chuckle out of me. Jason Lee is rather average, and Jeremy London is just plain bad, but man check out that mean supporting cast. Michael Rooker as the angry father, Ethan Suplee as a guy staring at a picture, Stan Lee as himself, Dante Hicks himself Brian O'Halloran as Gil Hicks, Jay and Silent Bob, combine all these people and your movie just can't possibly suck. At times it does feel that Kevin Smith was a bit over his head though. His script isn't bad, but it's really the kind of script that needs to be made for cheap. When you spend six million dollars on kids walking around, it just looks a bit weird at times. This is not my favourite Kevin Smith movie, but there's enough joy in it for everyone. "},{"Title":"If you can find the mindset, this is heartwarming and entertaining.  Otherwise, it's a pointless waste of time","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a niche film. If you can put yourself into the mindset of a 20-something slacker, who has no ambition whatsoever in life, this film may engender some sense of emotional investment in its characters and a sense of identifying with same. However, if this situation is impossible for you, then you will not only not see the humor herein, you will most likely bemoan the time wasted in its viewing.This is a Jay and Silent Bob flick wherein the two buds are dumped by their gals, subsequently seeking major wound-licking in the mall. It plays like the Revenge of the Nerds, though not as intelligently, nor with the same amount of heart, but with a more modern spin.If you've of a mind, this can be highly entertaining. If not, don't say you weren't warned.It rates a 7.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A wannabe cult film that falls well short of Kevin Smith's supposed 'genius' nametag.","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Mallrats' is the second film from writer/director Kevin Smith; and despite his accolades and masses of fans; is nothing to get too excited about.Although the film carries a nice, realistic feeling through most of it as well as maintaining a nice atmosphere for most of the duration, the film is overall of poor quality. I'll admit that the humour put through via dialogue is smooth and close to seamless as well as the fact it contains entertaining one liners and interesting repetitions of a certain jokes; something we saw in 'Clerks.' (1994) that was used to good effect, albeit a little too often.Although the basics seem to be present and are exploited well, the real bulk of Mallrats its plot, characters and acting all fail to live up to the hype. The film begins to play out like a love triangle comedy and although the script is trying to paper over the cracks, it doesn't take a genius to see that, really, it's just a load of slapstick humour in a mall with a love theme (I say 'theme' because there is not enough evidence to suggest this is a romance story). The fact that a shopping mall is used as the setting for the duration of the film is a little silly and as a 'world' for the characters, it soon grates. The settings become repetitive, the scenes predictable and the whole thing just gets frustrating.Before I saw the film, it was built up as one thing, but what the finish product was, was something completely different. It was a cheap, wannabe cult film that ended up like a rom-com with a load of slapstick. I mean, how many times can you re-watch a film where someone trips, flies through the air and crashes into a female changing room booth door and is supposed to act as the humour? The plot for the film is supposed to read something like the following 'Two guys are dumped by their girlfriends and hang around a mall all day'. Fine, but where's the rest of it? There are numerous, ludicrous events that happen during the film such as the silly recording of a date game show (yawn) and the daft tactics that the characters Jay and Silent Bob use to defeat security guards (Batman gadgets to winch away to safety?!). Things like this can only be put up with for so long before they become tiresome and unbelievable. The film was built up as something much more simple than this so why didn't it play out in a much simpler manner? Perhaps more similar to Clerks.Although some of the acting by Jay and Silent Bob is rather funny and the script is witty in general, especially the opening monologue which was a great way to announce the film, Mallrats is let down by its inability to keep a good, consistent, realistic joke going in the long run. The antics and slapstick become dull and by the time the laughably bad climax has arrived, you really have switched off; pretty much entirely. Fans of this will like it for a while but will grow out of it in time but by that time, a whole new generation will have come along and started to like it, so I guess at least that's a good thing. "},{"Title":"Food Courted","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have never been a big Kevin Smith fan. I thought Clerks was dulland Chasing Amy overpraised. When he apologized for this film,calling it his worst, I expected to be thoroughly trashing it right now.Actually, it's pretty funny...Best friends Jason Lee and Jeremy London break up with theirrespective girlfriends in the same day. Lee is dumped by ShannenDoherty, who takes up with the mall men's store manager BenAffleck. London is dumped by Claire Forlani, whose father MichaelRooker is hosting a game show that she must participate in.Conveniently, the Dating Game-type show is being taped at themall. Enter the cult heroes Jay and Silent Bob, who are recruited tosabotage the game show so that London can get back withForlani.Lee has issues of his own, since Affleck is also looking to kill him.Most of the film takes place in the mall the two hang out at, as theyrecruit other mallrats into their plans, with the final game showproviding the climax of the film.There is a lot here that is very funny. Jason Lee is very likable inthe role of a jerk slacker who really says what we all think. Londonis okay as his subdued friend. Priscilla Barnes will make youforget those late night Three's Company reruns as the toplesspsychic with three nipples...don't ask. The film moves at a quick,energetic pace. Even comic book guru Stan Lee is entertaining ina small role as himself.The not so good? Doherty and Forlani are not given much more todo than look exasperated at their former boyfriends. They areeasily interchangeable, and did not make much of an impression.Also, Smith gives some of his actors mouthfuls of dialogue thathas no reasonable comparison to actual speech, and his castalmost lose their breath trying to spit out sentences that makemine look like three word quotable quotes. Michael Rooker is allwrong as a TV game show host, he looks like a neo-nazi.This movie is so goofy, and often foul mouthed, but consideringthe junk out there now like Road Trip and the American Pieseries, it is also funny. Smith should not apologize, we shouldthank him for an entertaining ninety six minutes. I recommendMallrats.This is rated (R) for physical violence, strong profanity, femalenudity, brief male nudity, sexual content, strong sexual references,drug references, and adult situations.   "}{"Title":"best of the kevin smith movies","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  now come on i will admit it had to be hard to follow up a movie like clerks but please mallrats isnt only good but just as good as clerks dont listen to the critics this is one of the funniest and most honest movie i have ever seen. They are right about one thing it doesnt have much of a storyline but thats the beauty of it. kevin smith went and made the perfect teen movie. jason lee is my personal favorite actor and my god is he great in this movie, if you dont like this movie your probably over the hill cause this movie kicks ass, MALLRATS ***** (out of 5) "},{"Title":"Only for Diehard Kevin Smith Fans","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Actually, I'm a diehard Kevin Smith fan and I didn't find much to like here.  There were funny moments - and, heck, a Stan Lee cameo - but nothing hilarious or memorable (except, perhaps, 'stink palm').  For a smutty potty-humor movie, Clerks is far superior, and for a more realistic and emotional movie, Chasing Amy is the winner.  I give it a '4'. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I honestly can't understand how this horrible movie has such a high rating on IMDB. It's not funny at all. It's vastly inferior to Clerks and why do we need Jay and Silent Bob in every film? They were amusing for a while but now they just get on my nerves.  "},{"Title":"MALLRATS on a Sinking Ship","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  With DOGMA due and CHASING AMY revered, we can thank celluloid heaven Kevin Smith's sophmore slump didn't last very long.  After indy mega-hit CLERKS proved his worth, Hollywood handed him carte blanche on an engraved silver salver.  By his own admission, this film could have been made for far far less than the six million the studio insisted he spend. Before DVD, MALLRATS was just another VHS on the previously viewed sales table.  But now, thanks to the miracle of digital technology, it is all too clear where Smith and studio went offtrack and re-defined the notion of the second picture jinx.  Packed with more than an hour of deleted scenes and extras, MALLRATS' DVD gives us Smith's original intentions before Tinseltown know-it-alls put their six million cents in.  Those familiar with (what was then known as) The Smart PORKIES, will be surprised to find Elizabeth Ashley as a nearly assassinated NJ Governor in a plot that was to kick off the film and would have put a wittier black-comedy slant on the proceedings to come.  Studio execs even threatened to prohibit Smith pal Jason Mewes from recreating his Jay character from CLERKS.  Fortunately, Smith won at least this little battle.Severely re-cut and toned down, MALLRATS is a shadow of what it might have been.  Aimless and bland, the film ends with a shallow and contrived game show (in a mall?!?) which brings together all it's pointless characters in one pat conclusion.  Film buffs will make the inevitable comparison to SHOCK TREATMENT, the follow-up to THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW, which also attempted to re-unite characters from the hit first flick with an imposed satire on TV and suburbia.  Maybe someday mallrats will gather at midnight screenings, inserting their own witty retorts to Smith's smart dialogue, shouting wildly at the screen and dressed just like Jay and Silent Bob! Maybe -- but I doubt it.  They'll be too busy hanging out at the mall. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare, Spielberg, Scorsese and Kevin Smith","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What are 4 names that should never be used in the same sentence?Mallrats made me yearn for the days of Howard The Duck.  I kept waiting for the laughs, the irony, or the social insight, and I'm left thinking that the best character on this film was the sailboat. "},{"Title":"Not so clever","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow! Bad acting and a not very witty script mixed with a lame plot. What is Mallrats? This film was a wannabe Marx Brothers movie, without humor. I have never seen lines delivered with such little inspiration. It was almost like the characters got one read off of a cue card and that was a wrap. I am sure that Smith thought the jokes were witty as hell on paper, but they lost something in the transition to the spoken word.I loved Clerks and Chasing Amy, but this movie sucked! "},{"Title":"An amiable movie that shows us that even mallrats are human","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Whereas `Clerks' wasn't certain whether it was gritty realism or goofy fantasy, `Mallrats' KNOWS it's goofy fantasy.  That's exactly the right way to play it.  No-one has ever had a profound thought in a modern shopping mall.  Any film that makes claims to the contrary is lying.This is Smith's sunniest film - despite being set in the harsh, mercury-vapour-lit mallworld - with delicious humour and, for once, appealing characters.  People are correct when they say it's an 80s movie.  It's an 80s movie done RIGHT. "},{"Title":"Jason Lee is King!!!!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is really a starring vehicle for Jason Lee.  Lee seems to be the bright point in all of Kevin Smith's films.  Technically this film is like all of Kevin Smith's others.  Not alot of camera movement, imperfect editing, the usual.  But that is not what really matters.  The story and the comedic timing is what is most important, and Smith has more than enough to go around.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliant and Nonsensical Hilarity!","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A fantastic, albeit reasonably dated, 90s comedy typical of one of the funniest directors on the planet - Kevin Smith. The laughs are common and consistent and not a single cast member failed to make me laugh at some point. Particular standout cast members were director and writer Kevin Smith as well as Jason Mewes, reprising their roles as Jay and Silent Bob as featured in other Kevin Smith comedies including clerks. The script is fantastic and it is well deserving of it's high 9 / 10 rating from me as it just provided a good time - which is what a movie should do as not every film needs to provide multiple levels. This is a perfect example of an extremely funny film that never takes itself too seriously. "},{"Title":"A major disappointment","Date":"18 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Set only one day prior to the events of Clerks, Kevin Smith's follow-up to his absolutely hilarious debut film is sadly a major disappointment. That film had a very low budget and a fantastic script whereas this film has a much larger budget ($6million) and an incredibly mediocre script. It seems like a watered down version of Clerks in that the dialogue is nowhere near as witty or well observed (though it tries to be) and T.S., Brodie, Rene and Gwen are basically the poor man's Dante, Randal, Veronica and Caitlin. I had heard that many people found it disappointing but I went in an open mind, only to find out that they were right. When Smith guest starred in Degrassi The Next Generation, he poked fun at the film's poor reception in dialogue that he wrote himself. Caitlin Ryan tells him that this is her favourite Kevin Smith film and he replies, You're lying. 'Mallrats' is no one's favourite Kevin Smith film. I just hope that the sequel MallBrats is better than this.On the bright side, Jason Lee is quite funny as Brodie and has most of the good lines but he could have been so much funnier with better material. The same goes for Michael Rooker as Svenning and Jason Mewes and Smith as Jay and Silent Bob, the only returning characters from Clerks in spite of numerous references to it. Jeremy London is likable as T.S. but the character doesn't have much of a personality and is a far less effective straight man to Brodie than Dante was to Randal. Ethan Suplee's subplot as Willam goes nowhere very slowly. Claire Forlani has been much better elsewhere while Joey Lauren Adams deserved more screen time. Shannen Doherty is simply forgettable as Rene but Ben Affleck is quite good as Shannon Hamilton. My favourite scene in the film is when Stan Lee gives the completely starstruck Brodie romantic advice but that is more of a sweet scene than a funny one. "}{"Title":"silly follow up to great debut from Kevin Smith","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" College student T.S. Quint (Jeremy London) plans to go on a Florida trip with Brandi Svenning (Claire Forlani) but she has to fill in on her father's TV show. They argue and break up. His insensitive friend Brodie Bruce (Jason Lee) gets dumped by his girlfriend Rene Mosier (Shannen Doherty). They go to the local mall and discover that the show is being filmed there. Brodie recruits Jay and Silent Bob to disrupt the show.When compared to his first film, this Kevin Smith movie is sillier and poorer. Some of it plays like Home Alone. He's never been a visual master and this is very much in that vein. The movie is filled with Smith's love of comics and other childish gags. It's got some memorable characters like Tricia Jones, the teen Masters and Johnson. Jay and Silent Bob have become cartoon characters. Lee and Doherty are trying but London is a dud. If Smith wants wacky comedy, London is the blackhole in the middle sucking the fun out of everything. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats If it weren't for shopping malls teenagers would be forced to spend their weekends playing organized sports.Even the twenty-something year olds would be distraught without the mall, as this comedy illustrates.To console his friend T.S. (Jeremy London) after his break-up with Brandi (Claire Forlani), Brodie (Jason Lee) takes him to the local mall to hangout.While networking with the other unmotivated shoppers (Ethan Suplee, Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith), the boys learn of a dating game being staged in the mall that will feature Brandi.Seeing this as an opportunity to win her back, T.S. enters as a would-be suitor.Renowned for its outlandish characters and comic book laden content way before it was commonplace, Mallrats' puerile and goofy storyline still stands as one of writer/director Kevin Smith's greatest achievement in slacker humour.Surprisingly, however, it's now the stay-at-home moms that are loitering in the food court all day.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Just enjoy the movie without asking logical questions....","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" First of all I'm not going to say this movie kicks ass.because for the best part it doesn't.yet the movie in my view is not too stupid or dumb.If you had seen the Kevin Smith's cult movie Clerks(1994) and if you expect a similar kind of end product then get ready to get heart broken.Its better to keep your thoughts away from it and see it as a no need brains and simply watch sort of movie.I liked the Jason Lee character in this movie although he appears to be a i don't care kind of guy.Don't expect high drama or tom hanks kind of acting in this movie.All the fun is in the way you see the movie.Watch it cool and in the end you might find it entertaining.There are some good laughs here and there.This movie is sort of a warm up for Kevin's next venture Chasing Amy. "},{"Title":"mallrats","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" first off I've always like anything Shannon Doherty has been in every since Beverly Hills 90210. so that was the first reason I bought this film,, second Ben Affleck is always good to see what he's gonna do next in a movie, you never know,, third I figured a movie taking place in a shopping mall, what a good idea.. it's basically about a couple of guys who have ex-girlfriends now , and are trying to figure what to do next , either win them back or get on with their lives.. along the way they meet up with friends. and Stan Lee. this is a very quirky movie that will either be liked or disliked one way or the other there is really no middle ground to this point, I believe you don't need to be a stoner to like this movie at all, I really enjoyed Michael Rooker's performance here as well as a dad hosting a major TV show at the mall,, great dark humor and slapstick all the way.. loved this movie. "},{"Title":"Mallrats &#x97; Low budget comedy and romance for some good fun","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats is an easy comedy with romance as its reason to live. Set almost entirely in a mall and populated by its denizens, we're rewarded by juvenile arguments, pranks and stunts.Shannen Doherty is the big name of the production. She has a supporting role, playing, with a nice ring of truth, a girl who got sick and tired of her looser boyfriend, played by Jason Lee, and dumps him. Lee gives us the best performance of the cast, and with this verbose intensive role made his place on the big screen. Ben Affleck, at that time, was still relatively unknown, and even though this portrayal of an ass hole was right on target, the part was a very small one. The second main character was played by somebody that barely made the grade. His girlfriend was played by Claire Forlani who gave us a good solid performance.The story is interesting, with nice details and interesting plot twists. Even though Kevin Smith got substantially more budget this time around, the film still has an obvious low budget shine to it. Smith is slowly polishing his skills, but has yet to reach full proficiency. The dialogs and original story are is best weapons, and this piece shows that well as each scene is delivered as a verbal dance. Excellent work.Don't take it too seriously, and you'll have lots of fun. "},{"Title":"Jedi Mind Trick","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Obviously an early view into the View Askew world, Mallrats suffers some from inexperienced writing and direction from Kevin Smith himself. There are enough funny and original jokes to make the film worth watching (as well as several Looney Tunes, comic book, and video game references), but 13 years after its release, many of the jokes have been duplicated, reduplicated, and played out.The dialog is unrealistic, which makes the movie straddle the line between classy and campy, sometimes charmingly, sometimes irritatingly. In fact, this movie will probably make anyone laugh at least once, be charmed at least once, and be irritated at least once. I dare you not to. "},{"Title":"Smith's worst, not funny at all","Date":"3 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith makes it no secret that he's a press whore, but with Mallrats he made the worst mistake a filmmaker could possibly make- he allowed the studio to dictate what sort of film this turned out to be. There are moments in Mallrats, mostly during scenes where the main characters are just walking through the mall and just talking, where Smith's humor really works and achieves the same sort of authenticity Clerks and Chasing Amy do with their dialogue. Other than those scenes Mallrats is a haphazard collection of poorly-written and performed slapstick set-pieces surrounded by an overly silly and poorly-paced 'plot'.If Mallrats improves in any way at all on Clerks it is in terms of the technical aspects of the film. Smith's use of music (the studio's use of music?) is particularly bad, but he also makes generally good use of the bigger budget this film was given. The script, however, is just a disaster, albeit one with a few bright spots. I thought the extended version, which is about half an hour longer, would be a bit better but it does nothing to improve the film and is in fact nearly unwatchable and far worse than the theatrical version.Mallrats, beyond just not being funny at all, is incredibly heavy-handed when it goes for drama, and considering that he followed this up with Chasing Amy, one of my favorite screenplays and a great movie all around, it's especially surprising how ludicrous and just BAD Mallrats is. See the elevator scenes between Shannen Doherty and Jason Lee, unbelievably bad in every way- writing, direction, acting, everything.Smith is lucky his career survived Mallrats, such a huge failure in every way imaginable. The film has built a cult audience, but faces derision even from Smith's fans, and far from being underrated or misunderstood, Mallrats is just a bad, unfunny movie. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Decent Enough Comedy.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have enjoyed pretty much every Kevin Smith movie. I have some favorites like Clerks, Clerks II and Chasing Amy. And some that I consider funny enough but lacking something to make them a favorite of mine. Mallrats is one of those movies.Smith's previous movie Clerks is my favorite of his. I did not expect another Clerks in Mallrats and I wasn't disappointed with the result. I think Mallrats works as a simple 80's style comedy, yet trying to maintain elements that made Clerks such a great film.The main characters T.S. (Jeremy London) and Brodie (Jason Lee) are, in a way, the Dante and Randal (the protagonists of Clerks) of this movie. The character traits are similar, T.S. would be Dante, the straight man, and Brodie would be Randal, the wacky funny one.The big, and I mean big difference is that both characters from Clerks are equally interesting. This is not the case in Mallrats. While Brodie Bruce is perhaps the funniest and most memorable character in the movie, T.S. feels like a dull, weakly-written character that doesn't get any better with Jeremy London's acting. Jason Lee is hilarious, but his weak buddy hurts what could have been a memorable partnership.As for the story, it's alright. I cannot praise it much but I can't bash it either.The supporting characters are, however, very good. Ethan Suplee as Willam Black aka the sailboat guy is very funny, and Michael Rooker as Mr. Svenning is a scene-stealer sometimes. The girls (Shannen Doherty and Claire Forlani) did a decent job, but nothing remarkable about it. And of course Jay and Silent Bob who are always great. This is the first movie, though, to feature the current version of Silent Bob. That is a more animated and lively Bob, as opposed to the serious, more introverted version from Clerks.So, to finish, Mallrats is a movie I enjoy, but one that does not get better with each viewing. Still, good for laughs. "},{"Title":"Same Smith Formula but new location!","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith wrote and directed this crowd pleaser about two dumped young guys who spend the day at the local mall. As usual, Smith has his regular cast mates like Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, Silent Bob and Jay. In this film, we see Earl's Jason Lee and his on screen brother Randy played by Ethan Suplee who has a role in the film as Willam trying to see the sailboat in a picture. The film takes place in early Spring because of the Easter holiday where there is an Easter bunny taking pictures with children. There is Shannen Doherty playing Renee, the ex-girlfriend of Jason Lee's character, Brodie. The film has some nice moments about a television show being taped at the mall. It's a shame that they cut Elizabeth Ashley, a brilliant actress. The film also pays homage to Smith's love of comic books with Stan Lee as himself. It's an okay, entertaining film but not brilliant and not one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad ending","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats, Kevin Smith's second and most maligned film until Jersey Girl, isn't really that much of a stretch from Clerks. Mostly it just feels like a movie that got taken away from its creator by the studio system trying to make it more marketable--every filmmaker has at least one such experience. Still, Smith's comedic brilliance shines through in the writing. Characters are still aimless losers with nothing better to do than hang out and have epic conversations about meaningless nonsense--one of my favorite such discussions revolves around whether the cookie bakery is regarded as part of the food court, and another pontificates on Superman's romantic life. As with Clerks, the protagonists are experiencing miniature crises with their girlfriends, the resolution of which leads to the obvious but not heavy-handed moral Smith always interjects in his films.My only real complaint is the artificially feel-good ending, which feels too trite and sensational for what had, for the previous seventy minutes or so, been such a down-to-earth, slice-of-life comedy. It's like a bad Adam Sandler movie, the kind that always seems to end with cheering crowds and joyfully tearful make-up smooches. The bad guy gets his comeuppance, the lovable characters go on to fame and fortune, and everything is wrapped up in a neat little package. One of the things I love about Clerks. is that the ending, while resolving the conflict, ends without tying all the loose ends together. While Smith generically employs happy endings, they usually don't feel quite as predictable and saccharine. I've never heard him speak out on the subject, but I get the feeling the new ending was probably tacked on as the result of poor test screenings, or changed at the script stage because of the asinine notes studios like to give to more inexperienced indie directors.The cast is great. Jason Lee, of course, steals every scene he's in, even though he's supposed to be the sidekick here. He's a talented actor, and it's too bad that, with the possible exception of The Incredibles and My Name is Earl (I've only seen a few episodes), he's never been utilized quite as effectively as he is in a Kevin Smith movie. Jason Mewes, mercifully, retains the role of Jay in spite of the studio's wishes, and is as always a foul-mouthed fireball of energy. Joey Lauren Adams is suitably adorable, even in her role as a cheating ex. Shannen Doherty is wonderfully spirited and appropriately irritable without coming across as shrewish or horrible. Jeremy London performs his straight man role admirably, though since his job is to react to the lunacy around him more than participate in it, the audience never sympathizes with him the way we should--perhaps a bit of underwriting on Smith's part. Claire Forlani is cute enough, but her performance feels sort of flat for some reason.Mallrats, while it definitely suffers from sophomore slump, is still a great entry in the Jersey Chronicles, and has more than enough redemptive qualities to put it in a league far above 90% of most studio comedies. "}{"Title":"An Under-Appreciated Effort","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Following Kevin Smith's simplistic yet incredible debut, he got picked up by the indie patrons Bob and Harvey Weinstein. The powers that be threw money at Smith, who didn't even want it. He believed he could make Mallrats for at most 2 million. They gave him six. As a result, the film contains dialogue and events meant for a $500,000-$2 million picture and put $6 million worth of stuff in it. This makes a little too schlocky.To use the budget, Kevin writes a plot that involves too much movement. What could have been said one set is spread out to three. The film follows Quint and Brodie as they hang out in a mall after both being dumped by their girlfriends. Jason Lee rocks in his debut film performance as a snarky, wildly funny sidekick that usurps Jeremy London at every turn. Jay and Silent Bob still have the tiny role from Clerks even though it's a much bigger film. Chasing Amy also didn't give them a big role, but that film also didn't call for them as much. J&SB appear often here but don't have enough to do.Like all Kevin Smith films, the dialogue is incredible. Lee gives the lines his own flair, and is my favorite VA cast member. He even beats out Jeff Anderson's Randall in terms of acerbic wit. The schlocky elements, though a little annoying at times, are fairly well done and most of them get laughs.When this came out, the critics tore Kevin apart for the sophomore slump. In reality, he did the best possible job he could have considering all the studio pressure on him. Mallrats was a necessary flop that proved to the studio heads that Kevin was best left alone. That resulted in a string of great films from Chasing Amy to the most recent, Clerks II (yes, I even include Jersey Girl in that. It's a great film). This has been called the gateway film to the View Askewniverse, as this is the first Smith film many see. It is by no means a bad film, but it's probably Kevin's least accomplished effort. "},{"Title":"An insane and juvenile comedy, but for some people, that's not always a bad thing","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was too young to see this movie when it was first released, but first saw it about a decade later. When this happened, I must confess, I found it painfully boring! However, this may have simply been because I wasn't in a very good mood. I had just arrived at the house of some fairly long distance relatives and may have been tired after the long car ride. Thinking that could have easily been the case, I watched it again after a while, expecting to like it a lot more than I did previously, and I was right! Two teenagers, T.S. Quint and his best friend, the comic book-loving Brodie Bruce, are both dumped by their girlfriends on the same day. Obviously not happy about this, they decide to go to the mall and hang out. While inside, they encounter several people, including the mischievous Jay and Silent Bob, and Jared Svenning, the father of Brandi (T.S.' now ex-girlfriend), who is having a stage set up in the mall for his game show, Truth or Date. As T.S. and Brodie walk around the mall, they have plans to try and win their girlfriends back, though they will have to face the nasty Shannon Hamilton. Meanwhile, Jay and Silent Bob help by attempting to sabotage the Truth or Date game! With all the crudeness, juvenile gags (such as the You take your hand and stick it in your... part), etc. in Mallrats, it's obvious that the movie would irk some people (I'm sure those people know who they are). However, if toilet humour, sex jokes, slapstick, immaturity, and overall insanity are things you like to see in a comedy (it may depend on what mood you're in), this silly movie could give you many laughs. Some of the crude gags may be a bit thin, but there are many good ones as well, enough to make the movie a worthy experience. This Kevin Smith film was not well-received by critics upon its release, but fortunately, it has since managed to get itself a well-deserved cult following. "},{"Title":"A great movie about the joy in all the little things","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" With the valuable lesson that the little nuances found by hanging out at a shopping mall are the best parts of life, Mallrats is a piece of entertainment that's humor is crude yet insightful.Jeremy London and Jason Lee as two guys who have just ended relationships, but have markedly different attitudes about it and they have a really great odd couple chemistry as a result. London plays T.S. Quint, the hopeless romantic type, not over the loss of a girl and determined to get her back that we see often in movies and in ourselves in real life sometimes. Lee's character, Brodie, is more what the movie is about. He cheers himself and his friend up by taking a trip to the mall, and indulging in the cookie stand, the comic book shop, and conspiring with two shady characters (Jay and Silent Bob) to screw over his unpleasant neighbor, who also happens to be a major reason that his friend got dumped.Whether the film portrays Brodie's lifestyle is healthy or not is debatable, he lives with his mother and lacks ambition. However, I think Lee's character is the one we admire more of the two, because he is much happier and less worrisome over the course of the film as his counterpart T.S. and still gets the girl at the end.The movie takes place over a short period of real time, pretty much, a single afternoon at the mall. Along with the two protagonists, a series of pleasantly quirky recurring characters are all found hanging out, including Joey Lauren Adams (as T.S.'s promiscuous ex-girlfriend) and Ben Affleck (as a perverted department store owner) in different roles than they'll have in Smith's future project Chasing Amy.With great dialogue as a tool, these mundane interactions between these seemingly ordinary people come to life and as a result, it becomes so engaging to watch their paths intertwine all the way to the climactic live dating show scene at the film's finale. "},{"Title":"glad i saw it","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As far as Kevin Smith movies go, this is one of my favorites. It's really funny, it has a great slightly cheesy plot, and most of all it has great characters. Jason Lee as Broody the smarmy comic book loving guy with a lovable asshole quality was great. I love the pointless arguments he gets into about the cookie stand in the mall and the kid on the escalator. I also love Jay and Silent Bob they are a dynamic duo of in this movie. I've never been to a flee market as crazy as the one in this movie, but I hope to someday! The Brenda part was classic, and I could relate to the whole magic eye thing. I've tried many a time to see that 3-D picture with out avail. I think this is a great movie and I'm glad I stumbled upon it. It made me laugh it made me cry (jk) ha ha. It was an entertaining film! "},{"Title":"A Chinese opinion","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith is a kind of strange species in Hollywood, I've seen his two films before, JERSEY GIRL and DOGMA. But not the most famous one THE CLERK, that's why I haven't seen CLERK 2 up to the present, and I think I'll watch them together one day.As for this movie, still quite Kevin Smith, we can find the famous Jay and Silent Bob here, also the regular cast including Jason Lee, Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams etc. The plot line is kinda funny, most of the scenes happened in a local mall, two guys are going to win their girlfriends back, not like teen movie s these days, this one contains numerous japes which are neither dirty nor tacky, the measure between between humor and smarty is hard to handle, this film manages it very well. Although in my opinion, Michael Rooker gives a rather gross performance (it's horrible to see his fat ass on screen!).As a Chinese, Kevin Smith seems too local for me, so I don't think I'm his loyal fan, but he's intelligent and has some good quality to make more WIDER films, and I do like silent bob, he's the funniest part in this film. "},{"Title":"Everything Bio-Dome failed to be","Date":"5 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats is exactly what its title says. A day in the life of two Mallrats, brought to us by none other than Kevin Smith. It follows a little more of a storyline then its predecessor Clerks. Both are written and directed by Kevin Smith. Both star almost all then unknown actors. Both are classic. But enough comparing the two comedy classics. I will move to Mallrats.The film follows a variety of then unknown actors Ben Affleck, Jason Lee, Jeremy London, Joey Lauren Adams just to name a few. Lee and London play the leads as they both attempt to win back their ex-girlfriends at the local mall. They travel the mall with a little help from Jay and Silent Bob, two drug dealers with a sense of humor who always come in handy. London plays T.S. Quint, a young man recently dumped by the woman he wanted to marry at Universal Studios Theme Park. London isn't exactly the biggest name of actors but he does have a few good films out there. Mallrats is one of those few. His performance is believable and his comedy is great. The interaction between him and Lee is magnificent, especially in the last scene. Overall a solid job from London.Jason Lee steals the show for me. Having only done two works prior I believe Lee went into this project looking to make a name for himself. His comedy is by far the best and the way he delivers everything he says and does is just how I picture a real life Brodie Bruce acting. He is witty, he's smart mouth, he is cool, and he's a low life. How can you not love him? His last scene in the film is by far one of the funniest sequences I've ever seen.Mallrats plot isn't exactly there. Kind of like an updated Bio-Dome without stupid characters or a Dome. Unlike Bio-Dome, the actors are funny and the characters don't have to be mentally challenged to be funny. Mallrats is a classic of modern comedy. Equal with Dumb and Dumber and Happy Gilmore in laugh factors. It shouldn't be missed, there's too much to miss out on... if that makes sense.4/5 Stars "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's very own Dawn Of The Dead.","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A small overview of the story first Two guys, one a comic book freak (and Sega fan boy), both get dumped on the same morning and spends their day hanging out at the mall. I must say that for a movie and comic lover like myself this film is The Godfather, lovely meaningless dialouge all through the film because what do you do when you hang out at the mall? You talk about nothing.Jay and Silent Fat **** is in the film too as always of course, with Silent bob being a little too obsessed with Batman and Star Wars. I'm a teenager and I'm sorry, I can't find many arguments on how the is a good movie but I can tell you this, this film inspires people, it inspires me, it inspires by friends and many others mainly because of its use of diauloge and referencing of the things that I love which makes me more and more interested in watching the film from every word ever said in the film.As for the Dawn Of The Dead thing, it comes from a discussion I had with a fellow living-dead chum I have, saying that Kevin Smith is just like Romero! He started out in a confined area with Clerks, shot in black and white and then moved on to the shopping mall in color! Sounds ridiculous I know but it's kind of a neat little theory I think. "},{"Title":"my least favorite Kevin Smith movie - still a GREAT film","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's been a while since I've watched this film - so I am heading to the store this afternoon to pick it up as a belated birthday present to me from me. The characters are strong - it's got the jokes, the cast and of COURSE the brilliant director to boot ... Kevin Smith is my hero !!! (and I'm a 32 year old woman who went into Philly to see Clerks when it first came out back in 94 - best $10 I ever spent !!!) How can you not love watching Silent Bob fly ?!?! How can you not lose your cookies when Brodie talks about masturbation and chocolate-covered pretzels. I may have a deeper love for Randal, Silent Bob, Jay, Holden, Alyssa, Dante and Banky, but T.S. and Brodie still rock a mall like no one else !!! "},{"Title":"Really entertaining.","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Stars Jason Lee, Jeremy London, Shannon Doherty, Claire Forlani, Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Michael Rooker, Ben Affleck, Ethan Suplee, Brian O'Halloran, Joey Lauren Adams, Stan Lee, Priscilla Barnes.This is a great follow up to Clerks from director Kevin Smith. In fact, it is pretty much a rehashing of Clerks, with two protagonist lay-abouts talking about nonsense things, one without a care in the world, the other more serious. This is Mallrats plot, and Clerks plot, yet this did not seem like a rip-off. The movie's plot is two guys go to the mall after their girlfriends break up with them, and try to win them back. It's a really interesting film, and it's pretty darn funny too. It looks great, and I love the character sub-plots at the mall, Like Jay and Silent Bob trying to knock down a stage, or Willam staring at the trick picture but never seeing the sailboat. It's a stupid movie, but it's a bit of a pick me up, and a good one. I highly recommend this film, and to go with it, how about some chocolate pretzels? My rating *** 1/4 out of ****. 93 mins. R for Sexuality, Language and Drug Use. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats was panned by critics. But to be honest, who makes movies strictly for the critics? If that was the case, you would lose the heart and soul of the film itself. I think Kevin Smith's direction and dialog are right on par with the witticism seen in Clerks I & II and especially in Chasing Amy. Smith's dialog is definitely a highlight, and the casting is great with the exception of Jeremy London. It's no wonder while most of the actors/actresses who have previously performed in Smith's movies have returned as their own characters or as others while London has been left out. His delivery is mediocre at it's best and plain embarrassing in others. But London's poor performance aside, Jason Lee is absolutely perfect as Brodie and his delivery and comic styling really are the carrying point of this film. The plot may be a little clichd, however, the events that unfold throughout the movie make it different and one of a kind. Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith) provide excellent comic slap stick style which compliments the witty and humorous dialog perfectly. Overall, a great movie, and one that should be seen despite critical reaction. If you replace Jeremy London with a better role player who could pull off some of the dialog with some believability, then this movie would be ranked higher. Overall, I definitely recommend this film to Smith fans, and to those who want to laugh...and laugh a lot! "}{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was pregnant and on bed rest the first time I watched Mallrats. It came on cable, so of course I was pi$$ed off when they edited half the words. I was really liking the flick, so I had my boyfriend run out and get it. We laughed our a$$es off throughout the whole thing. We've seen it about a million times now. We have a friend like every one of the characters in that movie. And my boyfriend just so happened to always have a problem with kids on escalators! For us, Kevin Smith is a genius! He relates to all of us who are ignored by every other movie writer. I love that I can watch this movie with my Mom, and she wouldn't get half the jokes. Kevin's movies have one liners that me and my friends use all the time. That's what makes a good movie! Snoogins! "},{"Title":"The Best movie Ever","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This move is my favorite movie ever and is still holding its position. I have been watching this movie for about 5 years now and i still love it as much as i did the first time i saw it. Its the movie that i recommend to everyone i meet. The whole concept of two guys making the best out of their break ups by going to the mall and participating in the crazy antics is just astoundingly funny. I will continue to love this movie, and I'm hoping they release an updated version like they did with clerks. I would be there the first day to buy my favorite movie again. I can quote this whole movie line for line, because it is just that damn good. Id have to say that Mallrats is indeed the BEST MOVIE EVER! "},{"Title":"Saaaay...would you like a chocolate covered Pretzel?","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is incredible. many people would disagree for many reasons. People say that it is a bad movie with uneducated jokes. I would like to see them make a movie that is A) funnier B) More realistic Dialogue C) Better Directing. I see nothing wrong with this movie. It has a similar wit to that of Clerks. This movie was over-bashed. The Critics Hated it Just look at what the average voter said about it. I love so many things about this movie including the great acting and screenplay. If you think this movie is bad than you didn't like Clerks or Chasing Amy. Or instead of having your own opinion the one of the critics' was better so bash it. I think the reason the critics didn't like the movie is because they think Kevin Smith got such an easy start so it was time to bash him. If it was a bad movie, don't you think that there would be so few Kevin Smith fans out there? Maybe you think I'm not a movie person. Everyone Loved The Aviator It sucked. Titanic Sucked. Million Dollar Baby Terrible. That's Hollywood. Anyway in conclusion, one of my favorite comedies. "},{"Title":"This is an Awesome film!","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Some people say that Mallrats was disappointing, I however believe that this is completely untrue. Kevin Smith is a genius and this film is often the favourite among Kevin Smith fans. Jason Lee is hilarious and Stan Lee is great. Silent Bob does a great batman impression. I think the problem was that people were expecting an artistic film after clerks success at the Sundance film festival, I wasn't disappointed but then i wasn't very old when clerks was first released. I think Mallrat's success on video speaks for itself. It is a great moment when Jay and Silent Bob are seen for the first time in colour. I see this film as just as much of a landmark as Clerks and I wish it was shown as much respect. "},{"Title":"A fantastic, funny movie","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you loved Clerks as a serious piece of indie art then maybe Mallrats isn't for you. If on the other hand you enjoyed the pre pubescent humour and smart dialogue then Mallrats could be just up your street!This movie is funny with a capital F. Featuring a star turn from skate king Jason Lee, Batman-esquire stunts, Charmed queen Shannon Doherty, BenAffleck (when he was still good) and the classic 'stinky palm' scene (you gotta see it to know it) this is NOT to be missed.And if you've yet to encounter snoochy-boochy stoners Jay & Silent Bob, then where the hell have you been living?! Delve into the sick, lazy world of slackers Brodie, T.S, Jay & Silent Bob...go on - I dare you! "},{"Title":"Excellent film, one of my favourites!","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one, if no thee best movies from director Kevin Smith. The strange thing is that although being essentially another cheesy romantic comedy, the viewer can pretty much put this this underlying love element to the side and enjoy a very clever and cracking comedy. The comedy is very subtle more often than not, but combined with some slapstick jokes creates the perfect blend. The Jay and Silent Bob characters provide the slapstick element whereas the comic book crazed Brody provides the intelligent sarcastic humour to the film.The story follows the two lead characters Brody and TS, as TS tries to win back his recently separated girlfriend. Along the way they meet and bump into a number of comedic friends that all, in a manner of speaking work together in order to help TS on his quest. Incerdibly funny and enjoyable to watch, 100% recommended! DB "},{"Title":"Infinitely hilarious, one of SMith's best works","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevins Smith is known for his pop-culture based absurdist dialogue that keeps his fans laughing until the end. He doesn't let up here. Although this is one of his least offensive films, it still has people wondering if the Thing's Wang is made of rock, or if Lois Lane can in fact have Superman's child...then thinking, Gross!. The film is a lot easier to watch with your parents than something like Chasing Amy or Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.The film opens with both Brodie(Jason Lee) and T.S. Quint(Jeremy London) being dumped by their girlfriends. They find solace in the one place where they know they're safe. The mall. Ah, I love the smell of commerce in the morning! Brodie yells as he enters the mall. These two are known as Mallrats, keying the name of the film. People who don't work or shop at the mall, just hang out. From there we meet many well developed characters such as William(Ethan Supplee) who undoubtedly works harder than any man alive to see a magic eye picture, Shannon(Ben Affleck) a Fashionable Male salesman who loves nothing more than making love in the most uncomfortable place, and I don't mean the back of a Volkswagon, and Brodie's and T.S.'s significant others. Oh yes, and of course, Jay and Silent Bob.The two, with the help of Jay and Silent Bob hatch many schemes to win they're girlfriend's back. With a dating show put on by T.S.'s girlfriend's father, who hates T.S.(okay now breathe, i know thats a lot to take in.) in the middle of the mall, where his girlfriend now is the one being auctioned off, he tries anything to win her back.The film is hilarious, including a topless fortune teller, Stan Lee(the God of comics), and even Brian O'Halloran playing a suitor for the dating show. I give it a 10/10 for great laughs, and one of Smith's best. "},{"Title":"Because he cares.......","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Another choice selection of thoughts from Director Kevin Smith's brain. If Kevin is anything like the guys I grew up with, he has much more of this type of highly entertaining fare. The crime here is that Smith doesn't do more work than he does. Surrounded by talented friends, Kevin's movies should always be can't miss. Kevin Smith makes my very short list of people I would like to spend an evening with, knocking back beers and telling amusing anecdotes. Wish I'd grown up with the guy.Mallrats takes place in the rich world that Smith has created for himself, a working mans pseudo-intellectual paradise, where Smith himself reins supreme and the gloves are off when it comes to topics like Star Wars, snowballing and sex with the recently deceased. A direct parallel could be drawn between Mark Twain and Smith himself. Only in Smith's world, Tom and Huck don't so much journey across land, but more across pop culture. "},{"Title":"Not That Bad","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie has always gotten a bad rap. On the contrary this movie is still enjoyable. Sure, it is the weakest of the New Jersey Trilogy (Clerks, Mallrats, and Chasing Amy) and essentially Clerks with a budget (Two slackers, one more motivated than the other). What really makes this film standout is the dialogue. It's smart, funny and easy to relate to. It's filled with lines commenting on the Mall Culture, that make you think I've always wondered if anyone else thought that. or Wow, that makes perfect sense! Also, while Jason Lee's role in Chasing Amy was his breakout role, this sets him up nicely for the role of Banky. He's not as crude or outrageous in this role but it can easily be seen as a warm-up. Overall this is a very enjoyable flick. It's not as good as Clerks and definitely not as good as Chasing Amy but is still worth renting and if you are a Kevin Smith fan you should own it. "},{"Title":"Funny,Youth Oriented,Fresh,Surprisingly Insightful","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An Excellent comedy linking desperate characters via the medium of a mall. The USP of the movie is Jason Lee's boxer like jabs of comedy that keep coming one after the another and of course the antics of J and silent Bob.On a more serious note the movie has no profound meaning or logic behind it but nevertheless the its so natural that it can definitely hold its own.Its a movie that caters to the youth. However it would have been even better if Jeremy London and Ben Affleck did some real acting rather than just stand there. Well every movie has a few glitches but overall two thumbs up to Kevin Smith for encapsulating the youth mentality .( A must see) "}{"Title":"Good and Okay","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith is great. He really is a genius when it comes to movies. Mallrats is his second movie out of five. The movie starts off with two guys being dumped by their girlfriends. So what's a guy to do once he's dumped? Go to the mall, why? Well because there's comic books, food, and a chance to win back the girls. A bind date television show is being held at the mall that day and one of the girls fathers produces the show. From there all that's left to do is either a get on the show or b sabotage the show. With a little help from Jay and Silent Bob nothing in the world can go wrong. Unless an angry Ben Aflleck is trying to get on your ex, or your ex's father who produces the show really hates you. Overall the movie is pretty good. I wasn't laughing out loud but I did snicker a lot. The plot to the movie drags a little but it holds up. Some of my friends were praising this movie but I don't see a reason to praise it. But there's really no reason to hate it. If you like Clerks then this movie is something you're gonna want to see. If you didn't like Clerks then chances are you probably won't like anything else Kevin Smith does. It's definitely worth a rent. "},{"Title":"Critically mall-ed yet its a great movie!","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I know, i know this film may not be a technical masterpiece as shown with some problems in continuity as seen with the re-shoots shots inserted in the final scenes with Claire Forlani, yet this film manages to entertain throughout, and is that what movies are created for in the first place. Movies simply have one aim and that is to create enjoyment for the viewer and this film does that. Every scene that involves Jason Lee is a joy to watch, for example when Brodie and TS first enter the mall and Brodie's shock and damage speech is interrupted by a stage cross beam and a reoccurring bit character, the speed of delivery of the following lines coupled with Lee's expression is hilarious. He brings this character to life and is by far the greatest thing about this movie. Thats not to say that hes the only thing to watch this movie for because the moments with Ethan suplee are also really entertaining, the moment with the children being a particular favourite of mine. Then there are some downfalls, stink palming, Jeremy London's constant arm crossing and it being labelled a clever porkys yet its a good lark of a film and does exactly what it says on the tin. Maybe it would not have been as slated by the critics if the original opening at the governors ball had been kept in the original script but sometimes things inevitably have to change and yet the film remains to be entertaining throughout and so my hat goes off to Kevin smith and Mr Mosier for making a great film!! "},{"Title":"Not quite a smart Porky's, but still worthwhile...","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" While this one of my least favorite Kevin Smith films, it is still fun to watch. Mallrats, while not on the intellectually funny level of Smith's Clerks, has its share of laughs (and, yes, vulgarity). Though it isn't as high quality as its predecessor, Mallrats made two very important contributions to Smith's Jersey Crew, in the form of actors Jason Lee and Ben Affleck. Lee plays the character of Brodie Bruce, an avid comic book collector who is dumped by his tolerant girlfriend the same morning his friend, T.S. Quint (Jeremy London), is dumped by his. Lee is one of the funniest actors I've seen. He easily made Brodie one my top favorite Jersey characters. Pre-Armageddon Affleck plays Shannon Hamilton, owner of the Fashionable Male clothing store. While his acting is nothing special in this film, he shines in Smith's later movies (but that is a topic for another time). This movie is like the younger, less mature, brother to Clerks, relying a little more on nudity and crude jokes (I am not saying that is always necessarily a bad thing!). This movie is a must for any Smith fan. "},{"Title":"Kevin, your being too critical.. This film Kicks Ass","Date":"13 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't care what Kevin Smith said.. This fill kicks ass.. He says that it's the worst film he ever did mostly by the response he received in the theaters. You know what.. This film is just that good. It didn't get the response it should have.The comic aspect is so there. Just watch it for yourself. It has everything a truly good B Movie needs. No horror but for those of us that are true Sci-Fi & Comic book fans. You would like the references in this film..I also loved the scene of the Rt 1 Flea Market in New Brunswick.. I spent many weekends there.. Gotta love the Dirt mall.I give this film..... 9 mooos... It deserve it.. You probably think different but Hell.. I loved it.. BTW... The Time Suck ASSThats my story & I'm sticking to it...MoobyFor GODs sake, let the Moobster dance! quote N. Fisher "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I think it's because I was living in Alabama at the time, trying to finish college, but I absolutely loved this movie when I saw it. I think I was envious of the nice clothes and the great mall they had at their disposal. Trust me, you take things like that for granted when you're forced to live in a place like Alabama for a while. I'm sure it was just the frame of mind I was in when I saw it, but I really, really love this movie. Brodie, (Jason Lee,) steals every scene. Claire Forlani and Jeremy London are the weakest links, as neither one can act their way out of a wet douche bag. Jason Lee, Shannen Picasso Face Doherty and, as much as I hate to admit it, Ben Affleck make it worthwhile. "},{"Title":"amazing you are not a Kevin smith fan unless you give this a 10","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" this film is incredible although the box office ratings were shocking a man that can make a film while only using two actual camera moving shots i would buy a drink anytime. This man is a legend and has made many great films in his life. I know jersey girl was a flop but that was because it was an awful film but we are all allowed to make mistakes and all of you so called film buffs who insult the smith for making jersey girl i admit you are all gods and have never made a mistake in your life and there for you can judge him. Smith is an old school director who has genuine love for film creation and is not the money grabbing hound you all make him out to be. He will carry on making cult classics but will of course make mistakes (jersey girl) but does not deserve to be punished for it. So all you little middle aged guys living with your parents f*$k off and stop analysing this legend.bass. "},{"Title":"Mallrats To sum it all up, two slackers hanging out at the mall. Funny, though.","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats is the Academy Award-winning tale of a guy from New Jersey and his struggle with himself & his surroundings to overcome adversity and...No, wait, that was Good Will Hunting. Never mind.Mallrats is the tale of two guys whose girlfriends break up with them. Semi-depressed, they attempt to find solace in the warm, loving bosom of the local mall and, on the way, meet a plethora of strange and interesting characters, including the recent pop culture pariahs, Jay & Silent Bob. Anyway, in conclusion, I must say...Go watch the frickin' movie, you 'tards!! Thank You. "},{"Title":"a sailboat is a scooner","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Part two of Kevin Smith's Jersey Trilogy. This movie is set the day before the events of Clerks. It is about two guys who have just broken up with their girlfriends and their adventures in the mall. Of course, Jay and Silent Bob are there raising hell. Stan Lee plays a bit part in this movie as himself. This movie shows the beginning of Benkie and Steve Daves and Fan Boy. A little tid-bit about this film when they are in the elevator having sex the music playing in the background is The girl form Ipinima. This is the same song in the elevator from the Blues Brothers. This film is almost as good as Clerks. Very funny stuff. If you haven't seen this and you like to laugh then go for it. If you like the mall or hate people who always hang in the mall you will probably like this movie. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Probably the easiest of Smith's films to watch as it is the least offensive , and is simple, dealing with situations most 18-24 year olds can relate to, although they are performed in an exaggerated state. We have Jason Lee delivering some of the best gags and quotable one-liners of the era like no other actor could, we have the stunning Claire Forlani proving that she is a far superior actress than many think, we have Jay and Silent Bob, and we have enough in-jokes and trivia to keep fans occupied for many a drunken night. The plot sees Lee and London trying to win back their girlfriends via a trip to their local Mall, using a game-show as their tool for success and redemption. There we meet William, obsessed with a 'magic eye' trick everyone but him can see, Shannon, who sleeps with any woman he can get his mitts on, and various other rejects. No drunks though, or 13 year old 'can i have a fag mate?' kids who make up the majority of my local malls. Anyway, the dialogue is some of Smith's best, each character is interesting even if we only get a small glimpse of some, and the fact that this still isn't a mainstream film even after Smith's success adds an extra charming quality. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Jason Lee is comic genius","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Nearly a decade after it's release, this movie still cracks me up. For me, it's nostalgic watching Mallrats, as it was one of the quintessential movies my friends and I watched as we went through grades 9-12. Nothing is quite as pathetic or humorous as a couple of grown-up misfits hanging out at the mall and having no intention of growing up. Throw in a great supporting role for Stan Lee with a bellicose Ben Affleck (pre J-Lo) and you have a great film on your hands.I declare that Jason Lee has never played a funnier character than his role as Brodie. Snide, caustic, directless, yet somehow lovable, I wish Jason Lee had more roles like this. He plays a much better jerk than he plays a sap, which is what he does in such flicks like Heartbreakers, and he's generally funnier when he's being mean to other people. Though he was great in films like Chasing Amy and Almost Famous, I think Jason Lee hasn't lived up to the comedic potential that he displayed in this film.It's kind of interesting watching this flick as Kevin Smith's film career progresses (or regresses, take your pick). Jay and Silent Bob were alive and strong back then, and though they weren't the only funny characters, they certainly added a handful of unruly antics. Beautiful women are plentiful, with Clare Forlani, Joey Lauren Adams, and Shannon Dougherty (who plays such a great wench) delivering strong performances. The game show scene makes me laugh every time I watch it, I think it's hard to find better comedy than that scene (I know the old-timers will disagree with me on that).True, this movie was a box office flop, but who cares? I'd give this movie an 8 out of 10. The humor is intelligent bathroom humor, though I wouldn't rate it as an all-time comedy classic. It's just good fun and doesn't purport to be anything else, which is just fine with me. "}{"Title":"Mallrats","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I used to be a massive fan of Kevin Smith, you know. Like the guy's who always post on the fantastic www.viewaskew.com/ every week I'd have watched at least 2 of his then 4 films.Then I stopped idolising the guy so much. I think I matured or something... I can't honestly explain why... I do have all of his films and do still like them! But there comes a time where you stop and move on!Mallrats was a poor follow-up if truth be known to the outstanding Clerks. ... I've read many explanations of the film by Smith but it simply didn't please me! Of course there are good moments within the film (Jason Lee) but there are awful moments too (London)A film for the fan boys and the immature! The latter isn't a bad thing!6/10  "},{"Title":"one big classic fart joke","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the main reason for why this film was so unsuccesfull is beyond human reasoning. One can say it was the crude humor, but that would completely inaccurate because we as Americans are obviously fans of that humor (american pie trilogy?). My conclusion comes to this, the critics wanted it to be wholesome like Porky's but still have the crude factorof Clerks. Maybe Gene Siskel didn't see the love I saw in the film (but his opinion doesn't mean anything now). Kevin should not be ashamed of this film like many of the greatest filmmakers have at least one film that just makes them spew. As far as I'm concerned, You still don't have a miss. And never try to compete with Clerks. It's never gonna happen. Is any other mafia film ever as cool as The Godfather. You decide.  "},{"Title":"critique of mallrats","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  overbashed?? I say so, cause it provides some light into the jersey trilogy. It's more or less the epicenter of the whole trilogy. It provides substantiation into the storyline of clerks. Love all Kevin's work, hope to see more in the future. Innovative, and smart comedy - something that's missing in today's society. He doesn't insult our intelligence, just because we like dick and fart jokes. Take care, whoever reads this. I'm hoping this gets to Kevin Smith himself, because I'm a true fan of him and his work, but if it gets to someone than Mewes I'll be happy enough. HA HA, just kidding. Mewes is the bomb. Take care all, thanks for reading this. P.S. - if you're really nice, you'd send this military thug with some free View Askew swag...yeah, just because I'm in the military doesn't mean I support them - I'll always support View Askew though, keeping true to my roots - NJ represent!!! Take care all. A1C Murphy, USAF.  "},{"Title":"Funny - in that 90210 sort of way","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob keep me watching these stupid though hilarious flicks. This is no deviation. This is a funny movie about a guy who is dumped by his girlfriend (who happens to be none other than 90210 b*tch Doherty) and his buddy T.S. who is also dumped by his girlfriend. These two losers end up at the mall in an effort to win back T.S. gf. In a funny turn of events, and a meeting with Stan Lee (talking about love ha!) these two manage to get back together with their respective girlfriends. The really funny moments here are all thanks to our good buds Jay and Silent Bob. I just can't get enough of these goof balls!8/10 for the funny content (oh yeah....Affleck also makes an appearance here) "},{"Title":"Pretty funny... if you're into that stuff.","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MALLRATS is the story of two college kids, T.S. Quint (Jeremy London) and Brodie Bruce (Jason Lee), who have just gotten dumped by their girlfriends, Rene (Shannen Doherty) and Brandi (Claire Forlani). To console themselves, they head to the local mall. There they find that Rene has gotten together with Brodie's archenemy from Fashionable Male, Shannon Hamilton (Ben Affleck), and the competition between Shannon and Brodie begins. They also discover that Brandi's father is hosting his game show, Truth or Date, at the mall that day, and T.S. decides to go on the show to win Brandi back. Do our heroes Brodie and T.S. succeed in their quests?MALLRATS is a pretty typical movie from director Kevin Smith. It's about dimwitted characters doing stupid things, and it's pretty crude, but it's funny. It's pretty slow-paced and the humor comes in odd moments, but it's an entertaining movie. Jay and Silent Bob steal the movie and have the funniest scenes. The actors all do well with their roles, even though the bulk of them don't have good jokes to deliver.There's not a lot to say about MALLRATS. It's entertaining and pretty funny... if you're into that stuff. 6/10. "},{"Title":"MY favorite movie of all time...","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must say, Mallrats is an awesome movie. It was a film that found its own audience. I for one love it! It's an awesome follow up to Kevin Smith's first film, which everyone should know, Clerks. I remember watching the making on the DVD, and they said that when it was released, it didn't do so well, but again, it is a type of film that found its own audience, which I think is cool. There is not a lot of films out there like that. It's unique, funny, and smart. Jason Lee (Brodie Bruce) was great in this film! His smart-allic sense of humor made me love his character. Two thumbs up for him, and two thumbs up to Kevin Smith for making such a great movie....  "},{"Title":"Addicted to movies","Date":"28 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Loved it, Smith's dialogue is BRILLIANT. Characters were well rounded, and the story very well put together. Though not my favorite now, it was when I saw it. His choice to use his friends in the movie, instead of some Hollywood cast was admirable and risky at the same time. Very disappointed he didn't use his cum joke, he would have made some serious money. Back to what did make it into the movie, Jay and Silent Bob busting into Adams in the dressing room was great though I'm gay, and not attracted to Joey Lauren Adams, found it to be a memorable scene, classic Animal House homage. The inclusion of Stan Lee was a real treat, was very excited to see his appearance, especially when in the movie, after his inspirational speech, he was originally going one way, afterwards decided to go the other way....for no apparent reason. All in all, am a huge Smith fan, love his movies!!!  "},{"Title":"Better than Clerks, No Matter what Anyone Says.","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I hope nobody interprets the title of this summary as a slam against CLERKS, because that movie was good too. In his first color movie, Kevin Smith introduced us to T.S. Quint(Jeremy London), college boy with his heart set on marrying his girlfriend Brandi Svenning(Claire Forlani), and Brodie Bruce(Jason Lee), comic book collector extraordinaire who hopes for a comic shop of his own. Both lose their girlfriends for different reasons. T.S. loses Brandi over her father(Michael Rooker) a sleazy maniacal TV producer determined to do anything to keep them apart, and Renee(Shannen Doherty) dumps Brodie, because she feels her life with him is stagnating, as many in their twenties in the 1990's were. Brodie decides that the solution is a trip to the mall. At this mall, we meet Willam Black(Ethan Supplee), a doofus who wants to find a hidden picture in a painting, Tricia Jones(Renee Humphries), a 15-year-old girl who has become an expert on sex using many men and young boys as her experiments. Where were girls like her when I needed them? And best of all we meet Jay and Silent Bob, those two dope-dealers who regularly hung out in front of Leonardo, New Jersey's RST Video & Quick Stop in CLERKS. Believe it or not, it is possible to be anti-drug and still find these two funny, in fact being anti-drug HELPS in that department. With a few revelations and the help of Jay, Silent Bob, Trish the Dish, T.S.'s ex-girlfriend Gwen(Joey Lauren Adams), a freaky flea market psychic(Priscilla Barnes), and even Marvel Comics mogul Stan Lee, the tale evolves into an attempt by both to win back their significant others, however while T.S. is heartbroken through the whole ordeal, Brodie pretends he couldn't care less. T.S. & Brodie are an incongruous team dedicated to making sure that young love conquers the forces of consumerism(?), and arrogance disguised as responsibility and maturity. But this is hardly another tale of innocent youth vs. evil adults, because even some of the younger cast members are villains, like the security guards serving under the dreaded LaFours(Sven-Ole Thorsen), who don't seem that much older than the heroes and heroines of this movie, Shannen Hamilton(Ben Affleck), from the Fashionable Male clothing store, and some of Jared Svenning's employees, like Rowdy Roddy(Scott Mosier!). Hamilton is a stuck-up manager who thinks he's above everybody else and that it's his duty to seduce women who break-up with their boyfriends and have sex with them in a less-than desirable position, while pummeling people at the mall with no shopping agenda, or more accurately, not the shopping agenda he wants them to have. And it just so happens that Brodie's girl is has next target. Brandi is in nowhere near the same danger, but being forced to dump her boyfriend and replace the bachelorette on her father's retread of The Dating Game, hosted by Bob Summers(real life ex-game show announcer Art James), only to have Gwen try to coax her into returning into T.S.'s arms, doesn't help her broken heart either.Like JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK three movies later, this has an incredibly triumphant ending. Mallrats has one too, but it's also a so happy you'll cry ending. It has a wonderful outcome for the two couples and their friends, a well-deserved one for that S.O.B. from Fashionable Male, and two closing themes that'll put a lump in your throat. And as for me, I'm going to find out if Marvel Comics did publish a Vulture Soliloquy, because like Brodie Bruce a lot of what was going on in the comic book industry has passed right by me, and shouldn't. "},{"Title":"Arguably Kevin Smith's finest","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERSKevin Smith's efforts on film have been variable to say the least. With recent criticisms for his latest film Jersey Girl, Smith appears to have created an awful movie staring the tedious Ben Affleck. Looking further into his past works however, with the exception of the mediocre Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, Smith has created one or two daft but clever pieces. Arguably the finest of these is 1995's MallratsIn the second part of Kevin Smith's New Jersey trilogy, Jason Lee's Brodie and Jeremy London's T.S. have both been dumped by their girlfriends (Claire Forlani and Shannen Doherty). Seaking solice in each others company and in the company of a bunch of obscure layabouts, the two heroes spend their day lazing around the Mall and attempting to win their girlfriends back. In their way are Forlani's overprotective father, anal sex obsessive Affleck and La Fours, the ultimate Mall Security Guard. With the help of those cannabis obsessed losers, Jay and Silent Bob, Brodie and T.S. come up with a plan to defeat their enemies and win back the girls of their dreams.Mallrats is another of those types of films which can be categorised as just being in it for a laugh. With Smith's apparent favourite two characters, this film has more obscure antics from Jay and Silent Bob (Bob in particular being funny, spending his entire time attempting to master the way of the Jedi), as well as the hilarious Brodie (played brilliantly by Lee). With these three characters, the other remaining characters feel almost redundant in the laugh category.Ultimately, there is a relatively limited ammount of things to be said about this film. The cinematography is nothing amazing, the direction is mediocre, and with few exceptions the acting isn't particularly impressive. None of this matters however, with some brilliantly sick jokes and some quality moments, Mallrats is exactly what it needs to be. This film is just another of those daft, relaxing films where you can put your feet up, put on the video, and not take at all seriously. With the possible exception of Smith's other truely brilliant film, Dogma, Mallrats is arguably his finest work and a piece of cinema well worth watching. "},{"Title":"come son of Jor-el kneel before Zod","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the second part of the so-called new jersey trilogy but instead of focusing on two college kids working at dead end jobs it focuses on a lovelorn guy T.S. Quint played by Jason London and his smart ass friend ( Brodie Bruce played very well by Jason Lee )both have broken up with their girlfriends and find solace at the mall when they both discover that their SPOILERS HEREIN nemesis one a anal sex loving fiend and one girls power hungry father have taken control of their girls lives they decide to take action so its up to them a very smart girl who is writing a sex book a obese man who is staring at a holographic poster and everyones favorite stoner duo that is right boys and girls JAY AND SILENT BOB ARE BACK! Even though it is not as realistic as Clerks or as socially conscious as Chasing Amy Mallrats is a well-written story by Kevin Smith and the movie that made Jason Lee one of the greatest smart-asses of this or any generation  "}{"Title":"Definite Classic...","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It boggles my mind that so many people see this movie as a fitting place to dump their pseudo-analytical fescis . This isn't his best work (Clerks has that place, eternally), but it's a damn funny movie and an incontrovertible classic. Jason Lee's delivery is almost impeccable,the sight gags stand up over time, and Jason Mewes' all time greatest line (Fly Fat Ass, Fly!). It is basically a story of every teen and twenty-something slacker (a fraternity house I'm regretably proud to opine from as we speak) doing nothing and having fun not doing it, which are the characteristics that were (and still are) so attractive about the Jersey Trilogy. And, if you haven't seen this yet, the dating show at the end could possibly be the funniest ten minutes caught on film in the last ten years. If you haven't seen any of Kevin Smith's movies, this or Clerks is a good place to start. Don't go for the critically masturbated Chasing Amy until after you've watched the first two. 8.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"It's a cult flick","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  75% of the comments I hear about Mallrats in person are negative. However, 90% of the discussion I have about Mallrats is positive. See the pattern? Myself, I loved this movie. Jason Lee struck a chord with me, Jay and Silent Bob were hilarious as always, Ben Affleck played well for a then-unknown person, and the appearance of Stan Lee was a nice touch. However, if you did not like this movie, please don't complain about it. Not liking Mallrats doesn't mean there's anything wrong with you, because it is a cult movie. Certain kinds of people like it, mostly everyone else hates it. Although I don't think Kevin Smith intended to make it one, he managed to create a movie for the comic geeks, Star Wars fans, mallrats, video gamers, and lovers of just damn good dialogue. Throughout watching Mallrats, one thought kept coming to me Wow, this is a day in my life, but all the cool stuff happening one after another. Meeting a celebrity, losing a girlfriend, regaining a girlfriend, having random sex in public places, getting the crap beaten out of you, pulling prank after unsuccessful prank. These are things that actually happen to people, although not in one day.  "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob are the funniest comedy pair since Laurel and Hardy!","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jay (Jason Mewes)and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith) are two of the funniest comic teams that I have seen in a long time.  Even if you don't really like the movie, you'll like Jay and Silent Bob.  Me, I like this movie alot, it's gotta be one of my favourites starring Jay and Silent Bob.  I also like the supporting cast.  Shannon Dougherty (used to love her as Brenda off of Beverly Hills 90210), I thought did an awesome job.  She had some pretty good lines and her character to me was like the average gurl in a way. Joey Lauren Adams, I've loved her in every movie I've seen her in, she's a great gal, and she also has a couple of great parts and lines too.  Jeremy London, I had the hotts for him when I was younger, and he did great also.  Jason Lee, lol (loved him in A Guy Thing), he is very funny.  Brodie reminds me of my ex b/f in a way, (only my ex b/f wasn't afraid of his own mom, but he did like Sega).  Brodie is fun, he's sensitive when it comes to talking about the mall.  One of my favourite scenes with Brodie and T.S. (Jeremy London) is the game show.  That is the best game show i've ever seen, I actually wish I could have been in that audience.  But ya Jay and Silent Bob, they are very funny.  Out of the 2, Jay does most of the talking, and his lingo is different, but it's even funny.  The thing that I love hearing him say is, Snoochie Boochies.  Silent Bob is great too, considering he only says 1 line in each of the Jay and Silent Bob movies.  But as most people say, actions speak louder than words.  This movie for me get's a 7, because it's not the greatest movie that I've seen in my entire life, but it's funny, has a great cast, and has a pretty good story. "},{"Title":"meh...not as good as clerks","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If anyone wants to see a good Kevin Smith movie, rent Clerks, Chasing Amy or Dogma (even Jersey Girl is probably better). Just don't talk to me in public and tell me you like Smith's films if you base it on whether or not you like Mallrats even he's admitted that it wasn't his best work. It's still funnier than most flicks, and I admit I own a used copy of the video (that I bought four or five years ago, and only because it is part of the set of the other movies) and watch it with the other movies by Smith in marathon sittings, but I don't think I'll buy the soundtrack or special DVD.Then again, I can recite all the lines, (you called on the thunder, and now you've got it is one of my favorites) so you be the judge. Also, check out the Evening with Kevin Smith DVD--it's like having a conversation with the man in your living room--highly entertaining. The Clerks cartoons are among my favorites as well. "},{"Title":"Very Very Funny.","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, this film is great, it's one of the few decent american comedy films of the 90s,Jason Lee i feel puts in a great performance. Everytime i see the film it still cracks me up, even after a few years have passed (nearly a decade....does time go that fast!!!) There's no real serious acting, but comedy films are rarely powerfully acted dramas! i rate this an 8.Comments are welcome to me via my email. PS-entitle the subject MALLRATS (so i know it aint spam!) "},{"Title":"Great entertaining film","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film doesnt make the mistake of taking itself too seriously. The dialogue alone kept me interested throughout the picture so I never found myself suffering through a section of the movie to get to the good part Given the genre and the title of this film Im not expecting material deserving of an Academy Award.  It does exactly what it sets out to do and in doing so earns a 9 out of 10 rating from me. "},{"Title":"Epic 'Comic Book' Series","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fabulous Movie. I suggest watching this cult epidemic in order too, and yes you either love it or hate it!Many well defined and colourful characters all with a key role in a movie that just keeps you glued to the screen. Many great one-liners too, a definate must see, although perhaps not your average family movie! "},{"Title":"Not A mall, alright? THE Mall ...show some respect!","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After watching Mallrats, I am stunned at how this film is rated as a low point for Kevin Smith (writer/director). I was so brainwashed into not seeing it that I only had the pleasure recently cos I wanted to see the third in the Clerks Trilogy (Chasing Amy) and thought it best to see #2 first.The plot is simple ... 2 guys dumped by their gals resort to desperate measures (they even ask Jay & Silent Bob to help) to win their gals back!Mallrats gave me a good laugh and I hope others will get to see this film as I believe you WILL enjoy it ... Kevin Smith, no apology needed for this flick!!! "},{"Title":"What A Underrated Film!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Personally, i enjoy Kevin Smith movies. I own every single one of them, except for chasing amy, do to personal reasons. This is probably, my favorite KS movie. Mallrats is in my favorite movie list #5 to be exact. I think this has a good plot..good dialogue, good acting. Not an a-list of stars though. Now, all of them have become a success. Kevin....i gotta hand it to ya......BEST UNDERRATED FILM OF ALL TIME!10/10 Perfect....though not the bestCOP THAT DVD! "},{"Title":"Best Kevin Smith movie. Ever.","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is by far the best of the whole series of Kevin Smith movies. Jason Lee is EXCELLENT as Brodie Bruce. The performances by everyone are excellent! It's also so very hilarious. Jay and Silent Bob only make it better. Buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it. "}{"Title":"Chasing Mallrats","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Good and often funny at times, but it isn't as good as Clerks. The story is about two guys, Brodie and TS, both are dumped by their girlfriends, so they go to the local mall to meet friends and try to get back together with their girlfriends. I must admit, the plot is weak, I found Brodie (Jason Lee) to be the funniest person int he movie. He says most of the movie.3.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"comedy - starring shannnen doherty","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  **spolier warning**this movie has know story line - but is set in a mall the film is mainly about 2 guys who loose there girlfriends but then try to get back up with them even if it means going on a game show - this film will leave laughting again and again. i would recommend it to anyone? 10/10 - stars to great hollywood actors - SHANNEN DOHERTY AND BEN AFFLECK. "},{"Title":"Show some love!","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is without A doubt the best Kevin Smith film yet.Considering that it started with An assassination plot,I believe it turned out wonderful.Jason Lee is spot on perfect in this.There is not anyone else alive that could play Brodie better.The acting is great for A mid ninties comedy.Smith has not made A movie as funny since.No sophmore slump here.If you watch the flick again and not expecting Clerks you may just enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Good Sunday night movie.","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can see to a certain extent why the critics hated this.  It is pretty much made for a selective audience.  I actually watched this with someone who had no idea who Stan Lee was.  I'm not sure whether this is just really thick or maybe you had to be born at the dawn of the comic book era, or even just be a little sad...but the general public, like your average middle class suburbanite would hate this film coz it can be really gross at times.  I do love Brodie tho', definately the best character in this film.  Watch it anyway, really brightens up a Sunday! "},{"Title":"A very funny Kevin Smith comedy with a great cast and a great script.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is very funny and creative. Kevin Smith is a great writer-directed and he proves it with his second film, Mallrats. The best thing about this film is Jason Lee as Brodie. He is always funny and has a number of great lines. I liked everything about this film, especially the game show sequence at the end. A must for die hard Kevin Smith fans. I thought it was one of the best films of 1995.  "},{"Title":"Mallrats is the sewer of Smith films","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen and love all of Smith's flicks. This is by far the worse. If it weren't for Jason Lee (just a little bit less than the performance in Chasing Amy) this movie would be complete rat droppings. The dialogue is good, but not delivered with the pizazz of other Smith films. I think Smith films rank like this  1. Dogma (1999) 2. Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back (2001)3. Chasing Amy (1997) 4. Clerks. (1994) 5. Mallrats (1995) I think it safe to say that Kevin Smith, unlike a lot of movie makers, is getting better with time and experience. Big budgets help too. Let's see how Fletch turns out.  "},{"Title":"Likeable characters + Profanity + Box Office flop = Home Video Success","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is one of those films that very few saw in a movie theatre, but went on to become a cult favorite thanks to the home video market. It boasts a hot, young director and a cast of likeable characters that like to cuss a lot. Add a hip soundtrack, and you've got the complete package. For those of you 21 and older, go to the View Askew website and check out the Mallrats Drinking Game. It makes for a good night with friends. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith is a Brilliant young writer/director","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although he seemed to be somewhat disappointed by his movie, and from what I gather so did most of the reviewers and audiences, I found this to be one of Kevin's better movies.  Maybe it was because I saw this one after I had already seen Dogma and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, but now I got some of those great in-jokes that were included in those movies.  Of course the running gags and themes that present themselves from one movie to the next make this a real gem. Anyone who doesn't appreciate these films and this writer and director needs serious therapy....And no, I am not related to the guy....  "},{"Title":"I love the smell of commerce in the morning","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was originally going to write how Clerks managed to accomplish allot more than Mallrats with a much much smaller budget, but why kill the fun.  This movie is great and a welcome addition to the world that Kevin Smith has created.  Instead of the wise-ass remarks from the loveable Randal, we have the great Brodie Bruce (Jason Lee) ripping up the screen with his rude and crude observations.  Mallrats is fun, enjoyable, and the one Smith movie you don't have to pay attention to, to enjoy.This movie is about TS whose girlfriend breaks up with him after they get into yet another fight.  His girlfriend's father seems to have it in for him and wants nothing more than TS and his daughter to part ways.  After the breakup TS winds up at his buddy Brodie's house.  From here it begins.  Brodie will keep you laughing the rest of the way.  Jason Lee made this character and this character made the film.  Unlike in Clerks, Jay & Silent Bob have a large part in this movie.  They are in charge of helping TS get back with his girlfriend, which involves much sabotage.  There is one main storyline and a couple of other ones along the way.In all this is a great movie and who cares how it was put together.  Allot of people felt it was a big jump for Kevin Smith (writer/director, Silent Bob) and Scott Mosier (producer) to go from a small independent budget to a Studio backed million-dollar budget.  I might tend to agree, but who cares, this movie Rocks  "},{"Title":"Whats not to love!?!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To start off with, Jay and Silent Bob rock as always, T.S. is a little anal but that adds to his overall character and pans out to his advantage at the end of the film, Willam is underrated, Brandi and father are a great example of a modern day middle class father/daughter relationship, (and she FINE to!!!), even the lovely Shannen Doherty deserves usually unwarranted praise if just for the lift scene, but the star of the whole movie has got to be Brodie. If not for the preoccupation with superhero sex organs, supermans potential birth control or possible future realistic child bearing partners, then just simply for the answer to what noises do you make when you're having whoopee. According to commentary said noise was supplied by the unappreciated in our time Jay mewesey mewes but delivered with such conviction that i use it as my answerphone message on my cell. Kevin Smith, View Askew, boys, you all did yourselves proud. Even your commentaries are better than most of the other films floating around the cinemas for the past decade. Thank you for making a sad man and best friend very happy. "}{"Title":"The Force Is Strong With This One","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When it comes to being serious, this film is frivolous with it. Of all stupid comedies I have ever seen, this one takes the Lombardi Trophy. It a smattering of silliness, sageness, and suaveness and all of these elements are harmonious with one another. Mallrats is Kevin Smith's least serious film but one of the most hilarious. I recommend this movie to all fans of stupid comedy because it is not your average stupid comedy (like Dude, Where's My Car or Dumb and Dumber).Here are my reasons (spoilers) (1) The soliloquy given by Jason Lee in the first two minutes of the film is one of the funniest yet sickest stories of all time. I couldn't contain my laughter if I died trying. I taken with the movie from then on. (2) Speaking of Jason Lee, this man is the inheritor of the title of smart-a** comedian from Chevy Chase. As I heard Lee rant, I was easily reminded of Chevy Chase but with a more caustic and angry visage. If Lee finds the right comedic roles from here on out, he could be remembered as a comedic legend. He also had the best performance in the film. (3) The silliness of Mallrats is done in exquisite fashion. The characters of Jay and Silent Bob provide the needed stupidity to Jason's Lee intelligent ranting and hilarity. I love the scenes where these boys try to turn the stage into rubble while trying to take out the head security guard. That is a recipe for multiple laughs. (4) The suaveness of Mallrats comes in with the tackling of some very adult issues in a really lighthearted fashion. The aspect of a fifteen-year old female doing every man in the neighborhood for research on a manuscript detailing their shortcomings is pretty heavy and almost sadistic stuff. The film pulls some interesting punches on the issues of sexual inadequacy, drug use, youth and authority, parenting, slacking and so on without falling into preachiness. If Mallrats had gone had tried to be serious while trying to also be slapstick, it was have fallen even further away from critics and the masses alike. (5) Kevin Smith has a knack for smart and realistic dialogue. He must be an expert eavesdropper because he had to do some sort of research to hone his wordsmithing ability. It doesn't matter if that thought is correct or not because the dialogue rules either way. I have heard people quote this movie word for word and to me, it means the writer did something right. (6) Ethan Suplee's battle with the Magic Eye poster is a jewel among all comedic sequences ever made. I really loved it when he just lashed out at those who could see the sailboat while he couldn't. Even pure, raw desperation can make for hilarious moments. (7) Ben Affleck did well as the smarmy, annoying shop manager who goes after Shannen Doherty. His pre-JLO work is among his best stuff. (8) Every town that has a 'good mall' must have a 'dirt mall' and that set of scenes really hit home for me. I worked for nine months in a 'dirt mall' and it was fun. It was one hundred times cleaner than the 'dirt mall' in the film but everybody else shopped at the big mall on the south end of the city I work and play in. It made me feel nostalgic. (9) I loved the denouement of the film. That set of sequences shows that a master hand is at work. (10) That master hand belongs to Kevin Smith and he is very talented at creating films. Even at his least serious, he can make something that will make you feel good and not stupid at the same time. The true stupid comedies always make you feel this way. Ten reasons give a score of ten.Overall, Mallrats is a stupid comedy to be reckoned with. It is silly like Happy Gilmore, sage like Rushmore, and suave like Raising Arizona. It is rare to find a comedy that balances all three of these traits perfectly and Mallrats succeeds immensely. It is all right to keep your brain on here and it is also all right to turn your brain off as well because this is entertainment as it's finest. Here ends my rant! "},{"Title":"The movie that made me a Kevin Smith fanatic.","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie so much that i now own it and every other Kevin Smith flick. This movie does not have as much laughs as Clerks but certainly makes me laugh a great deal. Kevin Smith is a genius writer and director and it's just a shame that the Jay & Bob flicks are done. But anybody who wants to see a funny movie, i recommend Mallrats. This was the first Jay & Bob flick that i saw and it made a great impression on me. Brodie is the best and funniest character in the Jay & Bob series. I give this flick thumbs up. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"This had the potential to be Smith's finest.","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats, the story of two friends who coincidentally both lose their girlfriends retreat to their local mall to work out their love lives and get back together with their girlfriends.  This had the potential to be Kevin Smith's best work in my opinion, but many factors held him back.  First of all the main goal of Universal was for this film was to be a hard R film with a teen audience in mind.  They were calling it a Smart Porkys, because it had that snappy humor, but it had tits in it to attract teenage males.  Director/Writer Kevin Smith and Producer Scott Mosier wanted to make a studio film in hopes of making lots of money to fund more independent films.  Neither goal was really met, this film tanked at the box-office. It grossed only 3 million in total; meaning this film lost money with a total cost of 6 million.  This film had high hopes, all tests were good, but why was it such a dud?  Well I blame it on several factors, First of all Jim Jacks; the executive producer ruined this film.  Kevin Smith may not be the greatest director, but he is a great writer, the two set each other off making Kevin a solid filmmaker, but Jim Jacks was always holding him back by forcing Kevin to cut down on the vulgar dialog as well as graphic scenes. One scene was known as the cum in the hair joke that was later made famous in 'There's Something About Mary', but many people at universal including Jim Jacks were holding Kevin back from making the movie he wanted.  If you know Kevin's work, you will notice this is his only film where the word cock is never used.  It's just tossed around in Clerks' and common in his 3 other films.  It's that raw, real humor and language that many fans like about his writing.  Jim Jacks stressed that Potty Mouth (yes those were his words) be cut down.  Even though there is nudity, and they want that R rating, they still had to cut back on the f***s and other rude language, but that's not what really held this film back.  Gramercy Pictures, who were in charge of promoting this film, really did a poor job on making this movie known.  They used the tag line Starring Shannon Doherty and Jason Lee, someone you hate, and someone you've never even heard of. That really doesn't help promote the film in anyway.  Then they asked Kevin and Scott to think of a good poster, now Kevin and Scott didn't think of hey what would make people want to check out our movie? they wanted what would look cool on my wall?  The comic book cover poster is cool, but doesn't say much for the film, and it was the only poster made for the film. Some idiots were thrown off by it. Oh well. Also, the casting for this film was just okay, I was happy with Jason Lee as Brodie,  perfect job on that, but Jeremy London as T.S.?  Jeremy London is not that good of an actor, and just doesn't seem right for the part.  Then Claire Forlani as Brandy was okay, but I could hear that British accent coming out at times.  And then Shannon Doherty as Rene, first of all she really didn't seem thrilled to be in this movie, she never hung around the set, she would take off when she was done working.  Plus lots of people (the public) didn't like her at the time; she had a reputation as a wild one.  I think Kevin should have gone with his instinct and used Joey Lauren Adams.  I think she would have been perfect for that part.  They just barely got Jason Mewes to play Jay.  Universal didn't want jay to play jay, they wanted Seth Green or Breckin Meyer, but even they realized that Jay should be Jay, Jay is based on the way Jason Mewes really is.  I do think that Affleck was good as an asshole, but he probably could have played T.S. better than London.  Renee Humphrey as Trish was good, they almost cast Jennifer Love Hewitt instead, but she seems too cute and innocent to play that part.  Kevin Smith claims he could have made this film (probably better) with less money.  I mean look at how good 'Chasing Amy' is with a quarter million dollar budget.  Smith said that six million was just too much.  He hates losing money for people, if this movie was done with just a million dollars, it would have been just as good.  I agree.  Also, (now this is where I get a bit picky) the original opening of this film was cut, and for good reason, it sucked, it was not funny at all, nor was it even somewhat realistic.  If you watch closely, some dialog in this film is dubbed over and doesn't match the actor's mouth. This is because almost all references to that cut opening had to be cut, but it was too late to reshoot and in some instances, not possible to cut out of a scene.  This film was not a total disaster.  I believe it did pay for itself and probably profit when you include video rental where it was more popular than in theaters. Now when you take all of this into consideration, you see how great this film could have been.  Despite all of its flaws, Mallrats is still one of my favorite films, and definitely my favorite comedy.  I suggest you check it out if you liked Kevin's other work or even if you haven't, this one is probably the one that is most unlike his others.  I still give it a 10/10, but it could have been an 11.P.S. Check out the commentary on the DVD if you know about Kevin Smith and View Askew well, it's very funny to an askewniverse fan. "},{"Title":"Jay, what can I say?","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, Jason Mewes.  He practically brings the whole movie together along with Kevin Smith.  They kinda add the funniness to the movie. What can I say? They're Jay and Silent Bob, they have to be funny.  This has to be one of my favorite movies definitely, considering the fact that I am a teenager and enjoy movies like this.  I also like the fact that it takes place in a mall, considering I am a shopaholic and go to the mall every week.Good job Kevin. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest comedies of all time!","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MALLRATS is one of the greatest comedy's of all time! It's up there.. along with Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back and others.. I've seen all Kevin Smith's films and I believe the best two are STRIKE BACK and MALLRATS.... I can't wait til the next Jay & Silent Bob flick... I hope it has Jason Lee in it! The guys terrific... This movie is hilarious.. Genius diologue! Kevin Smith is a genius. He's unique. Everybody should see Mallrats.. Only an idiot wouldn't like this movie.****/**** 4 out of 4 stars, baby! "},{"Title":"Stinkpalm !!","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say about this movie.  It's got everything...drama, comedy, action, romance, and even a little grossness to it's plot.  Where else can you see one man break up with his girlfriend, go to the mall, help destroy a friend's ex girlfriend's father's television game show, stinkpalm a couple people, find a couple hooligans to help you along the way and have time to have sex in an elevator?  NOWHERE...that's why this movie has it all. Character development is a big big part of movies and this one has development of 2 memorable characters who we would see in a later film...Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  Kevin Smith excels as director (and actor as Silent Bob).  This movie also launched the career of Jason Lee who played the comic loving, video game playing, mallrat of a crazy fool Brodie Bruce.  Lee has gone on to star in such films in Stealing Harvard, A Guy Thing, Dogma, and Almost Famous.  The movie makes you laugh uncontrollably in parts where you KNOW something funny is going to happen yet still laugh because it's outrageous.  I highly reccomend this flick to all who are looking for a great comedy that's got it all. "},{"Title":"Dialouge, Dialouge, Dialouge","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie has the best dialouge of any movie I've ever seen. It's a simple portrayal of 2 guys, both having been dumped by their respective girlfreinds, who decide to spend a day at the local mall. While one (Jeremy London) is trying to win his girl back, the other (Jason Lee) is pretending like he is okay about his breakup. The storyline is good, but what makes this movie is the dialouge. Brodie is a smartass and feeds likes like Most of the time I'm just talking through my ass. Or sticking my hand in it., while T.S. is a romantic loser who says things like  You should see yourself right now - a grown man with his hand down his pants. And with a great cast (Stan Lee, Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams) this makes the movie so much more awesome than it already is. It really is a treat to see this.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie about my culture, and my old EP center","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful movie from Kevin Smith, but if you're reading this, then you know that.  It can, on the surface, be a simple amusing story, but it also does show much of the mindset of your average slacker.  You could even learn a thing or two about yourself from this one. "},{"Title":"Glad it received a cult audience","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats has found a great cult audience, now that it's out on video and DVD, despite the fact that it was a huge bomb at the box office.  That's great to know.  And of course, Kevin Smith fans adore the film as well.  I happen to be one of those fans, and I always enjoy watching this movie.  It has many great lines, though in Kevin Smith tradition, sometimes he falls so much in love with his dialogue that it sometimes feels stilted.  I still love the film, but I can't deny that the dialogue doesn't always appear natural.  But at least the dialogue is intelligent, which something Smith never gets full credit for.  Critics and angry audiences spend too much time dwelling on the profane nature of his work, yet there's tons of comedies out there that are profane, but not the damn bit intelligent.  Jason Lee gives a memorable performance as Brodie.  This is the role he was born to play!  He's up there with Jason Alexander when it comes to playing the neurotic best friend.  Michael Rooker also seems to be having a lot of fun, playing a great villain.  As for Claire Forlani, I can never get over her disastrous American accent.  I'm guessing she learned from her mistakes before doing other American films like Meet Joe Black, Antitrust and Boys and Girls.  In all of those films, she seems to pull off the accent without a hitch.  I don't understand why the studio tried to cut down on the film's use of profanity.  Just another example of a**hole studio execs trying to take advantage of the independent filmmaker.  As if we don't see any studio films with strong pervasive language.  Pulp Fiction was also a Miramax film.  'Nuff said.  You know damn well these execs are prejudice against certain filmmakers.  I guess they just assume Smith is some young Neandrathal.  Eh, screw them.  Though I laughed a good deal, I still find the chocolate-covered pretzel gag downright disgusting.  But overall this film is definitely worth checking out!  My score  7 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Funny, funny, and did I mention, funny?","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious! Kevin Smith is a great director! I'm not sure about Dogma or Chasing Amy but Clerks, Mallrats, and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back are hilariously stupid movies that kept me laughing out loud. This movie is great and clever (take the cookie store in the food court and Superman and Lois Lane conversations for example) Haha what a great movie. "}{"Title":"Adequate for Kevin's Fan","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After the triumph with Clerks Kevin try to make his NJ saga continue with the magabudget(8 m. I think..)Mallrats and the result is.....Just adequate. Plotless and unnessessary situation make this film not up to classic like his other work (eg. Chasing amy). But Kevin is still Kevin, he provides some very funny lines and gags for making up story weakness. So, if you really like Kevin's stuff I suggest you to have this flick, other beware.  "},{"Title":"Great unique comedy that is funny on so many different levels","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is one of the greatest movies of the mid 90s and you should own it because you are worthless without it. Kevin Smith Came out with Mallrats after his huge success Clerks. But unlike Clerks this movie did really poorly at the box office. First off I'd like to begin by saying this movie is a teenage movie that is sort of like a porky, except for the fact that Kevin Smith is funnier than just a porky type of movie and that is why this movie isn't as popular as it should be..BECAUSE PEOPLE ARE STUPID. and Kevin knows that by now and that is why he made Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, so that the average teenager can understand and laugh like an idiot and then go tell those awful jokes to his other retarded friends and they'll understand and so on ..Kevin Smith is a sell out in my book but Mallrats will always be a classic  "},{"Title":"THE POWER OF THE COMICS FANS","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is perhaps the best film of Kevin Smith with Clerks For these reasons. 1.The screen is very funny,It presents two comics Fans in their Own territory THE MALL  2.The cameo of Stan the man Lee   3. Jail and Silent Bob are the best  4. The spirit of the nineties is present on the filmFor that Mallrats is one of the best comedies of the last ten years.SENTENCEEXCELLENT *****     "},{"Title":"organised chaos","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith's follow-up to Clerks sees similar themes present, such as the backdrop of commerce and popular culture to the emotional problems of nineties teenagers in the foreground, as well as the constant struggle between he who takes drastic measures and he who takes realistic measures in order to solve problems. Mallrats is a far less arthouse movie compared to clerks, however, and far more intent on being a rollercoaster of slapstick comedy that eventually winds up all the variant plot strands into one thrilling end, than making the viewer think about the world. Mallrats is lighthearted in spirit, and if taken in the same spirit as it is intended than there is no reason why it should not be considered one of Smith's major achievements. And Jay and Silent Bob, who are possibly the best comic invention of a decade absolutely glow in this film, especially in the trip to the 'dirt mall' "},{"Title":"London ruined this film!","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  ...The script is fine but was really given too much money... this would have been better on lower financing... which is a weird thing to write! But I think it's true! Although Shannon Doherty probably took a lot of the budget now I'm thinking about it! ...The film no matter what critics say Mallrats is definately worth watching!The film also brought the great talent that is (Sir) Jason Lee to the big screen and I look forward to what should be a long and successful career.The cast are okay but not great... it does seem very half hearted in places!6/10 "},{"Title":"entertaining, though somewhat lackluster follow-up to an excellent debut","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Before I start to go into this review, I just wanna make on thing clear I don't dislike Mallrats. In fact, compared to most teen/college comedies this is very well done. It is very funny and still very dialogue-driven like all of Kevin Smith's other movies. I especially love Brodie's character (Jason Lee in his first leading role).    That being said, my biggest issue with Mallrats is that it did not quite live up to the standards that Smith set for himself a year earlier with Clerks. That movie was very character and dialogue driven and by the end of the movie I felt that I knew much more about the main characters (Dante and Randall) and that I could readily indentify with them. I did not feel that so much about Brodie and T.S. at the end of Mallrats. The only characters that I got to know somewhat were minor characters and ones that I didn't really find myself caring that much about. These include the mean-spirited and somewhat perverted Shannon Hamilton (a pre-fame and still wet-behind-the-ears Ben Affleck) and the slutty though sophisticated Trish (Renee Humphrey). It was probably a good thing that Kevin Smith gave himself two years in between this movie and Chasing Amy, in order to mature a bit. Believe me it really came through for him in the latter and his subsequent movie, Dogma.   Now despite the charatcer flaws of Mallrats, the dialogue was still every bit as sharp, witty and as outrageous as it was in Clerks. Brodie was played to perfection by Jason Lee in a role that he was born to play. He brings all of the wit, sassiness and sarcasm to his character with almost no effort. Not bad for being only his second time up to bat. Jeremy London was also very good as the slightly more cautious and more rational T.S. Quint. And of course, who can forget the unofficial stars themselves, none other than Jay and Silent Bob. Their antics really distinguish all of the movies in the series. The scenes where Silent Bob tries to fly around the mall in his cape and literally crashes in on Gwen Turner (Joey Lauren Adams) twice are very funny. Jay also provide some laughs with his foul-mouthed (and somewhat incessant) dialogue.  All in all while I don't consider it my favorite movie, it is still very well-worth it (beats the hell out of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, my least favorite of the series, but I'll hopefully let you all in on that one later). It (being Mallrats)may not be as original as the others but, if you're bored and looking for something to do, it still very lively entertainment.     "},{"Title":"i dont know why people did not like it","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most people did not like the classic kevin smith film mallrats i found it quite funny as i do with most of kevin's films such as the cult classic and probally the most famous of all kevins films clerks.I cant understand why anybody did not like the movie, it was great. Although it wasn't his best film it was good so if your wanting a funny movie get mallrats.i give mallrats the rating of 8/10. "},{"Title":"Mallrats","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As I've been quoted on this site....The fanboys tend to ruin Kevin Smith though... many cannot admit his flaws, even Smith himself will admit to his flaws. ...This was panned by the critics and if you were to weight up everything you should agree. ...Frankly the best thing to come out of this film was (sir) Jason Lee, who was brilliant in executing his role. It was also nice to see a before he was famous Ben Affleck. ...BUT lets be honest..... ...Jason London was absolutely awful! He sounds like he's reading from an autocue! ...Claire Forlani was poor as was Shannen Doherty in executing her lines too.This was no Clerks or Chasing Amy or Dogma but it's still watchable all the same thanks to the great Jason Lee... Maybe if there wasn't so much budget involved this could have been better? Jersey Girl is his biggest budget since (mainly thanks to Affleck's wages) lets hope Kevin Smith makes his $$$$ back for Miramax so he can go onto the Fletch film trouble free!!!6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Sheer Brilliance","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How can I start with Mallrats.  Well let us start with the beginning.  T.S Quint(London) has just been dumped by his girlfriend when he wanted to take her to Universal Studios to get married on Jaws The Ride.  Contemplating what has just happened he visits his best buddy  and comic book geek Brodie Bruce (Lee) who has also been dumped.  So what better way to wallow in self pity than visit the local mall?  Here the two find out that T.S's girlfriend is taking part in her fathers tacky dating show which is broadcasting live from the mall that they have just decided to visit.  Cue T.S to try and stop the broadcast and enlist the help of the two local stoners- Jay (Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith himself) in an effort to gain back his girlfriend.  Also along the lines, Brodie tries to snatch his girlfriend back from the charms of Shannon Hamilton (Affleck) who likes to screw girls in a very uncomfortable place and no...not the back of a Volswagen.It is all a bit too much at first, what with the dialogue heavy storyline and.  London's performance as Quint is a bit off, but Lee is the one who ultimately shines as Brodie and makes up more than enough for London. However, overall you will probably find yourself waiting for the next short episode featuring Smith's recurring characters Jay and Silent Bob- whether they are concocting and executing plans to destroy the dating show, accosting the Easter Bunny or they are just hanging around you will find the fluid speeches of Foul Mouth Phat Buds Jay or just the reactions of Silent Bob a joy to watch and listen to.  True there are a few scenes misplaced but the film is totally enjoyable and kicks the hell out Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.Mallrats is overall a superb example of American Independant Cinema, and although it barely raked in a third of its production costs, video sales have made up for that.  Besides, a film has nothing to do with how much it pulls in, it is how good the film is and Mallrats ranks amongst the top.The Lo-down 9/10 A Classic "},{"Title":"no clerks, but not bad","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is the follow-up to the much lauded Clerks, and is similar in that this too spends most of it's time in one location - a shopping mall. It isn't as funny or charming as Clerks, or even Chasing Amy which followed it, but this is still a likeable way to spend 90 minutes or so. Jason Lee is the best part of it, using his trademark charisma and sarcasm to get laughs. Jay and Silent Bob aren't that funny in this flick I'm afraid to say, but regardless this is worth watching for Smith fans, like myself.7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"snoogens","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Many say that Mallrats is a sloppy effort to top the cult status of Clerks however I would tend to disagree. Smiths movement into mainstream cinema is right on and his assimilation into the cut throat bussiness that is Hollywood seems to of been successful. The film is the next step on the way to Smith's cult status and auterism(although he hates to be called one.) In my opinion the team up of London (T.S) and Lee (Brodie) is phonominal the duo manage to pull off Smiths witty dialogue with grace and ease. Although some argue that its not as good as Clerks, Mallrats offers something different and the cameo of Stan Lee never ceases to make me giggle(even if it is the 97823th time I've watched it). Jam packed with stink palms, third nipples, the Thing's orange well...thingy and of course hard rocking Jay and his hetero life mate that is the Jedi master Silent Bob you can't go wrong. I give it 8 out of 10 chocolate covered pretzels.  "},{"Title":"One of smith's greatest movies","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Even though I like the movie clerks better than mallrats, I definitely like the characters from mallrats more. Mallrats was way more of a goofy movie rather than a realistic movie. but that's what made it funny. I think that Brodie is hilarious. Definitely funnier than Randall from Clerks, but i'm not sure if he is funnier than jay & silent bob are. but still, I give this all 4 stars!    ****                                                                "},{"Title":"My favorite Smith Flick...","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite Kevin Smith movie to date. I give this movie a 10. Although Smith had to work with some who for some reason kept trying to alter his work during production (i.e. telling him he shouldn't put in certain elements such as excessive swearing and certain scenes)he did a great job. Also, it wasn't marketed well. Now that the movie is considered a success (on DVD / Video) I think that actors portrayed in it should have this gem next to their name on movie posters for their new work (i.e. Mallrats Jason Lee). "},{"Title":"Jason Lee is a comic genius","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am a massive fan of Kevin Smith so I had to see this although I heard all the bad reviews, but they did not put me off at all. Upon first viewing I enjoyed the film and I thought Jason Lee was exceptional as Brodie. The best thing about this film has to be Jay and Silent Bob because they are very funny even though they are a bit silly and slapsticky. This film has once been dubbed a smart porkies but it is nothing at all like Porkies in my opinion. Fans of Kevin Smith would definitely like this film but I feel upon repeated viewings it loses its appeal. This once used to be my second favourite viewaskew film after Clerks but it becomes less and less enjoyable but it does pass a couple of hours. Overall 3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"A very fun movie that is unfortunatley underrated.","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Alot of people didn't like this movie. They thought it was stupid, and average at best. But, personally, I thought it was really good. I mean, it isn't the best Kevin Smith movie ever made, but definetly not the worst. I laughed so much through the movie, my eyes started watering! It was some funny stuff. I say the highlights of the movie are Jason Lee's absolutley hysterical performance as Brody and Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith as Jay and Silent Bob (one of the funniest duo's ever made). This film really isn't for people searching for a dignified plot, because it really doesn't have one. It is pretty much about two friends, T.S. (Jeremy London) and Brody (Jason Lee), who hang out at the mall during the course of one day, after being dumped by their girlfriends. There they try to win back their girlfriends. Brody tries to keep his girlfriend, Rene (Shannen Doherty) from being made love to in a very uncomfortable place by her new boyfriend (Ben Affleck) who is the manager of a classy clothing store. T.S. tries to win back his girlfriend, Brandi (Claire Forlani) because her father (Michael Rooker) made her leave him, by destroying her father's live t.v. reality show, where Brandi must choose a mystery man to date. The film has interesting and very comical dialogue and is a very fun movie by me. I would recommend this movie to any Kevin Smith fans, or anybody just looking for a funny, silly and sick comedy to watch. Grade B. "},{"Title":"The funniest dialogues I have ever seen","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've always thought this is not a good movie (no great visual effects, not many actors, not many locations, those things that have historical movies); all the movie is inside the mall. But the dialogues are so amazing. When they talk about super-heros sex I just cannot stop laughing.As a whole maybe it's not that good, but the feeling I have every time I watch this movie is that there cannot be a funnier one "},{"Title":"Come on people!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  All of Kevin Smith's movies need to be viewed and reviewed in order to get all the inside jokes. And what is it with you people! Chasing Amy was a great movie Kevin showed the world that he could make a film that actually made people shed a tear or two! It was a a lot better then Porky's that Mallrat's was compared to or that second one what was it called Porky's 2!? Come on those movies sucked though those actors, are has beens now! I think Lee and all the others that were first timers or just newbie actors really got to show there stuff off...even if it was to the dick and fart joke movie watchers!  "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith Fan.","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well I have always been a fan of Kevin Smith.  This is one of the original View Askew movies we all love.  I can't wait for the next.  Brodie Bruce is a charactor that none of us will easily forget.  Jay and Silent Bob gave us yet another brilliant performance of there outlook on life and they're art of dick and fart jokes.  Affleck rocks as Shannen Hamilton and I cannot get enough of Ethan Suplee and the Magic Eye. "},{"Title":"Fly, fatass, fly!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is Kevin Smith's first `real' movie, i.e., one made with a real budget, real actors, and backed by a real studio. It was also a commercial and critical flop, most reviewers seem to regard it as his worst movie. That is understandable, seeing as he set such high expectations with `Clerks', a work of pure genius that was made on a budget so low that Smith was forced to use black & white film. `Clerks' is one of my all time favorite films, a classic that will probably still be popular many years from now, and so, by comparison, `Mallrats' simply doesn't measure up. But so what? It's still a great comedy, with lots of moments that make you want to split a gut, and is, IMHO, better than at least 90% of the other teenage/young adult movies out there.The story (as with most comedies) is pretty basic. It's about a day in the life of two slackers who both get dumped by their girlfriends that morning. They then spend the rest of the day hanging around the mall (in an ironic touch, the mall in question, while supposedly set in New Jersey, is actually about five miles from where I live, in the Minneapolis suburb Eden Prairie) trying to figure out how to win back their girls. Along the way they encounter Kevin Smith's trademark ensemble of oddball characters, most notably Jay & Silent Bob who give what I think are their funniest movie performances. Kevin Smith continues themes established in `Clerks' (and repeated in his following movies) namely, homages to Star Wars, Jaws, and hockey and throws in some new ones, most notably, comics and video games. As in `Clerks', nothing much really happens, the two, as the tagline puts it, aren't at the mall to work or to shop, they're just there. Well, not entirely. Amid their random meanderings and encounters with other Kevin Smith favorites like Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams there is an actual plot, namely, one of the guys is scheming to wreck a TV game show to be broadcast live at the mall later that day and he enlists Jay and Silent Bob to do the dirty deed. Why? Well, it's too complicated to explain in a brief review, but the payoff is hilarious. Whatever else one thinks of this movie, it has to be about the best send up of game shows ever as the dynamic duo infiltrate a Dating Game rip-off and turn the whole thing into a circus. The final 20 minutes or so of this movie is simply some of the funniest stuff you'll see anywhere.What about the rest? Mostly it's pretty good, although Kevin Smith's penchant for pushing the envelope means he sometimes goes too far when it comes to matters of taste, most notably scenes like the infamous `chocolate pretzel' and a former `Three's Company' star playing a topless fortune teller, not to mention the 15 year old girl who's doing a `science project' that involves having sex with multiple men of varying ages. Also, Smith seems to have some sort of fixation on homosexuality that keeps coming up (pardon the pun) in his movies. Is he simply using gay jokes as a means of getting a cheap laugh or is this his way of working out some personal `issues'? I don't know and, further, I don't care because I think there are better, more creative ways to get a laugh. But, these complaints aside, this movie is still funny as hell, and, as with `Clerks', Smith proves he has a good ear for tunes to accompany the film, especially in the title sequence which features all the characters drawn comic book style. Very original, and it works perfectly. One final comment I personally think the best way to watch his movies is to view them in order; this, for example, gives us the same basic slacker attitude and mentality of `Clerks', only in color and with a much bigger budget. He then went for the `quality' flick with `Chasing Amy' followed by the `issues' flick in `Dogma', finally returning to pure comedy in `Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back'. For one, the movies are all related, and each new one refers to his previous ones. Many of the jokes only make sense if you understand the context. And also, someone who saw the much more dramatic and polished `Chasing Amy' first and this film later might tend to dismiss it as sophomoric trash, not realizing that Smith got his start doing pure comedy, not romantic drama. In sum, this is a film in the tradition of `Airplane!' or `Scary Movie' in that it's all about going to any length to get a laugh, and, for the most part, it succeeds splendidly.8/10PS. As with all his other movies, Kevin Smith goes to considerable length to please his fans with his DVD's. They are all chock full of extra features, deleted scenes and the like, and his commentaries are some of the best in the movie business. Smith obviously knows he has a highly loyal fan base, and he returns that loyalty in spades.  "},{"Title":"Utterly Class","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The publicity for this film totally did not do it justice. Rather than a run-of-the-mill teen flick as the posters imply, or a weak and uneven comedy as the critics say, this is a stylish, funny and witty comedy/parody. The only problem that immediately hits the viewer is that the delivery of the dialogue is a bit stilted, but that's just the style in many of Kevin Smith's films and it just adds to the tongue-in-cheek atmosphere. The characters are all likeable charicatures and the over the top cartoony humour is a perfect antidote to the usual oh-so-sincere heartfelt nonsense in teen romance films. Mallrats is also the movie which makes best use of loveable pot-heads Jay and Silent Bob. Their small cameo appearances manage to almost steal the film as every short snippet is hilarious, rather than dragging the jokes out until they aren't funny as in Dogma. It's really hard to express how much this ISN'T a typical teen comedy in the vain of American Pie, it's almost the anti-Pie! The humour varies from wit to slapstick and the plot falls together at the end in a wonderful fantasy ending. This is also the only romantic comedy I've ever seen that appeals to guys!This is one damn funny movie and everyone should buy the video immediately.  "}{"Title":"May LaFours Be With You","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ridley Scott had Legend John Huston had Escape to Victory Steven Spielberg had 1941 George Lucas has The Phantom (bloody) Menace and Stanley Kubrick had Eyes Wide Shut The list goes on....Apparently Kevin Smith's was Mallrats.This wasn't Hollywood was it? Everyone says it's too 'Hollywood', just what industry are we talking about then?Just how do you follow up to Clerks.? It's hard and perhaps Smith failed to live up to critics expectations, but he didn't make it for the critics.(I hope not anyway)The dialogue is just as witty as ever, and remember this film really began the fantastic acting career of the brilliant Jason Lee!I like Mallrats...So if you like it...TOUGH!!!   "},{"Title":"Mallrats, one of the most under rated comedy movies of all time.","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats, one of the most under rated comedy movies of all time. then again it seems that most of the works of Kevin Smith are highy underrated. I should know I refused to see it when it was release because of my hatred of Shannon D.. Well was I mistaken, as she had little to no impact in the movie other then budget-wise. I really believe Kevin was true to his first movie Clerks with this release. I really love all the inside jokes and the references to Clerks.  "},{"Title":"Tell 'em Steve-Dave!","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Blade Runner of comedies. Well, not quite. This film is one of my all time favorites. Jason Lee's performance is excellent, and since his debut in this film, (actually he had a non-speaking part in Mi Vida Loca) I have become a huge fan of his. This film is the 3rd best film in the View Askewniverse. 1st - Chasing Amy, 2nd - Clerks, 4th - Dogma, and finally, the worst film Kevin Smith has ever created, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. It's not Smith's fault that the movie went down in flames. Gramercy pictures is to blame, Jim Jacks in particular. If you'd listen to the DVD commentary, they go into detail about how Jacks made them cut dialogue or certain scenes because they were inappropriate. Oh well, as Kevin Smith says, Mallrats was a $6 million dollar casting call for Chasing Amy. Also a shame that a picture like this didn't make a nickel, whereas 8 Mile will probably go on to make over $100 million. "},{"Title":"I love this man!","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, for a start I wanna say that i think Kevin Smith is a god!  How cool and original are his films?! Mallrats is about..well, mallrats. Not the typical stereotypes of American teens, spending hundreds of dollars on Daddy's AmEx, but of lazy, bored and pretty pathetic people. Jason Lee is by far the best actor in this film, although Jeremy London is meant to be the main character i felt he was too wooden.I don't see why this film got a panning! I haven't seen Clerks yet, i have Dogma on DVD and Chasing Amy on video and to be honest I'd say Mallrats was the funniest, Dogma was the cleverest and Chasing Amy was the glossiest, by that i mean it looked like the most money had been put into it and because of that it had lost some (not all) but some of the charm that makes Smith's films some of the best in the last 15 years. I know this is meant to be about Mallrats, but i'm going to say one last thing about Jay and Silent Bob. I know so many guys like this it's unbelieveable! Kevin Smith as Silent Bob is great, not only is it a totally understated role but it is also one of the funniest. And honestly, could you have a character like jay without his better (hetro) half?Go pester your local video drive in for this flick, its funny, especially the TV show scene and OK, the topless fortune telling is an excuse to see a topless fortune teller but hey! she has a third nipple...Oh yeah, you all want to see that! "},{"Title":"Um...a classic?","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is a god, not only is he a 20/30 something guy who isn't ashamed to be into comics, he is also one of the best directors in the business.Mallrats is about well, mallrats. You wanna know the story, read the summary above. I am here to tell you about the film. And i will... Ok, for a start can I just say that i LOVE Mallrats.  Ok, so it isn't as good as Clerks (or so I'm told, I haven't seen it yet) or Chasing Amy but come on! you've got your slackers, sex kittens, comic geeks (sorry, pop culture enthusiasts) and Stan Lee. My personal favourite moment is anything with Brodie (Jason Lee) in it, he has great comic timing and a kind of disbelief that his day is going the way it is. T.S (Jeremy London) on the other hand, isn't as funny, he's meant to be the main character but he doesn't have many good lines and could be any guy out of a high school/college rom-com, whereas brodie has excellent one liners. Also I've seen Jason Lee in Dogma and Jay and Silent Bob strike back (also directed and written by Smith) and he's just as good in them,i can't think of any films that London has been in.Speaking of the dynamic duo, Jay and Silent Bob are soooo funny, although jay can seem a little forced, but hey, this is comedy not a drama. What the hell am I doing bitchin' about the acting, this is a quality film, funny, good for guys and girls (OK, the bit with the fortune teller? a bit pointless, just an excuse to see some tits!). Go rent it, go buy it! I got my copy for 2.99 at a HMV sale, best buy of my life! "},{"Title":"ONE FUNNY MOVIE","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw Mallrats on dvd after Dogma was released and decided to check out Kevin Smith's other movies and it instantly became one of my favourite films.The movie tells the story of Brodie Bruce(the excellent Jason Lee,who should be give a whole movie to himself as Brodie) and T.S. Quint,who,after both being dumped by their girfriends,decide to console themselves by spending the day at the mall.the film also includes smith regulars Jay and Silent Bob who spend the movie trying to ruin a dating game being filmed at the mall by T.S.'s girfriends father with predictably hilarious results.the film was a commercial failure after Smith's debut Clerks,but for me,the film is easily the best of Smith's movies so far.If anyone has avoided this film after being told it was bad should go out and rent it right now  so they can see how wrong critics can be. CRITICS SCHMITICS! "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok lets look at this film from both angles.  Coming after the amazing Clerks this second film in the series was always going to suffer from comparisons.  I can see how film critics might see this as a poorer neighbour of his other films for a start it's shamless in its off the wall style humour it tends to read like a comic book rather than his previous and post masterpieces. Lets face it the acting sucks!! The more acomplished actors in the film shone through despite having to deliver some of Smiths more complex set piece comedy routines Jason Lee & Claire Forlani handled there parts to perfection Shannon Doherty tagged along for the extra publicity for the film (please see box covers) ,But some of the others always seemed out of their depth with Jeremy London at the top of the list.  Kevins Smiths insistence in providing friends with bit parts hinders his films as scenes like the comic book store when Brodie finds out Stan Lee is signing spoil the film due to atrocious acting by extras.  Now we have the negatives out the way let me say that out of all the Smith films it has a special place in my collection ok it's no Clerks but it's funny, the dialouge and comic timing of Lee give the film a great edge and the enclosed setting of the mall and limited number of characters makes for good development of the main 6 or 7 actors.  All in all Mallrats is flawed but only in it's deliverance. The script is excellent and it could have been so much better had it come out maybe 3 or 4 years later when the budgets were bigger.  I think Mallrats is the film Jay & Bob strike back should have been!! "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a big fan of all Kevin Smith's movie's it is hard to chose a favourite but mallrats just edges it.The funniest film i have ever seen has some of the greatest dialogue of all time.It also boasts the most jay and silent bob scene's compared to clerks and chasing amy.A true classic to be watched again and again. "},{"Title":"NICE!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you Look at Plot and Just the overall mood of the movie- this isnt nessierly a classic. But This is Perhaps The Greatest SIt Down-Party-Enjoy-no brain movies of all time. If you know what i mean. Jason Lee Does A SUPURB job ACting in his first Film. Kevin Smith of course does a great job with his 3rd film. .....The Film Is Just the Greatest Guilty Pleasure Ever! Its not really Classic Material but the jokes, the lines and Scenes and Pranks are Memorable. Its film i Advise you getting!Acting 9/10 (Jason Lee 10/10) Directing 9/10 Plot 7.5/10 Scene 8.5/10 Script 8/10Overall 8.4/10 "},{"Title":"Not the greatest Kevin Smith Movie but still good all the same","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats flopped in every possible way at the box office and criticly. Personally I like Mallrats I think it's witty and really funny. Jay and Silent Bob get funnier every movie and this is one of there best. Anyone who is avoiding seeing Mallrats because of the lame reviews should buy it on video or better still the fantastic DVD it really is'nt that bad. "}{"Title":"The Best Smith Movie","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats rocks.I've watched all Kevin Smith's movies and I think they all rock, but I'd have to say that Mallrats is by far the best out of the Jersey Trilogy! The plot and characters are excellent and the different jokes and gags are hilarious! I love all Smiths movies, but I'd have to say Mallrats is my favorite so far. Keep up the good work Smith!10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Alright let me start this out by saying to most of u people, no offense, but u suck.. Ok first of all how can u say that you love all the other Kevin Smith films but hate this one? Look at Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, definately the worst Smith film to date.. The jokes are all stupid and are nothing but gay bashing jokes.. And by the way, I'm not gay. And Dogma, wow.. That movie kinda sucked too.. Jay and Silent Bob were pretty much worthless in that movie and Jason Lee didnt have a big enough part to make the movie good.. And then Chasing Amy, this one is actually great.. Jay and Silent Bob are barely in this film, which isn't bad.. Those two are supposed to just make appearances in films, not a whole film about them.. And this film was great, Kevin Smith stayed with some of his comic humor and his roots. Next the greatest film, Mallrats.. This movie is just flat out funny, especially the game show scene.. But every second there is just bout a joke in this film, so incase u people are too stupid to realize that, well, then tough luck.. And well since there is Clerks I will talk bout that too.. That film is awesome, all I have to say is, 37? "},{"Title":"this movie rules","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is the second installment of the New Jersey Saga in which is directed by comedic mastermind Kevin Smith.  I loved this movie; it's a great element of just having fun and it teaches you that a good movie doesn't have to have a great storyline.  The plot is about T.S. Quint(Jason London) and Brodie Bruce(Jason Lee) are best friends and both have girl problems.  T.S.'s girlfriend, played by Claire Forlani who is really hot, breaks up with T.S. because he isn't supposedly true to her and Brodie has a girl, who is played by Shannon Doherty,  who's had relations with him and is tired of his antics, so she goes out with a preppie, who's name is Shannon Hamilton played by Ben Affleck.  So Brodie and T.S. go to the mall to relieve their problems and come to see a wide variety of hilarious characters.  For example, Jay and Silent Bob, who is played by Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith himself.  These two stoners help T.S. and Brodie win back their girlfriends by pulling out a scheme at a premiere game show being televised at the mall.  In this, they pull an interesting way to get back their girlfriends and save the day as the king of the mall(MALLRATS).  The movie is hilarious and Brodie Bruce played by Jason Lee is probally the funniest character in the movie, plus all the other people are funny as hell, too. I give this movie an 8 out of 10 because of pure fun, entertainment and comedy. "},{"Title":"Funnier than I expected!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I came late to Kevin Smith's ViewAskewaverse.  I saw Chasing Amy shortly after it went to video and adored it, but it wasn't until Dogma that I realized just how much this director and I saw the world alike.  After seeing Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back 4 times in the theater, I knew I had to go back and see Clerks and Mallrats.  Most of my friends said I should like 'em with my sense of humor.  LIKE them?!  I LOVE them!  Clerks is a true masterpiece, but Mallrats isn't far behind.  It's amazing how clearly you can see Smith's growth as a person and a director even watching these movies out of order.  The story is excellent without a thread left hanging and with belly laughs galore.  I couldn't recommend it more as long as you don't take yourself--or the ViewAskewaverse--seriously.  Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Funny, a normal(good) Kevin Smith movie","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was really funny.  It is a typical Kevin Smith movie, which means lots of laughs.  Everything that happens in the movie is absolutely hilarious and will keep you laughing throughout.  Although Jay and Silent Bob don't have a huge part, they are still as funny as they always are.  Joey Lauren Adams has a small part too, but every line she has is flat out hilarious!  This is my favorite Kevin Smith movie and you should definitely see it!  "},{"Title":"It's Not Trying To Win Academy Awards People !!!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ridley Scott had Legend John Huston had Escape to Victory Steven Spielberg had 1941 George Lucas has The Phantom (bloody) Menace and  Stanley Kubrick had Eyes Wide Shut The list goes on....Apparently Kevin Smith's was Mallrats.This wasn't Hollywood was it? Everyone says it's too 'Hollywood', just what industry are we talking about then?Just how do you follow up to Clerks.? It's hard and perhaps Smith failed to live up to critics expectations, but he didn't make it for the critics.(I hope not anyway)The dialogue is just as witty as ever, and remember this film really began the fantastic acting career of the brilliant Jason Lee!I like Mallrats...So if you like it...TOUGH!!! "},{"Title":"I liked it... but...","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First off to Mr. Lapitan above, while you are correct that Mallrats has less of an indie feel in the cinematography of it, it does have a very indie feel to the writing. Secondly Chasing Amy is not the immediate sequel to clerks, Mallrats was. As is actually noted on this page.Mallrats was a big disapointment to most people after clerks, while I disagree that it sucked, it wasn't quite up to the same level. The later viewaskewniverse movies are of much better quality and writing. On many of the following DVD commentaries, as well as interviews with Kevin, he constantly rags on how bad Mallrats was as well. "},{"Title":"Sort of a spoiler","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen Mallrats and think it is hilarious! Kevin Smith never disappoints! Anyone in the mood to watch a comedy about slackers in a mall, see this movie! Here comes the Sort of Spoiler Part I have never been able to eat chocolate covered pretzels since seeing this movie!  "},{"Title":"On DVD","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great flick.  Unfortunately I, like so many others, didn't see it in theaters.  But now it's on DVD so you've got a second or third chance. If you liked the film, be sure to check out the DVD.  There's commentary by Jason Lee, Affleck, Mewes, and Smith.  There are deleted scenes, two alternate intros, and a retrospective.  Smith knows the movie did crap at the box office and none of the view askew people are afraid to make light of the movie's flop.  It's done well on video, after all and if the quality of the DVD is any indication, it should do well on DVD as well. "},{"Title":"Brodie Rocks!!","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is a really fun movie.  Its the second installment in the Jersey Trilogy, and my personal favorite.  In comparison to Clerks the film's cinamatography is a whole lot better, and I really enjoy the color.  A lot of people might complain about the lack of a message, or deeper meening, but sometimes movies are just supposed to be for fun.  I enjoyed the characters in this film more than most, Brodie being my favorite.  His love of comic books hits close to home, and did you know that Kevin Smith works with comic books himself, he is now leading the new Green Arrow books(just a bit of trivia).  Jay and Silent Bob are bigger characters in this film and I love their crazy antics.  And finally T.S.'s character provides some philisofical dialoge that is refreshing and really ties the film together.  "}{"Title":"Gets funnier every time I see it","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this film I don't think I could have really been concentrating because, although I liked it, I didn't think it was outstanding. However, since then I have seen it probably another 7 or 8 times and it now ranks, in my opinion, as one of the funniest films ever. Every time I watch it there seems to be a new joke in it that I missed before and Kevin Smith's humour is so subtle and clever that every new joke makes you laugh so hard you can't breathe.The film is amazing, if you didn't like it the first time you saw it, go and watch it again, and again, and again, you WILL love it.10/10 "},{"Title":"The Critics are Crazy! Crazy, i Tell you!!!!!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Looking at this film, i just don't understand why the critics don't likeit. Is it because it's different from Clerks or what? I guess, like a lotof people say, critics were expecting a clone of Clerks then thiscame up. In many ways, Mallrats is better than Clerks andarguably the best of Kevin's films(Beside Chasing Amy). BrodieBruce(Jason Lee from Almost Famous, Kissing a Fool) and TSQuint(Jeremy London, from the gallery of stoners tee-hee...) aretwo out-of-their luck college guys who decide to resolve theirromantic problems by hanging out at the Eden Prairie mall wherethey fight the local comic book store owners, Steve-Dave(BryanJohnson, writer and director of Vulgar) and Walt(Walt Flanagan,Clerks, Chasing Amy, Dogma), meet up with young sex-bookauthour Trish Jones(Renee Humphrey, Drawing Flies), hang outwith friend Gwen(Joey Lauren Adams, Big Daddy, Chasing Amy),and last, but not least, meet up with pot-smokers Jay(JasonMewes) and Silent Bob(Kevin Smith). What makes this film brilliantis, once again, Kevin's keen eye for dialogue. While it's not asgood as Clerks, there are some conversations that may be someof the funniest stuff put up on film. For instance, the bickeringbetween Brodie and Gil Hicks(Brian O'Halloran, Clerks, Dogma).Of course, this Kevin's 'Studio' film which was made under thename of Universal and Gramercy. One of the reasons the film isnot as succesful as it should of been is probably because of thepoor marketing by Gramercy. But, in my opinion, it's probably betterthat this film failed because it will go on to become a 'Cult' classicin some way or another. If you see this film, i suggest picking upthe mythical Mallrats Book why has cost some $300 on auctionsites. "},{"Title":"funny but flawed","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I guess a good way to reccommend this film is by saying that if you liked the humor exhibited in Clerks, but more the comic stylings of jay and silent bob then the actual comedy exhibited by the 2 clerks, then you'll enjoy this film. actually most people will enjoy this film, it's just not as scrumptous as Clerks. "},{"Title":"Why were all the critics badmouthing this film?!!!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats, Kevin Smith's follow-up to his hit Clerks,  was so good, you gotta ask yourself one question?  What is it with critics these days?  They hated this film, including Roger Ebert.  I thought it was one of Smith's better films (before his last 3 J&SB films).  I you enjoy Smith's work, then listen to my advice.  AVOID THE CRITICS' REVIEWS!!!  SEE THIS MOVIE!!!A+ ****** (out of ****** stars) "},{"Title":"IT ROX!","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i dont care what others have to sday about this movie, b-cuz its kickass nd u can diss it 4-eva it will always kickass. Clerks was a good movie, but it also was low budget and no real plot line although, it is kevin smith so IT KICKS A$$! if u liked this movie u should check out,Dogma, Clerks, Chasing Amy, jay and silent strike back,and his up coming film jersey girl! "},{"Title":"It's a sailboat!","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Director Kevin Smith struck back (sorry, that's not a reference to his latest release) with Mallrats, which was the follow up to his, critically acclaimed, debut Clerks. However, was it a natural successor?The latter was a funny, witty, and original portrayal of a day in the life of a convenience store worker. It was aimed at a young adult audience and was garnished with crude remarks, that made you laugh rather then cringe. The critics seemed to lap this effort up and gave the movie, which was shot in black and white, rave reviews. This treatment was not bestowed on Mallrats.The critics were not impressed by this follow up, they saw it as an immature spawn of Clerks. Kevin Smith, in his defence, promoted the film as a dedication to the movies he used to love when he was growing up, (no not Star Wars) These mainly concerned the films created by John Hughes e.g Breakfast club, Weird science. The critics though, maintained their opinions, which caused Smith to think again and follow up with his most mature creation, Chasing Amy.Personally I really enjoyed Mallrats. It was the first Kevin Smith film that I had the pleasure to watch. I thought the characters were superbly funny, especially Brodie (played, at the time, by a little known Jason Lee) who was entertaining whenever he graced the screen. The plot, as in most comedies, was not supposed to delve into your mind and make you think about it days later, it was supposed to make you laugh, and in my opinion it succeeded.The film also introduced me to two characters who are now becoming cult icons. I am of course referring to Jay and Silent Bob (the latter played by Smith himself) These guys, apart from Jason Lee, are the funniest characters on display, I love their ongoing antics.Maybe this wasn't the natural successor to Clerks but as a stand alone film it is excellent. Just watch it, and don't worry whether it's witty enough or mature enough, just watch it and laugh.       "},{"Title":"A Must-See for Anyone who Appreciates Humor","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Over Spring Break, I rented several Kevin Smith movies, because I enjoyed Dogma and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back. To fully understand Smith's humor, one has to see his previous movies to see how everything ties in. Anyways, after watching this movie, I was pleasantly surprised...It was great! It has several catchy lines and funny jokes. Overall, this movie is one of the few out there that a movie-fan can watch over and over again, and not tire of it. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the greatest cinematic achievement in motion picture history!","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Never before has a film so accurately and beautifully captured the very essense of human nature! Countless super latives can be used to describe what it is like to view this film - Bliss, Nirvana, Heaven on earth, mesmerising, sheer genius, etc - but nothing on earth can possibly prepare you for seeing what you are about to see! Some people may call this film stupid - They do not know what evils they speak of! This film should be regarded as the greatest film of all time!Mallrats has such a simple plot, but yet is so indepth. Two cool guys get dumped by their girls, so they decide to go hang out at the mall, to ease their pain! Loitering is something we all are guilty of, and this film so wonderfully depicts the sheer fun of loitering! Never before and never again will we see such a land mark film as this! It is funny and sad at once! It has ben affleck in it, and he is being a bad person! Of course, Jay and silent bob are the funniest they have ever been! Their brief cameo in chasing amy was unforgivable, and all other movies with them fail to capture the great fun of this one! You are laughing all the way through - you fear you may die of laughing! This is one of the rare films that deserves a perfect score! Mallrats should go down in history as the greatest film of all time! But see if for yourself - be prepared to be mesmerised like never before - You're going on a journey - a journey to the mall! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Mallrats is great","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is the greatest movie ever made! Whoever hasn't seen this movie needs to see it. Go rent this movie right now! i'm telling you its worth it. Its got a really good cast in it Jason Lee and Joey Lauren Adams it doesn't get any better than that.One More thing all Kevin Smith Movies rule! "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is a comedy genius.I thought that Clerks was a very good and witty film. But this takes comedy to another level. The script is absolutely fantastic and all the actors are perfect for their roles.Brodie Bruce(Jason Lee) has to be the most funniest character ever. Every time he went on a rant about anything from what is in the food court to children on the stairs I was on the floor in fits of laughter. Then of course you get Jay and Silent Bob who are also very funny but in a different way. Michael Rookers character is also hilarious.TS Quint( Jeremy London) also was good to balance the film out. The women were also of high quality in looks and talent especially Rene (Shannon Doherty).Overall the film is a masterpiece of comedy genius and I thoroughly recommend it. "}{"Title":"HILARIOUS!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I only started seeing the Askew movies, recently, and I think they all kick ass (just need to see Chasing Amy now). This movie, in my opinion, is one of the funniest and greatest work of art I have ever seen. Jason Lee was amazing as Brodie, and of course Mewes and Smith kicked ass as Jay and Silent Bob. There were some boring characters, but it is still one of the greatest movies of all time. Rent it now. 9.7/10 "},{"Title":"funny as heck","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While not the best View Askew film made, i think this is definatly the funniest of them (with the possible exception of Jay And Silent Bob Strike Back).  One of the most quotable movies ever, too.  Fo a really good laugh watch the edited for TV version of this movie (or any Kevin Smith film for that matter) if for nothing else than Jay's scenes, i love how the networks try to get around all the mother f**ers that come out of Mewes' mouth and how different his voice is, it's ridiculous.  "},{"Title":"My favorite of the Jersey Trilogy...","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is the biggest failure of Kevin Smith to date, but I think it is quite possibly the funniest of all of his films.T.S. Quint (Jeremy London) and Brodie Bruce (Jason Lee) are broken up with by their girlfriends.  They go to the mall to hang out and eventually decide to try to get back with their respective girlfriends.The story may be a little simple, but who cares?  The dialogue is hilarious and Jason Lee's Brodie is the funniest character in a Smith film.Good performances by Shannon Doherty, Ethan Suplee, Ben Affleck, and Jason Mewes round out the great cast.  Only Jeremy London and Claire Forlanie (but she's hot) giving less than stellar performances.Jason Lee, in what is basically his debut, carries the flick and could be on the verge of a very promising career in comedy.  Mallrats works when he is on the screen, and luckily, that is most of the time. "},{"Title":"I'd say the weakest of Smith's movies","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats isn't a bad movie but it lacked something. While thinking about this comment it came to me. It lacked engaging comedic characters.In Clerks the verbal byplay between Dante and Randal kept the movie going. In Dogma the commentary and byplay from Rickman, combined with Chris Rock's work made it worth watching. Even in Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back the supporting actors kept it going with clever exchanges.Chris Rock as the psychotic militant black director comes to mind.In Mallrats, outside of Jason Lee as Brodie, there really wasn't anybody that was very funny. Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith lighten things up with their usual slapstick but they are only in the movie sporadically. The other actors just play the normal Hollywood supporting cast, and dully at that. Jason Lee would make some clever comment and the rest of the cast more or less just stared at him. Having just watched Clerks again a couple of days before seeing Mallrats I really noticed the differences between them, and how much better Clerks was.It's an interesting movie in terms of watching Kevin Smith's evolving style but on it's own it stands as pretty weak compared to his other films. "},{"Title":"Why this film is the greatest!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you've seen this film you either love it or you hate it. In my mind Kevin Smith is a genius and his films are clever and witty, like him or not. The superb dialogue is crammed with stylish references to classics (not to mention his other work) such as the Star Wars trilogy, Jaws and the seemingly never ending superman phenomenon and lets not forget Smith's obsession with John Hughes. It's these factors that make Mallrats an instant classic which I feel never got the recognition it really deserved. If you look at the plot then ok it's not groundbreaking nor realistic however, it sets the scene for the real point of the movie which is entertainment. From the ridiculous discussion between brodie and T.S about Superman's potential heir to Jay and Silent Bob's bumbling schemes to bring about the demise of a live gameshow you can't help but think Wow I've never had that conversation, why the hell not? this leads me on to the stars of The View Askewniverse (Smiths world in which all of his films take place). Jay and Silent Bob. These two goons played by the director and his real life pal are without a doubt the funniest comedic duo that I have laid eyes on. Jay a scruffy dealer with attitude and his heteral life mate a chubby follower that utters but a sentence per film appearance, manage to steal the best lines, sequences and stunts in all of Smiths films (Maybe not chasing amy) Jay's constant vulgarisms and view on life should be enough to make anyone laugh. Anyways what do I know, get this movie and judge for yourself, I'm sure you'll like what you see. "},{"Title":"The worst of Smith's View Askew movies, but still good.","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film is definitely funny and the dialogue is pure genious.  The acting is also pretty good for a cheap film, particuarly by Jason Lee.  However, it must be concluded that this is the worst of the five films Kevin Smith has made thus far.  The problem is that Smith tries too hard to make a conventional Hollywood film, and that undermines the movie's appeal. "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE WAS TERRIBLE","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK GET READY FOR THIS MEGA HATE-FILLED REVIEW. This movie was BY FAR, THE ABSOLUTE WORST MOVIE THAT I HAVE EVER SEEN. I watched it one day with my friend, and we were only able to sit through the first half hour. It was so idiotic, boring, and disgusting. Its attempt at humor was pitiful. THE ONLY PEOPLE THAT WOULD THINK THIS IS A GOOD MOVIE HAVE THE IQ OF A ROCK OR LOWER. WHOEVER CONTRIBUTED TO THIS MOVIE IN ANY WAY SHOULD BE REMOVED FROM SOCIETY. TRUST ME WHEN I SAY THAT THIS MOVIE WAS TERRIBLE. "},{"Title":"A very good, if slightly uneven comedy","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had heard a lot about the films of Kevin Smith before I actually took the time to check out his early work.  The first of his films I saw was Dogma. Which I thought was very average for a director with some of the most die-hard fans I've ever seen.  Dogma had some very good segments, however, they were far too interspersed for my liking.  Then one day in the video shop I saw Clerks, so I rented it.  I was completely blown away, this was a marvellous example of independent filmmaking and was without doubt the best comedy I had seen in a long time and is without doubt his best film.  The following day I went and rented Mallrats.  I wasn't as impressed, but there were still some very good moments in the film.  However, there were also some really irritating aspects.  The acting in Mallrats is the worse than any other Kevin Smith film.  Whilst Jay's acting improved greatly from Clerks, there were some bits where he appears really amateurish, for example when the security guards are chasing him and Silent Bob, however the first shot of him and Silent Bob is brilliant.  The biggest criminal of all though has to be Michael Rooker who plays Brandi's father; I'm surprised he ever got an acting job again after this performance.  However, Jason Lee is superb in this film giving one of his best performances.  This film is really quite uneven; one minute you're on the receiving end of some of Smith's best work and the next you're wondering why you are watching this film.  However, despite this I would say there are more hits than misses and the film is quite enjoyable.  Unfortunately this film saw in the revival of the teen comedy genre and many films try to imitate Mallrats.  However, instead of copying or trying to recreate the best aspects of Mallrats, they recreate its worst aspects.  Therefore, this is far from Smith's best work and is responsible for the subsequent flood of teen comedies.  I think that if you took the quality of the Clerks script along with Randall Graves, add it to the Mallrats soundtrack with Jason Lee's performance in the film, then added the subject matter of Chasing Amy and Jay and Silent Bob's performance in Jay and Silent Bob strike back, you would have the perfect Kevin Smith film.  However, this is not Smith's worst film as Dogma definitely claims that title.  This is a very good if uneven comedy, which you will not regret renting.  Top five moments from this film 1.  Jason Lee describing the noises he makes during `whoopee'; 2.  Jason Lee's argument for why Lois Lane could never carry Clark Kent's child; 3. The introduction of Jay and Silent Bob; 4.  The fortuneteller with 3 nipples; 5. Jason Lee explaining the schematics of the mall with reference to what constitutes part of the food court.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A lot better than Chasing Amy or Dogma!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me wrong.  I like all of Kevin Smith's work.  But of all his movies, I think Mallrats has either got to be the best, or it comes in a close second to Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.  I can't decide.  In my opinion both Dogma and Chasing Amy get way too preachy.  I loved Clerks and put that up above Dogma and Chasing Amy as well.  This movie is funny and entertaining, which is a quality rarely seen.  Most moves are just a few funny parts surrounded by really boring parts.  This movie eliminates all of those boring parts.   "},{"Title":"Another all-time favorite.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith does it again in this light-hearted comedy about teens and young adults wasting their time in the mall.  Jay and Silent Bob make their appearences, and Silent Bob is still the quiet hero, only speaking when necessary and protecting his friend Jay with superhero comic-book powers.  This was the first Kevin Smith movie I've ever seen, and this turned me on to Clerks, Chasing Amy, and Dogma.  The hilariousness just doesn't stop. -Joefro "}{"Title":"The bottom of the Kevin Smith barrel","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is a great filmmaker.  Unfortunately, most great filmmakers have their occasional not-so-great films (See Oliver Stone's U-Turn or Martin Scorsese's New York, New York), and for Smith, that film is Mallrats. This movie isn't by any means horrible.  There are some very big laughs, as there always are in Smith's films.  However, Mallrats gets itself mixed up in a lame storyline and feeds the audience a number of cliches, such as the incompetent security guards and a character played by my worst enemy, Ben Affleck, who it would simply waste valuable seconds to describe.  If you've never seen a Kevin Smith film in your life, PLEASE do not start with this one.  Each one of his other films give us a much better storyline Clerks observes the lives of, need I point out, clerks in New Jersey; Chasing Amy involves a heterosexual male, who's best friend is homophobic, and who falls in love with a lesbian; Dogma, Smith's very best film, deals with Catholicism in a way that manages to be hilarious while avoiding offesniveness; and finally Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back which sends Smith's characters (played by Jason Mewes and Smith himself) on a series of adventures on their own, with great in-jokes that are especially funny if you've seen the previous Kevin Smith films.The bottom line is this If you want to see a film with a good storyline, do your best to avoid Mallrats.  However, if you just want a good laugh (or you just wanna say you've seen all the Kevin Smith films), check it out. "},{"Title":"To all the haters","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've heard just about enough of all the BS about the sophomore jinx and, from the so-called fans, that this is his worst flick.  I guess I just understand Kevin Smith movies more than others, and I would like a chance to explain how brilliant the movie really is.  First of all, you have to understand that the movie is a pothead movie.  But that is just one aspect.  Also, the style of the movie and the direction that some find awkward is supposed to be in the tradition of the John Hughes movies to which there are numerous references.  Finally, you have to understand Kevin Smith's fascination with comic books.  A lot of people think that s**** is for kids, but there is a lot of intelligence in them.  Kevin Smith purposely made a big portion of this movie like a comic book.  That is why it may seem cartoonish at times.  But that's the f-ing point.  It's not a flaw.  If anyone watches the movie, they have to at least appreciate that it is funny. But for those who are intelligent enough to look for the more sublime hilarities that populate this movie, it's downright funny as hell.  Watch again, hopefully you'll get it. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a lot of you will know Mallrats is the second of kevin smiths New Jersey trilogy and in my opinion is of unsurpassed brilliance. Although the trademark witty dialogue of kevins films is not quite as good as in its predecessor Clerks, this film is still up there and is one of the funniest films I have ever seen. In fact it is easily in my top 10 films ever.This film deserves 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not genius, but it's not supposed to be.","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To get it out of the way Mallrats is easily in the top ten funniest movies I've ever seen.  Fifteen minutes inside the mind of Kevin Smith would be a trip worth being spat onto the New Jersey Turnpike.  I'd pay good money to gain a glimpse of the world as he sees it.  The writing in the movie is really, really top notch, and every scene is filmed with a minimalist eye for comedy.  I would say that this movie is EASILY the funniest movie the man has ever filmed.  Not the greatest quite frankly, it's a little rough around the edges.  But you'll be hard-pressed to find a funnier movie on the video store shelves.Kevin Smith's movies have been maligned in the film community for many reasons.  Mallrats especially been the subject of two of the most common complaints about Smith's movies uninspired direction and flat characters. However, these claims are often untrue, and sometimes unimportant.  There may not be amazing cinematography in Mallrats, no incredible steadicam work or breathtaking pans, but let's face it folks the movie's set in a mall. For one thing, no-one wants to see sweeping panoramic views of a food court. For another thing, the movie isn't about original camera angles, it's about incredibly interesting and bizarre situations set in the most benign and uninteresting of all places.As for character complaints, while there are a great deal of characters in the film that could be easily characterized in one sentence, not only does the pace of the movie demand it but deep character development is unnecessary.  Many of the characters in the movie are examples of the kinds of people the audience members know from real life.  The geeky girl in high school is combined with the easy girl in high school this is an equation that the audience members can figure out for themselves.  The local drug dealer, some mallrat kids, the love-lorn moron, the sarcastic sidekick (sorry, Brodie), and the bad-tempered store manager are all people that most of us have run into in our lives, and we can fill in the blanks from there.At the end of it all though, Mallrats is first and foremost about the situations.  This movie may seem a little uneven at times, because the best parts of the movie are individual sequences, not the characters or the over-arcing storyline.  I list such memorable moments as the kid on the escalator.  Relationship advice from Stan The Man Lee.  A debate on the classification of the cookie stand.  Jay and Silent Bob beating up the Easter Bunny. Hartford beating Vancouver 12-2.  A deep discussion on the biology of Superman.  The entirety of Truth or Date.And, of course, anything Jason Lee says.  His portrayal of Brodie is an outstanding portrayal of the best character Kevin Smith has ever written. He's comfortable with both sarcasm and sentiment, and he has nearly all of the best lines in the movie.  All of his scenes are incredible, and he is completely at home in the asylum that is the local mall.  Jason Lee is the funniest thing about this movie, and while his acting is a little rough, so's the character, and so's the movie.  And who said you needed to be Richard Burton to deliver lines like Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned for Sega?  Not I!To review it's not cinematic art, but it's not supposed to be.  It's supposed to be strange, it's supposed to be outrageous, and it's supposed to be funny.  And it is INCREDIBLY funny.  Rent it and try not to laugh. Especially at the kid on the escalator.  That cracks me up every single time.Rating  7/10.  "},{"Title":"Comic fans dream","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is excellently written and also well directed.  The seemingly unknown cast at that time does an excellent job of showing off some until that time uncredited talent. The movie shows off more than just some unseen actors and actresses, it shows what a great writer Kevin Smith is to keep many movie critics intrigued and many teens and twenty something's wondering whats going to happen next.  With enough laughs and excitement to keep most anybody happy and enough comic related comments to have even your most closet fan boy laughing his butt off.  This movie is one of Kevin Smith's finest. "},{"Title":"A must-see for Kevin Smith fans","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In many ways, Mallrats is one of Kevin Smith's better films. I actually preferred it to Clerks. I felt it was much funnier and had a better storyline.The film concentrates on Brodie (Jason Lee) and his best friend T.S. (Jeremy London) and their efforts to win back their girlfriends who dump them both at the start of the film. Brodie is dumped by his girlfriend (Shannon Docherty) because she believes he has no future goals. T.S. is shown the door by his girlfriend due to pressure from her father and an fatal incident involving a local girl! The film mainly takes place around the local Mall (Brodie and T.S. hang around the Mall all day, hence the term Mallrats). Brodie and T.S. get the Kevin Smith regulars Jay and Silent Bob to help them in their endeavors.Jason Lee is absolutely hilarious in the film, especially during the main scene towards the end of the film. Equally as impressive is Michael Rooker as Claire Forlani's lunatic father, who detests T.S. as he believes he is a no hoper.There is a multitude of sex, comic book and Star Wars jokes to keep Kevin Smith fans happy. There is even a special cameo appearance by Stan Lee! Most of the jokes work very well and this is definitely a film to be rewatched. However, people who are easily offended are probably best to keep away from this film (and the rest of Kevin Smiths films, coming to think about it!)This film is most like Kevin Smith's most recent offering, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back - so if you like this film I urge you to see Mallrats.Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Wow Wow Wow this is so funny","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is the best film ever - pure genius its so funny and i have seen it too many times now but it still makes me laugh evry1 shud c this film cos its so funny - kevin smith is a genius and evry1 shud recognise this buy this film - you will laff so much P "},{"Title":"Underappreciated comedy gold","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A movie that was before its time and underappreciated during its theatrical release.  Mallrats follows a day in the lives of some Jersey kids at the mall.  Luckily enough, Mallrats has been able to find its audience on video and DVD release.This was to be the studio movie that would appeal to a large demographic and allow Kevin Smith to make more smaller niche movies.  Screenings of Mallrats were well-received, even by some executives, awards were even being considered, but when the grosses for the first night of release came in at $400,000 that soon ended.  Its shortcomings were not the film itself, but rather the marketing campaign made for it, or as the commentary on the DVD says, See Mallrats starring Jason Lee, a guy you've never heard of, and Shannen Doherty, a girl you hate.If you liked Clerks, you'll like Mallrats, it's even in color.  A must see for all the Jay and Silent Bob junkies.  The film is also blessed with a great DVD, containing many secrets about the movie, such as the battle Kevin Smith had against executives to keep Jason Mewes in the role of Jay. Mallrats Comedy gold. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing Clerks this had to be seen. I can say that this was better than Clerks but I found the some of the characters a bit immature and made the movie for those of us who are young. I'm still a teenager but this was a bit on the silly side for me. Don't think that this is a bad movie because it's not. It's actually pretty fun so I think if you liked Clerks you'll love it,but if you are on the mature side of things you have the chance to loosen up otherwise you'll hate it. *** "},{"Title":"hehehehehe","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie, but then again i love ALL Kevin Smith movies ) He's so kewl 0=This movie i will admit tho, wasn't the best one that he's ever done, there are a few times in this when i've wanted to turn it off and put clerks back on, but it does have its moments (Brenda? hehe) and also the characters in this are good (not great mind) but it does have a lot going for it like having Jason London in it....I like the whole storyline behind this, it was something new and Trish the Dish was something that really shocked me! But i loved it all the same, i didn't like Jay in this ( Slient bob, as ever tho was soo kewl 0=This was not one of his better pieces of work, but it was not bad, it was a good attempt and something to be pround of at least 0= "}{"Title":"My Favorite Kevin Smith Film Thus Far.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although some of the humor is extremely crude, this 1995 Kevin Smith effort had me doubled over in laughter for nearly the entire film's length. Jason Lee (Chasing Amy and Almost Famous) is superb in the lead role as the quintessential 90's slacker and the rest of the cast, made up of a lot of Kevin Smith regulars and Shannon Doherty, shine in their roles as well. As with all Kevin Smith films, the emphasis is on the dialogue and relationships the characters have, but Mallrats has a bit more action and is slightly more plot driven than, say, Clerks. All in all, highly funny and enjoyable and I rated it a 9. "},{"Title":"'hell hath no fury like a woman's scorn for sega'","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Following Kevin Smith's success at the Sundance Movie Festival with his directorial debut, Clerks, he has returned with the same rhetorical wit and comedic skill with yet another tale of relationships. T.S. Quint (Jeremy London) and Brodie Bruce (Jason Lee) are on the outs with their respective relationships. While London posits `ritual suicide' as a remedy for their problems, Lee has another idea, the mall. Accompanied by `hatchet men' Jay and Silent Bob, they brave the dangers of the mall, visit a topless fortune teller and inevitably realize they must take action before they lose their girlfriends forever. Although comedy prevails, it is obvious that Smith is actually making a powerful statement regarding the true nature of relationships and love. "},{"Title":"Much better than it gets credit for being...............","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith will be the first to ridicule this film. People give it a hard time and I am not sure why.  It is exactly what it was meant to be. A well thought out raunchy teen  comedy.   The characters were real and though this was not comparable to Smiths  Chasing Amy it certainly was a great film for its Genre. It is constantly referred to as a bad film because it is compared to other Smith work. Thats bogus because Amy was a romantic comedy(perhaps the best of its variety) Clerks was an indy starter film...Mallrats may be the best Teen comedy ever to grace the silver screen. "},{"Title":"fun movie","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  yeah I am a big Kevin Smith fan! He is hilarious.. I like all in the dogma serie, Chasing Amy, Dogma and Mallrats and so on.. I like that they are so natural in this movie and jay and silent bob are such a great duo! and the guy who is trying to see the sailboat hilarious! I like it alot, and the two pathetic guys trying to get together with their girlfriends again... so fun! //sofia  "},{"Title":"dont believe the critics' some spoilers","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  don't believe the press reaction this is simply a really funny film. this is one of the best and most original comedies ive seen in years. smiths direction is fantastic and jason lee's performance as brodie is nothing short of sensational. the plot well if there is one it's the struggle for two guys to get their women back, very simple. But the charicter interaction is seemless and the set peaces work like a charm. also this our second chance to meet jay and silent bob played by jason mewes and kevin smith (who also directed) who have appeared in five movies now including their latest jay and silent bob strike back. if you have given this film a miss because of the bad reviews then all I can say is give it a go you wont regret it. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite Kevin Smith movies","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Snoochie Boochies, Lunchbox! This is one of the New Jersey trilogy by excellent director Kevin Smith, the other two being 'Clerks' and 'Chasing Amy'. Jay and Silent Bob crack me up, and Jason Lee's philosophies give me plenty to quote. The only one better than this is 'Dogma'. Also, loads of backing for legalization. Nooch . . . "},{"Title":"A wickedly funny romp through the breeding ground of modern day romance the mall.","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Two friends, 17 year old boys, get dumped on the same days by their respective girlfriends. Racked with grief, TS and Brodie hit their sacred ground for solace the mall. In a desperate attempt to woo their respective girlfriends back, TS and Brodie end up having more adventures in the mall than you can poke a stick at. With Ben Affleck and Jay and Silent Bob making appearances, Mallrats is surprisingly star-studded, with Shannen Doherty as Brodie's girlfriend. Not the best film ever made, not the funniest film ever made, but a comfortable 8/10 with points to spare, Mallrats is a film one must see at least once. "},{"Title":"An fine example of saving a film","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is easily my favorite film. Not only as a wonderful piece of Kevin Smith and Company's ability to tell a story, but also an example of how to save a film from late production editing. I think this film should be required viewing for anyone thinking about entering the film industry.Anyone that has seen the 'collectors' edition of the DVD should watch the cut and re-edited scenes. From the original 'not funny' opening to the quick cover-ups (guy getting hit in the parking lot) the sheer amount of fixing that was needed before release could have easily doomed this film. I'm surprised that after 6 years, and 3 other New Jersey Trilogy films, I keep returning to Mallrats as my personal favorite.The 'fixed' story is simple enough to follow, but odd enough to have fun with. The guy versus the father of his girl, the side-kick, and of course the myriad of inhabitants of Kevin Smith's universe weave a wonderful but believable world where the audience can relax and just enjoy the simple messages of the tale.When released, Mallrats didn't meet some fans' expectations, and for that, it tends to be criticised or, even worse ignored. But to not see this film, even with it's flaws, is to deny oneself of a great opportunity to enjoy a film that is pure, unpretentious fun.Besides, it has Stan Lee in it. That alone makes this a gem of the film industry, even if the majority of critics don't think so. "},{"Title":"Dumb but fun","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is by far the worst Kevin Smith-flick, but even that means it's still great fun. The plot is really daft, but the fun of this movie is to see Kevin's characters having the most funny dialogs about the most stupid things.7.5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Not just poo-poo jokes!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   Though not entirely as good as Clerks, Mallrats still makes you laugh, makes you mad, and makes you sad. Our Heroes aren't exactly heroes and are kinda pathetic. Yet we like em' don't we? Once again, Smith prove his knowledge of the pop culture can be used to make a very funny, smart, and witty little movie.    9/10 "}{"Title":"Snootchie Bootchies","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Having watched this movie in the early hours of the morning, i could have caused disturbance of the peace, since i was constantly laughing out loud throughout the whole movie. The plot of this movie is about two best buddies being dumped on the same day. To seek comfort from this tragic news, they hang around the mall. In the mall a lot of crazy events happens. From flawed plans of destroying a stage to the discussions of having sex in a uncomfortable place. Jason Lee is so damn  funny in this movie, as well Kevin Smith as Silent Bob and Jason Mewes as Jay. If you like this movie i recommend you to watch Dogma and Clerks, and if you have to watch Chasing Amy, which i found disappointing. However you can read that in my another review. So in conclusion this movie rocks and i recommend everyone to watch it. Snoogans!    "},{"Title":"The Best Of View Askew","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  THE FILMClerks, Mallrats, Chasing Amy, Dogma and J&SB Strike Back are all View Askew films featuring Jay & Silent Bob. The best is without doubtMALLRATS! Although the critics hated it on it's initial release, for a lot of Kevin Smith fans, it is their favorite of all the View Askew productions. This one follows Brodie and TS, both of them have been dumped by their partners and they seek refuge in the local mall. Once there they meet up with their enemy, Shannon Hamilton(Ben Affleck), their friend, Willam Black(Ethan Suplee) and of course, Jay(Jay Mewes) & Silent Bob(Kevin Smith, Himself!). They then try to sabotage a game-show and get into many wild antics. A brilliant film! THE DVDAudio Commentary, One Hour Of Deleted Scenes, Production Notes, Music Video, Documentary and more! This is a brilliant disc. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Kevin Smith Movie","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While it is more immature than other Kevin Smith works, Mallrats is still filled with the wonderful insights, witty dialogue, and hilarious sight gags.Maybe I'm just another fan boy, but it doesn't get much better than this for modern comedy. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be a great movie from the makers of Clerks and chasing amy. If you like either of those 2, or if youve seen the latest movie Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and you liked it. I recommend this movie or clerks...Chasing Amy is a bit more dramatic, yet tons of objectional phrases!!! "},{"Title":"May not be Smith's best film, but MALLRATS still rocks.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Two young slackers seek salvation at the local mall after being dumped by their respective girlfriends.  This follow-up to CLERKS is still very witty and dialogue-driven, however it is noticeably much less intellectual than most of writer/director Kevin Smith's other work.  The acting is decent and the characters are established really well, but the film's constant attempts at slapstick comedy usually fall flat.  Even so, MALLRATS still remains an underrated, hilarious movie and is an essential part of Smith's New Jersey series.  And who can't help but laughing at two grown men beating the snot out of a mall Easter Bunny? "},{"Title":"LOVE IT!!!!!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love everyone of Kevin Smith's movies...each one has a different story, but they all tie together in some way. Mallrats was a hilarious. Jason Lee was the PERFECT person to play Brodie. And the movie was filmed right here in my home state of Minnesota!!!!!!! I loved this movie and I would recommend it and any other kevin smith movie to EVERYONE!!!!! "},{"Title":"NO LIBIDO TO ATTACK!?","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't care what those people say about this film this movie is funny. Its actually hilarious. People are just mad cause they think that Smith sold out and thats why its bad it too hollywood but at heart thats a load crap. Jason Lee is so funny in his first role (That kid is BACK on the escalator!) the elevator scene is one of the best. Jay and Silent Bob kicks ass in this second flick of the askewniverse. I can't believe this movie bombed so badly. Though if there ever was something wrong with this movie it would have to be the actor playing T.S. his performance is so bland it shocking. The lines seem to be forced out of his mouth(I think a stage is being erected...WHAT THE HELLS WITH THAT?! Ben Affleck is funny in this too. CRITICS SCHMITICS "},{"Title":"Could possibly be the funniest movie ever.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While not as well thought out as Clerks, as moving as Chasing Amy or clever as Dogma, Mallrats is the funniest out of all these Kevin Smith movies.Brodie and T.S. have just been dumped by their girlfriends and spend a day at the only place that could help them ease there simultaneous double loss. The mall! While there they deal with a proprietor of an upscale wannabe shop and a powerful mall security guard, hang out in an autonamous unit for mid mall snacking, yell about kids on escalators, start some s*** at a comic book shop, and try to stop a game show and save their relationships with their girlfriends.The best part of this movie were the two men themselves Jay and Silent Bob. These guys are hilarious. I have yet to not laugh at these guys.Great cast too. Jason Lee, Claire Forlani, Ben Affleck, Michael Rooker and Joey Lauren Adams. Great actors all here.Laugh-fest supreme. Check it out. 10/10.P.S. For more Jay and Silent Bob check out Clerks, Chasing Amy and Dogma and coming soon Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.   "},{"Title":"It's a funny flick, but it is a bad movie","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sorry movie Gods, Mallrats is a bad movie.  Most people consider it to be the best Kevin Smith movie (though the critics and the box office don't agree), but it's bad.  It's still damn funny, but that doesn't make it good.First of all, the plot is horrible.  Now, let's look at Clerks for a second.  It had no plot, which made it get.  IT just followed two guys around.  Anything could have happened.  But Mallrats sticks itself in the side by throwing in a boring and rediculous plot.  What is it, you ask?  Two guys try to win their girl friends back.  Well, it doesn't sound that bad, but the fact the whole movie circulates around a dating game show that is taking place in a mall is sad.  It really is.  It hurts me to think that this was the best plot idea Kevin could think of.  A dating game show in a mall?  Good god that is awful.Another really bad idea was Jerremy London.  The kid can't act.  It isn't all his fault because his character is the basic straight man who's only purpose in the film is to bounce the hilarious jokes from Jason Lee.  I wish Smith had taken some more time with this character, because he sucks.Third bad point it looks and sounds like Universal just didn't care.  The music is, well, too big.  It's hard to say what I mean.  The music is really dramatic and it really doesn't fit the movie well.  There are also these weird, cartoony sound effects that come in that are just awkward.  Also, Jay's performance is a bit over the top.But, on the plus side, Mallrats is hilarious.  There are tons of funny jokes (though they sometimes aren't delevered well do to bad acting), there are some great characters (TS aside), and the witty, offensive Kevin Smith humor is all over this film.Some specific good points The magic eye guy, the escalator joke, the cookie stand speech, Jay and Silent Bob (as usual), when Brodie is on the game show, and the ending scenes (especially when Jay and Silent Bob walk off into the sunset).Overall, the movie is weak, poorly executed, and poorly acted.  It seems more like Smith's first movie than Clerks, even though it isn't.  The whole movie seems like it was made by an amateur, which is weird, because Clerks was so well made (mostly).  But, despite this, the movie is still funny.  While it is the worst Smith movie by far, it isn't the least funniest.  Chasing Amy is the least funny of all his movies (due to the second half being so dramatic) and Dogma does preach too much, but Mallrats is probably his second funniest film in my opinion, with Clerks still ranking number one.Smith's movies in order of how good they areChasing Amy,  Clerks,  Dogma,  MallratsSmith's movies in order of how funny they areClerks,  Mallrats,  Dogma,  Chasing AmyThere ya go.  That's my 2 cents.  Well, actually that's a couple of bucks worth, but deal with it.Mallrats a strong 5/10  "},{"Title":"Mallrats no hoodrats","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I like to go to the mall so this movie is for me  . I love this one it's not smiths best but you can deal with that. This is a perfect date movie if you seen this movie you know what I mean.If you know the deal you will buy the DVD it is all that and a bag of chips. "}{"Title":"Just because a guy reads comics doesn't mean he can't start some $h*t.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think Kevin Smith is the freshest, funniest, most original movie makers today.  Who would have thought a day in the life a convience store clerk, two mallrats, a guy who falls in love with a lesbian, and people trying to kill angles would be funny.  Well, the lesbian thing is a gimmie, but the way it was done was spectacular.  Mallrats was the first View Askew film I ever saw.  And I think it is the best.  I love this movie based on the fact that the jokes held it together.  Most people say it had no real story, but who cares if you are laughing so hard that you're crying.  Jason Lee stole the movie, everything he said I quote daily.  And Jay and Silent Bob, kind of the R2D2 and C-3P0 of the picture, and sillyness, but the movie wouldn't have been as good without them.  So to all the nay-sayers who said this movie was the worst, I think you boys need something to take the edge off, something to make you forget about all the people watching at home or right here, SCHNOOCHIE, BOOCHIE, NOOCIES!!! "},{"Title":"sell-out!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  before i'd seen this one here i had seen kevin smith's dogma, chasing amy and clerks... the works. now i could not believe my eyes with this pathetic flick here. the script was good-wins-bad fight-the-system disney-ish cooking that seemed to be targeted to let's say an 8 year old kid. except for the swearing. acting is really boring too. jeremy london and claire forlani make one inhibited duo here, scott mosier's been replaced for the role of willam by ethan suplee, affleck and lee are probably ashamed doing this movie and waiting for 2nd chance by kevin smith (chasing amy).i don't know - maybe kevin the man smith got the shivers working for a big studio first time and all. or maybe the studio insisted to make the script more cheezy than cheezy. whatever. don't watch this one anyways. even silent bob & jay -gags are tame here.thumbs down. "},{"Title":"My favorite Kevin Smith flick","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I dunno why but I love this Kevin Smith flick most of all. Maybe because I am a slacker and I can, in a way, relate to this film, maybe because it has an undertone of mockery toward teen comedies, maybe because a lot of Smith fans treat this flick like it is the worst thing ever, and I root for the underdogs, or maybe because it coined the phrase Fly fat@$$, fly!. I fell in love with this movie the moment I saw it, although it is the 3rd Smith movie I have seen, I saw Chasing Amy to long ago to remember it, and I thought Clerks was a brilliant film, but man this movie hit a chord with me. The antics with Jay & Silent Bob are classic, William, who throughout the movie is only trying to see the magic eye picture, is a hilarious side character. The movie is just plain fun which is void in most movies today. I recommend you ignore all these neigh-sayers, and rent this, then definitely pick up the DVD, it's loaded and the audio commentary is the best! Snoochie Boochies! "},{"Title":"One of the most over-rated movies I've ever seen","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There's thousands of them out there, the Kevin Smith disciples that swear he is the comic genius that Hollywood (or just film in general) need.  Well I don't have an alternate answer for you, but if Smith's the future, then we have a serious problem.  I've seen Clerks to Dogma and there have been plenty of funny scenes, and interesting ideas, but unfortunately nothing very new.  Since the cult scene is becoming more and more popular, I understand why these movies have reached their level of acclaim.  I'm not here to burst anyone's bubble about the Smith series, but after I saw this one I just had to comment.  I mean it's really just not that good, but maybe I've seen too many good comedies prior to this one.  Overall, if your mouth hurts after watching this movie then it's probably because everyone has convinced you that this movie is hilarious and you feel obligated to cough up some humor.  Sure this movie is a big hit, but then again, so is Full House. "},{"Title":"Should have a religion formed around it.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Where do i begin.  Ah, Mallrats.  Words do not express how much i love this movie.  It may have bombed at the box office (Hey, so did the original Austin Powers, now look where it's at), but it found a following on video.  When i first watched this movie, a whole new world opened up to me.  The world of Kevin Smith.  My God it was Glorious.  I cannot stop laughing at this movie.  Jason Lee as Brodie, my god, its art.  This guy is a natural actor, seeing that this was his first movie, and that he was a former skateboader before, he should have won an oscar by now.  Then Jay and Silent Bob, who are worshipped as gods in many of homes, are at their best. Kevin Smith is hands down the greatest dialog writer ever.  I bow to you Kevin Smith.  If you have never seen this movie, go out and rent it or buy it, do what ever, but it is one of those movies that you must see before you die, to say you've lived a complete life. "},{"Title":"Praise of Mallrats","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To me this is Kevin Smith at his finest, although it lacks the originality shown in 'clerks' and 'chasing amy' it is undoubtedly full of humour. This film was poor in the box office - a travesty!! But who needs the artificial success like that of independence day - which clearly shows how much money is made is nothing.This film is hilarious and Jason Lee shines!!! Whatsmore Jay and Silent Bob are fantastic.snoochie boochies forever "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's best film... This movie is snoogens","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith continues with his New Jersey Chronicles or saga with Mallrats.It starts off with one of the main dudes T.S. He gets dumped by his girlfriend Brandy. Soon his best friend Brody gets dumped also by his girlfriend Renee. So they settle things out at a mall where they hang out and try to figure out plans to get there girlfriends back...It's one big adventure. starring Shannon Dorethy, Jeremy London, Jason Lee, Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, and much much more "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched Mallrats expecting to hate it.  I was very pleasantly surprised. The entire cast - Affleck included - was funny.  However, I do agree that this is the worst of Kevin Smith's first four movies.But that's only because the other three are so great. "},{"Title":"Personally, Kevin Smiths' Greatest Work...","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. It ties in the best of with the other two movies in the New Jersey Trilogy (That's criminal!), it has the best dialogue of any other Kevin Smith movie (That kid!), not to mention an unforgettable performance by Jason Lee (That kid is BACK on the escalator!). I just can't get enough of it. I give it a 10 "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a movie critic, nor do I try to be. This movie bombed at the theaters, but was a success in the Rental department. Why is it my favorite movie? Because in order for it to be good to me it doesn't need to be critically acclaimed. If your the type of person who won't see a movie just because the critics slammed it (I'll give you a break for Battlefield Earth...) that's shallow. This movie is funny. It's just fun to kick back and watch. I first saw it at a friend's birthday party, and we all had a blast watching it. If you liked Clerks, you're gonna like this movie. But if your idea of funny comes from sophisticated movies, what are you doing looking for it in a movie that is supposed to be a teenager comedy? Of course you're not going to think sophomoric comedy is funny, you're already too mature for your own good. This movie is great for those like me who like stupid humor, from the greats like Screwed, Airplane! and last but not least, Hot Shots!. I'm an adamant immature teenager, and you can argue all you want about how this movie made no sense, or isn't funny, I'm still going to laugh at you in the face. "}{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the best underground cult film ever!!!  Jason Lee is the funny as hell.  You dont get any better than Mallrats!!!!!!!!!!  I cant get enough of this movie.  I probably watch it once a month if not more.  Jay and Silent Bob are the best in this movie.  There is no equal to this great classic!! "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is a great movie. much better than clerks. jason lee is at his best as an always angry sounding man with a warped sense of values. once you see the dvd version you really find out how much the show was butchered to fit what holywood. this would have been an even better movie if you see what kevin smith would have used for the movie. the cast is great and jay and silent bob are awesome as always. this is worth seeing but watch the dvd version. it answers some of what the characters are talking about. like the governor's ball trouble. a great movie worth renting and buying "},{"Title":"The same critics who panned Mallrats praised There's Something About Mary","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, Clerks was a good film, and it garnered some much deserved critical praise. Chasing Amy also received similar critical fanfare, but sandwiched in between these two films was this comic gem, that went unappreciated until it found it's niche in the market after it came out on video. For those of you unfamiliar with the story, it is about two pals, Brodie and T.S. who have both just been dumped by their girlfriends. What are they going to do about it? Go to the mall! Hilarity ensues! Doesn't sound too funny? Perhaps you've forgotten the witty dialogue that Kevin Smith's characters banter back and forth. Perhaps you've yet to discover the brilliant Jason Lee and his fluid comic timing. In any case, if you are a fan of comedies with intelligent jokes mixed in with the fart jokes, or just a fan of movies, in general, and you haven't seen Mallrats...you need to see it. And for all the critics who dissed this movie for it's nonsensical vulgarity...aren't you the same folks who praised There's Something About Mary? "},{"Title":"chaos?  zaniness?  a kevin smith film craves these things.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  it was supposed to be the new animal house.  it was going to make millions. it starred phantoms' ben affleck(see DVD commentary for details).  what went wrong?  the answer is that between distribution and stupid people ( not me i wanted to see it but was living in chesterton-a small town in indiana, and it never showed out there) it bombed despite it being my favorite comedy ever once i got to see it.  brodie bruce is near and dear to my heart, and if i had to choose who i was in the new jersey trilogy, it would be him for sure.  jay and silent bob do their duties as the new age bill and ted (though jay and bob are much smarter characters) while mr. affleck scores in the heavy role (again consult the commentary).rating- ben before he was saving the world...claire before she met joe black...lee before he was kissing a fool, no wait, that's not a good example but see mallrats, damn you!  it's the best of the trilogy, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"A hilarious comedy!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  It is one of those original comedies that you will never forget.  This is Jay and Silent Bob at there very best when it comes to comedies.  Ben Affleck and Kevin Smith are great in the movie and Joey Lauren Adams is looking very beautiful too!  This isn't a critical success, but a movie I recommend for raunchy comedy! "},{"Title":"Not Smith's best but still very enjoyable.","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this was an enjoyable movie and I get a kick out of the running jokes that Smith has throughout his movies (i.e. O'Halloran always portraying a character with the last name of 'Hicks', the girl dying in the swimming pool, which I forgot her name, etc).  The funniest lines I felt belong to Jason Lee and as always, Jason Mewes.  Definitely worth watching if you're at all a fan of Clerks (which it's safe to assume if you are, you've already seen this movie). "},{"Title":"Easy, fun and interesting...","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have not seen another of Kevin Smith's films, so comparison is impossible, but I have to say I thoroughly enjoyed this one. I have a friend obsessed with Kevin Smith, and watching this film for the first time with them (after they have seen it many times), my attention was brought immediately to some of the points which make this film so amusing.You have to watch out for and appreciate the random nature of some of the comedy in this film, and also chuckle at how dubiously some of the scenes were filmed. For instance... (not really spoilers...but watch out if it means that much to you)An unknown youth questions T.S. (the co-lead) in a car park, and is immediately knocked out by a savage blow from T.S himself. If you listen closely in the scenes where T.S. speaks with Stan Lee and Mr. Svenning, you can hear how the dialogue crosses over one another in an unintentional, improvised fashion. (Also notice the look of disgust on T.S's face when he notices that he is holding a Clerks cap.)For me, things like this make a film of this genre funnier and more interesting to watch. Little touches which complement the empty yet somehow involving plot and characterisations are great.Well done, Kevin Smith, it's a good film which is so easy to watch and full of quaint cinematagrophic features that I just could never refuse another playing. "},{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I never thought that I would get over the '90210' experience, but Shannyn Doherty is actually very good in this film, though it always helps to have the innate comic timing of Jason Lee to help support your character. Mallrats is a very clever film that uses the 'mall' culture to explore the notion of territoriality - both physical and emotional.  I think that Claire Forlani and Jeremy London were unwise casting choices - most of Kevin Smith's actors seem to have an air of relaxation and comfort that these two didn't seem to possess.  They also appeared to struggle with scenes that require fast-paced dialogue delivery (I doubt I could do better, but then again I don't get paid millions of dollars a year to do it!).  Jason Lee and Shannon Doherty were appropriately mean and cynical, and Jason Mewes' introductory 'mall dance' will go down as one of film history's classic choreographic numbers!      "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is one of the most brilliant film makers in recent memory.  His films contain humorous dialogue, and great actors, and his movies make you think.  Mallrats may have not made as much money in theatres, but that does not make up for the fact that this, in my opinion is the funniest movie ever!!!!! "},{"Title":"Remind me when I was a mallrat....","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious.  It has great qualities like Jay and Silent Bob, Shannen Doherty, and Jason Lee.  There are many aspects of the movie that remind me of overexaggerated things that happened to me at the mall when I was a teenager.  If you love Kevin Smith films, you will love this one. "}{"Title":"This used to be my least favorite jersey movie, then dvd","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of I have to say that I still like Clerks and Chasing Amy more, but that is because they are just masterful pieces of work. But when it comes to Mallrats?I love this movie. When I first saw it, I didn't think it was anything special. I saw it after the resurgence of teen sex comedies in the latter half of the 90's. When compared to those this movie is just common place drivle. BUT when placed in context, it restarted the whole genre. Granted I have grown to hate the genre as of late, but that is mostly because they don't have any Jason Lee, who's first feature was this film.But the main reason I am back into my worshiping Kevin Smith mode, because of the DVD. I just got a DVD player about a month ago and have already gotten most of my favorite movies on DVD. I got Fight club, Chasing Amy, American Beauty (which has a crappy commentary, but that's not important), Se7en and a few others. I really wasn't planning on getting Mallrats, except for two things 1)My friend got it and told me it was a great dvd 2)this guy was selling it along with clerks on an unnamed auction internet site for less than what the clerks DVD cost and I wanted the clerks DVD.But anyway. I got it and I have to say that I now see why so many people don't like this movie. the Plot was taken out. I mean It still had its little bon mo's (Like a little French don't you), but the main plot was gone and it was here on the DVD under deleted Scenes. Because of this excellent dvd have to give this movie a 10/10 "},{"Title":"Claire Forlani's best film! (apart from Basquiat)","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Was ever a film so unfairly maligned as Mallrats? Kevin Smith's follow-up to the sublime Clerks was savaged by the critics and went down like a lead balloon at the U.S box office. It didn't even get a cinematic release in Britain, where Time Out labelled it 'a depressing mess'. It is difficult to see why.True, it suffers in comparison to Clerks, but then most comedies released in the last ten years do. I also personally found some of the occasional slapstick and crudity a bit much although compared to the recent lamentable spate of Farrelly brother comedies and their ilk this seems tame indeed.The truth is that Mallrats is an enjoyable if hardly groundbreaking film, easily on a par with the much better received Chasing Amy and far superior to the diasatrous Dogma. The lack of cinema release in the U.K was in fact hardly a tragedy as (as the director freely admits) Kevin Smith's films are hardly very cinematic anyway. Comedy, Stan Lee, Star Wars discussions and the delightful Claire Forlani. What more could one want?  "},{"Title":"This is one funny movie!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie, very funny! Jason Lee is brilliant and is extremely funny. Must see! Also Jay & Silent Bob are at their best as the dynamic duo, some of their antics in the mall are priceless. One of the better films from the 'series' and if your a fan of the others I highly recommend this. "},{"Title":"Good, and cheesy","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats was the first film by Kevin that I've seen, and I thought it was great when I saw it.  The cheesiness of this film makes it all the better. Some people say it is a crappy film, but I disagree totally.  Though I will admit that Clerks and Chasing Amy are far superior, I love Mallrats. "},{"Title":"I Loved this Movie","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats sometimes gets a bad (unjustified) rap.  But I personally LOVE this movie.  I laughed from the beginning to the end and never got bored.I would even go as far to say that I enjoy this movie more than Clerks.The DVD version of Mallrats is super.  There are not that many DVD's with the amount of extra footage that Mallrats has.If you have never seen it, go rent it.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"lets go hang out at the mall","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What is so fun of hanging out at the mall? Well if you know people like the characters of mallrats it would be a blast. The film is about Brodie and T.S. who both get dumped by their girlfriends Rene and Brandi, but instead of suffering they decide to go to the mall. Then thats when everything starts having run ins with Jay and Silent Bob the local drug dealing mischief makers, Willam who cant see the hidden 3-D picture, Lafours the mall security guard, Trishia Jones a.k.a. Trish the Dish the 15 year old girl making a book on sex from personal experience, Ivannah the topless fortune teller and Mr. Svenning. It is a riot from the beginging to the end a must see for everyone. "},{"Title":"Yes!","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clerks is ground breaking....Dogma is brilliant....Chasing Amy is funny and moving....I can't wait for Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back!!! And as for Mallrats....it was rubbish....NOT!!!The thing about Mallrats is that I can see why people don't rate it because it does have a tacky almost (Dare I Say it!?!) Teen feel but it's nothing less than brilliant.The Smaller characters played by Jason Mewes,Renee Humphrey,Claire Forlani,Kevin Smith,Joey Lauren Adams & Ben Affleck  are simply hilarious and the Bigger characters played by Shannen Doherty, Jeremy London & Jason Lee are even better!!!This film is made brilliant by the great acting of Jason Lee...The way he is shouts his anger (i.e The Kid on the Escalator) are really funny!!!To enjoy the full greatness of this film you must have a sense of humor...oh and like constant references to JEDI KNIGHTS or the Trilogy in generalThis is certainly among the funniest films of the 1990's!!!8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Fun and Entertaining!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite the critics' negative diatribes, Mallrats is a surprisingly entertaining movie.  Mallrats reminded me of the frivolous 80's teen movies that I was raised on (as scary as that sounds); it was fun, if not tremendously cerebral.Silent Bob and Jay?  How do other movies get made without these two?  It is a mystery.  They should be in every movie!  Their Batman homage scenes alone were priceless!Jason Lee was incredible.  Again.  If you need a loud, belligerent, enlightening, and disturbed individual - Jason is your man.  Brodie . . . Banky (Chasing Amy) . . . Jeff Bebe (Almost Famous) . . . Jason Lee has brought some of my all-time favorite characters to life.The only drawback that springs to mind were the weak performances by Jeremy London and Claire Forlani.  Their lines were standard Kevin Smith dialogue irreverent, insightful and fresh.  (Do you like that 80's colloquialism I threw in there?)However, they're performances (and consequently, their characters) fell flat.  (I think Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams would have been better fits as T.S. and Brandi.  Although Mallrats would then have just been Chasing Amy The Prequel.)If Mallrats was made today, Jeremy London and Claire Forlani would have played their characters differently.  Since its 1995 release, there have been several movies where actors have played essentially the same characters with their tongues firmly placed in their cheeks where it belongs and not aimless and flat. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith has done it again with another underground cult classic that can only be described as random!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, let's see what we've got here.  It seems that writer/director Kevin Smith has done it again with another underground cult classic that can only be described as random!  It's a plot that could only come from one man, with more craziness than you'd expect.  Jason Lee is halarious as Brody, the recently dumped comic book collecting Mallrat with Jeremy London as his equally heartbroken bud.  Joining them are a few familiar faces, the wacky stoner Jay (Jason Mewes) and his mute companion Silent Bob (Kevin Smith). Stan Lee even makes a cameo as himself to help the broken up Brody.  All in all I'd say that you have to see this movie, especially if you're from Jersey (You might be able to spot a few landmarks).  It's sure to leave you laughing and you'll find it a worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"Good Film, Bad Cast","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Most people don't like Mallrats.  Some people downright loathe it.  But there are a few of us who love it.  I love Mallrats because it does the one thing that any comedy should do -- it makes me laugh, and often.  Kevin Smith is a gifted comedic screenwriter, and his talents are on full display here.  He displays a thorough understanding of the characters he writes, and the audience, or at least his target audience, can recognize them as people we know.  Of course the film is written with cartoonish exaggeration, but many great comedies are.  If Smith goes overboard at times in Mallrats (which he has acknowledged he did), it is a forgivable sin.  The criticism of the major players, however, is fully justified.  With the exception of Jason Lee, whom I find one of the most consistently funny actors in Hollywood today, the principals give completely wooden performances.  Nor are they aided by Smith's direction, which seems to have consisted of point and shoot.  Nevertheless, some of the smaller parts are well played, including those of Ben Affleck and Joey Adams, whose talents were put on fuller display in Chasing Amy.  Through it all, the very funny and witty screenplay shines, making Mallrats worth watching. "}{"Title":"A great addition to any home collection","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith does it again, with this delightful story of two young  men who have both been dumped and seek resurrection of their relationships via the local mall.  The concept may seem corny, but when combined with ironic, and witty comedy, and a great cast this serves as a great film.  This unique tale also has a good replay value, as the jokes, and characters all blend with his other films, Clerks, Chasing Amy, and slightly in Dogma.  I must have seen this about 40 times and I still won't groan if somebody sticks it in.  Smith's films serve as a great idea for a movie night. I highly recommend all of them, however this is my personal favourite. "},{"Title":"Watch This Now!","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was the first Kevin Smith film I saw (on TV - later DVD) and I thought it was hilarious! I then watched Clerks, Chasing Amy and Dogma which are all excellent..I do not understand all the bad reviews of this film at all?! it is better than any recent teen comedy film (American Pie/Scary Movie/Road Trip) and more of a laugh fest than Smiths other films!This is an excellent film to watch with some of your friends while having a drink! Also the DVD edition is amazing - with hours of interesting stuff packed on...  "},{"Title":"Caught a bad rap","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie gets dumped on too much.  It's pretty vital to the rest of Smith's movies, especially if you've watched them all and know that the characters overlap, such as Rick Derris, the chick who drowns in the pool and the Jones sisters.  It was meant to be funny in the Porky's sense of the word.  It lacks taste, but if you find yourself hating it but love the rest of Smith's movies, you might be a bit uptight, no offence.  The humour in this one is wickedly funny. "},{"Title":"OK, Let's Be Fair","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, so the film is a bit of a choppy edit and the story doesn't always flow right.OK, so a few scenes seem to cross over from being boundary pushing to creepy (at least for me, any involving Ben Affleck's character).OK, so Smith's natural sensibilities seemed to have been blunted by the big budget and blockheading studio blundering.But . . . It's still pretty damn funny.I just saw the film on DVD and watched all the making of extras and listened to the director's commentary.  What sticks in my mind was the fact that Smith says he was doing a bit of an homage to the early comedies of John Landis - Blues Brothers, Animal House, etc. - and Mallrats definitely has a similar loose and anarchic feel to it.  In fact, in my opinion, Silent Bob is simply a more polite and less sexually driven version of John Belushi's Bluto from Animal House (his various hidden gifts and talents seem to come from The Peanuts' Snoopy, though).Regardless, also having been a comic book fan, a follower of John Hughes and Tim Burton movies, and having spent many an aimless adolescent day in malls or comic book stores, Mallrats appealed to me on many levels.  And I swear to God, I've known guys like Brodie all my life.Not View Askew's best, but OK.  I consider it Kevin Smith's Magnificent Ambersons next to the Citizen Kane of Clerks. "},{"Title":"Ugh.","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think that I just may be the only person in the history of mankind who disliked this movie.  Is that wrong of me?  I don't know.  The point is that it was both offensive and irksome--and somehow very boring at the same time.  I can only give it credit for never claiming to be anything other than an jejune comedy. "},{"Title":"Hot and cold -- riddled with hilarity and far-fetched antics.","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched Mallrats last night for the first time ever. Let me first say Clerks is one of the most hilarious movies I've ever seen. I loved it.I think I expected too much from Mallrats. Brodie's character was your typical unwashed-I-am-so-cool mid-90s slacker obsessed with video games and comics. His obsessions aren't so bad in themselves but he pays his girlfriend no attention, which may make sense but not when your girlfriend looks like Shannen Dougherty. Where does Brodie find solace? At the MALL?!?! Having grown up with a lot of Brodie's and almost having been one myself, I know that those types HATE the mall. It is almost the very living definition of what is NOT cool, especially mid-90s. The whole Mallrats concept would've been much better off set in 1985, not 1995.That aside, all of the regular Clerks-Dazed-and-Confused-Chasing-Amy crowd is here. Of course, Jay and Silent Bob are the best things about the whole movie. Ben Affleck was pretty weak, and the set up to bust him at the end of the movie is so absurd it's not funny, it's just dumb.The entire girl's father running his game show with a live feed from the local mall is horrible. The game show scene is just awful as well, except for a few funny lines.Turns out my favorite parts are the Star Wars references (in every Smith film). Smith's hosting of the Star Wars tribute on the Sci-Fi channel made me want to rent this movie that I never wanted to watch. One look was all I needed.Some of the dialogue made us laugh out loud -- usually Jay's lines. But it wasn't near enough to bring the movie up to a respectable level. Just like Dogma, this movie seemed to suffer horribly from the 3/4-of-the-way-through syndrome (I hope you know what I mean).The best part of the whole movie? The Weezer song Suzanne at the end of the film. Excellent tune. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's best work yet!","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I'll admit.  Sometimes movies that have lowbrow humor and aren't Oscar/Golden Globe material can be very fun to watch!  Like this movie.  In this flick Jeremy Jordon and Jason Lee play these Sega-loving comic book fanatics who get ditched by their girlfriends and they seek refuge at the local mall and get into a lot of hilariously sticky situations.  And they seek help from Jay and Silent Bob.The funniest characters are Jay and Silent Bob!  They crack me up in all the Kevin Smith movies I've seen.  I also like Jay's 'snootchie' catchphrase! Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith are very talented actors and they're exceptionally great in what they do.  What I didn't like about this movie was that teenage girl named Tricia.  One of my favorite lines was, Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned at Sega!So, if you're a fan of Kevin Smith, watch this!  It's his best work yet!  I also enjoyed Chasing Amy, Clerks, and Dogma! "},{"Title":"schnoogans","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How much do I love this movie? well i don't think i can express  myself monosyllabically enough for you to understand. There's  not a day goes by, not a day, that i don't find myself quoting  this utterly unbelievable comedy.  I don't think I have ever  seen a more developed, dynamic, magnanimous, well-rounded, enjoyable character as Brodie Bruce that Jason Lee brought to life. His ravings and rantings flow well throughout the entire movie, supported well by the performance given by ex-90210 star, Shannon Dougherty, as his (ex)girlfriend Rene, the backseat  acting of Jeremy London as his sidekick T.S., and the ever great duo Jay and Silent Bob. Kevin Smith has created this entire  world that is sure to delight anyone.  His writing is the same  witty dialogue as found in his previous endeavor Clerks but with much better filming and acting.  This has to be one of the funniest, most quotable movies I have seen "},{"Title":"Snootch to the Nootch!","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is hilarious! It is WAAAAAAAAY better than Dogma and I recommend it to everyone. It also has Ben Affleck in it (Remember this was BEFORE he was famous megastar he is now) and also Claire Forlani and Joey Lauren Adams (The chick from Big Daddy). Jay and Silent Bob are in it too and the similarities to Jay and my cousin are HUGE! Anyway, it's a great film and contains less F-Words than say....Dogma or Shaft. There is a scene with a fortune teller and...can't say that on a family website. VERY NAUGHTY MOVIE! Snootchy Bootchy Nootchies! **** out of **** "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever made","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the best of the Kevin Smith films (although many critics disagree) and it is in my top ten funniest films of all time. This movie has so many funny characters, like Jay and Silent Bob, the wierd stoner comic book fans who want to act like superheroes, and a really perverted guy who talks about superhero anatomy. I think that I would have liked this movie even more if I was into comic books (a theme in the film) but even though I'm not it is still completely hillarious. If you can handle very r-rated language, See it now!! "}{"Title":"A cool Kevin Smith Flick","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smiths second movie Mallrats was his biggest flop. the movie Tell the story of two guys who spend way to much time at the mall and when Brodie gets dumped by his girl friend he goes to the mall with his best friend TS who also got dumped. the story begins when they decide to get there girl friends back with the help of Jay and Silent Bob.. A very funny movie but not as good as Clerks.. If you are a Kevin Smith fan its a movie worth watching.. "},{"Title":"Not the come back we expected","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Albeit a disappointing second feature from the creator of clerks, on its own merit this film is witty and entertaining. Kevin Smith is constantly persecuted for this film from he same people who gave him accolades for Clerks and it needs to be understood he just wanted to make a simple easy film, and if you have seen the DVD, it must be understood this film was heavily cut into an almost entirely different movie. Anyhow its not really about much except the day in the  life of the 2 major characters, and how they must both score their women back after they coincidently break up the same morning. Jay and silent Bob become richer livelier characters through this film and root their place (I feel) in the Kevin smith genre. Ben Afflect makes his first (of many) appearance into the Kevin Smith genre. And last, but certainly not least, Jason Lee makes his first foray into the Kevin Smith genre and is absolutely amazing. All in all its a fun movie you cant expect much more out of than a national lampoon flick, so just kick back, relax, listen, and take a trip to the mall. "},{"Title":"Oh yeah! Kevin Smith does it again!","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you like Kevin Smith, then this movie is a must see. Even if you're a K.S. virgin, it's still dang good! It's not as good as Clerks or Dogma, but it's entertaining, hilarious, and it has Jay and Silent Bob plotting nefarious schemes like Fly, Fat a$$, Fly! There are also some wacky insights into the world of flea markets, comics, food courts, Magic Eye Puzzles and other crazy stuff. Entertaining, funny, Jay & Silent Bob, and Kevin Smith's New Jersey movies inside jokes... What more do you need? See it now! "},{"Title":"One of the better ones","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Of all the teen flicks that came out of the 90's Mallrats continues to be my favourite one. For some reason it holds some kind of aura about it prob because i was drunk the first time I watched it. But what it has that that makes it stand above the rest of the teen-flick heap is an original funny script by Kevin Smith, a type of script that I had never witnessed before having not seen Clerks. Mallrats has a great cast (jason lee is brilliant), a great script, plot and director. Why it was a flop I'll never know. "},{"Title":"The lost Gem of View Askew","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's no secret that Kevin Smith is my hero. Every time I've ever heard an interview with him he always downs the film, which is one of my favorites. Sure, it may have flopped at the theater, but when was the last time (except for maybe Gladiator) that a movie that was really good was publicly and critically lauded. The dialogue is first rate, the jokes are hilarious, and the cast, though they are a varied bunch does a great job. Jason Lee delivers the best performance of the film in his first feature role (if you don't want to count Blind's Video Days, where his awesome skating will be immortalized). This movie is a riot, and a worthy addition to Kevin Smith's body of work. If you haven't seen it, get your best people on acquiring you a copy.  "},{"Title":"A fine example of a FUNNY  MOVIE. Jay and Silent Bob at their second best.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats follows two friends T.S Quint (Jeremy London) and Brodie Bruce (Jason Lee) who have both been dumped by their girlfriends and go to the mall to seek refuge. When the opportunity presents itself to win them back they enlist the help of two stoners and hilarity prevails. It was the first Kevin Smith movie that I saw. This is probably why it is my favourite over even the highly acclaimed Clerks. However ignor my bias and believe me when I say, THIS IS ONE FUNNY F***ING MOVIE. It was not very popular but I really cannot undertand why, it is as big a mystery as 'how do snails f**k with their heads' and one that I can only suggest one answer for The public (in the UK at least) have a distinct distaste for good things. You only have to look at the music scene over here to see how this is true. It's a world where Britney Spears is queen with her Spice Girls of the round table and the Stereophonics are referred to as 'them Welsh ones', and the Seahorses don't even get a title, because nobody knows who they were IT'S A COMPLETE INJUSTICE. Woah, got a little upset there, deep breaths. To conclude Mallrats is a hilarious movie which has been totally hard done by, not even getting a DVD release on this side of the Atlantic. Jason Lee is SUPERB as Brodie Bruce. Jason Mewes and Mr Smith himself crack me up as Jay and Silent Bob. Kevin Smith is truly comedic genius, however you will probably only share this point of view if you are in your teens or your twenties, or if you're a stoner. Put a few dollars in Kev's pocket by buying this video. He deserves it and you won't regret it!!!!  "},{"Title":"Great film... Why didn't it do better in the box office?","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  POSSIBLE LIGHT SPOILERS It's rare nowerdays that you find a sensible teen comedy... & this is no exception to the rule. The basic story goes that two guys are dumped by their long term girlfriends and to console themselves, they head for their favourite place... the mall. Then, once they get there, they realise that (& bear with me on this) the father of one of their ex-girlfriends has set up his TV gameshow on a stage in the mall, and that the ex-girlfriend is going to be one of the contestants on the show (the show is a typical blind date, 3 guys contest for a holidays with the girl) & then he has to stop the show to get the girl. This is a stupid plot, but the silm is hilarious. Brodie played by Jason Lee has some brilliant lines, as does Jeremy London (the QB from dazed and confused), though to me the two best parts in this film were undoubtedly Jay & Silent Bob. They stole every scene they were in, and the blueprints for their actions were great. This is an awesome film. if you're looking for an easy on the mind, funny comedy, give this a go. (p.s. you also get to see Joey Lauren Adams topless so the film is pretty much worth it just for that) "},{"Title":"A highly underrated film","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats, often criticized as the worst of the jersy trilogy, is one of my favorites.  Silent Bob wants to be a jedi, it doesn't get better than that. If your not a star wars fan or a comicbook fan, than you might not get all the references, but mallrats is an awesome movie, and a must see if you enjoy Kevin Smith's other movies.Adventure, excitement, a jedi craves not these things. - Silent Bob, he doesn't say much, but when he does, it's usually something important. "},{"Title":"Funniest film ever","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is just SO funny. Very much like Smith's other films, but this is faster paced and funnier, and never takes itself too seriously. It has returning characters JAY and SILENT BOB pretending to be superheroes. It has a whole slew of funny characters. But what I didn't get was why it had so much to do with comic books. It doesn't matter, though, because the movie is so funny. "},{"Title":"A hilarious and somewhat offending comedy with great dialogue and acting.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats, now there is a great movie.  If you are a young viewer, then this movie will be like a Casablanca to adults.  The Kevin Smith series of movies is the eqivalent of the John Hughes 80's series but only for the 90's.  This movie is so funny, you will be rolling on the floor.  The now somewhat famous duo, Silent Bob and Jay, are featured in their second film, which made them more popular with the younger crowd.  Clerks is of course a classic 90's movie that deserves enough praise as it is.  But to tell you the truth, Mallrats was the first of the series that I experienced. Immediately after viewing this film I was hooked.  For about two months, I thought so highly of Kevin Smith he was like a second Speilberg.  That era of Smith praise existed until I realized that this movie was made for teens. So, I kind of covered up my obsession with these movies for a while.  But, now I'm back, and I'm ready to summarize this fabulous film.  The movie Mallrats is a great movie for countless reasons.  First of all, the dialogue in this film is superb.  Like in all Kevin Smith films, the dialogue is filled with minute, extraneous jokes that are, in the least, hilarious.  Now, Silent Bob and Jay are featured as a pair of rebellious young adults who are focused on creating pranks that will cause havoc in the large mall that is the primary setting.  Jay is a talkative, irreverent criminal like delinquent; his counterpart, on the other hand, is a silent(that is kind of implied) character who provides humor, not because of jokes or dialogue, but just because he never talks.  The plot of this movie is, although simple, provides a story that is pretty interesting.  To really understand these comments on Mallrats, see this movie.  You'll enjoy it more if you're young, but if you're old, so what.  Enjoy this hilarious and irreverent film for what it is a well-written movie that deserves praise.  "}{"Title":"Kevin Smith is f*****g AWESOME!!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say, in my opinion this is Kevin Smith greatest film vintage Jay in this one from Mewes and Smith's original simple formula a couple of friends. There ya go. I have this flick on VHS I watch it constantly and If you haven't seen it WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?? "},{"Title":"Where do you get those wonderful toys?","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  People have been hard on this movie.  The eagerly anticipated sequel-prequel-whatever to Clerks was met with harsh claims of selling out and cheating fans of a true Kevin Smith movie.  Hogwash.  Mallrats is a fine installment of The Jersey Trilogy (or series, with the release of Dogma) and provides endless laughs that will make you keep coming back for more.Jeremy London, as the troubled T.S. Quint, makes the best performance of his career and has great chemistry with the rest of the cast.  It is Jason Lee, as best-friend and newly-single Brodie Bruce, who dominates their scenes.  A man with a pathetic lifestyle who couldn't be prouder to admit to it, Brodie provides some of the best (and oddest) lines in the movie. However, despite both these wonderful performances, two characters who have become icons of the teen world steal the show from top to bottom.  Jay and Silent Bob, the two drug pushers with enough weird gadgets to make James Bond jealous, provide some of the best and most memorable moments in the movie.  If you see this movie for any reason, make it for these two morons and their quest for women, drugs, and the Jedi mind-trick.  Snoochie Boochies! "},{"Title":"Well-executed farce","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie should not be seen as more than a farce. With that point of view, it hits right on the money. The plot itself is about two guys, both dumped by their girls on the same day. They go through a menagerie of the weirdest, funny characters on their realization that they want them back, and can get them.The acting does smack of low-budget, especially Jason Lee, the Kevin Smith regular, who is nowhere near as compelling as he is as Azrael in 'Dogma'. But it doesn't matter. (A little irrelevant point of interest Renee Humphrey, who plays the 15-year old sexologist, beat Jennifer Love Hewitt for the role. A little nugget of information for ya there)On the way, the two kiddos engage in long dialogues with no cuts. This is not as distracting as it was in 'Jackie Brown', because the direction suits their rambling, yet highly eloquent, discussions. They also come into contact with more or less relevant characters, each with a huge funny character flaw or idiosyncracy. Ivanna, the topless psychic qualifies as one of strangest and funniest bit-part characters.Most of the strange little interludes, that were just funny in the beginning, come together in the climax, and this works well. The Silent Bob/Gwen unintentional stalker-love interest doesn't go anywhere, which is a little disappointing. But all-in-all, an underrated comedy about the Generation X slackers.If you're one of them, you'll enjoy this movie a lot. "},{"Title":"Extremely funny...","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith has done it again, with a great script and superb acting by Jason Lee and Jeremy London, Mallrats delivers everything you've come to expect from Kevin Smith.  I've seen this movie a million times and I never get sick of it, it's fun to watch and always makes me laugh.  See it! "},{"Title":"Greatest Comedy of All Time","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As a fan of all comedy movies, how does one choose which is his or her favorite?  For me, it was simple.  You take a movie that at any point during which you are laughing uncontrollably.  Kevin Smith is a master and this is his finest work, hands down.  "},{"Title":"Maybe one of the greatest movies I've seen","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats had to have been one of the best movies I'd seen. Interesting conversation. Funny as hell. Unique. I liked this movie the best of all of Kevin Smith's Jersey flicks. I loved the movie and I gave it a 10. Quite possibly the greatest comedy I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's black sheep movie","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The critics hated it, few people saw it in the theaters, kevin smith even jokingly disowned it? Why, one may ask?  Very simply, the film was too intelligent and witty for the teenage, mallrat crowd it was based around, and too low brow for the critics who were expecting an independent style comedy piece of work like Kevin Smith's previous film, Clerks. I fall somewhere in the middle, being an intelligent, wicked minded teenager, and unlike most, i ended up enjoying the movie thoroughly, the only part that seemed a bit too weird to keep in being the fortune teller with the third....well, you'll have to see the movie to know what im talking about. Kevin Smith, at heart, has a great imagination, that only gets stifled when critics expect him to churn out drama/comedies all the time. He made this movie a straight up comedy, and if you go in expecting the dark comedy that Clerks had, some of the personal experience touches and social commentary that Chasing Amy had, or some of the religious retrospect that he managed to get into Dogma without the catholic church having a contract on his head, then yes, you WILL be disappointed. Kevin Smith's little black sheep is a movie about young love, comics, shopping malls, Superman's coital habits, and sailboats. Pretend it doesn't exist if you want to, but its your loss if you cant see it in its right perspective.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious, underrated film","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand why so many critics didn't like this film, and considered it to be Smith's sell-out movie. Personally, I think that while this is by no means his best, it is the funniest movie Kevin Smith has made . Just because it doesn't have a pertinent message like Chasing Amy (my personal Smith fave) or Dogma doesn't mean it should be discounted. Sometimes humor should be presented just for the sake of being funny. Slight Spoiler here** It seems that (at least in his first three films) whatever Silent Bob says can be viewed as the main point the film intends to get across. In clerks it was there are a million fine-looking women out there but they don't all bring you lasagna at work. most of them just cheat on you. and in Chasing Amy there is his big long story about Amy. But in mallrats he simply says, adventure? excitement? a jedi craves not these things. ** which gives me the impression that he was just having fun with this movie, and there's nothing wrong with that. the end result is a really funny movie, nothing more, nothing less. On another note, Jason Lee's Brodie is my personal favorite Kevin Smith character, he is hysterical. All in all, extremely funny, and well worth seeing if you're in the mood for comedy. "},{"Title":"An overlooked-American classic.","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is Kevin Smith's sellout to Hollywood. But, of course that doesn't make it bad. To be quite blunt, I prefer Mallrats to the over-rated American Pie. Mallrats follows the adventures of the recently-dumped T.S. Quint(Jeremy London) and his slacker buddy who has also been dumped, Brodie Bruce(Jason Lee). They decide to numb their pain by going to the local mall to chill. T.S. discovers that his former girlfriend is going to be auctioned off at her father's Dating Game ripoff show, which is going to be broadcasted live at the mall. T.S. and Brodie run into Jay and Silent Bob, and enlist them to destroy the gameshow. This is where the hilarity ensues. The movie isn't as good as Clerks, but it's a helluva good ride. Complete with Easter Bunny Bashing, topless fortune telling, Stan The Man Lee, comic book, Sega, and a very obscure reference to Clerks. NOTE!! Brian O' Halloran (Dante in Clerks) shows up in the movie as Gill Hicks, an obvious relative to Dante Hicks. And don't miss the hat that T.S. picks up in the Flea Market. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious a must see!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of the funniest films that I have had the pleasure to see, it would be better suited towards a younger audience as older folk may find it slightly crude, but this film had me almost crying with laughter a great film, and Brodie is a great character with some great lines in this film. A great line from the film would have to be Call me daddy said by Benny boy. "}{"Title":"A Good Movie, But Not as Good as Clerks or Dogma","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Another great film from Kevin Smith. Once again, Jay and Silent Bob put on one hell of a show. Clerks and Dogma are Kevin Smith's two greatest movies by far, but Mallrats is still very entertaining, Check it out! "},{"Title":"A worthy second flick!","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why do people come down on this.  OK, its not as clever or witty as Clerks but it is funny.  With characters that are as nasty as they are likeable, Mallrats leaks laughs from every orifice.  It leads the bad taste crowd that has been popularised by the Farrelly brothers movies.  Funny as a very funny thing. "},{"Title":"A must see for all slackers","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well for starters this is one of my favourite films of all time, all of Kevin Smith's films have been great but I can watch this film over and over again.  All the acting is amazing Jason Lee & Jeremy London are great for the parts and pull it off with style, even Stan Lee manages a good performance.But of course the real stars of the film are Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mews & Kevin Smith), they are some of the best thought out characters for a film I've seen and bring great comedy to the film.I still don't know why the critics didn't like the film because all the people I know who have watched it have said it's great and very funny.The mall has never looked like so much fun. Rating 10  "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Actuallly, u could say im a newbie when it comes to Kevin Smith films, because, it wasn't until my friends sat me down in front of their dvd-rom to see Mallrats just last fall. I thought it pretty funny. I heard about it before, and thought it would be bad, but i actually had a good time. Now all I have to see is Clerks, and Chasing Amy all the way through(I only seen bits and peices of that film and I saw Dogma as a sneek preview).It's basically one of those funny but stupid movies about an average Joe who after breaking up with girlfriend, hangs out for the day in the mall. Then crazyness begins...There are plenty of funny, memorable scenes, but it has its low parts, which probably u already read about. But if u rent it and like to have a good laugh and like movies such as the other Kevin Smith films Clerks, Chasing Amy, and Dogma, then I'm sure you'll laugh at this too.The cochrane joke was soo funny, if not crude. HAHAHA "},{"Title":"Defining film of a generation","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are so few films that have adequately displayed the life of today's (or is it yesterday's?) slackers.  Mallrats does this perfectly, while remaining hilarious all the while.  Critics dismissed this film as Kevin Smith 'selling out.'  Why is this?  Because it had a happy ending?  Since when were happy endings evidence of a bad film?  Mallrats is by far Smith's funniest film, even if it isn't considered his best.  Jason Lee gives an inspired performance, but Jeremy London does little more than avoid ruining the movie. "},{"Title":"In support of my friends Jay and Silent Bob... and Geckodude","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In total agreement with Geckodude, I have to say that the film seems to totally underrated by people who want to see a recycled idea (Clerks). This film is fun. I'd even say that Clerks is way overrated by some - in that it cool to like, whilst undoubtedly being a good film, so is this. Don't let Claire Forlani swing your opinion but go watch this film in neutral light and without the general consensus that out of all his (now) four films, this is the worst, by far. Nicht so. I mean, it's got Jason Lee, its got to be said... he's a funny guy.And someone asked Why do we need Jay and Silent Bob in every film? because these are Kevin Smith movies... which planet has this person been living on? They're also funny guys. Have a sense of humour! "},{"Title":"Jay and Silent Bob as cool as they'll ever be!!!","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I get the impression that most people who comment about Kevin Smith's movies have never actually seen Mallrats and know it simply as his 'bad one'. They're missing out. Both Mallrats and the equally criticised Dogma are his best movies and are consistently funny and enjoyable. Clerks and Chasing Amy seemed to get a bit too weighed down at times but Mallrats is just so cool and so much fun to watch it's impossible not to like. Just because it is not another Clerks it gets criticised - critics would obviously be happier if Kevin Smith continually made films identical to that and then they'd get bored and criticise him for lack of originality. Ignore all the bad stuff you've heard about this movie, check it out and enjoy. Don't waste the opportunity to see something worth watching for once!! "},{"Title":"Underrated, Comedy Classic.","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For whatever reason this, the second of the Jersey trilogy is looked on as the worst of the three. The only reason I can think of is Jeremy London who manages to ruin any slightly funny line T.S is given, Luckily Jason Lee is there to save the film as Brodie one of if not the funniest character in all of Smith's movies. Forget what any of the critics say and don't take Kevin Smith's tongue-in-cheek apology to heart, this is one of the funniest films in years and is in my opinion, much better than the overrated 'Clerks'. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've ever seen (until next week)","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A time ago, when I was 13, I used to love malls just as Brodie do in this movie. I wanted to do everything at the mall. Watch a new movie? In the mall theatres. Buy a new clothe? In the mall. Eat something? In the mall. One day I was reading my TV guide when I saw a movie called Barred in The Mall, Mallrats' Brazilian name (note the Brazilian name for Beverly Hills, 90210 was Barred in The Prom!). Obviously, I wanted to watch but, I don't know why, I didn't.One year after it all my sisters started to talk about one movie named Chasing Amy Chasing Amy is the funniest movie of the world, great movie, there's a lesbian,Ben Affleck is hot... Everywhere I went there was somebody talking about this movie. And I was really interest about it because the plot is really great. I wanted to watch it but, I don't know why, I didn't.Some months ago I was reading a magazine and there was a report about the polemic Dogma. What a great movie, I thought. I must watch it. So, somehow, I have no idea, I connected Dogma with Chasing Amy and I discovered that the director and writer of both was Kevin Smith. Some months after it, I was still thinking about Dogma (you know, they're trying to cancel it here and I was very angry. They said that Alanis Morissette is a pop singer that sings naked in her shows) and reading the TV guide I found Barred in the Mall! And somehow I discovered that it was from Kevin Smith. I was happy but in fact I hadn't watched any Kevin's movie yet. That would be the test.The result is that Mallrats is a great movie. It's very very funny, different, independent, strange, everything! The cast is superb (specially Jeremy London, Shannen Doherty, Jason Mewes and Claire Forlani) and each new scene is better. At the end, the only thing you can do is laugh more and more (and with that end, it's impossible not to laugh). And the screenplay is for sure the best thing in Mallrats and you can see it looking at the memorable quotes. The scene where a TV-show is being made in the mall is the unforgettable. And Jay is the funniest character of the movie (and he's in Dogma, Chasing Amy and Clerks too!).Other fun thing is that many character from Mallrats are in other Kevin's movies and many actors and actresses are too but playing different characters!So, why is Mallrats the funniest movie I've ever seen only  until next week? Well, because when I was talking to one friend he said Mallrats? It's very good but Chasing Amy is better. And have you ever watched Clerks? I think it's Kevin's  best.  So I went to IMDb and Mallrats is the worst rated movie from Kevin! I can't wait. In the next weekend, I'm going to rent both. And in January 14th maybe everything will change again. Dogma will be released in Brazil!In summary, using only 6 millions dollars Kevin did the funniest movie I've seen. That proves that the most important is the screenplay, not expensive sceneries. Kevin Smith is a genius.Mallrats 10/10 "},{"Title":"A movie to take notes on and live by.","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is excellent. As I said in my summary, this movie is one to live by. Jason Lee's performance in this made me go out and watch all of his other movies. This is one of the few movies that I have seen over 5 times. (others include The Terminator and T2, and The Pest) If you haven't seen this movie, see it. "}{"Title":"Snoochie Boochies","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Snoochie Boochies is the word often said in this fine installment to the Jersey Trilogy, Mallrats. The story takes place as two friends find themselves in the same situation...dumped. But amongst their depression, comic book freak Brodie( played by the ever cool Jason Lee) comes up with a way to relieve the pain of being dumped...the mall. There  T.S. (Brodie's friend, played by Jeremy London) finds out that his girlfriends' father is going to auction her off at a live T.V. game show much like The Love Connection. Brodie and T.S. inlist the help of two lovable rapscallions...Jay and Silent Bob. This pair of unlikely heroes will help Brodie and T.S. to try and regain their girlfriends' lost love. The movie is down-right hilarious and has many cleaver anecdotes. It offers action, adventure, romance, and comedy. If I were to go to hell and was forced to watch a movie forever, I would choose Mallrats.Written with the help of Chris ) "},{"Title":"Loved it.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Though not as popular as the rest of Kevin Smith's movies, Mallrats is every bit as funny. The dialogue is so harsh and witty, every scene contains something to laugh at. Sure, it has a Hollywood ending, but it is still done with Smith's own unique style, and it is damn funny. It seems it's unanimous here that Jason Lee is the star of this show, as he is in Chasing Amy. He has the funniest dialogue I've seen in a long time, and he takes the movie from an already funny level and elevates it to the ranks of Clerks, Dumb and Dumber, and other comedy classics. The game show scene, while maybe a tad unbelievable (who cares) is the funniest scene in the movie. If you were making whoopee, what noise would you make?    what's whoopee?, you mean like f**k?   It may not sound hilarious, but watch the movie, and you'll see that it is. Jay and Silent Bob are funny as ever, and the re-appearance of Dante (as a different character) as the third contestant on the game show is a nice touch. Overall, just as good as Chasing Amy, and on par with Clerks (maybe slightly behind), and should get more credit than it does. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Best Kevin Smith film to date","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  According to the critics this is the worst installment in the Jersey trilogy. But in my view this is the best Kevin Smith film made to date. Jason Lee's outstanding performance as Brodie is the funniest that I've ever seen. His beating of the grannies, just because of his principles, is histerical. Jay and silent Bob are here as usual. All in all, I suggest that if you have not yet seen this film, you do!! Don't listen to what everyone says and just listen out for the kid in the escalator.  "},{"Title":"i smell a rat","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about MALLRATS. It was semi-funny, with mostly good talent, a bigger budget, and COLOR!But the movie, overall, seemed like a waste of a bigger budget.Even Kevin Smith, the writer/director/co-star of the lukewarm follow-up to his much more genius CLERKS, thinks so.I puzzled over why, and this is what I came up withThe setting itself is way too tacky. A mall. It's much more bigger than a convenience store or video store, but with the extension of size, you expect more action. And there's not much you can do in a mall, though this movie strives to disprove that. But do we really need the villainous mall security and a hokey game show going on?Then there's Jeremy London, who does a really bad acting job as the lead. If he wasn't teamed up with the much more comedic and interesting Jason Lee, the movie would reek itself to death. Don't get me wrong, I liked Jeremy London in DAZED & CONFUSED, but here he looks like some sort of trespassing member of the  Kevin Smith Movie Club, which, I think, Jason Lee reigns here. Let's face it, he's no Ben Affleck.But the whole story is kinda crummy. Especially the whole tedious game show finale. Uggh.. there were some moments that looked like gems (the Jay & Silent Bob BATMAN parody, the Get that kid off the escalator! bit), and some that looked like a waste (the lackluster Stan Lee cameo, the fortune teller with an 'interesting deformality'). But the only thing keeping it all alive is Kevin Smith's one-of-a-kind dialogue.This is the low point of Kevin Smith's slackers in Jersey trilogy, but don't be discouraged! He finishes very nicely with his best film to date (though I haven't seen DOGMA yet), CHASING AMY! "},{"Title":"Supa Funny!","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is often overlooked when Kevin Smith's name is mentioned. This movie is just as funny as the rest. Jason Lee is awesome in it.He is one of the funniest young actors out there. I don't see how anyone can find this film  not funny. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever made next to Clerks","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious and well done.  While it's not quite the masterpiece of Clerks, this movie shows that Kevin Smith is a genius.  The movie is well done, has an awesome cast, and an awesome soundtrack.  I can watch this movie a hundred times and still laugh, yet still get something out of it. There's tremendous meaning to this picture as well.  Watch this along with Clerks and Chasing Amy and you will notice many recurring character references and such.   "},{"Title":"Masterpiece from the master","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Initially I had never heard of this film or director. I was drawn to watching it by the cast , Affleck, Doherty, especially. I soon realised that even those two stars were eclipsed by the rest of the team. London fits well into a confused role, Jason Lee is hilarious throughout whilst Lauren-Adams , Mewes, Smith and Forlani enable the balance of romance and humour. I need say no more than now I am a huge Kevin Smith fan having recently seen Chasing Amy and will be rushing to see Dogma when it opens and Clerks when I can find it. Superb. "},{"Title":"a comedy I can watch again and again","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is one of those rare comedies you can watch over and over again, and never get tired of. I loved this movie, and love watching it (probably at least on a monthly basis). It's a hilarious love story/comedy. Jay and Silent Bob are great (as usual) and all the new characters are great, too. Kevin Smith may have top the awe-inspiring Clerks with this, the sidequel to it. A must see comedy flick! "},{"Title":"Bottom line It is funny and somewhat good.","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing Mallrats for the first time, I was quite amused. When I told a friend how much I liked it, he said, It was crap. This floored me, and he followed it up with ...and Kevin Smith said as much.Well, regardless of what Smith said, I think his work was just fine. While it might not be the artistically correct thing to do (go big $$$), Mallrats made his work more accessible to people who go to theaters or rent videos to have fun, not to be a critic. I know several people who were scared off by the black and white of Clerks, the lack of name power in Clerks (especially when it came out--who knew Jason Mewes before Clerks?). And these were educated movie-goers, not simps. After seeing Mallrats, they gave Clerks a try and were even more impressed. Good for Kevin, he opened the door for more people to experience his masterpiece by putting out a decent slapstick comedy. Marketing at its best. Only if he had put up a Web site telling the story of two young men who went to the mall after being dumped. Nine hours later, their ex's were found...., he would have beat the Blair Witch boys to the punch!Anyway, the movie is dominated by Jason Lee's strong performance as Brodie, and I was also happy with Ben Affleck's role as Shannon Hamilton. Jeremy London's delivery of Kevin Smith dialogue left a little to be desired, but all in all, it was pretty well done. Jay and Silent Bob were the only characters who made the movie seem overly silly. I still take great pleasure in watching these scenes 1.) Brodie's basement after the dumpings; 2.) Stinkpalm; 3.) the game show. The first time I heard Brodie's response to the whoopee question (not just the f-word, but the sounds he makes), I completely lost it.This comedy can be enjoyable. Try to go into this movie with an open mind, not thinking you're watching Clerks 2 or something. And yes, that's a recommendation. "},{"Title":"unpopular but just as good","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although not as popular as Clerks or Chasing Amy, I personally think that in it's own way it's as funny.. Mallrats got a lot of bad press which it didn't deserve. The performance from Jason Lee had me in hysterics and although lacking story the weird and wonderful bunch of characters take this movie to a different height of comedy.        8/10  "}{"Title":"Very Underrated.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't get why almost everyone(even Kevin Smith fans) put this movie down the movie is as funny as Clerks and just as memorable. Jason Lee pulled in an awesome performance as Brodie Bruce and Shannon Doherty and Clair Forlani looked as hot as ever. This movie is hilarious and full of great lines and let me not forget Jay and Silent Bob who are pretty cartoony in this second installment of the Jersey Trilogy but are still very funny.My favorite scenes in the movies were the one's with Willem trying to see the Magic Eye 3-D image that everybody else saw except him and the final scenes while filming the game show. The only downside of the movie was Jeremy London's plain performance in the movie aside from that everything else about the movie rocks. Also look out for Michael Rooker as Brandi's(Clair Forlani) dad who is very funny in this movie. Highly reccomended.Snootchie Bootchies "},{"Title":"Chasing Amy has nothing on Mallrats!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is the second installment of the New Jersey Trilogy. This movie is better than Chasing Amy. But it cannot be better than the original Clerks.In this installment, follow a day in the life of Brodie and T.S. as they are stripped of their true loves. Then then try to get back together with their girlfriends. It comes together in a finale in the mall where they both regain what they lost within five minutes. The movie is hilarious along with Smith movie veterans, Jay and Silent Bob, keeping the laughter way up. Jason Lee does a excellent job playing as Brodie and Jeremy London does exceptional as T.S. Along with the other problems that arise when hanging out at the mall. Since, they're not there to shop. They're not there to work. They're just there.  "},{"Title":"So funny it's painful... even after watching it 50 times.","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats rules.  It will continue to make you laugh even if you watch it over 50 times.WARNING If you get offended easily, like if someone says ass or sex on television, then this movie probably isn't for you and you should go watch the Sound Of Music or something of that genre.The writing of this movie is amazing.  Kevin Smith is probably the most brilliant filmmaker alive.  I think he should run for office somewhere, because if I was of legal voting age, I'd vote for him!  Everything about this movie is not only funny, but very witty as well.  The acting is also very good, especially that of Jason Lee's character Brodie.  That was a terrific performance.I give it a definite 10.  And I think it was worth the 23-day late fees I had to pay because I didn't want to return it.  I ended up buying the movie later.  And what a great purchase it has been! "},{"Title":"Clerks better? Not a goddamn chance","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have read a lot of reviews for Mallrats on here that say Clerks is better than Mallrats. Perhaps I am alone here, but I have seen Mallrats over 100 times (literally, I have a lot of free time on my hands). This movie does not get old as some would have you believe, I still laugh my ass off at Jason Lees performance and can not believe that he hasnt gotten some bigger movie roles. Granted Ben Affleck may be a good actor, but what the hell? Jason Lee gives one of the funniest performances I have seen in a very long time. People need to wake up and put Jason Lee in some bigger roles instead of giving him 5 minute roles in every movie he is cast in. All hail Brody! "},{"Title":"Very Funny, not bad for Smiths second effort","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the second installment of Kevin Smiths Jersey Trilogy. Once again Kevin has put in a great movie, witty script which is Smith's trade mark, was fantastic.This movie was stollen by Jason Lee, who played Brody, the comic book loving freak.He kept the movie going with his fantastic delivery and crazy performance. Jeremy London, didn't make much of an impact and was saved by Lee.And of course how can we forget Jay and Silent Bob, who put in their longest performance on screen. It was a real treat watching them.Mallrats is very enjoyable, not as good as Clerks, but still pretty good.  "},{"Title":"Funny and different","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. In my opinion it is one of the most amusing movies ever made. Very funny.Whenever I hear negative things about this movie... I really don't get it. People complain that it isn't funny or that it's too juvenile or that it isn't like the others. My response to that is Exactly. Movies are great for different reasons. This one is great because it is funny... and more realistic than some might think.I have collected (did collect) comic books for a while... and this movie sums up what collectors are like. People who didn't find this movie funny probably didn't get some of or a lot of the humor. My recommendation to anyone who didn't like this movie... Collect comics for a year, attend a big convention... and re-watch the movie. It'll only get funnier (and in a disturbing way, a lot more life-like).As for the movie's dissimilarity to Clerks and Chasing Amy, I don't see what the big deal is. They're not the same movies! The trilogy factor is apparent in the wit, the dialogue, and the characters... not the storyline(s) necessarily.Anyway, just my two cents...  "},{"Title":"Mallrats DVD - WELL DONE!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the far reaching possibility that Kevin Smith actuallywitnesses this, I would like to say THANK YOU for your awesome originality and honesty with the DVD film commentary that you had with Jason Lee and Ben Affleck amongst others! I laughed consistently throughout the viewing of MALLRATS, and even harder when the fellas hung out and threw out honest remembrance and opinions. This DVD packs the goods. CLERKS, admittedly, is #1 in my book of favorite Smith films. Note I've enjoyed everything he's done thus far. I look forward to DOGMA. Sure, he doesn't dazzle us with Scorsese of Stone Cinematography. He excels in his intelligent and witty screenplays. Keep up the great work. Hollywood beckoned to Smith. Right on Kevin! "},{"Title":"Better than bad, its good!","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My GOD! What a cool movie. I guess the best way i can describe it would be, almost on a par with Wayne's World...funnier than Wayne's World 2. BUT! The movies have only the slightest similarities... The story in Mallrats is a little less inane, and the characters really are characters. Technically, it's a better movie... but as a result it sacrifices some of that gloriously inane humour that it could easily have had. Still, i gave it a 9. It made me laugh, cry, and hurl (i'll never shake hands with anyone ever again!) And that's about all you could ever ask for! Oh... thought i should just mention the dialogue! DAMN it was good. Laconic, hilarious, right on the frickin' mark my friend!See it...and also see 'Clerks', 'Chasing Amy' and 'Dogma'! "},{"Title":"One of the great '80s films of the '90s.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a comic romp through through the lives of a gang of Jersey 20-something's which had me rolling. True, it's not considered Kevin Smith's strongest film, but I (in my opinion) think it's the funniest. Not only that, but it also has a D.V.D. which kicked so much... uhmmm... butt. This campy feeling comedy is great in my book, and it's the perfect transition between Clerks & Chasing Amy. I definitely recommend this to anyone. "},{"Title":"You dumb b****rd..","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie kicked ass.. I laughed from the start to the finish , and must have watched it over 40 times and it still has its effect. I loved Clerks which had me eagerly awaiting the 2nd movie in the trilogy and I wasn't disapointed. I was however bored into a coma with part three 'Chasing Amy'...I was expecting more of the sharp wit and  slapstick humour of the first two movies but it had an entirely different flavour. Anyways... I fully recommend this movie which brings back Jay and Silent Bob who have bigger roles and are sure to keep you rolling in the aisles. Jason Lee is a class act as Brodie and even Shannon Dougherty is good value... My favourite lines from Mallrats are.. William to a little girl.. Hahaha, You dumb ba****d..its a sailing boat not a schooner.. Jay to Silent Bob..Fly! Bad ass...Fly! & ...Tubby Bitch... I rated it 9/10 for entertainment value "}{"Title":"Mallrats has to be the best movie there is","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you haven't seen this movie, see it! If you have, watch it another 100 times like me. Mallrats is so hilarious. I don't ever think I'll be sick of it. Jay and Silent Bob are the coolest. The movie is just classic. "},{"Title":"Underrated, misunderstood!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film can be summed up with one word hilarious!!!!If it would have come out in 99, it would have been a boxoffice smash, considering the success of films like Mary and American Pie which are being hailed for the same things that Mallrats got bashed for, it was all about bad timing! "},{"Title":"2nd best Smith movie, but I haven't seen Clerks yet","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I should, shouldn't I? But anyway...Kevin Smith is one of my favorite filmmakers. He can take an idea and write these great characters for it-- and even higher some decent actors. Look at Jason Lee-- this guy can act, and he's funny as hell. The only thing I liked him better in was Chasing Amy, my favorite Smith movie, and one of my favorites overall.I don't need to tell you this movie was good, just see it to believe it. And if you already have, see it again. It's too funny to just watch less than 10 or 12 times. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While not my favorite of Kevin Smith's movies, (that's still between Clerks and Chasing Amy).  I thought this movie was A LOT better than most people give it credit for.  It is a hilarious movie, but in a different way than the 2 listed above.  More goofy type humor, but still very good. Absolutely LOVE the connections to Clerks (Common to all his movies).  Good Stuff! "},{"Title":"A Classic ahead of it's time...","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Once in a while a great movie comes a long, and is shunned at the box office, and kicks around on video until someone picks it up and gives it a shot, and the chain is linked, people get hooked...as what happened to Mallrats.  Kevin Smith's second shot at directing, this time with a 6 million dollar budget (instead of just over $27,000 for 1994's Clerks) is what Hollywood movies should be and a lot of times aren't.  People casted this film aside like bad fruit, even a lot of the people who worked on it, but now this film is loved by many because it is a great film!  Sure there is some Hollywood sellout in the air of the film, but it's done right. The humor is raunchy, but smart and funny.  Mallrats is one of those strange treasures you don't find everyday, and has found a place in my heart (along with a slew of other people's hearts) and is one of my favorite films. The thing about this film is the characters, Kevin Smith has a way of making his characters as someone you know or can relate to, unlike most movies that come out of Hollywood.  This film isn't just an exclusive to Smith fans though...for example, my mother hated Clerks, and didn't seem to interested in Chasing Amy, but whenever I'm watching Mallrats on video or DVD, she always sits down and laughs along with me.  Jeremy London (as T.S. Quint) is the only set back to the film, his dry acting is a downer, but Jason Lee (playing Brodie Bruce) picks up London's slack, and steals the show in the process.  As always Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith himself) are given great moments, that could make anyone cheer them on. Over all Mallrats deserves an A "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have ever seen","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really don't understand people that call Kevin Smith a sellout for making this movie.  Sure, It had a bigger budget than clerks, but compared to most movies the budget was still extremely small.  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, and I think that it is just as good of movie as Clerks or Chasing Amy.  I must have seen Mallrats over 30 times and it is still as funny now as when I first watched it. "},{"Title":"A wonderful relief from all pretentious movie-making!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith has, as far as I'm concerned, done it again.Now it is to be stated that I absolutely LOVE Clerks, and I for one was not disappointed by Mallrats. This is a fresh breath of air into the heavily made-up and glossy Hollywood productions. Also, in Mallrats, we have made the pleasant acquaintance of actor Jason Lee, who is just about the perfect guy for this film.  I also find it very relieving that Kevin Smith does not attempt to bore us with that oh let's educate the watchers- morality so often to be found in American comedy films.All in all this is the perfect film to watch when you need some cheering-up, relief from work or just one and a half hour of total, none-educational fun. "},{"Title":"Anything Kevin Smith touches turns to gold, such is Mallrats","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The more times I watched this movie the funnier it got, as with his other movies, Clerks and Chasing Amy, being that they are all tied together. Kind of like Star Wars but way different. I think every character, if you listen to the DIALOG carefully, has had sex with every other character. Amongst other things that really make them new movies every time you see them.-  I THINK SUCH IN-DEPTH WRITING IS BEYOND RARE THESE DAYS  "},{"Title":"Funny but...","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'll have to admit I thought this movie was hilarious, but that's as far as I'm willing to take it.  It really is not a GREAT movie.  You can only watch a movie like this so many times.  The humor is meant for those who can't and won't think too hard about the jokes to get them.  Or for those who are just intelligent enough to understand them.  Maybe I was too old (mature) to see this movie when I did, but that is my philosophy.  One liners get stale and can't make a movie.  Mallrats has high entertainment value but nothing worth watching repeatedly in other words it is not a good movie, just good for a few laughs.I hate to utter the phrase... but this movie is a sell out.  It has no independent film spark.  I think the only reason Kevin Smith made this movie was to get enough money to work on greater projects like Chasing Amy and Dogma.  Clerks would have been a much more highly acclaimed film with a little more cash, although it is still one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Disappointing. Do yourself a favor skip it!","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think this film is what you would call Kevin Smith's commercial attempt.Mallrats is just not funny. I don't think I laughed once during this film. Maybe after watching Clerk's I was expecting way to much. I don't know I just dont think it's up to the standard of Smith's other films Clerk's and Chasing Amy. The only reason to watch this film is to catch the very talented Jason Lee he is definitely somebody to keep you eye out for.  "}{"Title":"The best movie of the 90's","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is the best movie of the 90's. It has its funny, upbeat at times, its got a great love story, and it has Jay and silent Bob. What more could you want? "},{"Title":"Excellant comedy for easy humor","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some movies require you to think hard in order to get the jokes, all this movie requires is that you are ready to laugh..  After seeing this movie, I wanted to see it again, so that I could laugh again, and again, and again. The comical references to other movies and other works is well designed. And for those who never could see the 'hidden pictures' (the ones you have to stare at in a weird way to see what the picture is), this will help you feel better.This movie is definitely worth seeing..  Especially for those who have smarts to enjoy what they see.  A note for those with low IQ's, though.. You might be upset and decide to write bad reviews...  "},{"Title":"","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  For all you people who did love this movie as much as I did, you obviously aren't Kevin Smith fans. I love all his movies and I can't wait for Dogma to come out in October! I also love the way he ties all of the movies together, if you've seen them all you know what I'm talking about. Mallrats was the funniest movie of them all I think. How can you go wrong with quotes like...You're going to listen to something I said? Haven't I made it abundantly clear during the tenure of our friendship that I don't know s**t? Usual vault rules apply Touch not, lest ye be touched. Second suitor, would you ever make whoopie in public?I mean come on, I personally think this is one of the funniest movies that I have and ever will see. Kevin Smith is brillant. Thats all I have to say about that... "},{"Title":"how great it is, and other movies to see","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the greatest! I've seen it about a million times. It has classic lines such as; You got something to say to me?! Yeah but I can't express myself monosylabically enough for you to understand them all! and YOU KNOW WHAT?! THERE IS NO EASTER BUNNY! THAT OVER THERE IS JUST A GUY IN A SUIT!!  If you haven't seen this movie yet, geeze! What's taking you so long?!  Also catch Clerks and Chasing Amy the other movies in the so-called Jersey Triligy.  Now, get with it!! "},{"Title":"Great flick from a great man.","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is my absolute hero, but after first viewing this flick I was a little disappointed. I'd seen Chasing Amy the week before, and although Mallrats is very cool, it was just too different to make a comparison. However, after reading more about it and reviewing some of the dialogue, I watched it again and laughed my ass off. It's so wacked, but in a really good way. Kevin Smith is the master of the English language.One suggestion though- I'm sure Jeremy London is a great actor in his own right, but he shouldn't have been in this movie. He seemed lost, like he didn't get any of the jokes. Jason Lee was incredible, and deserved someone better to be his sidekick. But all in all, it's well worth the time spent watching it (preferably more than once!) "},{"Title":"K.Smith lives in a comic book world","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After seeing Clerks, I waited for months for the release of Mallrats. After hearing negative feedback, I went to see it with low expectations and came out crying that it was much better than all the critics were ranting. Having seen it for the fifth time, however, I understand why it got such a poor reception it's a bad movie.It is entertaining, but Kevin Smith again shows a lack of ability at writing strong female roles everyone thinks that because he wrote a lesbian role in Chasing Amy he can write good female roles, but Mallrats everyone of the girls are sluts Shannen Doherty is with Ben Affleck the day after breaking up with Jason Lee (the only good performance). Joey Lauren Adams is a complete slut as she recalls sexual fantasy after sexual fantasy and Renee Humphrey is also a slut. As a male I am not offended, but I find that it is a little sad.The conversations all revolve around sex, as if Smith is begging to shock, and man I would love to go to a mall where only super cool trendy people walk around. It is amateur and lacks originality. "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie Of All Time","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is the funniest movie that I have ever seen. Kevin Smith did an awsome job with the cast and the script. The other two movies in the series pale in comparison to Mallrats. Clerks was too low budget and Chasing Amy had too much of a plot. Mallrats is just funny from the start, One time My Cousin Walter... to the end. 10 stars all the way!!! "},{"Title":"cannot understand why people did NOT like this movie","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have finally seen Mallrats--the second in the New Jersey trilogy--and loved it!!  I had heard all the negative hype, so I was prepared to watch a not-so-great movie.  I rented it because I felt it was due time to see this movie, seeing as how Clerks and Chasing Amy are my two favorite films!! Anyhow, I was impressed by the film.How could anyone say that this was not a funny and entertaining movie?  I couldn't stop laughing--recalling all of the boyfriends I had that were JUST LIKE Brodie!!  Or all of the times we hung out at the mall(hey, I AM from NJ--there really isn't anything else to do!) and all of the mallrats I used to know.  And the part where Willam calls Rene Brenda was priceless!!It was great to see all of the ties between the three movies and it was neat to see the actors Kevin Smith uses in all three movies.(loved seeing Gil Hicks!!)Clerks and Chasing Amy are still my favorite two(Chasing Amy is first, followed closely by Clerks), but Mallrats is so up there!!  I can't wait to buy and own the series instead of renting and paying the overdue charges!! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie kind of reminded me of Seinfeld, because there really wasn't a point to the movie, but it was hella funny! How can you beat a topless fortune teller, Beating up an easter bunny, Jay and Silent Bob, and not to mention other gross but funny things... And another thing that makes Mallrats so great is the actor Jason Lee. He is just hilarious in this flick. "},{"Title":"Pretty damn good.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't get it.  People who like clerks, find mallrats inferior and pointless.  And people who like mallrats find clerks a good film along with mallrats.  why can't we all just get along?  I'm more even about the whole trilogy.  I mean, mallrats was brilliant with the setting The mall.  Same with clerks A convenience store/rst video.  I don't see what's so different about the two.  I mean, there was the same kind of humor in both  So serious it's funny.  Mallrats didn't have the emotion that clerks had and stuff, but it still was brilliant.  Chasing Amy, if you ask me, was totally away from both.  If Jay and the Bob were more in it, it would be more like the other two.  Oh well, I guess I can't change anyone's opinion.  I'm just a peon. "}{"Title":"Very Funny, Very Cool!!!","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I Think this Movie was a Very Good Comedy. It is not for all tastes in humor; but in my tastes, it was hilarious. The acting was very good and humor was around every corner. Not many critics liked this particular Film, it could be all of the Cussing, or the Nudity, Oh Well. For all who enjoyed There's Something About Mary this is a Flick not not be missed. "},{"Title":"Go soak your head","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Many people have said that this Kevin Smith film was a failure.  I found it funny and while the acting was a tad rough it still was an excellent film. Clerks and Chasing Amy also excellent films surpassed Mallrats due to its themes and Dogma shall be the best Smith has produced yet.  Watch it and judge yourself. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A great example of what Kevin Smith can do when he takes his mind off sex. This movie concentrates on many other types of humor,while Clerks and Chasing Amy have way too many sexual references.  This movie proves he can still be very funny without so many of them. Jay and Silent Bob add the little Abbott and Costello humor and Brodie is just demonic so he is always funny. Great flick!!!  "},{"Title":"Could be better","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this before Clerks and Chasing Amy, one of my friends lent it to me to see, with high recommendations. It wasn't too bad, I mean I've seen a lot worse, but it could have been a lot better, it was way too cheesy for its own good basically. Soon after, I saw Clerks, and in comparison, Mallrats is really quite bad, but then after Mallrats, because Kevin Smith is such a legend, he came back with Chasing Amy, which is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time. Mallrats is ok, but go for Clerks and Amy instead. "},{"Title":"Best of the trilogy.","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jay and Silent Bob were at their best in this film. In Chasing Amy, they were only there for a scene and in Clerks they didn't seem to be a main part of the movie or plot. Whether it was Jay getting the contestants high or Silent Bob trying to use the jedi mind trick or the vulcan neck pinch, they were a very important part of the movie. The truth is that I've seen Clerks twice and couldn't see the point to that movie or much of the comedy that's claimed to be in it. Chasing Amy was too mature and complicated for me. I didn't understand a lot of it and the ending seemed unfulfilling, like something was missing. JRGTREK. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is usually noted as Kevin Smith's worst.  I can't understand why! I think Mallrats is hilarious.  I've seen it like 6 or 7 times and still fall on the floor laughing during the game show sequence.  Kevin, why did you apologize for making this?  Mallrats rocks!  Definitely recommended to the Adam Sandler crowd, but also to anyone else who enjoys a good laugh.By the way, the Mallrats soundtrack is awesome.  Not only does it feature well-known acts like Weezer, Elastica Silverchair and Sponge but also turned me on to some artists I didn't know at the time (i.e. Squirtgun, Thrush Hermit, Archers Of Loaf) that I now count among my favorites.   "},{"Title":"Far from wholesome family fun, but fun","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Though I doubt this movie will be a sweeper at the oscars, it still finds a place near and dear in the strange being known as Rolf.  Yes, it doesn't require much thought, but we must recognize that thought-heavy plot is not what Kevin Smith (a true modern genius) is going for in this addition to the Jersey trilogy.  I, personally, love all three, because they are all so completely different, yet so complex and intertwined.  Clerks was Smith releasing his Gen-X angst, Chasing Amy was his passage into the world of maturity and adult relationships, and Mallrats is the raunchy child inside Smith speaking out.  Smith made this movie to be a hilariously raunchy teen comedy with not much plot, and this is accomplished brilliantly.  Every generation has it's representative films, and I think that in future years, we will be happy to look back on films such as Mallrats and reminisce about the good ol' days. "},{"Title":"A Small Gem . . . Now","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw Clerks in 1994, I realized that acting in movies just wasn't enough. I started writing a script that very same day, and have since become a large Kevin Smith fan. When Mallrats came out in theaters, I was curious to see if the critics were correct. To me, at least, this was not a bad movie at all. Jason Lee and Jay and Silent Bob stood out enough to make this film great entertainment. Smith's dialogue was also terrific, as usual. I really enjoy how he includes references to his other films. What can I say, I like in-jokes. However, I have good news for us all. In a few months, around April or May, a Mallrats Special Edition DVD will hit stores. I have had the good fortune of seeing an advanced screening of the un-cut film. I must say, at 2 hours and 40 minutes, it is a far better, and much funnier, film than the original 1 hour and 30 minute version. Anyone who has seen this film and enjoyed it, get a copy of it un-cut. As for both versions, both are excellent, in my mind.  "},{"Title":"A study in contrasts...","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith is one of the most gifted writers in the business, and I am continually impressed with his gift for natural dialogue, his knack for the outrageous, and his entertaining, interlinking world filled with interesting, complex characters (in their own ways, at least).  Mallrats possesses all of these traits, it is at times hilarious and often entertaining, and yet, seemingly through force of sheer will, it has been transformed into a fairly bad movie.On his website, Smith states that his goal was to attempt to breathe life back into the raunchy, R-rated teen comedy, and among other influences, he cites Porky's.  I state this as a warning.  And it shows what results is a movie where a third of the time you're rolling in laughter, and two-thirds of the time you're staring at the screen in a stupified trance as the central characters attempt to deal with their relationship difficulties in increasingly moronic, unfunny fashions.  Smith has shown, in both Clerks and Chasing Amy, that he's capable of better.No movie with Jay and Silent Bob can be entirely bad, but I hope that this is the low point in what should be a long and prosperous career for Kevin Smith.  "},{"Title":"A GREAT sequel to Smith's neo-classic Clerks!","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some say that Mallrats is nothing more than Hollywood trite, or a Hughes-ish teen angst ridden comedy. On the contrary, I find Mallrats to be a great modern film. In comparison to Smith's other works, I would have to say that it ranks second, only below Clerks, being that it wasn't as good as Clerks, but far more superior to Chasing Amy. I particularly liked how every sub-story interlocked, and how it ended up in a nice, neat, little package. I consider Mallrats to be Smith's homage to another master of the craft, John Hughes. All in all, Mallrats was A GREAT FILM, a must see for anybody with a sense of humor!  "}{"Title":"Well Posh!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent film and should be seen by all fans of John Hughes films (meaning his films from the 80's). I laughed 'til I cried. A lovely departure from Clerks. Although some Clerks fans may not like this film, it must be seen for what it is, an entertaining comedy that doesn't require thought. It certainly doesn't attempt to recapture Clerks. Mallrats is the perfect film to complement your 16 Candles video night.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious and disgusting!","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Well, shoot me if you want, but I thought this was funnier than Clerks, and much better than Chasing Amy (and this from a Ben Affleck fan!) It's juvenile, immature, disgusting, revolting and wonderfully funny.  Even Shannen Doherty is good!  A must-see if only for the hilarious dating game. Oh, and of course Jay and Silent Bob's antics! "},{"Title":"Not quite as good as Clerks and Chasing Amy, but still very funny.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A movie that takes place in the same universe as Clerks and Chasing Amy, but it's not really a sequel.  Out of all of Kevin Smith's movies, Mallrats seemed to have the most criticism.  Kevin was attempting to revive the 80's teen-comedy genre which was not received well.  Despite the poor reviews, a lot of people still love this film, including me.  It has a lot of great actors like Jason Lee and Ethan Suplee.  It also shows pre-famous Ben Affleck and Clair Forlani.  The only draw-back Shannon Doherty.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I deeply recommend that you see it and soon if you haven't already","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film was absolutely hysterical, and it's clever how it mixes in with Clerks. Kevin Smith is a blinding writer and director that makes his creations a laugh a minute and totally memorable. I loved every moment of it. I deeply recommend that you see it and soon if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"Clerks is better","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you wanted to see another Clerks, this is NOT the movie for you.Clerks was more rugged and raw, while Mallrats seems to have that Hollywood sheen to it. I think it tries to be Clerks, but it really can't with the restrictions (how a bigger budget can be a restriction, I don't know) placed upon it.The restriction is definitely the softer tone to this film, obviously the bigger budget allows for the rough edges of the film to be shaved off.The thing is, the rough edges were what made Clerks special. It was charming for its flaws. You can't represent an imperfect world with perfect eyes.I'm not bagging this film, it is funny and one of those ones you can watch many times over, it's just not another Clerks.  "},{"Title":"This is a really great movie. one of my favorites.","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the best movie ever made!  It it funny and compassionate. Comedy and in its own way a true love story.  Sequel to Clerks and Chasing Amy. A must see movie  ) "},{"Title":"strictly for laughs","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats is my favorite movie but that's because I'm a teenager.  Anyone over 18 would hate this movie unless you are extraordinarily immature.  This movie is not meant for the mature mind, it's strictly to make you laugh.  If you wanna laugh, watch the movie.  And forget about it not making sense. "},{"Title":"I felt this was a great portrayal of Kevin Smith's work.","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen everything Kevin Smith has worked on or has been in, at least 4 times each. I think Kevin Smith's work on this movie was excellently put together. After the 2nd time of seeing Clerks and this movie I caught something that I think was intentional. In each movie they mention the girl who drowned in the swimming pool. It makes it seem that both the movies take place on the same day, even though the movies were relased 1 year apart. I think it was a cool thing to do. Anyways I think it was a great movie and I hope he can continue to bring everyone the gift of laughter with his movies.SNOOCHIE BOOCHIES "},{"Title":"Simply hilarious","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was hilarious.  It has so many funny lines.  I quote it every day.  I highly recommend it  "},{"Title":"Not as good as Clerks, Chasing Amy","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree that of the three Kevin Smith films, this one is probably the worst. Of course, any Kevin Smith movie is better than most mainstream films. However, I have heard that even Kevin didn't like this one very much. He wanted to make a coming-of-age movie, he said, and it ended up being a Fast Times at Ridgemont High knock-off.Still, it's a fun movie with some hilarious moments. Snoochie-noochie, bickety-bam!!It's too bad his Superman film got shelved. But, I, like the rest of you, am anxiously looking forward to Dogma!! "}{"Title":"Funny and original","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I was introduced to the gaudy video box by my friend I thought this was another cheesey teenage comedy.  How wrong can one man be?  I laughed all the way through. The plot was simple enough. Our two down on the luck male stars have been rejected by their girlfriends and attempt to get them back. It sounds so unoriginal yet this is one of the main reasons the film works.  The simple plot allows the wealth of colourful characters, wacky gags and off the wall dialect to adding to, instead of interfering with the story.  The plot for the most part of the film sits squarely in the background crossing the path of our hapless duo every so often.  It's only in the last twenty minutes that they take action in a brilliant climax. Kevin Smith is a genius in my limited opinion for creating such a original cast of characters. I love this film almost too much. Watch it, you'll either a) have to own a copy, or b) hate every second that goes by, it's one of those films.  A special mention to Jay and Silent Bob as they steal the show with their comic antics. I can't wait to see Dogma.  "},{"Title":"Forget what you've heard.","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite the criticism of many, this movie is well worth watching.  If not only to catch the Kevin's hidden connections between his movies then for the excellent script and downright wholesome humour.  Critics downed it because they need a movie to boo to make them appear sophisticated... They chose this one.  I don't know why. "},{"Title":"Funny flick","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I told myself when this movie came out that I would never watch it because it looked pretty dumb, but I rented it with a friend a couple weeks ago and couldn't stop laughing!  You gotta see this! "},{"Title":"Nope","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Gees everyone loves this movie. Well I think you should know that at least somebody out there doesn't...me. "},{"Title":"Hillarious","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I laughed hysterically. I think it is very funny and had a pretty good plot. "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is non-stop, relentlessly hilarious. The plot doesn't matter, you will totally forget about it in your avalanche of laughter. Jason Lee, Jay Mewes, and Kevin Smith are absolutely hilarious, Ben Affleck is a perfectly portrayed ass*ole, and Kevin Smith writes hilarious, smooth dialogue. Coupled with original physical comedy this just may be the funniest movie ever. "},{"Title":"Great Review","Date":"18 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies that I have ever seen.  I feel that actor Jason Lee steels the show in this movie.  He is one of my favorite young actors. "},{"Title":"The laughs continue","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although I feel Clerks is better, this is a very good continuation of the  style Kevin Smith has created. I loved this movie. It again tells the story  of some less than impressive individuals and the hilarious events that  transpire in their day. Just read the amount of quotes that the IMDb has  for these movies, and you get the idea. The dialogue in all of Kevin Smith's  movies is the focal point, the plots almost seem irrelevant to me.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith just keeps getting better.","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith keeps getting better as he gets more experience. Jay and Silent  Bob are hilarious. With better actors than Clerks and probably even a  better storyline this movie is a must see. I hadn't heard much of Kevin  Smith until I watched this movie but now I watch everything he puts out.  "},{"Title":"Mallrats directed by Kevin Smith","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After his assured debut, Kevin Smith followed Clerks. with Mallrats, his sophomore film, in 1995. Backed by a studio, Smith gathered his team together and made what can only be stated as a disappointing second feature. Sure it features the great writing that was present in Clerks. but at the same time the movie itself falls flat on many levels.With Clerks., Smith was unleashed on the world as a major new talent. The realistic dialogue and inventive banter between the characters made for a hilarious and engaging film, even though the production felt very much like a 'film school' project. The problems with Clerks. were all about production value which was seriously over shadowed by the wonderful writing and amusing situations that the main characters found themselves falling into. Backed by a studio, Mallrats should have felt a lot more professional, but sadly is plagued by many of the problems that plagued Clerks. and a few other problems too. Like Clerks., Mallrats is a simple film about regular characters and takes place in few locations. This time, a mall, rather than a convenience and video store. Jeremy London and Jason Lee take the leads, and again, like Clerks. Jay and Silent Bob, played by Jason Mewes and Smith, respectively, appear again in this film.There are some laugh out loud funny moments in this film. There is more of a story than Clerks., but not much and there is a bigger cast of characters that Smith introduces. Ben Affleck appears, in an early role, as does Michael Rooker, Shannon Doherty and Priscilla Barnes. But it is really Jason Lee who steals the movie. His performance is the saving grace to Mallrats. Take out Jason Lee and you are left with a rather childish, immature film that tries to mimic Clerks. but never really succeeds. Jason Lee is so good in this film you relish every time he is on screen. His delivery of the witty lines written by Smith is fantastic and when he's not on screen you just wish he would return. Jeremy London on the other hand, is rather weak. His performance is straight out of a television movie of the week and pales in comparison to everyone else in the film.Jay and Silent Bob are pretty good too, although overshadowed by Lee's performance, but are put in ridiculous situations that sometimes just feel stupid. Which is where the main problem with Mallrats lies. The plot points are rather immature. Smith tries to repeat the magic of Clerks., but unlike that film, which was confined to small locations, Mallrats moves throughout the mall, and not very well I might add. Ridiculous plot points, like a TV game show, feel forced and cheesy. And Smith's direction of the action that takes place within the film is too minimalistic and comes off as weak.Clerks. felt static in its direction, no movement just plain still shots that were rather bland. Mallrats adds very little to this aesthetic. While in color, and looking a hell of a lot glossier than Clerks., the camera doesn't do much to capture what is happening on the screen. One scene in particular, involving Silent Bob and a toy truck, is so poorly done it feels almost embarrassing to watch. There is no cohesion to the scene, it just feels tacky and uninvolving. Smith's direction of this and many other scenes just feels boring. So boring! Smith seems to favour a point and shoot style of filmmaking which worked fairly well with Clerks. but fails miserably in Mallrats.But that's not to say this film is boring, for it surely isn't. Smith's direction is weak, and his writing, although delivering goldmine after goldmine of hilarity,is somewhat poor when it doesn't involve a joke. The soundtrack is pretty decent, in a mid-nineties kind of way and it's fun to hear these songs, some which I haven't heard in years.What really makes this movie is Jason Lee. He stands out and feels better than the movie he is in. He is a joy to watch and whenever he is missing from the screen the movie starts to lag. He alone makes Mallrats worth watching and raises this movie to heights it otherwise doesn't deserve. Smith is great at writing dialogue, and is pretty funny as Silent Bob, but in regards to writing plot and directing action, he comes off pretty weak here.Mallrats is a somewhat disappointing follow up to Clerks., but is worth watching for Jason Lee's breakthrough performance and some truly funny dialogue.Film Rating 63%Breakdown (How Mallrats scored 63%)Production Design 7 out of 10 Cinematography 6 out of 10 Re-playability 7 out of 10 Originality 5 out of 10 Directing 5 out of 10 Editing 7 out of 10 Script 5 out of 10 Acting 7 out of 10 Sound 6 out of 10 Music 8 out of 10Read more of my reviews at www.fullmetalreviews.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"Can it actually get worse ?","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Why does this movie have 7.1 ? It barely deserves a 3. The plot is a joke... even a 5 year old could come up with something better and more complex than this. But anyway I think this kind of movie isn't supposed to have that much of a plot. It would be fine I guess if the humor (which is what this movie relies on) was good. But it failed completely. There are like 2 or 3 funny lines throughout the movie but that's it. The acting is OK, the dialogue is realistic but that doesn't help this film so much. This bored me to death, it was almost as bad as Bubba Ho-Tep, another terrible movie if it can be called that. Avoid seeing this unless you want some brainless not funny at all comedy. "},{"Title":"Not as sharp as Clerks, but worth watching for Jason Lee's foolproof performance","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After the unexpected huge success of his debut feature Clerks, Kevin Smith was allowed to do whatever he wanted. This whatever became Mallrats, which is basically a more expensive version of Clerks, with an added plot.From the beginning, it is clear the bigger budget hasn't tamed Smith's crude humor the movie opens with Brodie Bruce (Jason Lee) talking about a sexually deranged cousin of his named Walt (who could be the same cousin Walt Randal kept mentioning in Clerks). Following this filthy introduction, we meet the main characters two slackers who are in trouble with their girlfriends. One is T.S. Quint (Jeremy London), who involuntarily caused the death of Julie Dwyer (another Clerks reference). Because of this, someone has to take Julie's place on the game show Truth or Date, and that someone happens to be his sweetheart, Brandi Svenning (Claire Forlani), whose father (Michael Rooker) created the show and also really hates T.S. Then we have the aforementioned Brodie, who gets dumped by Rene (Shannen Doherty) because he's too obsessed with comic-books and video games. In order to get over the situation, the two pals decide to hang out at the mall, only to find out that the new episode of Truth or Date is being taped there. In addition, an arrogant salesman (Ben Affleck) is desperately trying to end up in bed with Rene. Heck, if it weren't for Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith), it would be a pretty lousy day.The main charm of Clerks was that its lack of plot was compensated by charismatic characters and wisecracking dialogue. This time around, there is a plot, but it's incredibly boring, mainly because most of the characters aren't that interesting. While Rooker's pantomime villain is quite enjoyable in the few scenes where he appears, the female leads are completely lifeless and devoid of anything meaningful to say, and so is London's Dante Hicks clone (not to mention Affleck, who doesn't do much else than shout and look like he's asking to be punched). Luckily, Jay and Silent Bob are as outrageously fun as ever (the latter's attempts to use the Force are exhilarating), and Lee's Randal variation is foul-mouthed and likable enough to carry the picture. Whether he's discussing Superman's reproductive habits, describing how to stinkpalm someone (arguably the film's best use of Smith's trademark un-PC writing) or chatting with idol Stan Lee (a really smart cameo, I must say), the My Name is Earl star is what moves Mallrats from dire rehash of Clerks to flawed but watchable rehash of Clerks.Overall, worth a look if you're a fan of Kevin Smith. It may be the lesser of his works, but still funnier than most other comedies out there.6,5/10 "},{"Title":"More Garbage From Smith","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How anyone finds this tripe entertaining is beyond me. Kevin Smith remains one of those successful people in the movie industry that eludes me as to how they even have a career. I'm so sick of the usual unlikely-dialog in these pathetic attempts to carve a specific niche in cinema. This movie is the same formula as all of his more popular movies... Two losers, waxing philosophic with witty and ponderous segues into comedic hi-jinx. Makes me want to vomit. I've often wondered why his movies are so popular. I think I have it. There must be millions of people like this in the U.S. Lazy good for nothings with the feeling that they are misunderstood geniuses. This has to be the reason why the economy is so poor.Stay away from this one. "},{"Title":"It's not as good as Clerks,but it's a great comedy","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats is a movie very underrated because critics hated it.Behind the vulgarity and funny dialogs,there are messages about the human nature,but the critics only stay with what they see,they cannot see beyond.Kevin Smith made a very entertaining comedy,that without being as good as Clerks,it is pretty fun and funny.The best parts of this movie are those which make a tribute to comicsthey're very short and they appear very little,but they are great.The script is solidt and some dialogs are great.The frailty the movie has is that,sometimes,Smith loses the control of his actors.But,that frailty is excused.Mallrats is a great comedy. "},{"Title":"Mallrats is cool!","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, so I was going to the mall the other day and I saw two guys just hanging out at the mall walking around, not buying anything, and I thought of this movie. Jason Lee (star of My Name is Earl) plays Brody and Jeremy London plays T.S. Quint, two guys who just hang out at the mall all day, because well...they have nothing better to do. This movie is definitely one of the better movies in the Kevin Smith series. I loved it because they took 2 guys, who are just like pretty much everybody else, yes, they have relationship issues, and they still live at home with their parents, and enjoy comic books and video games, but they made them 2 of the main characters. Kevin Smith stars again as Silent Bob, and of course we have Silent Bob's side-kick Jay (Jason Mewes).This movie is really funny, and it made me a huge fan of Jay and Silent Bob, oh and of course Jason Lee. I didn't really knew who Jason Lee was when I first watched this movie like over 10 years ago, but now I am definitely a HUGE fan of his. My school guidance councellor asked me what I wanted to be in the future, I didn't see geeks who hang out at the mall all day on there. Oh, by the way watch for Ethan Suplee who also stars in Earl as the magic eye guy. It's funny because like Ethan Suplee I can't seem to find the darn picture no matter what I do.So to sum it all up, it's pretty funny, it's got a great cast, there's a couple of other names in the cast, Shannon Dogherty and Joey Lauren Adams to name a few of them, oh did I mention comic book genius Stan Lee is in it as well. Yes, it's a good movie, very funny, great cast and there's a lot of laughs to be had. I don't want to spoil anything....but you got to hear Jason Lee's cat story at the beginning of the movie, and that is why I gave this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Clerks set in a Mall","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith's second feature is actually very similar to his first. Both are set over one day and feature the exploits of two friends who have little hope for the future. However whilst 'Clerks' was a fairly realistic film, 'Mallrats' has much in common with 1980's teen films and sometimes comes across as a teen romantic/comedy. One scene even contains a bit of gross out humour which called to mind 'American Pie'.Despite this, 'Mallrats' is a great film that is really, really funny. Kevin Smith's flair for dialogue and characters shine here. Brodie has to be one of his greatest creations and keeps the film entertaining throughout. Even the typical cheesy romance parts keep the viewer engaged because of the humour used throughout. Ben Affleck also makes a great villain - partly because I hate his other movies so much. I still think that this is a film for people who know films by Kevin Smith. So 'Clerks' would be a good film to see before 'Mallrats'. But if your a fan there is very little that can go wrong in seeing this film. It always raises a smile whenever I think about it. "},{"Title":"Great humour!","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Before you watch this you can't hope for this to be a life moving film or hope for the characters to be built up to absolute perfection but what you can hope for is a good laugh and Mallrats does deliver. there is a very original plot in mallrats and it's basically an adventure in a mall but it's the hilarious characters that make this film what it is. When it comes to hilarious characters there is no better man then Kevin Smith, Brodie was a lazy yet hilarious and likable character and Jay and Silent Bob certainly make the film what it is. If you haven't seen mallrats and your looking for a good laugh I strongly suggest that you go down to the video store and hire it, your bound a few laughs. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is an AMAZING show of Kevin Smiths talent and writing creativity in the spirit of Clerks this movie once again punches you in the funny bone with two friends that land themselves into all kinds of shenanigans from discussing a kid on an escalator to trying to have a mall security guard takin care of this movie will keep you laughing for hours on end and you will be repeating lines from in for years if you are a fan of movies like Dogma, Clerks, Jay and Silent Bob strike back, and Chasing Amy then you will absolutely LOVE this movie i wish that there were more movies like this out there this is one of my favorite types of movies one of the great things about this movie is its ability to be watched over and over again and it NEVER gets old "},{"Title":"Something everybody can relate to, in one way or another. Giving you a lesson in relationships","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith is a genius, I say it again and again. He just never goes wrong every single piece of his film making proves so much skill, talent and dedication it's unbelievable. I love the way everything ties in together with such ease and precision. There are not many films that manage have such amazing entertainment value. When I watch a Kevin Smith film I just sit their in hysterics. You see this is Clever comedy, it has class, style, edge, wit and sting. That's what I love about it, the fact it's Comedy with a bite. I never get tired of the crazy antics of intelligent slackers. Everything so real, but yet so off the wall. You get the hilarious music playing in certain moments of the film which adds a cool goofy feel to the movie. The film sticks to same cheap feel that the masterpiece Clerks. has. This gives the true Indie spirit to the film I can watch Kevin Smith films again and again, they never lose their touch. The characters are always so cool and are exactly like people I hang around with in my day to day life. The timing as usual is something I love, they way everybody seems to know their lines but have developed them to suit their preferences.Behind all the laughs there is a very serious message and that's to make the best out of the girl your dating. You see it shows that you need to put more thought in to things and understand certain aspects of relationships. Because there will always be The girl that got away. I love the respect that Kevin Smith shows to the comic book tradition and the geek factor around his films. Getting Stan Lee to have a brief stint in the movie proves this dedication and respect to the people Kevin Smith looks up to. Another obvious one is the Silent Bob Batman Sequence. As usual the scripting is the best bit about the film, it truly shines with real wit and grace. Nothing gets better than consistent quotable dialogue and the dirty speeches. That's another thing the fact the Kevin Smith is never afraid to make crude jokes and manages to make movies that have a beautiful touch of realism to them. Everything around you is exaggerated in Mallrats, the set pieces, the music, the direction and sometimes the acting. You see it's all done purposely because this is Kevin Smith's world. At first glance you might think Mallrats (and other Kevin Smith films for that matter) are dumb teen comedies. They are far from it and I always find myself stressing that point. Every character times their lines perfectly and everybody has a relaxed aura about themselves. I think a lot of people only know Smith's newer films like Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back and think that's what every Kevin Smith film is like. I personally feel that Clerks., Mallrats, Chasing Amy and Dogma are masterpieces and are some of the best films ever made. One of the most underrated and ignored films of the 90s, that luckily has had a great cult status. Jason Lee acts with great talent and proves himself to be an excellent comedian. I have managed to get many friends of mine into Kevin Smith's films and they have all been impressed with his work. One of the funniest satires ever made, no doubt about it. And don't you get so annoyed when you can't see the sail boat in the 3D image! "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" See I loved this movie from beginning to end, BUT after saying that I must also note that this was the very first Kevin Smith movie I saw and is my favorite. Too start things off I'd like to say this movie's plot well isn't that original it focus's on these dudes have girl friend,and dudes lose girl friends, dudes try to get girls back. But for any one reading this that hasn't seen a Kevin Smith movie you, you don't really go to Kevin Smith movies for plot. You go because of characters and dialog. For example Jay and Silent Bob, two stoner's that aren't even major characters in the film but just from there parts in the movie you learn to love these characters. Brodie, one of the 2 main characters, just the way he's presented and the witty dialog. It's just you cant not like these characters and what the characters talk about or to each other.This was Kevin Smith's 2nd film (Clerks was his first). The sad thing about Mallrats was that it did not do good at box office and did not get the best reviews way back in '95, but now it is considered to be a movie before it's time. Because it has received such a cult following and got way more attention then it ever did when it hit VHS and DVD. So go see this movie. If you like it check out more Kevin Smith movies like Clerks, Dogma, Chasing Amy, and Jay and Silent Bob Strikes Back. These are all such great films........... oh I almost forgot about Jersey Girl........ well no ones perfect. SRS "}{"Title":"Freakin Hilarious!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie and comment is not recommended for peeps below 17.This was the most hilarious Kevin Smith movie! Though this movie barely had a plot, it was freaking awesome. There is no better director than Kevin Smith, he is the master of comedy.There is absolutely nothing bad about this film, it is freaking hilarious. All that hate this movie suck ass. No one is better than Jay and Silent Bob, the funniest duo to hit the box office. Two of Kevin Smith's movies, Mallrats and Clerks, had me crying in laughter with the sexual humor. I absolutely love everyone of his movies, even Chasing Amy was good. Hell, I'm evolutionist and i loved Dogma, how weird is that? I cant wait for the next one of his movies to come out, Clerks 2, yeah bitches. No comedy director can match the power of Kevin Smith and Jay and Silent Bob! "},{"Title":"Funny as hell, but not Kevin's best.","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie, while being one of Kevin Smith's weaker films, is by no means a bad film. In fact, it's a great film. It's one of the funniest, and most entertaining pieces of cinema to come out in the 90's. So saying that it's a weak Kevin Smith movie, is basically saying that it's a hilarious movie. It follows the misadventures of two best friends, comic book addict Brodie (Jason Lee), and devoted boyfriend T.S. (Jeremy London). They are both dumped by their girlfriends on the same morning. Brodie's girlfriend, Renee (Shannon Doherty), dumps him because of his addiction to video games, comic books, and neglecting her. T.S.'s girlfriend, Brandi (Claire Forlani) dumps him because of an act of insensitivity that made her have to participate on a dating game show, hosted by her uptight dad (Michael Rooker). They end up spending a day at the mall, which is full of quirky characters, such as a 15-year-old girl who is doing research for a sex book, a topless fortune teller with three nipples, Jay (Jason Mewes), and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith).That's basically the whole plot. Most of it works very well. Jay and Silent Bob are hilarious as always, and the topless psychic is one of the most hysterical scenes ever. Brodie's reaction is hilarious. Jason Lee gives a flawless comedic performance. He knows really well how to deliver his lines. Everything that comes out of his mouth is priceless humor. I don't think I've ever seen a greater comedic role from anyone. This movie may be weak for a Kevin Smith movie, but it's comedy is so funny, I dare you not to laugh.It is rated R for Strong Language Including Sexual Dialogue, and for Some Scenes of Sexuality and Drug Use. Sex 8/10 Violence 3/10 Swearing 9/10 Drugs 6/10 "},{"Title":"Forget the critics","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a movie that is considered Smiths worst, it is even a movie that Kevin himself had apologized for making. Critics bash it but you know what i say to them.... f**k them.... who cares what they say, for they are completely wrong. This movie is genius. Yes this movie was not as good a 'Clerks.'. But it is still a great movie. It is a very funny movie and you still get the same genius dialogue that you get in 'Clerks.'. Plus this movie introduced the world to a great actor Jason Lee who is one of my favorite actors. I think it was better than 'Chasing Amy' and i am in no way saying that 'Chasing Amy' was a bad movie but i enjoyed mallrats more. Anyway great movie 8/10. "},{"Title":"Jason Lee is King","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats was a great movie.  It was very funny.  A Movie Classic.  Jason Lee is just superb in this movie as Broadie.  He is such a talented and funny Actor.  He should do more movies.  Who could forget Jay and Silent Bob, One of the best comedic duos ever put in film. Snoochie Boochies.  I was glad after clerks to see these two more in a movie.  They were just pure genius. Coming from one who likes the mall and loves comic books this movie was just perfect.  Ethan Suplee just chillin at the mall all day trying to see the sailboat is just classic.  Its loaded with one liners and plenty of quotes that are just hilarious.  I've seen this movie at least a couple dozen times already. "},{"Title":"Snootchie Bootchies!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats was an excellent film. Kevin Smith put together a great film. Only Kevin can go from dick and fart jokes to a enlightening line like Hell hath no fury like a woman's scorn for Sega and make it work. Jason Lee's portrayal of Brodie and the great one-liners from Jason Mewes (Jay) and the antics of his trusty sidekick Silent Bob (Smith) make this movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"thank god for dvd","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being Kevin Smith's first big budget flick after the indie hit Clerks, people were expecting a lot, perhaps too much, and the film really ended up floundering.  The movie itself isn't bad, in fact , its pretty damn funny, and better than most stuff that hollywood puts out..but the best part of teh film couldn't have been seen in theaters. The commentary track on the the laserdisc and dvd has to be funnier than 99% of actual movies, it alone is worth the price of the disc. Also, the deleted scenes really add the story have things kinda make more sense. For instance, there is 45 minutes cut oout of the beginning of the movie. Removing this kinda changed the whole meaning of the movie as well as some jokes in the flick. "},{"Title":"A great sequel toClerks","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know why this movie bombed upon its release,mostly because so much editing had to be done,Miramax should of released this instead of Universal,but its a great follow up.T.S.(Jeremy London)is a shy,mild guy who wants to propose marriage to his girlfriend when Jaws comes out of the water.Brodie(Played excellently by Jason Lee)is his wisecracking side kick who broke up with his girl just because he plays saga hockey,he's great but he's no Jeff Anderson in Clerks.The movie is hilarious.Full of the same raunchy,crude and original comedy that Kevin Smith's known for.Jay and Silent Bob(Jason Mewes and Smith)are funny as usual,this time coming to the rescue everytime T.S.and Brodie need help like a stoner Batman and Robin.The supporting cast includes Shannon Doherty,Ben Affleck and Michael Rooker(whose very funny).Though the movie would be better with all the stuff Kevin Smith said was cut on the DVD,it's a cult classic and very very funny.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"mallrats rocks","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i don't care if it sucked at the boxoffice, if it came out now, it would sell like mad.  it is the best movie of all time.  it's so hilarious.  i have watched this movie so many times and it just never gets old.  its so funny and puts you in a good mood.  screw the critics.  they always hate the good stuff ne way. "},{"Title":"unfortunately Kevin's best work yet","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love anything kevin smith has touched, it might not turn to gold but it has its own personal worth, this was the first Kevin Smith film that i ever saw and enjoy watching it still, even though i can quote the movie when i'm not in the room. But unfortunately its his best work so far, i want to see something out due Mallrats, if its possible, if its not i will settle and let Mallrats be the greatest movie ever, but now Kevin has experience under his belt and hopefully there won't be anymore movies with just Jay and Bob, which i understand as being the greatest characters ever created, but how can you forget Brodie? Jason Lee is a great actor, Mallrats may not prove it but he is truly up there when it comes to comedy. Its a true shame we won't see anymore come out of the View Askew universe, but like Kevin saidit was nice while it lasted I just hope it never ends, this movie has characters you just fall in love with, even if all they do is just hang out at the mall. "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith may be a 'genius', but Mallrats isn't really that good.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm a fan of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, as well as Dogma and the other Smith flicks. Smith, even when he's being corny or sophomoric or otherwise not real wise, exudes a living truth, a sense of art that provides a nice core to his movies. Who's to say exactly what 'art' is (and Lord help us when anyone tries), but for me, movies take on an importance and watchability when my experience extends beyond the mere plot. That is, when the movie somehow, and on some level, wakes me up at least a little bit, and gets me to reflect upon more than the characters on the screen.In real life, kevin Smith appears to be opinionated, arrogant, and at times a bit rude or even cruel--- but he also seems to mean well. And overall, his stuff has a wholesome and creative vibe. Having said that--- Mallrats simply isn't very good. It's OK--- but it's definitely the bottom of Kevin Smith's artsy pile. "}{"Title":"The critics can shove-it!","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   I don't care what Ebert or Maltin or any other critic says, this was incredibly funny! Sure it was shallow, but who cares, we can't have a cool sophistication attitude all the time! The dialogue is just hysterical, as well as the slapstick. This isn't the best of Kevin Smith's movies, cause Clerks was better, but not much. I like all of the Jersey Trilogy movies about the same, and they are all some of my favorites. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Come on, Kevin. It's not that bad","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Even though Kevin Smith hated it and labelled it a disaster (rather unfairly), that doesn't prevent it from being extremely funny. Maybe it's because Smith wanted it to be an honest movie, like Chasing Amy or Clerks. It's more for teenagers, with its numerous sight gags and anal jokes. It starts off slow, but rapidly gains laughs, right up to it's hilarious climax. However, it has no plot whatsoever.PLOT 2 DIRECTION 5 ACTING 7 SCRIPT 7 JOKES 8OVERALL 7 "},{"Title":"cheesy to say the least","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  mallrats is almost never funny. instead of real laughs you get cheesy,and unfunny jokes. this movie is also marred by some long conversations. like all kevin smith movies. but the long conversations in mallrats is not nearly as interesting as the ones in clerks and chasing amy. but this movie is semi-ok. i give this movie ** out of **** "},{"Title":"The best movie ever made! spoilers","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Out of all the movies ever made, I have to say that Kevin Smith's MALLRATS is the best and funniest one. You have to admire the guy for writing dialogue so well. Kevin Smith's first movie, CLERKS was really low-budget, though MALLRATS isn't low-budget, it's not big-budget either, but either way it looks a lot better than CLERKS did. MALLRATS also has a little more plot than CLERKS did too. It starts off with T.S. Quint Jeremy London picking up his girlfriend Brandi Svenning so they can go on a trip to Florida. Unfortunately, Brandi can't go because she promised her father Michael Rooker in his best performance to date that she would be on his game show that takes place at the local mall. T.S. gets upset and she dumps him. He isn't the only one who got dumped. His best friend Brodie Bruce the great Jason Lee has also been dumped by his girlfriend Rene Mosier the beautiful Shannen Doherty. T.S. and Brodie head to the mall where Brandi's father's game show is taking place. While the stage for it is being built, T.S. and Brodie approach Jay Jason Mewes and Silent Bob Kevin Smith to see if they will destroy the stage for them. This leads Jay and Silent Bob into some hilarious attempts to destroy the stage, but sadly, they all fail. After many misadventures including a visit to a fortuane teller with three nipples, T.S. and Brodie finally get their girlfriends back and everyone is happy especially the audience. This is one of those movies that failed at the box office, but found success on video. I didn't see it on video, I saw it on television where it was horribly edited and chopped up. A few weeks later, I rented it on DVD. Since then I have rented it several more times and it continues to be my favorite flick. Teenagers are likely to enjoy it more than adults, but I guess that teenagers are the target audience for this film. "},{"Title":"Jay is killer","Date":"31 July 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Jay is hysterical in this one - I was never that wild about Clerks but this was surprisingly good - the whole cast did a very decent job with their characterizations, even Affleck, one of the most smug actors I've ever seen.   "},{"Title":"Smith is the man","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats in fact was a studio film but it's still funny as hell. Kevin Smith has always been a genius and in this movie he contiues his genius in this very funny film. Look for the first movie with the hialrous Jason Lee as scene stealer Brodie Bruce. "},{"Title":"A smart Porky's?","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That's what Kevin Smith said the studio wanted from him when they gave him the green light on the DVD They wanted us to make a smart 'Porky's'. In fact, there was so much riding on this follow up to Clerks that there was talk of a sequel, Mallrats 2 Die Hard In A Mall. Alas, the film didn't do well in theaters and a Mallrats 2 never materialized (then again, the sequel to Clerks hasn't come about yet either). Film eventually found its audience on video, and provided Ben Affleck with an early film credit before he hit it big and started a good working relationship with Kevin Smith that has lasted to this day.Jason Lee also became a Smith regular after this film and made appearances in Chasing Amy, Dogma and Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back.Jason plays Brodie, a fan boy of grandiose proportions and buddy of Jeremy London's TS. TS is dumped by his girlfriend Brandi (Claire Forlani) for being obsessive and unreasonable in light of her doing her father's 70s throw back love show pilot to get him out of trouble for accidentally sending the original girl to her death via drowning. Brodie is dumped by his girlfriend Rene (Shannen Doherty) for being a loser who only plays video games, reads comic books, never takes her shopping where she wants to go and refuses to introduce her to his mother. Brodie deals with this the only way he knows how - going to the mall, which is where he spends most of his time anyway and he drags TS along with him to share in their mutual misery. There they hatch up a plan to wreck the love show so that TS can reconcile with Brandi, whom he truly loves and in fact wanted to ask her to marry him on a trip to Universal Florida that they had planned but was dashed because of the show (Brandi's dad does not like TS). Brodie also succumbs to the temptation of winning back his true love Rene, especially when he finds out that she's seeing local mall worker Ben Affleck, who has a knack for picking up women who are on the rebound from bad relationships and subjects them to his bizarre sexual fetishes (screw them in an uncomfortable place). Did I mention that Ben hates Brodie for having no shopping agenda every weekend that he comes to the mall? And to think he later played the comic book super hero Daredevil... Also along for the ride is Jay & Silent Bob in this wild and raucous romp of teen madness, so vastly superior to Clerks it should be a crime.Joey Lauren Adams, who plays one of TS's ex-girlfriends here, later had the title role in Chasing Amy. Comics legend Stan Lee plays himself. "},{"Title":"TS is TS because TS does what TS TS.","Date":"21 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If the writing was a little better at the start, I would like this movie even more. I don't know if the drive was to make people hate Claire Forlani's character (Brandi), but every time she says TS it makes me want to punch myself in the face, it's a weird emotion, but it's like a guilty pleasure, with no pleasure what so ever. TS is TS with Brandi, because TS is TS, like Brandi says, TS.Sorry, I really had to let that out. TS!No Mallrats if TS is said more than 2 times by a voice with a wine and bitch in it for breakfast.There is not much more they can do, 40 year old humans with a job and depression is Mallrats 2. "},{"Title":"Guys at mall philosophize about their lifeless plight and how enjoyable it actually is","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movies pretty funny although I can't remember it that well but I'll tell you about it anyways just because I can. These two guys go to a mall and do basically nothing except walk around and comment on the stores, the people, and themselves in witty sarcastic ways inspired by their observations of the vulgar and the profane. One guy, played by the guy who plays Earl in the TV show My Name is Earl, doesn't give a s**t about anything, hates everything and finds joy in the existence of being miserable. He tries to convince the other guy that he is better off. But wait. Even though it's true there is a reason. That's because the other guy is just a whiny bitch who is there trying to figure out how to win his girlfriend back. The whiny bitch is somewhat necessary because he's like a lot of modern guys, trendy, useful and easy for most women (and employers) to put on a leash. He's probably considered handsome by most sluts (and fags (and employers)) and because of his girlfriend problem propels the plot or what little there is of it onward towards it's comically nihilistic though predictable ending. During the course of this affair all sorts of colorful, odd and even despicable characters cross their paths rendering entertaining doses of chaos and banality in equal measures. Tea anyone? "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool but more mainstream than Clerks","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After seeing this movie all I can really say is that Kevin Smith has a really weird sense of humour. The humour of Clerks is still here in Mallrats, but the language has been toned down a bit so that the movie receives only an MA rating instead of the R rating that Clerks received.Mallrats is similar to Clerks in that it deals with relationships. There are numerous similarities, namely that the good things are the ones that we tend to let go of. Jay and Silent Bob are here and play a much more active role, and the weird philosophical discussions, such as how Lois Lane cannot have Superman's babies because Kryptonite babies would probably kill her, are also here. One major difference though is that Mallrats is a much more expensive film and it shows. Mallrats is in colour, is set in a Mall, and has a lot of extras. Kevin Smith winds the entire movie up with a big dating game, and even has a comic book writer make a cameo appearance (which is not surprising considering this guy was probably Smith's hero).Mallrats seems to be like the Bill and Ted's movies in that way that it ends with a big extravaganza in front of a huge audience. There are antagonists in this movie as well. Le Four the security guard, and the father of an ex-girlfriend who is hosting a dating game in which he is giving away his daughter because the previous contestant died of an embolism while trying to loose weight for the show. It is also interesting that the characters are also similar. We have one loud mouthed guy who seems to have a response for everything, and a humbler guy who is more or less led around by the louder guy. This time though they are both trying to win back their girlfriends while trying to defeat the forces stopping them.Mallrats deals mainly with relationships and why they break up. It is also interesting how the comic book writer says that his worst mistake was giving up his girlfriend for the comic books. It makes us think what is important in our lives, our relationships or our material goods. This guy says that the worst mistake he made was to place material goods over relationships. Even though he had heaps of women in the future, it wasn't worth giving up a genuine relationship for. This is what makes me think because there is only one thing worth giving up a relationship for and that is God. Everybody says that women are not worth it but a true, loving relationship should be far more important than any job, or material goods. A relationship with God is worth more than anything because God wants one with us, and who is it to say no to the most powerful being in the universe. The more I think about material wealth, the more I come to see how pointless it all is.I still wonder if Kevin Smith is a Christian or not because even though he thanks God for making the movie possible, the stuff that we find in the movie is really something that would dishonour God immensely. Things like showing naked breasts and rampant sex in an elevator. Even sex with a fifteen year old girl, though that guy that does it is arrested for it. Personally I think Smith might be quite liberal in his faith, but when it comes down to it, only God knows where we are at. "}{"Title":"Often very funny.","Date":"15 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After a successful debut with Clerks, writer / director Kevin Smith made the leap to Hollywood with this amiable sophomore effort. It doesn't have a whole lot of plot, and is rather predictable in the end, but does deliver quite a bit of laughs. It wouldn't resonate as strongly for the viewer who isn't into the same sort of things as Smith, but in any event it works well enough, benefiting from some great lines and enthusiastic performances by all. Jeremy London and Jason Lee star as good friends T.S. and Brodie, dumped by their respective girlfriends Brandi (Claire Forlani) and Rene (Shannen Doherty) and who subsequently spend an eventful day at the mall. Brandi's father Mr. Svenning (Michael Rooker) shoots the matchmaking game show which he produces there, Willam (Ethan Suplee) tries to vain to spot the sailboat in a picture which everybody else can see but him, characters Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Smith himself) embark on a variety of schemes to sabotage the show and sneak past security guard LaFours (Sven-Ole Thorsen), Brodie mixes it up with smarmy cretin Shannon (Ben Affleck), who's now keeping company with Rene, and Brodie chances to meet comic book legend Stan Lee, who makes an ingratiating cameo. Granted, sometimes this gets pretty silly and infantile (the stink hand sequence comes to mind) and it's also undeniably crude, but Smith still creates some fun moments and keeps the action moving right along. The gals on hand (also including Joey Lauren Adams as Gwen and Renee Humphrey as Tricia) are particularly a joy to watch; Priscilla Barnes of 'Three's Company' fame has a priceless bit as a fortune teller who plies her trade while topless (and whose impressive bosom can boast an unusual characteristic). Lee has a field day playing the irrepressible Brodie, a man who's never at a loss for words. All set to a hip soundtrack, Mallrats is solidly entertaining stuff with a nice wrap-up updating us on the fates of the characters. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Classic Comedy!","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I was little, I really wanted to see this. The day I finally watched it, I didn't regret it for a second. The movie has lovable characters, a clever plot, silly jokes, a raunchy vibe, and directed by a legendary man named Kevin Smith! If you want to watch a great comedy, I recommend it.The dialog is fresh and almost every guy who has had his heartbroken can totally relate to the story, since the concept revolves around two guys who get dumped by their girlfriends. They decide to wander around the mall and join their friends in misadventures.Check it out and if you're a fan of Kevin Smith films, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Dug it. Reminds me ............","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Movie was great. Wished I could have seen it in a theater when it was out. I remember the 3D poster advertisements on the backs of my old comics. After listening to the commentary tracks I found out why the picture was M.I.A.(missing in action)when I had the cash to see the flick. Would have made a great date movie for my generation. Might still work today if people can fathom a world without cell phones. !!!Bonus!!! The story tackles the pains of maintaining a relationship. Plus the consequences of slacking in that department. Showing us relationships do take work. Brilliantly written.Thumbs up. Watch the flick.Cudos to View Askew movies. Watch and enjoy peoples. "},{"Title":"Say, would you like a chocolate covered pretzel?","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats has been and will always be my favorite Kevin Smith flick. Brilliant and witty writing which is Smith's fort-ay, make this film a gem. Jason Lee was the perfect choice for Brodie, his delivery is great. I don't really understand why people dog this movie, it's not for everybody, I agree. But,that's the beauty of choice, if you don't dig it, move on! Smith really seems to be writing for my generation and our whacked out sense of humor. He gets inside your head and you find yourself laughing thinking, Hey, I would do the same thing!. Not too many people take such big chances in the movie industry now a days. Same old boring crap. But I think that Mallrats captures what comic book nerds and love fiends on the east coast feel sometimes.I am very satisfied with the ending of the movie, glad there was a happy ending. I love this movie and think if more people gave it a chance,they too would fall in love. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever.","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith's second film has always gotten a bum rap for some reason. Obviously it was shot on a shoestring budget, but this gives it a certain charm. The script is brilliantly written and filled with some of Smith's funniest moments. One of the main characters is a comic book fanatic, video game playing, VHS-watching generation x-er played by Jason Lee, who absolutely owns this role. This was his first major acting role and his performance is just outstanding. The other is played by Jeremy London, as the straight man of the pair, kind of like Dante was to Randal. Both of the get dumped by their girlfriends and set out to the mall to forget their troubles. To me this movie is Kevin Smith's defining moment as a filmmaker. Without Mallrats, his whole canon seems a lot less funny. How can you not love a movie with Stan Lee, a topless psychic, chocolate covered pretzels, Jaws, and a random monkey in a diaper? "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Movies Out Of The Jay & Silent Bob Movies","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" MallratsStarring Jason Mewes, Kevin Smith, Jason Lee, Shannen Doherty, Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, Claire Forlani and a special appearance by Stan LeeGenre ComedyRated RMallrats is the first movie out of the Jay & Silent Bob/Clerks spin-off movies. The movie is about two suburban high school friends, TS Quint and Brodie Bruce (Jeremy London & Jason Lee) who both get dumped by their girlfriends, Rene and Brandi (Shannen Doherty & Claire Forlani), on the same day and so they both go to the mall to forget their loses. While at the mall, TS's ex-girlfriend is going on a dating game show that is being filmed at the mall on the same day while Brodie's girlfriend is going out with Brodie's arch nemesis, Shannon Hamilton (Ben Affleck), the clothing store manager. Brodie asks Jay & Silent Bob (Jason Mewes & Kevin Smith) to make sure that the show doesn't happen and all their attempts ended up failing. This one is probably my favorite out of the Jay & Silent Bob movies next to Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back. Hilarious overall, Jay & Silent Bob never fail to make me laugh! "},{"Title":"Mallrats is the best of Kevin Smith's movies","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Many people criticize Mallrats and call it the worst of the View Askew movies made by Kevin Smith, but to me this is the best one. That is my opinion and I stand behind it. Let's face it Jason Lee played a better leading man than Brian O'Halloran in the previous film Clerks. I think that this movie mostly is noted the best because it truly showcases the talent of Jason Lee and is his big break through starring role. I have to say that really this beat out Clerks in it's time. If anyone disagrees then let me just say that Mallrats entertains on very comedy like levels and has a romance edge to it that leaves you pulling for Jason Lee over the villain and rival, Ben Affleck.10/10 "},{"Title":"You should see yourself right now, a grown man with his hand down his pants.","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" As slacker movies go, this was disappointing. It just doesn't seem funny to me seeing losers like Jeremy London and Jason Lee whining because they lost their girlfriends. I just can't imagine Claire Forlani with either of these two slackers anyway.Living a life of video games and comic books does not prepare you to be a winner, and the formula that Kevin Smith (writer and director) has developed was cute in Clerks, but is old now. Throw in Jay and Silent Bob, the Force, potty humor, and vicious threats from Ben Affleck, and you reach a new low. Well, maybe Jersey Girl was lower.This one just doesn't do it. "},{"Title":"Best Movie I've ever Seen","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Best Movie I've ever Seen and I watch an ass-load of movies. Loved the comic and Star Wars tributes and who can't resist the chance to watch Stan Lee move as well as talk - the man truly is a legend. And I thought I was the only one who pondered superhero's sexual exploits? This was the first movie in the View-Askew line up I ever saw and I still consider it to be better than the rest by far (even Clerks I and II). It's also the first movie I've ever seen that read like a comic ad was so obviously influenced by comics and obviously written for comics lovers. I truly hope Kevin Smith makes more movies like this. Long live Jay and Silent Bob! Enough ass kissing from me. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"characters in a mall","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw the extended edition.Basically its set in a mall where they spend a lot of time. They cause trouble, get into fights and hang out.Its a good movie with not much of a storyline, its here on this site.Jason Lee is a laugh through most of the movie. TS is good as support.Jay and Silent Bob were one of my reasons to see this, having now seen them in a few movies they play the same exact characters. Also seen Jay and SB Strike Back a while ago. They're great.Going to see Clerks 2 soon, having seen the first Clerks.Kevin Smith has done well here. "}{"Title":"One of Smith's worst films but still underrated and good.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Rated R for strong language, including sexual dialogue, and for some scenes of sexuality and drug content. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating14AMallrats is the second Kevin Smith film.It is basically Clerks only with a bigger budget and taking place in a mall.This film received many bad reviews and bombed in theaters.But sold good on video.Mallrats is my least favorite film in the View Askew Kevin Smith series.However the film is still fairly funny and good.I would recommend a rental.This film is about two friends who'se girlfriends both dumped them.They decide to spend the day at the mall talking about various things and hanging out and also trying to win their girlfriends back.Mallrats is a fairly funny film and Jay and Silent Bob have a bigger role in this film than Clerks or Chasing Amy but its not as good as Smith's other films(except Jersey Girl).Runtime94min 8/10 "},{"Title":"Funnier than Clerks","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Okay, MALLRATS was dismissed as an inferior and unworthy successor to CLERKS, but I thought 'rats was a lot more fun and a lot more funny. Plus it was in living color, which is always a plus in my book.Jay and Silent Bob are in this, and have a lot more footage than they did in Clerks. It's more farcical and less subtle comedy than Clerks, but I think Kevin Smith does great with slapstick farce comedy. It may not have a lot to say, but at the same time, the pace moves faster. Clerks was kind of slow at times.Jason Lee and Jeremy London play slacker dudes whose pretty, more serious minded girlfriends dump them for various reasons including playing too much Sega and inadventently causing aneurysms to pop. The rest of the cast, Claire Forlani, Shannen Doherty, Ethan Suplee, Renee Humphrey, Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, and the rock-climbing guy from Cliffhanger who was mad at Stallone the whole movie...anyway, they all work great together, and the story is hilarious. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is great! Jason Lee and Jeremy London are great actors, especially to say this is Lee's first Feature Film. Kevin Smith is one of my alltime favourite directors/writers. But if your into massive budget films with a load of famous actors in this movie proberbly isn't for you. I can't help but mention Jay And Silent Bob, who play a rather great part in this film, Jason Mewes is a good actor who does, in my eyes, have good potential. So overall this movie is a good film that I could watch time and time again and for people who are interested in making their own movies this film can be a great inspiration. It's worth buying on DVD as the commentary is a great laugh and you get a good load of great info on the film. "},{"Title":"I keep coming back for more...","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For me a movie can't receive that perfect ten if I can't watch it over and over. This is one of those rare tens. Kevin Smith's second installment in his Jersey saga tells the tale of teenage angs and heartbreak with the perfect mix of cynical humor and slap stick. It ends somewhere between the cruder humor displayed in his later Jay and Silent Bob strikes back feature and the more dialogue based cynicism expressed within Clerks.It showcases Jason Lee as the slacking comic book fan Brodie Bruce. Jason does what he does best and here he is in his element with the witty remarks ever flowing. Other cast worth mentioning is Michael Rooker doing his on the edge shtick once more as the slightly mental nemesis. Clair Forlani plays the heartbroken girlfriend and a host of other Kevin Smith peeps shows up in various roles. Brian O'Halloran shows up in several roles including the unknown relative to his Clerks character Dante (this is a gimmick that shows up in all the Jersey saga movies). They even squeezed Ben Affleck in there for all you Phantoms peeps out thereAll in all this is a feel good movie that will keep you entertained as you watch it even for the fifth time. Good pacing keep you immersed and the balance between the different styles of humor helps it feeling fresh all though the movie. Loaded with pop-culture references it's all you ever wanted in a Kevin Smith movie. "},{"Title":"Mallrats 7/10","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have finally completed seeing the five movies in he Jay and Silent Bob series by Kevin Smith. Jersey Girl obviously doesn't count. And, much like Jackie Brown completed my Tarantino films and was about third in my list of favorites of his movie, Mallrats is the same. Clerks and Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back are much funnier than Mallrats, but it's better than Chasing Amy (a romantic comedy with no laughs?) and Dogma (unfunny and insulting-and I'm Jewish). So Mallrats falls right into the middle. It's not anything groundbreaking, but there's worse ways to spend 90 minutes.T.S. (Jeremy London) and Brodie (Jason Lee) have both just been dumped by their girlfriends on the same morning. They decide to take refuge in the local mall, where various wacky events occur.I've found that all Kevin Smith movies are hit or miss, and this one does both. Unlike the other four, Mallrats has some good, very funny moments, but for the most part, I wasn't laughing. I knew this wouldn't be as outrageous as his first and last films, but I was thinking some good solid laughs would come about throughout the movie. A couple chuckles here and there, but not much. On the contrary, the movie was constantly entertaining and fun to watch. I think that's what some comedy is about entertainment more than laughs. You can relate to all the characters in one way or another. They feel almost like they're your friends. So it's basically a movie where you can just sit back, relax, and enjoy it.There are some great scenes (as to be expected from all Smith movies) here, including Willam (Ethan Suplee) trying to see a magic picture, Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Smith in thankfully large roles) trying to destroy a stage in the mall, and a topless fortune teller (Priscilla Barnes). They're all funny. The acting in this film is surprisingly good, considering this is basically a stoner comedy. Jason Lee steals the show-again. He was basically the only good part of Dogma and saved Chasing Amy. And he's great here, too. Some of the other characters aren't really developed, but it doesn't really matter. It's just an entertaining movie overall, no more, no less.My rating 7/10Rated R for strong language, including sexual dialogue, and for some scenes of sexuality and drug content. "},{"Title":"It's Marvelous!","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An interesting movie that begins with a rather simple set-up, and then descends into silliness, absurdity, elevator sex, comments on escalator safety, and finally, sweetness.  It has an underlying romantic message that shows, once again, that comic-book nerds have at their core a heart as big and syrupy as a Sally Fields movie.Seriously, I heartily endorse this movie.  Fine family entertainment - two thumbs up!  It is not only a date movie-chick flick with action sequences, it's way fun to identify all the Kevin Smith movie characters and enjoy Ben Affleck as a sleazy clothing-store manager with an affinity for the chocolate highway.  (UGH! - now we know why Jennifer really broke up with him!) "},{"Title":"classic new jersey trilogy","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mallrats was always going to be critically judged after the greatness of smith's first film Clerks and its following success. However, despite this it proved that Kevin had more than one story to tell and this movie was responsible for continuing the growing cult movement surrounding the new jersey trilogy. The story did seen sort of rushed in contrast to Clerks and many characters seemed too obscure to be actually believable. Nevertheless, the introduction of Ben Affleck in his first movie role worked very well in providing a sub plot. The movie was non stop hilarity from the outset and many fans of Kevin's viewaskew will recognise several in-movie jokes surrounding the actors. In many ways this movie is actually superior to Clerks in its dialogue and the beautifully and skillfully decorated mall in which the film is set. Smith handles the scene shots much more professionally than in Clerks and is very reminiscent of his later film Chasing Amy. Amy is a far greater film than Mallrats but that should not stop you from buying this film either as it will still soon become a treasured possession of your film collection and you will be quoting the characters for months afterwards. Overall, a job well done by the great Kevin Smith. "},{"Title":"In my opinon, one of the best movies ever...","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie 6 years ago when it was played during CBC's Summer Movie slot and loved it instantly. Flash-forward to now and I am the proud owner of a Mallrats DVD. I can not get enough of this movie and the hilarious audio commentary by Kevin and crew. For those who have not listened to the commentary track, do so...it has some of the funniest comments I've heard in a long time. One line in particular by Affleck had me laughing for 5 minutes...funny stuff....Check it out folks...it is a classic "},{"Title":"All character.  Stupid plot.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Most of my criticism for Smith's previous film, Clerks still applies here. So if anyone cares for more detail feel free to check that out as well. Similar to Clerks, I liked Mallrats a little more. Like Clerks, this is a film about losers. Unlike Clerks, Mallrats has a plot but no point. Since Mallrat's characters are losers, we have a plot that deserve them . . . a really vague and stupid one. But that's good because do you really want a mall rat and his pal to save the world in a Tolkien setting? Though what puts this film over Clerks in my mind is Jay and Silent Bob's expanded role, and the expanded zanyness (even though I liked Jay better in Clerks and feel he's turned annoying since Mall rats). The Star Wars references, Loony Toons . . . good for a laugh, and Jay/S.Bob fill that role of comic relief. And of course, Kevin's Smiths talent for making his characters say what many of us dream about saying in given settings. In Clerks, Randal voiced the opinion of thousands of store personnel everywhere.In Mallrats, we finally get to see one of those Let's Make A Date shows with a real contestant.If nothing else bear with the film for its ending, and don't expect an epic climax of an 'Oscar-worthy' drama . . . Mallrats is above that and does things its own way, mocking the epics as it goes along. A fun ride, but far from mindless. Though the plot itself has no point, Mallrats wields a satirical edge in its design and craft. Fun if you're tired of typical formulas and want a film with a level of sophisticated humor on top of its otherwise pointless insanity. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As Everybody Says...","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm not a big comedy person but a lot of people have said that mallrats supposedly is a really funny movie. Anyways, it's about these two guys T.S.(Jeremy London) and Brodie(Jason Lee) that both get dumped by their girlfriends and forever what reason decide to go spent the day at the mall. Once they arrive there, they get into all this crap along with Jay and Silent Bob. Some of the stuff was funny but overall it was pretty stupid. Jay was the only one i thought was really funny. I would give Mallrats 5/10 "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  wonderful cult film, very funny","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I caught Mallrats on TV, so they'd edited out all the swearing. But I still enjoyed it very much. It's an independent film with a lot of cult appeal. Low budget but very cool. In most movies, the romantic tension is something subtly drawn out. You know, the main character goes to the window, sighs, puts one hand on the sill, and you know that there's grief and loss.Not in this film. Instead, a dating TV game show is used as a metaphor for dating and love, and the whole thing is made explicit. It's a hilarious turn-around and there's plenty of commentary on life (deep but mostly non-deep). The acting is good, the plot has plenty of clever twists, and unlike the awful Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, the movie fits together as a whole (not a bunch of stupid disconnected skits).Who should see this film-- comedy lovers who won't mind the swearing and want to check out what a cult film is like.-- cult film lovers, you know who you are, a must-see-- foul mouthed post-adolescents who can't get laidI'll give Mallrats a classic but not Star Wars kind of classic 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Noochie, coochie, smoochies man!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the 2nd film of this 5 part (the 5th is on it's way to the cinema) series in which Jay and Silent Bob are kickin' it off or better sc..win' around. I didn't see the first one (Clerks) but I bet ya I've seen the other two (Chasing Amy and Dogma). This is the best one in my opinion Followed by Dogma and then Chasing Amy. But back to this film man. This film kicks some fu..in' awesome a.. man. I mean s..t it is great. It has like no fu..in' story or s..t and a lot of fu..in' cursing in it but it is good. I mean it basically follows two guys around that just hang out and talk. These two guys are T.S. (Jeremy London) and Brody (Jason Lee). These two guys just have had one sh.tty morning and decide to go to the mall, where they see a chance of getting even with the guys that sc..wed up their life and take up where they left. Brody is really extremely an extremely cool / sick dude in this film about nothing. He is like so gross like forget American Pie. Just listen him explain to his friend why he thinks his girlfriend left him or see him do his &#145;Stinkpalm'. This is one seriously fu..ed up dude, dude. Also watch him on the show. BRODY FREAKING RULES!!! So do Silent Bob and Jay though. OK I admit they are basket cases but they are cool. Especially Silent Bob I think. OK he don't talk too much but he's so cool with mimics and s..t that it makes him better than Jay. Last but not least I must comment on the chicks in this film. None of which seems to be remotely Normal. I mean except probably Claire Forlani. But what I am really getting at is I mean everybody is so cool in this film (except the bad guys of course)  plus they were loads of fresh faces (for that time), except Shannen &#145;Brenda' Doherty's and maybe Joey Lauren &#145;I boned Bud Bundy' Adams. On this point I want to congratulate Mr. Smith on his fabulous choice of actresses (Claire Forlani, Joey Lauren Adams and Shannen Doherty). Not only are they all pretty and gifted, but they all suit their characters very well.Looking forward to Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, although I wonder why Smith picked that title, I mean if he was a Star Wars fan OK, but since he NEVER mentions Star Wars in his films&#133; I just can't figure it out. Plus I can't wait to see that film.P.S. Please re &#150; release all Smith films on DVD so that I can finally rent or buy Clerks somewhere. I would love to see that film. DESPERATELY!!!8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"THE BEST KEVIN SMITH FILM!!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a classic, its about 2 guys who get dumped by their girlfriends, so they decide to go to the mall, and of course thats when all the mayhem happens. Jason Lee was great as Brodie, you just couldn't shut him up, he had the most one-liners and his stories were funny as well- the plane, the cat..very funny, Jeremy London wasn't bad as TS, wasn't a bad character, he has his spots as well, Shannon Doherty was pretty good as Jason Lee's girlfriend- watch out for the elevator scene with Jason Lee, Jason Eewes and Kevin Smith (the writer and director) were great as Jay and Silent Bob, Jay had so many one liners I've lost count-look out when they try to trash the stage, Claire Forlani was good as Brandy, had some good spots especially on the game show. Stan Lee makes a guest appearance, after he is signing autographs at 'The Mall' as said by Brodie. I never liked Ben Affleck, the only good bit he was in, was well at the end, on the video screen, you have to see it, its real funny. There are so many characters, and they were heaps funny. Altogether a good film, with many great quotes, a must for any Kevin Smith fans. "},{"Title":"Like, wow!","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Moving chronologically backward through the library of Kevin Smith movies I willingly did not see in the theaters, I finally decided to give Mallrats a try.   In his second feature, Smith's uber-troupe begins to build.  Jason Lee, Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, and Jason Mewes start showing up in most of his films.  Like a modern grunge Woody Allen, Smith's words are delivered by actors with good timing (unlike Clerks) Smith leaves no stone unturned in his spoof of our weekly marketplace, the Mall.   Jeremy London and Jason Lee play two recently dumped pals that go to shop for girls at their local mall, but what they find is their old girlfriends (of course) and a heap of trouble. Where John Hughes dropped his torch, Kevin Smith has lit his cigarette from it.  Go Silent Bob go!      "},{"Title":"A good review for Mallrats (about time)","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Everyone says that Mallrats is'nt that good. What are they talking about? This is most fun you can have. As a huge Kevin Smith fan, it's hard to pick a favorite, but love this flick!Mallrats is about Brody, a slacker/ comic collector, and TS Brodie's better half. The two best friends have just been dumped by their girlfriends and seek solice in the mall. At the mall they try to win their girls back, buy comics, and reek havok.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Misunderstood Masterpiece","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It is a sin that this movie had to wait for VHS and now DVD to become a cult classic.  While Kevin Smith does a fair amount of apologizing for this movie, I fail to see why. Despite his fantasy of making the Animal House of the 90's, and his apparent disappointment when it didn't come to fruition, there is simply NOTHING to be ashamed of in this movie.As jaded as most movie buffs are, I challenge any of you to watch this movie and not laugh out-loud at the highly intelligent writing and brilliant comedy.Do yourself a favor and buy this movie now. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies of the nineties from the awesome Kevin Smith","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a totally hilarious film, Kevin Smith once again creates humor from both the brilliant dialogue, which as always is on a par with Tarantino for being that damn good, and some brilliant visual jokes, watch out for the first scene in the mall and the attempts to destroy the stage - funny. The film manages to attain this level of coolness and hilarity without using the violence of Tarantinos work. Despite being 'vulgar' as critics described it, it never seems to be all out offensive, instead just coming across as it should, just being there to make you laugh. The great atmosphere of the film is created through the feeling Smith puts into his movies. Each character is a part of the fun, especially Smith's alter ego and on screen persona 'Silent Bob' and his partner 'Jay', the two ever present heroes of every Smith film, whose supporting parts are just soooo funny. The cast is Smith's regular group of great actors, the stand outs being the champion skate boarder turned actor in his first film, Jason Lee, as Brodie, Jeremy London as T.S, Shannon Doherty, and great performances from Ben Affleck and STAN LEE, the legendary comic book creator. The bottom line is that you are gonna watch this over and over, quoting lines like 'snoochie boochies' and 'fly fat ass, fly!' for years. The film really is that damn good. "},{"Title":"Holden Caulfield, Ben Ain'T!!!!","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really love watching back to back movies by the same person; you should try it.  The sign of a good actor is that he can play heavy or hero, both equally well.  Ben Affleck does this beautifully, being in this one a completely rotten men's store manager who does 'painful things to vulnerable women', he brags.  Jumping directly to his painful lover Holden in 'Chasing Amy' makes you really appreciate his skill.  And of course, he's wonderful to gaze at, as is the more obvious Jason Lee.  I love how both Jasons dance around in all their movies.So what if this one has ups and downs!!  The little gems of dialogue plus the repetitions of 'girl drowns while having aneurysm' here and in 'Clerks' makes you think there must have actually been one in Kevin's life.  And what kid got caught on the moving stairway in his past....him?  The sum is greater than the parts, so check out all 3 from your video store.  The 'clerks' there will love you, as I am now Miss Canton Video Store' to the guys there. Why? Because I displayed my exquisite cinematic taste by asking for these 'masterpieces' of 90's expression......I am 61 1/2 years old.Now you English teachers out there.....how about requiring your students to write an essay on the similarities and differences among these 3 movies?  And to bring in comparisons with great romances of past time Romeo and juliet, Othello, relationship between Hamlet and his buddy, Romeo and his buddy, etc.? Make learning fun.  Did you notice there was absolutely zilch parental guidance of any positive kind in these movies?  Why are parents so completely null when our kids become adolescent?  Why are people whose parents DO dominate their lives so absolute zeros?  'Mallrats' was kind of about nothing, which beautifully illustrates what modern life for some teen-agers is all about 'nothing' but lust.  Makes corporate life look almost like a relief!!!See it for comparison with Chasing Amy' and Clerks' if for nothing else.  Not much to do with 'Dogma'. "},{"Title":"Very funny teen drama, with too much bad language","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While 'Mallrats' is entertaining, the characters are not explored enough and there are a few parts of the film which make you turn away from the screen. However, the script is very witty, with in jokes aplenty, especially referring to 'Star Wars', and a fresh faced cast, an especially good performance from Party of Fives' Jeremy London. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Hardly an artistic leap for Mr. Smith, but still plenty of laffs","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not that bad, in fact it's pretty underrated.  No, it was as not a step forward from Clerks, but Kevin Smith needn't have apologized for it.  Yes, it is sort of dumb (although not especially so by current standards), but it has more than enough laughs to work quite well on a Caddyshack level. Well worth a rental. "}{"Title":"Kevin Smith's tribute to ANIMAL HOUSE.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw MALLRATS a few years ago, and slightly enjoyed it.  It wasn't as good as CLERKS, but it was fun.  And I thought that CHASING AMY was better than MALLRATS, I didn't hate MALLRATS any more, I just saw them as two different comedies.  But just recently, I bought the MALLRATS collector's edition on DVD, and it made me look at Smith's misunderstood classic in a different way.  Even after listening to the wonderful commentary by Kevin Smith, Jason Mewes, Jason Lee, and Ben Affleck, I realized what Kevin Smith was trying to make a tribute to the classic 1978 film ANIMAL HOUSE. If you think about it, it makes sense.  Jay and Silent Bob are Bluto and D-Day, Brodie and J.T. are Boon and Otter, and Mr. Svenning and Hamilton are Dean Wormer and Marmalard.  This is Smith's personal tribute to the slobs of America, they don't party, they just hang out at the mall.  And now I see this film in a different way, and I enjoy it more.Also on the DVD, there are over an hour of deleted scenes, some are pretty long and slow, but others are funny.  It also includes one of the original plot lines of J.T. (hint he accidently does something to a powerful political figure) and thus causing many changes to the theaterical release of the film, and taking out some good jokes.  I can understand why Smith took it out, but I'm glad that he included it on the DVD set. MALLRATS Collector's Edition is one of the many and many reasons on why one should get a DVD player.  For under $30, you get so much information and details on the movie, as well as discovering some hidden secrets on the film, some other choices Smith had in case Stan Lee didn't want to the film (Mr. Quentin Tarantino was a considered choice), and who Gramercy wanted to play the character of Jay (Seth Green was a considered choice). Overall, if you enjoy Kevin Smith's MALLRATS or any of his other two (soon to be three) films, then I would highly recommend that you buy this DVD.  If you don't have a DVD player, then save your money, and get one, then get this disc. It just goes to show that DVD's are the entertainment of the future.MALLRATS (the movie) **** (out of five) MALLRATS (the DVD) ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Following on from Clerks, Kevin Smith's sequel was initially reviled, and at one point Smith apologised for it. But reading present interviews he defends Mallrats, and so he should because it is a fine film, full of witty one liners and hilarious slapstick comedy. Compared to Chasing Amy and Clerks, it's not as mature, but is my personal favourite of the trilogy.  "},{"Title":"Hmm..","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's not Clerks but Mallrats can be extremely funny. Dumb idea, average movie. Having not seen Dogma yet, I think this is where Jay and Silent Bob are at their best. I found the other characters to be annoying at times except for Brodie. I really applaud Kevin Smith for so many Fletch references. "},{"Title":"Why did Kevin Smith apologise for making this movie?","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin should not feel ashamed of this movie, it's a cool movie,Really funny, Jason Lee is excellent, especially when he talks to Stan Lee about the Thing's penis. Jay and Silent Bob are still the best, with Bob trying to use the Force on a pen. A great film that Kevin should not feel ashamed about.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was first alerted to this film in late 1998, but did not see it until early 1999.  All I can say is that I wish I had seen it earlier.  It may not be as cult as Clerks, but it will always hold a place in my heart as the film which alerted me to Kevin Smith's style and genuine humour.  "},{"Title":"A microcosm of life in the mall.","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clerks and Chasing Amy reminded me of early John Waters films. This movie, also reminds me of what happened to Waters once he was accepted in Hollywood.  I liked it- it still has edge, and my husband hates all of these because of the language, but it is a slice of modern teen life. I deal with teens of all kinds in my day to day work and I recognize many of the people in this film. I like following the main characters through the changes they make.  Cynical and cutting edge, Smith's films need to be seen to be judged.   "},{"Title":"this American stoner crap ain't funny","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't see what's so great about this Kevin Smith. This movie ain't funny at all, in fact I was having a hard time trying to acknowledge the crap in this film that I thought I was meanta find funny based upon all the positive hoopla I've heard surrounding it.Maybe you have to smoke marijuana or drugs to find it funny? / , kinda like Adult Swim animations.2/10 cuz some parts of the movie are really colourful and that. Has the fat guy who played Bulk in Power Rangers (remember em? Go go Power Rangers etc, kids actually bought it too? XD )** Your comment does not contain enough lines - the minimum length for comments is 10 lines of text. -- whoops! Okay, here ya go ----> American stoner crap comedy not funny absolutely not funny makes you cringe tongue in cheek college stoner garbage kevin smith is god NOT 1995 mid 90s American USA USA USA Jerry Springer wouldn't wanna see this film again ever "},{"Title":"Has not aged a single day in nearly fifteen years","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To render the proper justice of Mallrats genius, it should have started as a novel. As a movie, I saw it get judged and snubbed by the film buffs, but let me disagree here, take Mallrats for what it is, an entertaining portrait of consumerism counter-culture.Petulent formula you might say? Well think about it. Mallrats has been made in 1994 and was portraying the first generation of grown up kids put up face to face with mass capitalism. As the portrait shows kids with mixed up feelings and a sense of confusions towards this abundance, it remains fun.Thats what Mallrats is. Pure fun. Kids forming their identity against all the abundance of stuff pushed down their throat. Crazy situations in a mall, epic story of reconquering your true love...in a mall...are they buying stuff? No. Sometimes you almost forget the thing is in a goddamn mall.I've had fun with this movie. Brodie Bruce is the prime example of the empty criticism towards his generation. Its not what you do that defines who you are, its who you are that defines what you do.Pure non-arrogant fun, killer dialogues and a legacy that lives on. Thanks Kevin Smith "},{"Title":"Kevin Smith's most underrated movie","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't understand the hate that Mallrats gets. I find it to be funny, original, and another stepping stone in Kevin Smith's career as a writer and director. Jason Lee is in his first leading role as Brodie, a guy who like to hang out in malls. He is not there to work or shop. He is one of the most popular guys there. However, his girlfriend Rene (Shannen Doherty) is sick of how he lives, so she dumps him. At the same time, Brodie's best friend T.S. is dumped by his girlfriend Brandi (Claire Forlani) because his mouth caused her trouble. Then through the day of being at the mall, hanging out with Jay and Silent Bob, and meeting an unusual psychic, Brodie and T.S. find meaning in their lives.Kevin Smith shows us what makes his movies funny and let us know how his movies work. This isn't up there with Smith's other works like Clerks and Chasing Amy, but it is still a solid effort on his part. "},{"Title":"Well Worth Digging Up","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" One of the hardest tests for any film is the passage of time. After around a decade, a fine line emerges between a movie capturing an enduring snapshot of a particular period's culture, and having references become dated to the point of unwatchability. Stumbling across Mallrats on HBO this past week, I was reminded that the movie falls solidly into the former camp. Mallrats captures the teenage culture of the early-nineties like few other movies- a still pre-internet, pre-cell phone time when bored kids had to congregate at the local mall for social interaction. Mallrats is delightfully peppered with now largely forgotten nineties elements magic eye pictures, Shannon Doherty at her hottest, VCR's, men with shoulder length hair, a dating game, and even a pre-J Lo Ben Affleck.The straight-forward structure of the Mallrats plot provides an effective platform for the character interaction that makes the movie. The story centers around two friends, TS and Brodie (Jeremy London and Jason Lee), who head to the mall to try to drown their sorrows in the smell of commerce after both being dumped in the first 10 minutes of the movie. TS's plot to hijack his ex-girlfriend's dating show allows for a series of Wile E. Coyote inspired attempts by Jay and Silent Bob (the same characters from Clerks), aimed at overcoming the head of mall security and destroying the gameshow's set. The middle body of the film consists of these antics along with TS and Brodie generally wasting time at the mall with entertainingly arbitrary discussions. Events build towards the friends finding the resolve to reclaim their women.Despite its endearing traits, the movie is not without weaknesses. TS and his ex-girlfriend Brandi (played by Claire Forlani) bring little to the table but bad acting and awkward dialog. TS (London), though supposedly the main character, is generally off-putting and hard to root for. Also, Jay and Silent Bob (Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith), while entertaining, are not at their best. The fact that the studio reportedly made Kevin Smith tone down some of the vulgar dialog probably accounts for Jason Mewes's inability to shine.However, there is plenty in Mallrats to make up for its shortcomings. Ben Affleck brings more than enough firepower to his role as a typical cocky Jersey mall salesman (I have no respect for people with no shopping agenda), trying to take advantage of Brodie's ex-girlfriend (in a very uncomfortable place), and Michael Rooking provides an effective villain, playing TS's girlfriend's father, who spends the movie trying to keep TS away from his daughter.More than anything, though, Jason Lee (Brodie) steals the movie. He dominates every scene he is in with some of the most incisively random dialog in recent decades. From loudly complaining about negligent parents allowing a kid to play on the mall escalator (who later gets caught in it), to saving the ending dating game show with lines like his insistence that he be called the second suitor rather than suitor number two, Lee puts forward what should be considered one of the iconic comedy performances of the nineties. His barrage of mini-monologues and one-liners are by far the most memorable part of the movie, never better than when he adamantly argues with TS that the mall cookie stand is not part of the food court but that it should be classified as as an autonomous unit for mid-mall snacking.It had been at least 10 years since I'd seen Mallrats, and I couldn't have been happier to rediscover it. If you're looking for a trip down nineties memory lane and an hour and a half of laugh out loud comedy (mostly provided by Jason Lee), than Mallrats is well worth dusting off. "}{"Title":"Mall turds","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie does not last for 10 years, as Clerks has. This is a terrible movie, with bland jokes and a horrible plot. Only Silent Bob and Jay is the only redeeming character in the movie. Even some of the special effects, try to be realistic, are just awful. I had watched the movie, in the 10 year edition, with special introduction by Silent Bob, and commented that he added 30 minutes of extra footage to this movie. This movie needed 30 minutes cut, not added. I think much more attention should have been given to the mall characters, and less to the Dad, and that horrible game show. Try watching Clerks II, a much better and classic movie, which will span the test of time. There, is that 10 lines? "},{"Title":"Another Awful Kevin Smith pile of crap","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well, another terrible film by Kevin Smith, a man whose life and career is so out-dated, it needs no introduction. What an awful movie this was, Mallarats I bet when this crap hit theatres everyone f.cking person told their friends, HEY--GUESS WHO WAS IN THIS MOVIE???? .....'who?' JAY AND SILENT BOB!! AHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA1!!! Well, who were you expecting to be in this movie? Burt and Ernie? Nope, Jay and Silent BOB (Oh wow, I woonnndddeeerrr who plays him!!) as if there aren't enough butt-ugly bearded geeks in this world. Before I saw this film I thought Kevin Smith was a vulgar comic book geek who made low-budget films. Now, I just see he's an ass. I couldn't sit through this movie but somehow I did, and I think I should choke myself for making such a mistake. It's hard to sit through and hard to watch. What Kevin Smith doesn't get is that he can't always make people laugh by saying WORDS ABOOT SEXXX because it really gets old. Who the hell gets NC-17 ratings just because they say cock three hundred thousand times. I think Kevin Smith should go in the dumpster with Howard Stern and Wilt Chamberlin, along with his own two creations Jay and Silent Bob. Oh yeah, and this film? It sucked eggs more than granny did in that egg-sucking contest (Or, at least, I THOUGHT it was an egg sucking contest) I really hate this film, I mean, I really can't stand it. When will Kevin Smith GET IT? He probably never will. But is this Kevin Smith's worst film? Not really, try Jersey Girl with Ben Asslick, it's twelve times worse. So thank you, Kevin Smith, for making another sh!tty movie and yet somehow you're a proud father as you put on your bloody myspace. Mallarats sucks, yet no one can expect it. "},{"Title":"Victim of itself","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevin Smith sold out at Mallrats claim uppity, hardcore underground American film lovers. Not true at all but this is not the basis of this review. Mallrats failed, certainly at the box office and with certain critics simply because it was not Clerks. It was an equally offbeat, bizarre rom-com that did not follow a set structure that most rom-coms do so now. Watch almost any romantic comedy for example Mr. Deeds or Bring It On. The plot lines are incredibly similar, if you watch closely enough and has lead to far too many simple, by numbers teen rom-coms being produced. Yet, this structure must have appeared from somewhere. This structure, this format was derived from Mallrats. And sadly many people see your traditional American rom-coms before they see Mallrats, Kevin Smith's sophomore effort becomes another flick adhering to said format rather than the originator of it. It has become a cult film true, but it is also a victim of itself. "},{"Title":"4 out of 10","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very poorly scripted, acted, and directed. I think Clerks is allright, but this film is laughable. Yes, some of the dialogue is witty and some of the acting can be charming, but in the end it all doesn't add up. The comedy itself is aimed at a very young audience, or perhaps an older audience that has low expectations for comedy itself. I know the angle Kevin Smith is trying to go for and he does NOT succeed. When you consider how novel the idea and execution of Clerks was, Mallrats is a big disappointment. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Too silly but it does have some decent moments","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the second Kevin Smith film to feature Jay and Silent Bob.  The movie to me is too silly but it does have some funny moments.  The jokes were just too silly sometimes and sometimes the jokes were just a little on the tasteless side.  And it is really sad when the best acting job is done by Shannon Doherty.  Don't get me wrong this was an enjoyable movie but I have seen many other good comedies.Jay and Silent Bob were very funny but I have never liked Jason Lee or Ben Affleck, neither is a particularly good actor and here they have few good lines.  The highlight of the movie is an appearance by Stan Lee who is the creator of the Spiderman, X-men and other comic strips.  He is very funny. The plot centers around a group of people that hang around a mall all day, hence the term Mallrats.  Jason Lee and Jeremy London are two lazy young men that have recently lost their girlfriends and are depressed.  They actually did very little with their girlfriends. London lost his girl because her dad wanted her to appear on his game show instead of going to Florida with him.The movie has a lot of satirical elements.  There is a takeoff on The Dating Game, Star Wars, Looney tunes, Batman and much more.  Perhaps that is the problem there is too many spoofs of other shows and movies and not enough jokes they come up with on their own.  The movie does make a lot of fun of the whole mall culture and people who hang out there too much. I think I would recommend this movie to teenagers mostly.  It was mostly forgettable to me.  I have seen a lot better but then again I have seen a lot worse.  I guess if you are really bored and there is absolutely nothing better on TV than this wouldn't be bad to watch.  I guess the movie is just too over the top for me.  There are a lot of people that got started here that went on to do better things like Claire Forlani, Ben Affleck, Jason Lee and more so someone liked this movie.  "},{"Title":"Fear and respect the escalator!!!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite Kevin Smith movie and that's saying a lot.  I know this makes me a mutant.  I know I'm supposed to like his less Hollywood movies better.  But, you know what, this one's got the most Jay and Silent Bob for the money and that's all I ask. "},{"Title":"Honestly liked it better than Clerks","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" People may kill me for saying this, but I honestly liked Kevin Smith's second film better than Clerks. I liked Clerks, but I thought the jokes in Mallrats, even the sex jokes, were more clever than the ones in Clerks. One example is the opening narration that serves as a prologue to the film in which Jason Lee's character asks why his cousin keeps buying kittens which keep getting stuck up his ass, to which the cousin replies how else am I supposed to get the gerbil out? I also liked the style of the film more than Clerks. Yes, much of the film is static like Clerks, and even the Steadicam shots are very steady, but there's still a lot of cool things going on here with Kevin Smith's directing.Of course the review wouldn't be complete without mentioning the great, hilarious performances by Jeremy London, Jason Lee, a young Ben Affleck, Ethan Suplee, and of course Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith as Jay and Silent Bob, who I actually found to be at their most likable in Mallrats (I especially liked the bits detailing their plans to thwart the evil mall cop La Fours and how they execute them).The only criticism of the film I have is that the romantic element of the film gets a bit too cheesy for me at times, but the movie isn't supposed to be like Chasing Amy where romantic realism is put face first, it's supposed to be a fast paced comedy, so of course not as much effort went into the romance as the rest of the film. But this doesn't really depreciate the value of the movie, just sort of weighs it down.Regardless, I believe that if people can loosen their hold and focus on realism for an hour and a half that Mallrats is a very enjoyable film and definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie in the world but don't expect Clerks.","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mallrats, while not being anywhere near as bad as to be, say in the IMDb worst movies ever, lacks the charm of Clerks. I happen to adore Clerks, it is one of my favorite films ever and certainly up there with a rare few with being one of the all time best teen movies.Mallrats, while maybe mildly entertaining, can't touch the classic wit and brilliance that is Clerks. I actually thought Mall Rats was more obnoxious then funny and though I know this movie is very appealing to some, I just never got it.When I saw Mallrats, it was tough for me to watch to the end. The problem is the movie is meandering in a way Clerks was not, both movies capture day to day life, that's what I love about Smith, that he's able to do that. But even if there had never been a movie called Clerks, Mallrats struck me as being like a million other movies out there and while I can relate to hangin at the mall as a teen, the characters, as many have stated on this board were just majorly obnoxious. Again, in Clerks, any obnoxiousness the characters or movie had was overcome by the hilarious but always intelligent humor. With Mallrats, it's just another teen movie.(LOL.) It didn't linger in my mind afterward and dragged a lot while it was on. Just wasn't into it.Perhaps I was spoiled by the greatness of Clerks(a movie I've seen so many times I have lost count.) But even if this hadn't been Smith who brought us Mallrats-I just didn't care for this. I wish there would have been better dialog, less rambling, more charm and genuine wit and have some more twists and turns. "},{"Title":"Cool Comedy","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kevin Smith's Mallrats is quite an amusing picture.  Some might go as far to say as it is not as high to standards as his last pictures (and sadly I slightly agree), but that still doesn't matter with Smith at the helm.  In fact, he can be better at writer/director/Silent Bob than any other one in America when he tries hard enough.  The film circles on 2 slackers at a mall where they hang out (Jay and Silent Bob also preside with Jedi powers) who want to get their girlfriends back after they dumped them.  Their escapades in one day is similar to Clerks without the black and white, but by no means is it better than Clerks.  I wish it was, but it doesn't grab you as much as Clerks did.  Still, Mallrats is a cool, hilarious comedy that is great for parties, or sick days.  "},{"Title":"mallrats is a film about two friends who find that they have both been dumped by their significant others and head to the mall in an attempt to get there girl friends back.","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" All thought mallrats was a flop in the theaters it has now found its fan base on DVD. If you are wondering why that is I truly believe it is because it was simply ahead of its time. Visually mallrats isn't much to look at but if you are aware of Kevin smiths work you know that he generally does two angle still shots. So instead of capturing you visually he does comically. Imediatly when the film starts you are told a hilarious story told by Jason lee and all thought i do not want to ruin it i will say it is one of my personal favorite scenes. Also aside from the comedy this film has a very real feel to it and a decent plot. I recommend purchasing the mallrats 10th anniversary extended edition because it has both the theatrical and extended versions of the film. And a wide variety of special features including cast interviews from the original set, a brief Q and A with Kevin smith, out takes, viewaskews look back at mallrats, the erection of an epic-the making of mallrats, mallrats reunion, a great feature commentary with Kevin smith Jason lee and Ben affleck, and much more! So if you are a real movie buff like my self or just a view askew fan i recommend this film for you. You can pick it up for just about ten bucks and you really are getting your moneys worth with this one. This film is a must have for any movie collection. "}{"Title":"Wow A Sailboat","Date":"17 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Again Kevin Smith Has Made This One Funnier, More Offensive, More Inventive Than Clerks. When T.S. Quint & Brodie Get Dumped By Their Girlfriends They Try & Win Them Back...At The Mall It Is Nice To See Jay & Bob Back As The Dynamic Duo Of Comedy's & This Time Funnier Lets Face It.Nice To See A Cameo From Stan Lee & A Joke From The First Fantastic 4 (2005 Not 1994). This Movie Supresses Clerks In Every Aspect. This Has A Heck Of A Lot Of Laughs. The Music Is...Moderate. The Acting Is Great. & All In All This Is One Whacky Game Show.Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"Horsedung","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Boring, stupid and not remotely funny US teen dung.It's hard to believe that Kevin Smith was hailed as an Indie director, unless the etiquette applies exclusively to films that make a point of scraping the bottom of the barrel. The Weinsteins certainly deserve Guantanamo for hyping this sort of self-indulging manure. And the IMDb rating for this anal regressive bomb would seem to indicate that a long, dry fart in a mall will do for most American publics.If anything, Smith is the Osama bin Laden of film.Run for cover! "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool, but...","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a pretty cool example of Kevin Smith's fine writing and  directorial style. However, in comparison to his previous work, Clerks, and  the immediate sequel, Chasing Amy, Mallrats seems, to me, to be too  Hollywood. That is, the independent flair which permeates the other films  from Smith's Jersey Trilogy is noticeably missing. That is not to say  Mallrats sucks. To the contrary. I only mean to say that this is a good  film, but one that pales in comparison with the director's other works.  "}]