[{"Title":"Deserved better than it got","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"88 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's a pity that the critics gave 'Four Rooms' as hard a time as they did back in 1995, because, for everything that can be said to be wrong with it, it really does sparkle with creativity and a desire to stand out from the rest of the crowd. And let's face it, there was enough popular talent involved, including Alison Anders, Alexandre Rockwell, Robert Rodriguez and, last but not least, Quentin Tarantino, for it to have been hailed as an instant cult classic. Instead, it was bashed into submission and retreated very quickly to the back of nearly everyone's resume. With retrospect most of this reproach was probably ill-deserved - 'Four Rooms' does have its blatant moments of weakness, but then again so do a lot of the more half-baked cookie-cutter comedies which have somehow garnered more admiration than this. On the whole it's a very unusual and interesting combination - an offbeat, frisky and strangely feel-good comedy with some sinister undertones and lots of weird, intricate little details. Consisting of four 20-minute segments, each assembled by a different director's hands, it takes us through the various happenings inside separate rooms of the same hotel on New Year's Eve, as experienced by Ted, the only bellhop still left standing for the night shift. There is the slight feeling of inconsistency in moving from one directing style to the next, and a couple of attempts to interconnect the segments are a little self-contradictory. Some of it works and some it doesn't, but the end result is an episodic anthology that, if nothing too spectacular, still proves itself to be very likable in the long run.'The Missing Ingredient' and 'the Wrong Man' are often credited with constituting the weaker half of the film, and I can't really say I disagree. 'The Missing Ingredient' tries hard to be risqué, but falls pretty short - for a story concerning a coven of bare-breasted witches trying to extract an unwilling man's semen for use in a ritual, it's remarkably innocuous and fluffy, and the visual effects only add a layer of tackiness to boot. 'The Wrong Man' is a tad more snappy and sports some stylish direction (the shot where Sigfried grabs the ringing telephone is right-on), but is ultimately swallowed up in its frenzied editing. We can vaguely understand what's happening in this segment (if not, then Ted does drop a pretty big hint later on in the film), but it makes itself unnecessarily incoherent, with bizarre imagery that adds nothing but extra confusion (the baby flashback, anyone?). It's almost as though Alexandre Rockwell isn't sure whether he wants us to be in on the whole set-up with Sigfried and Angela, or confused and in the dark like Ted, and in the end tries to accommodate both perspectives, which doesn't really wash.It's once we reach the second half that the true quality really starts to seep its way in, and the film suddenly becomes very rewarding. 'The Misbehaviours' is a spirited little contribution that combines a moderate dose of macabre darkness with its cartoon-like innocence. Antonio Banderas certainly hits a good spot as the no-nonsense father who appoints Ted to keep an eye on his two young children while he's out, whilst the children themselves are rebellious but not irritating, all making for a surprisingly sharp and sophisticated slice of knockabout. 'The Man from Hollywood', meanwhile, is equally brilliant - Tarantino's vibrant, well-scripted take on Roald Dahl's chilling short story, 'the Man from the South', which pits Ted in the same room as cocky Hollywood director Chester Rush (and it's always a treat to see Quentin himself tackle such a winking, self-depreciating role). It manages to be tense and enjoyable, with the usual smart direction that any Tarantino fan should be able to appreciate. Overall, there's enough vitality in these particular segments to just about redeem the shakiness of the first half.Besides, we have Tim Roth playing our hapless protagonist throughout, and, yes, that is a lot. He proves himself to be very capable in a comic performance, bringing enough gentle magnetism to his character Ted the bellhop, through his good intentions, perseverance and various neurotic mannerisms, to get us genuinely attached to him. It is hard not to come away with the impression that all four directors had a slightly different take on Ted's disposition - he goes from being timid and impressionable to obtuse and jumpy, then highly-strung and a little devious, and finally composed and relatively rational - but Roth does well in single-handedly bridging these gaps and, with the many mishaps his character has to endure over the course of the night, ensures that all changes in temper seem understandable. He retains his good-natured lovability for the entire running time, and, for anyone who can really relate to poor Ted (like yours truly), he'll have you rooting for him to the very satisfying end.To my knowledge, there was never any other film quite like 'Four Rooms' and, judging by just how unwelcome this one was made to feel when it arrived, there probably won't be another for quite some time. It remains an ambitious and not entirely successful little sleeper, but has a good deal going for it nonetheless, and I urge all fans of Tarantino, Rodriguez and Roth in particular not to be put off by the bad press and to give it a chance. Who knows? One day, it might just make a fresh start and find the cult audience that appreciates it yet. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated and fabulous hotel comedy","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"82 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm sad to say Four rooms is just another excellent movie that's been criticized way too much. This rather a splendid and incredibly funny little film starts from quite amusing title sequence and gets better with every segment. As almost all of us can say the first one called The Missing Ingredient is more or less a disappointment and if you watch Four rooms for the first time I can practically swear that the film is only getting started. Second segment The Wrong man is already much better. David Proval who played Richie Aprile in the television series The Sopranos is just bloody terrific. The Misbehavers (segment number three starring Antonio Banderas and directed by Robert Rodriguez) provides some of the most irresistible stuff of the movie.And what's nicest, they save the best as last. Final segment The Man from the Hollywood is already a bit of a masterpiece and once again it shows so clearly how ingenious writer/actor/director Quentin Tarantino is. Oscar from Pulp Fiction alone tells that he has an unbelievable talent to create amazing dialogue that truly entertains. I adore this fourth part of the film very much, sometimes I've been watching only it. I know many people are thinking Tim Roth is ridiculously overacting his role of the bellhop but I can't and simply won't agree on that one. In my opinion he makes a stylish and heart-warming tribute to Jerry Lewis and in the same time proofs he's a talented, clever and downright hilarious comedian who doesn't overact even half as much as for example Jim Carrey. Four rooms is an underrated future's cult classic. "},{"Title":"it's not Pulp Fiction, but it's still good!","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"50 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I really don't understand why this movie got such bad reviews!  Overall, this is a creative and refreshing movie.  It is not Pulp Fiction but it is still a good performance.  Tim Roth, especially, is the best thing in the film.  Out of the four I like Robert Rodguize's misbehavior the best.  The missing ingredient was indeed a bit cheesy but the rest are still above average performance.  If you are interested in this movie but discouraged by the movie critics, I ensure you that you won't regret seeing it. "},{"Title":"Amazing starts awful, ends brilliant","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"62 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It's impossible to analyze this film without breaking it down into its four segments for separate comment.  It would also be improper, since it was not intended to be anything less than an anthology from four notable independent filmmakers  Alexandre Rockwell, Alison Anders, Robert Rodriguez, and Quentin Tarantino.The first episode is exactly the sort of thing that someone in a high school drama production would want to do, but can't get away with in a high school drama production.  It's juvenile, unfunny, and lifeless, but it has the (pointless) nudity and lines of dialogue likeWitch #1  I am your mother.Witch #2  Then why are we sleeping together?that sound like the screenwriter is giggling and thinking, I can't believe I'm getting away with this!  I'm so clever!Nothing is at stake in the first episode;  it's generally expected that a story must have conflict in order to BE a story.  This has none.  Just some half-baked jokes and a pair of topless women (If I wanted that, I'd skip renting a movie and go out instead.)Second episode is a hair better, but you'll find yourself crying Why doesn't Ted the Bellboy do insert plot resolution here and get the bloody hell out of there!  When it finally does end, you're disheartened to find that it had no reason to exist.  Two snips with a pair of scissors,  a bit of tape, and we wouldn't know the difference.  Roll opening credits, go straight to the Rodriguez segment.Third episode has some structural support to keep it from caving in on itself.  The surprise in the middle (I won't give it away, don't worry) is horrifying enough to give the segment some heft.  Rodriguez and his d.p., Guillermo Navarro, move it along dexterously and (as usual) have a good handle on visual comedy.The last segment is the best.  I think it's safe to say that Quentin Tarantino has, officially, never disappointed me as a director or screenwriter.  My heart leapt as soon as I heard his trademark dialogue coming from the lips of Marisa Tomei as Four Rooms segued from The Misbehavers to The Man From Hollywood.  I wasn't sure if his take on Ted the Bellhop's misadventures was going to be any good, but I knew that if he wrote it and helmed it, it wasn't going to be all bad.What a pleasant surprise (still just talking about the fourth segment here). This part of the movie, with its ridiculous premise (lifted form an old Hitchcock episode, which it acknowledges out loud), moves along speedily, and the actors take to it as naturally as any other movies by Q.T. Basically playing himself, Tarantino is hilarious.  If anything, he knows A) how people really act when they're drunk (i.e. not like Dudley Moore caricatures)  B) why people think he's so obnoxious, like a real-life, fast-talking Jar Jar Binks and  C) how to put some bang in his visual storytelling.  It's low-rent Tarantino, don't get me wrong, but it's also the best part of Four Rooms.All in all, the first film I've ever seen that starts out with a loathsome, horrifying badness, gets incrementally better with each passing fifteen minutes, and ends as good as one would like.  Just don't make me watch it again. "},{"Title":"Some Great Laughs","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Four Rooms is far more entertaining than you would expect from its generally negative reviews. Which is not to say that any of it is a masterpiece but if you enjoyed Love American Style on television and are not put off by a raunchy take on that anthology concept you should make an effort to view this film. Each story is taking place in a different room of a hotel the same night. It was made between the time Tarantino made Pulp Fiction and worked on Dusk Till Dawn with Rodriquez. Many in the large cast are Tarantino and Rodriquez regulars. Here are a few of the reasons to watch each of the four storiesThe Missing Ingredient - Madona has simply never looked better and her come get me dress will burn your eyeballs. Alicia Witt plays her stock alienated teen and delivers sarcasm as only she can.The Wrong Man &#x96; Alexander Rockwell directed this segment shortly after directing In the Soup so he already knew how to get the most out of Jennifer Beals. Her diatribe about Ted's sex organ is a cinema classic.The Misbehavers &#x96; Rodriquez directs his favorite actor Antonio Banderas in something that is a throwback to classic Laurel and Hardy. Not only do his two kids misbehave when left alone in their hotel room, but their misbehavior is so comprehensive that the closing shot reveals a room of total anarchy. It is wonderful slapstick on a huge scale, with comic timing worthy of the Laural and Hardy and the Marx Brothers.The Man From Hollywood &#x96; This has the best script with Tarantino reserving the best stuff for his own character. He even reprises the tasty beverage line from Pulp Fiction. Beals has already found her way to this room by the time bellboy Roth arrives and she delivers more good lines. I was impressed that Tarantino built up his suspense before the contest began and then did not try to extend the suspense but ended things on the first attempt.The best bit in the whole film might be Roth's phone call to his boss. Marisa Tomei answers the phone in a room full of comatose post-New Years Eve partygoers. She then does a version of her My Cousin Vinnie expert witness routine, this time concerning types of handguns. In the foreground the entire time are the only other conscious (but totally stoned) inhabitants of the room. They are playing against each other in a video game. One just stares in stunned fascination at the screen, holding the controller but not using it as the other player maniacally manipulates his controller throughout the entire phone conversation. "},{"Title":"a cool batch of 90's indie pathos","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Four Rooms was concocted like one of those many, many collaborative efforts from directors in the 60's and 70's (i.e. The Witches, Ro.Go.PaG, Boccaccio '70, etc), except this would revolve around a bell-hop on New Years Eve. It disqualifies itself as being any kind of masterpiece or classic in independent film-making, and sometimes the filmmakers (Alison Anders, Robert Rodriguez, and Alexandre Rockwell, and Quentin Tarantino, the last two also serving as executive producer) look like they're relishing too much in their (limited) clout and exuberance to concentrate. As was with many others who viewed the film, I found that the first two segments were the lesser ones, and the last two were the best ones. It all comes down, in this case, to which two were funnier. So, let's break each one downAllison Anders' film is a quirky, quasi-lesbian take on a coven of witches, featuring the likes of Madonna and Lily Taylor, are the first to shake up (perhaps for the better in this one) Ted the bell-hop. Ted, by the way, is played with a continuous, nervous-type of fervor that goes from being innocuous, to annoying, and then acceptable again. It's also interesting to see how his character goes through different motions when under each director (for example, in Rodriguez's film he's more of a cartoon-type of character, and in Tarantino's film he hearkens slightly to his previous collaborations with the director, quieter, on edge in a particular way). Some of the laughs are surrounded by a kind of attitude put forth by the director that seems a little off. Maybe I'm the wrong audience for it, though- the women in the audience may appreciate it, or rather amused by it, more than I. I give it a B-Alexandre Rockwell's The Wrong Man is my least favorite of the bunch, as Ted gets stuck with a couple of crazed fetishists (David Proval and Jennifer Beals). The problem here lies with two things- the fact that the comedic timing/chemistry is a little iffy/off with the three actors, and that the writing doesn't come off like it's naturally funny. When Beals' character Angela runs off about Ted's private parts, this could be funny, but it's more 'ho-ho' than 'ha-ha' to me. Some of the tension from Roth brings some laughs, but not enough to compensate the uncomfortable atmosphere around the whole segment. I give it a C-The third segment, The Misbehaviors, displays how clever and quick Rodriguez can be with physical comedy (slapstick) as well as in getting laughs from kids (as he did here and there in his Spy Kids movies). It is also a boost that the whole segment comes off as though it's like a live-action Looney Tunes short- it's so ridiculous that in some scenes I burst out laughing (i.e. Ted's reaction to the corpse). The set-up with the parents was also amusing in how Banderas and Tamlyn Tomita act towards the kids. Then the pay-off knocks it out of the park. Grade AThen we come to the closure, featuring the indie wunderkind at the time, Tarantino, as he takes on two sources of inspiration- Rohald Dahl's Man from the South short story, later translated through Alfred Hitchcock's television show. It's a smart, hip little piece of Hollywood satire from Tarantino, as he himself plays an overly obnoxious Hollywood filmmaker, with two guys by his side (Paul Calderon and Bruce Willis), as they take a gamble right after the stroke of midnight. It took me a couple of time to watch this to really get into it, but when I did it was even more promising. The camera-work in the scene (via 'Dogs' and 'Pulp' cinematographer Andrzej Sekula) is deliberately paced, and it's perfectly leisurely for the pace of the last segment. That much, if not all, of the dialog is funny it's because of the skill and chemistry between the four of them. Plus, a little prologue with Marisa Tomei and Kathy Griffin gives the indication of what insanity is in store. Grade- A.So, is this film a success? For it's time, I'm not sure. With the power of four million off the success of each director's previous efforts (Tarantino with 'Dogs', Rodriguez with El Mariachi, Anders with Gas, Food, and Lodging, and Rockwell with In the Soup, all from the 92 Sundance place), they did whatever they wanted, and it's not the success it could've been. On the other hand, when one looks at the films in perspective, it could've been a lot worse, and it wasn't. At the least, it works as one of the quintessential party movies for fans of the 90's new-wave crop. "},{"Title":"The freaks come out at night...","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"29 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Four Rooms (1995/Allison Anders; Alexandre Rockwell; Robert Rodriguez; Quentin Tarantino) **1/2 out of ****Welcome to the Mon Signor Hotel! Once a major hang out spot for movie stars of the 30's, 40's and first part of the 50's, it is now an out of date fire hazard, and it is falling apart! But on New Years Eve, a new bellhop will have the craziest night of his life in this very hotel.When I was thinking of Tarantino flicks to purchase, Four Rooms came to my mind. At first I was hesitant, and for good reason. After all, I had read nothing but bad reviews for this film. But what I found in it was a bizarre little comedy that wasn't so bad after all.Four Rooms is an anthology film with four 'episodes' about a fading hotel on News Years Eve, and with a quirky bellhop named Ted (Tim Roth) and his misadventures on this one crazy night. The first episode entitled The Missing Ingredient is about a group of witches staying in the hotel who need some sperm in order to complete a spell. And guess who knocks on the door...Ted the bellhop! The next episode, The Wrong Man is a shorter episode about Ted getting mistaken for another man. This is certainly the strangest of the episodes. Then next comes the hilarious The Misbehavers. Ted is asked to babysit two kids of a Mexican gangster (Antonio Banderas in a parody of himself), and how everything possible can go wrong. And the final episode, The Man From Hollywood (the best) is directed by Quentin Tarantino. It is about a cocky Hollywood new-comer (Tarantino also in a parody of himself) who rents out the Penthouse for New Years Eve, and then plays a dangerous game that ends the film in a very funny way.I must say that I was pleasantly surprised with this film. After reading all the bad reviews, I was afraid I wouldn't like this it, but it wasn't as bad as they said. Rent it if your curious or bored, but don't buy it expecting it to be like other Tarantino films. Not bad, not great, just average.-30- "},{"Title":"So damn funny","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"41 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I really don't understand why this film hasn't got a better rating. I mean, it's got everything Women, cars, weapons, alcohol and Tarantino. It's just style itsself which made this film. Seriously, Tim Roth is so damn good in this film, his acting, his expressions and his behavior, all is perfect. You can have a good laugh about without even following the storyline (which is worth doing that, but anyway). The film is profound and the and the different parts of it are linked. Great film. "},{"Title":"Hi-Larious!!!","Date":"15 February 2002","Score":"23 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Four Rooms, the 4 part directed, 4 part written mix-matched movie turns out to be an awesome combination. With Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino working on this film, you seem to expect a trigger-happy film festival with plenty of bombs and explosives to spare. But what the final product turns out to be is a laugh-out-loud comedy which follows a bellhop's mishaps one night as he scrambles to keep his hotel in order. Tim Roth is always a great performer and in this movie there is no difference. Kudos indeed. "},{"Title":"A complete waste of film!!!","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was horrible. It was the worst movie I have seen since How High. Quentin has definitely redeemed himself since he made this movie. It was amazing to see such big named actors such as Bruce Willis and Antonio Banderas in this movie. The only reason I can see why they decided to play in this film was to give a fresh starting Quentin Tarantino a chance. This movie stunk so bad I can still smell it even after I returned it to the video store. This movie just didn't do anything. It was boring and flat from start to finish. Please do not rent this movie. Spend your money on some gum or a coke. You'll definitely be spending your money on something more meaningful. "}{"Title":"Vanity Project","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Weak, self-indulgent, misfiring at every step.  I hope everyone had a good time making this mess, because the end result is not worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Wasted talent","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is what happens when creative people think they can do anything and it will work. Its also what happens when hotcelebrities are allowed to make a joke thats nothing but a self serving in joke.This is a bunch of stories, by different directors none of which is very good. Trying to figure out which segment is better is sort of like trying to figure out which pile of garbage is the best.If you've never heard of this film, I'm not surprised since the film was barely released to theaters. It almost never plays on TV, so unless you've sought it out, something I can't recommend, you've never seen it.Ultimately, other than for money the only reason I can think this was made was so that the directors would know that they never could make a worse film.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It really is very very bad...","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Like many I got suckered into watching this film from the list of stars and director/writers (esp Tarantino) that participated in this exercise.I had no idea that it was *this* bad. It starts with the common thread, the bellboy, Tim Roth. It seemed like he was trying to be the British incarnation of Don Knotts trying to be Jerry Lewis. It was one of the most annoying and incomprehensibly bad performances, I've ever seen from a mainstream actor.He gets no help from what passes for plot. The first two stories seemed like they came from a 10 second pre-improv conference. The third plot was a shaggy dog story that could have worked had it been better executed and the fourth one, Tarantino's, to be fair actually sustained about 5 minutes of interest - unfortunately at the very end of the movie after 90+ minutes of endless torture.Those last 2 plots might have been worthwhile except for the smarmy self-indulgent performances of the stars. Tarantino is not as nearly as clever or funny as he thinks he is, and neither is Willis. The strongest performance might have been that of Banderas who almost rescued the third segment with his self-mocking playfulness.Overall, it felt like I was at one of those bad improv theatres where the actors know the only people in the audience are drunk/stoned friends, family and fanboys. If that doesn't describe you - stay far away from this mess. It really is *that* bad. "},{"Title":"Crash-and-burn all-star comedy...","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Flaky, flippant substitute-bellhop in a run-down Hollywood hotel encounters a coven of comely witches, a psychotic man and his wife involved in sexual, violent role-playing, a gangster and his wife who need a babysitter for their precocious kids, and a wire-strung Hollywood auteur who proposes a bloody game of winner-take-all. Hinging on the unfunny results of Tim Roth's performance as the uniformed bellboy, this poorly-made, inconsistent, off-putting collage of eccentrics falls completely flat. Roth, who is not a rubber-faced comedian (but who hopes to be here), attempts a bon vivant air of light-hearted smugness that just seems perverse. The rest of the talented cast is either humiliated (Ione Skye, as a half-naked witch) or used for decoration or as a punch-line. Antonio Banderas' sleek, oily gangster is amusing, and the little kids are quite good, but their segment ends on an odious, completely inappropriate note--and yet nobody behind or in front of the camera wants to show any responsibility. The feeling is one of 'anything for a laugh', yet the writing is wincingly unfunny, and the four different directors are simply not in sync (not with each other nor with the material), particularly Quentin Tarantino, who stars in and directed the final segment and appears to be winging it. * from **** "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Awful awful awful....  don't spedn the seemingly 8 hours it takes to watch this film.  It can be funny in parts, but it really drags on, and has no pay off at the end. Stare at the wall or do something prodcutive instead of watching this poor effort. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably vacuous","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I registered to this site especially to warn the world don't waste your time on this movie. It seems to be the result of overconfident Hollywood producers who figured that some critical mass of props, make up, atmosphere, homages and mannerisms can create a masterpiece. Or at least a watchable feature film. The result is a collection of four pointless sequences (definitely not stories), only the third of which is mildly entertaining. I know that almost 20 years after its production, very few people will come across this movie. However, if my review can deter even one human from throwing away 90 minutes of his/her life, it's worth the effort. Oh, and in case you're a fan of the colossal failure genre - this thing is not colossal in any sense. It doesn't even deserve sarcasm. Just ignore it. "},{"Title":"Avoid this movie","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What a premise, let's take four promising directors and let them each shoot an unrelated scene.  This isn't a movie, it is a high school skit.  I recommend you avoid it at all costs.  And someone please stop Quentin Tarantino before he acts again.  "},{"Title":"didnt think a movie could be so bad","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  after having seen blade2 i REALLY didnt think movies could get any worse. i was wrong. oh MAN was i wrong ! i'm really at a terrible loss of words to describe how utterly BAD it was. this movie has no reason whatsoever to exist, there's nothing about it that would even come CLOSE to being associated with the word quality. oh my god, i'd rather stick my head in a stinking garbage can for 90 minutes than watch this movie again.  at least i understand now why bruce willis didnt want to have his name in the credits... "},{"Title":"Typical self-aggrandizing Tarantino","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As though Mr. Bean wasn't tiresome enough, this film puts Tim Roth into a role with the same sort of inane physical comedy, and it is painful to watch. All his foppish affectations are utterly unfunny, but at least it helps keep the movie consistent.The only bright spot is the third segment, directed by Robert Rodriguez, so if you stay awake that long, check it out. Antonio Banderas is surprisingly good, and the whole segment has a great way of piling on the complications to create a chaotic ending.The fourth segment will make you puke, watching Tarantino thinking he can act. the worst thing about that is that he's also the director, so he gives himself plenty of screen time. Notice during his monologue to Tim Roth, the camera never once leaves his face! Obviously, he's got rather a high opinion of his execrable acting abilities. Lucky for him he's a director, otherwise he'd never appear on film. Oh, how I wish it were so.Then there's the plot. Stolen from a Hitchcock story which was stolen from a Roald Dahl story. They do acknowledge the Hitchcock thing, but it's merely a not-so-clever ploy to try and disguise the fact that he didn't even come up with a story, but used some previously reheated leftovers from 30 years ago. There are no twists whatsoever on the Hitchcock theme that Tarantino describes. So, bad enough you have to endure his acting, but you don't even get a good tale out of it.So all in all, a terrible film. Fast forward to the third story, and you can safely skip the rest.  "},{"Title":"Probably worth it for the Rodriguez and Tarantino segments","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When I was in high school, anything Tarantino-related was required to be memorized. Yes, even this one was insisted upon in high school, though perhaps not as strongly as QT's first two. This portmanteau follows bellhop Tim Roth as he gets into several adventures over New Year's Eve. I remember liking this one quite a bit, but, viewing it now, it's just too uneven to be worthwhile. Anders' first segment is easily the low point, thankfully. Any film starring Madonna should be immediately suspect, and everything about this tale of witches is awful. Rockwell's segment is a bit of an improvement, but too forgettable. Rodriguez's segment is the one I remember being the best, and it thankfully does hold up okay. Antonio Banderas is hilarious in it, and most of the jokes hit. I remember QT's segment being the worst originally, but I actually thought it was by far the best this time around. It usually gets flack, I think, because it stars Tarantino, but he's comfortable here playing a pompous movie director. It's honestly his best performance (if it had been readily available, I might have suffered through Destiny Turns on the Radio again) and his direction is pretty brilliant. The one thing that really drags this whole movie down is Tim Roth. Man, I remember loving him when I was a teenager, and, though I criticized his performance in Reservoir Dogs above, he's on Olivier's level there compared to his awful mugging here. Even if QT's segment were the weakest, it would automatically be upgraded to the strongest just because he's the only one who settles Roth the crap down, a bit at least. "}{"Title":"I would rather stay at Bates Motel","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This was not the worst movie I saw but close to it. The shame was the acting , although not stellar, was fairly good, thus wasted to a degree in a film such as this. At the very least, Tim Roth the main character in the movie was the best as far as slapstick goes. This movie was all about slapstick . The problem though was that the skits were just stupid or copied from other movies..... or porn movies lol. The last story of the 4 was not just from a Hitchcock episode but from a 'Tales from the Unexpected ' episode as well. I admit though that this movie was a guilty pleasure and not boring. I would suggest some mind altering stimulants- I will keep it legal , so some booze , while at home... and just have a fun night of it and watch this movie. In closing , I will just say Tim Roth was truly outstanding , especially with his mannerisms. "},{"Title":"As bad as it is, it's overrated...just cheesy and flat","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Four Rooms (1995)I suppose the draw here is Quentin Tarantino's involvement, directing one of four shorts that are cobbled together for what is generously called a movie. It's a terrible bore, routinely shot, broadly and blandly lighted, and written for or by children, I'm not sure which. Are we to care that Tim Roth stars throughout (and is mildly comic as the bell hop)? Not really. And what about the stars who populate one episode, the misogynist witch episode with Madonna among many others, or that Marisa Tomei and Bruce Willis of all people show up? No. The story is just silly without redemption, not funny, not sarcastic, not clever, not redemptive. Even what you might call dark humor is neither dark nor funny. It's not fair to just say it's bad, or that it's stupid, but that's the basic impulse. There are funny moments, and in a campy kind of way it's original even though, to a large extent, the works are derivative (the Tarantino quarter is directly taken from an Alfred Hitchcock television episode). Speaking of TV, it really looks like TV the way it is so brightly lit, as if all done for a comic book illustrator, and yet it lacks any kind of real comic book appeal, not even in the Kill Bill sense. No, this is just a throwaway, an attempt to have some fun, but at the viewer's expense. I don't think this cost much to make, so it shouldn't cost much to avoid, either. "},{"Title":"Lacks laughs and interest. Starts out horrible, and does get much better. *1/2(out of four).","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  FOUR ROOMS / (1995) *1/2 (out of four)I'm in a situation I can't begin to explain. -Ted the BellhopYou can say that again! For Ted the Bellhop, things go from strange, to stranger, to even stranger in the comedy Four Rooms, a film that is really four films by four separate teams of filmmakers, all linked by location and a single character under increasingly urgent circumstances. When another character asks Ted his problem, his response is right on the money Problem? I haven't got a problem. I've got f*cking problems. Plural. One could also say that about this movie, a confusing, pointless mess of stale, unfunny humor, overacted characters, and a load of Hollywood stars and filmmakers so prestigious that it makes us wonder why such people would involve themselves such an unentertaining flop.Four Rooms stars Tim Roth in a biting, fanatical performance as Ted, a bellhop working at a faded hotel. He is the only person on duty this night, and he really gets his hands full. In the first story, called The Missing Ingredient, written and directed by Alison Anders, Ted checks in a clan of witches who try to perform a resurrection but can't because they lack a certain component in their spell. Naturally, its semen. What other bodily fluid is there in movies these days? Ted is the only male around, therefore, its only a matter of time before Ted finds himself seduced by a bare-breasted witch.The next segment, called The Wrong Man, written and directed by Alexander Rockwell, is equally as bad, if not worse (it's a tough call) as the first. Ted walks into a room with a manic depressive lunatic who holds his wife at gun point to test her fidelity. Ted becomes the middle man, with no where to run and nowhere to hide.Robert Rodriguez writes and directs the film's best part, though that's not saying a whole lot. It's called The Misbehavers and features Rodriguez's Desperado actor Antonia Banderas. He leads his rich, fancy family to the hotel, then abandons his two chaotic children to spend New Year's Eve with his lovely wife. He pays Ted five-hundred dollars to baby-sit them for a few hours. After a predictable hell breaks loose, Ted concludes this situation with the following reflection There's a putrid, rotting corpse of a dead whore stuck in the springs of the bed. There's rooms blazing afire. There's a big fat needle from God knows where, stuck in my leg, infecting me with God knows what. And finally there's me, walking out the door, right f*cking now. Buenas noches.The Man from Hollywood is the film's finale, by Pulp Fiction director Quentin Tarantino. Tarantino himself stars as an obnoxious Hollywood star who rents a suite with his bizarre arrangement of friends, including Bruce Willis as a man with marital difficulties. By the time Ted walks in, they're drunk and doing a replay of an old Alfred Hitchcock TV episode where a man bets he can light his lighter 10 times in a row. If he loses, he also loses his pinkie finger. This episode probably holds the record for containing the most four letter words in twenty minutes.Four Rooms has reportedly been substantially cut since its disastrous September 1995 screening at the Toronto Film Festival, but it's hard to imagine the film running any longer. The first half is a painful experience, while the second half is simply not good. The film has a lot of energy, a cute little theme song and opening credit sequence, and Tim Roth is hard at work here, quirky and full of life. But he is all by himself, not supported by the writing--there are problems within his character. The key to a movie like this is to keep the connecting character consistent through his experiences.However, Four Rooms changes him from meek and timid to explosively reactive. It's hard to laugh at jokes about abnormalities when the main character is almost deranged himself.The four film's connect well, and I kind of liked some of the material in the closing segments, including the performances by Bruce Willis and Quentin Tarantino. But even here the situation is disposable and the dialogue is all over the wall. Four Rooms keeps us stuck in a series of stories that are not funny, entertaining, or engaging, but lackluster and deprived.The film was released on Christmas Day, which really amazes me. This movie is R-rated and intended for adult audiences only, containing everything from plotless nudity to streaming vulgarisms. Most movies released on this family-oriented holiday are, well, somewhat tactful, but not Four Rooms. The sheer nerve of the studio to release the film on December 25th should in itself be a good sign of its audacity. Consider yourself warned. "},{"Title":"If you like slapstick, are in a good mood and have no expectations you may well like this film","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Tarantino and Rodriguez are two of my favourite directors but this film still left me cold. Maybe it was because I was expecting so much. When I was told about the film it sounded great -four rooms, four directors- two of which I loved. But sadly as is always the case when you expect something brilliant you rarely feel satisfied, and for me this was an extremely unsatisfying film.Out of the whole cast there were only 3 characters I liked - the 2 kids in The Misbehaviors and Marisa Tomei. For me the rest were at best boring and at worst irritating to the point of actual anger. I really like Tim Roth, normally, but his character actually made me angry, he was so irritating and slapstick that I wanted him to get killed in some horrendous way, something I never wish for the protagonist of a film. Actually he didn't annoy me throughout entirely, when he didn't speak in that stupid idiot voice he was OK, the rest of the time he was Peewee Hermin.This is just my opinion and is of course subject to change as maybe if I watched it again at the right time and in the right mood I may see something I missed and get what all the people who enjoyed the movie got. I don't think I could take the risk though. "},{"Title":"Strange, Gruesome, trashy, and sort of confusing. But I liked it.","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" First Story- * 1/2 out of ****Second Story- ** out of **** Third Story- ***1/2 out of **** Forth Story- **** out of **** This film is strange, but it gets better as it goes along. It is difficult to get into, but once the viewer gets into it, it is a funny, disturbing, and unique film. The plot is basically of a bellboy(played by the always good, Tim Roth) who has to take care of a hotel for the night on New Years Eve. He gets involved in some strange and off-color characters and slowly is driven insane by it all. There are four stories total. he first one is about a coven of witches who must find semen for their magic potion to resurrect a model. The second is about a suspicious husband who ties his wife up and holds a gun to the bellboy's face because he thinks she is cheating on him with the bellboy, only the bellboy soon discovers that this is just a weird trick. The third story(and by for the goriest) is about a rich man and his wife leaving his children alone at the hotel with the bellboy to babysit. And the forth is about a macabre bet involving a bunch of Hollywood yuppies, a car, a lighter, and removal of body parts.The first story is really only for certain audiences. I didn't dig it, but I could see why certain people may. The jokes about sex and possible incest were tiresome, the witches were stereotypes and were poor ones, and the camera angles were terrible never allowing the audience to really get into the story. The reason why is because it is shown at a fly-on-the-wall distance and for a plot involving witches it helps to know what they are up to in a closer way. Normally this cinematic approach would work well, most noticeably the brilliant Peter Greenway film, THE COOK, THE THIEF, HIS WIFE, AND HER LOVER, which the movie strongly reminded me of for some reason and Tim Roth was also in it.The second story was very perverse but didn't offer any way to involve the viewer in actually finding it interesting which it should have been. There is a sequence in which Tim Roth is put to inane stunt-work where he must get himself back into the apartment, even though he is falling out of it through the window. The stunt seems misguided and out of place in the drama of this story. The ideas are good, but the execution didn't quite work. Some pretty strange intensity by Jennifer Beals here.The film takes a large jump forward into sharp comedy and independent ideas. The tone was mean-spirited and wicked. The children were appropriately mischievous and the father(Antonio Banderes) was nuts. The camera work was involving, and the comedic notes were hit correctly. The story worked and the viewer will have it stuck in their minds for days if they can't make it to the next story.The best of the four is the last one, with quick and sensible dialog, an inspired plot, appropriate acting, and an off-kilter ending that is shocking, brutal, and brilliant.Rated R for pervasive strong language, sexuality and some drug use. "},{"Title":"Trash, how did I manage to sit through this?","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was absolute trash. I never though that the creator of Kill Bill could be in such garbage. Ted the bellhop walked in a very strange manner and his personality would switch all the time as if in mood swings. In THe Missing Ingredient he was very nervous and jittery and same as in the Wrong Man but in the Wrong Man he yelled at a guy with a gun in his face, something no one would ever do. But, in the Misbehavors(most disgusting, disturbing thing I've ever seen)he was angry and yelling at the kids and when he saw the dead hooker in the bed he threw up and almost made me. Then, in the last story when he was going to cut off Norman's finger in some sick bet Chester, Leo and Norman made he had no problem yet he couldn't even have sex with the women in the beginning of the movie and was throwing up all over the place in the Misbehavors. It was like some creepy remote hotel where there was only Ted and the people in the four rooms but it was actually in L.A where there would be many other hotel staff and you would see some guests. He was totally alone except for the significant characters and I found it strange and irritating. They had Antonio Banderas, Selma Hayek and Quentin Tarantino(hope I'm not forgetting anyone) but the movie still managed to be worse than dirt. The actors were horrible, even Banderas, Hayek and Tarantino and it turned out to be the biggest disappointment since Underworld. If only there was a negative number on the Vote cause this movie deserves to be taken to the desert and buried. "},{"Title":"Bad from start to finish!","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I can't believe why almost everyone says they hate the first two stories, but they love the Rodriquez and Tarantino ones? Is it because it has the names Tarantino and Rodriquez on them? Because when I saw Four Rooms I was disappointed the entire ride! The first story by Allison Anders was bad, really bad. Bad special effects, bad acting, stupid plot and I really couldn't stand that annoying Tim Roth. O My God! When that story ended, I didn't think things could get any worse. Too bad it did. The second story, by Alexandre Rockwell was even worse. It looked like the actors didn't even have a script and I'm still wondering if that chapter was meant to be funny or what. It was really one of the worst things I've seen today.The third story was a little bit better, this time it was directed by someone who does know a little about film-making. Still I was pretty disappointed with the third story. Sure, it was way better than the first two stories, but there would be no way anyone could have done worse. The story was fun at some points, but overall the thing wasn't funny and the acting was still horrible.And then the fourth story, by the legendary Tarantino. There are allot of people who give this film 10 stars just for the name Tarantino, because I really doubt people actually saw this. The idea was OK, but all Tarantino does in this story is show us some of his so called cool quotes and one-liners. And while allot of people actually think these quotes and one-liners are cool and therefor the movie is great, I think they were pretty lame. And last but not least, why the hell would Tarantino cast himself in the lead? Doesn't he realize he's a terrible actor? Doesn't he realize he's ruining his own movies by giving himself a pretty important role? You have enough money, don't you Quent? So hire yourself some actors!!So overall, I really don't see why people hate the first two, but love the last two? Just because the last two directors are famous and popular? If you ask me the entire project is a complete waste of time, all four stories were incredibly dull, lame and annoying. And Tim Roth ... I think I haven't seen something that horrible since I saw Jar Jar Binks in the first Star Wars episode. Really, how can one man be só annoying? "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever! Avoid!","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I missed this on initial release, despite being a fan of all four directors, and have somehow missed it on video/DVD/TV in the intervening years. With The Hateful Eight coming out soon I've been re-watching all of Tarantino's work so far and decided to fill in the one gap in my collection. I simply can't believe how bad this film is. Every bit of it fails. It's not funny, it's not interesting, it's not any good! From the opening cartoon titles and terrible music it felt poorly constructed. But that's nothing compared to the actors. Tim Roth is awful! His strangely mannered performance is embarrassing with no comic timing. You can't blame him entirely though. Everyone (with the exception of Jennifer Beals and Marisa Tomei) is terrible. Every line falls flat. I'm still in shock how awful the finished film is considering the talent involved. If you're a fan of Tarantino's, of any of the actors in this or of cinema in general avoid this like Ebola! "},{"Title":"Truly Terrible","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I have just revisited the movie, after around 15 years, Hoping for a new perspective. I would like to say I won't be revisiting it again but sadly the memory of it being THIS bad (next to even the poorest efforts from Tarantino or Rodriguez) made me question my original opinion enough to watch it again tonight...That was a mistake. Let this review be a reminder to my future self The Casting is some of the worst I can recall. Tim Roth minces around like a prison wife, Clearly the direction intended was hammy but this is a pig. Just watching him on the phone to the children made me embarrassed for him as an actor. The only segment that didn't directly insult the viewers intelligence was the last, Tarantino makes his trademark 'cameo' with far too many over-thought lines, and enough 'in-gags' to choke an 'in'.The elements that were intended to be risky or provocative were tame even by 95' standards. It's a low ball offer as a movie and I can't recommend it. Which is a shame because I Am a big fan of many Tarantino/Rodriguez movies. Especially the collaborations. Oh well. "},{"Title":"A failed experiment.","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" An anthology film is often an interesting watch. Seeing as how multiple directors come together to create a project, if often gets people curious as to how each director's individual style meshes with the others, and what the finished film is like because of that. Sadly, most of the time, anthology films fail miserably, as the styles of each director are too different from one another to truly gel, meaning that while there may be standout parts here and there, they often don't work as complete films. Four Rooms unfortunately is one of the prime examples of this. While nowhere near as bad its initial hostile critical reaction would have you believe, the film is still very problematic.The story is that Ted the Bellhop is asked to look after a hotel during New Year's Eve and while there has to deal with multiple situations including a convent of witches, a hostage situation involving an angry husband, babysitting for a gangster's children & a bunch of drunken Hollywood stars and directors having a very dangerous bet. That is the basic story of the film, with four segments in the film directed by a different person for each. Connecting these stories is Ted the Bellhop, who is one of the film's major problems. Tim Roth delivers one of his worst performances to date as Ted, hamming it up every chance he gets, and gets annoying rather quickly. While the film is a comedy, it isn't as wacky or as farcical as Roth plays it, lacking the restraint and subtly that all the other actors have, which clearly shows that he wasn't well directed, acting like something out of Fawlty Towers, and considering the seriousness of some scenes, feels widely out of place. All of this makes Ted not only not funny, but very annoying and hard to care for, and you'll wish for him to go away as soon as possible.Each story varies in quality, although none of them are better than decent. The first one is The Missing Ingredient (directed by Allison Anders), whereby Ted has to have sex with a witch in order to create the ingredient needed in order to reverse the spell put on the coven's goddess Diana 40 years prior. It's about as ridiculous as it sounds. While it may appeal to some art-house fans, it is very corny, silly and cheesy. It is watchable though, acted well enough (Roth being the exception) and has a quirky charm to it that keeps you entertained throughout.The second segment is The Wrong Man (directed by Alexandre Rockwell), and is honestly the worst segment of this film by a country mile. I'll go as far as to say it is one of the worst things ever put on a cinema screen. It consists of Roth going into the wrong room for delivery service and encounters an angry husband with a gun, and believes Ted to be the one who slept with his wife. Everyone acts way over-the-top in a non-comedic scenario (making the piece tonally confused), has multiple plot holes (Why does the angry husband go into the bathroom during a hostage situation, giving Ted the perfect opportunity to free his wife or call the police? Why doesn't Ted take advantage of this either, or after he leaves for that matter? Why does the wife mock and taunt her angry gun-wielding husband?) and has some forced ambiguity about the husband's homosexuality that is never explored. It is frankly unwatchable, and considering that Rockwell was the one who had the idea for the film in the first place, leads me to believe that he made a terrible film, knew it and dragged in the other directors to make other segments to hope no-one would notice it. Sadly, they did and it is no wonder that Rockwell hasn't worked much since the film came out.The other two are the closet thing this film gets to decent. The Misbehavers (directed by Robert Rodriguez) is about Ted looking after some gangster's kids, with the instruction of not letting them misbehave. They do, and what follows maybe a one-joke skit, but it is quite funny, and the child actors are very good (Roth is thankfully restrained). It's unpleasantness towards the end (a dead hooker being found for example) may stop it from becoming great, but this is the best segment and it's punchline is priceless.The final segment is The Man from Hollywood (directed by Quentin Tarantino), whereby Ted goes to a room of famous Hollywood actors and directors playing a drunken bet to chop off someone's finger for a $1,000 and Ted gets involved in the process. While funny and well acted, this is the most pointless segment in the film as it builds up to the bet and then just ends very aburptly, as if nothing happened. Yeah, no negative psychological side effects can come from chopping off from someone's finger. Makes sense to me.Overall, this is just a failed experiment whose segments are widely uneven in terms of quality, the film is really smug at points and the thing connecting them together is really irritating and hard to care for. All of this combined makes this film something which while OK and not as bad as the critics at time would have you believe, isn't very good and it's no wonder why everyone involved has been actively trying to forget it ever happened. Sadly, it does and stands as a strong example as to why anthology film often don't work, as despite the talent behind camera, you often get overcooked messes like this. For curiosity's sake only. "}{"Title":"Four rooms full of nut jobs, one unforgettable night","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Even from the start, we have the Tarantino vibe here, although he's only partly responsible for the film. Different room, different writer/director. Tim Roth is to carry this film, and he really does get on your nerves, and even though he acts absurdly, over the top, off the wall, in a totally unrealistic (well, he's not the only one) character, it's what the role calls for, and in that context, he succeeds brilliantly. Watching him lose it, was the strongest moments. It's New Years Eve, and being the new bell boy, like the Gekko Brothers at The Titty Twister, Ted (don't call him Theodore) (Roth) he's got one hell of a night ahead of him. Lets start with the covern (not oven) of witches, where we get to see Ione's Skye's slightly pathetic boobs. A ceremony of bologne is in in the waiting. This is the weakest one of the four stories. Things get weirder and much more intense, as we move onto the lover's quarrel, where poor Ted as just having pashed Ione Skye, hits more serious waters, unwittingly getting in the middle, of this mad couple problems of infidelity, where the husband holds Teddy at gunpoint. Finally surviving these two nutjobs, where we do have a second serve from one of them (the less threatening) later on, we move onto The Misbehavers which provide a bizarre and stylishly different scenario, I liked, where finally we come to the main story we've all been waiting for, about a director, played by.... have a guess? and his entourage, who really set a good example of what stupid things people do, when they're drunk, minus a pinkie. Tarantino really steals the moments here, acting not like an actor, but a director acting like a director with a lot of CU shots, where his presence holds are complete attention. He's eloquent and his body language is fantastic. I just love watching him trying to act, but he's just being him, comparing movie's what not. He shows up the other writers with his input of dialogue, though of course, more suited behind a camera, despite his awesome confidence in front of it. Yes, that was the worst club sandwich I've ever seen too. Four Rooms is certainly different with same truly impressive performances, which I will note because they deserve credit, beside Roth who's wonderful of course. Refer by Surname Skye, Proval, Beals especially, Wills especially, Banderas, Tomei. If a QT fan, don't pass it off. It's animation in the opening credits is a killer. "},{"Title":"Did they misbehave?","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Please note Although it is not written in full story, some paragraphs may contain plot information that could be a spoiler.Four Rooms is a 1995 anthology comedy film that follows Ted the Bellhop, the lone working employee, as he works New Years Eve at the Hotel Mon Signor in Los Angeles, interacting with several guests on four different rooms. The film contains four different segments, which are the rooms he visits. Each room is written and directed by a different filmmaker.Segment 1 The Honeymoon Suite - The Missing Ingredient Written and directed by Allison AndersTed assists several unusual women with their luggage up to the Honeymoon suite. He soon discovers that they are a coven of witches trying to reverse a spell that was placed on their goddess 40 years earlier. However, when they learn one of them is missing an ingredient needed to complete the spell, they convince Ted to help her out in retrieving the missing ingredient.---Room Review--- This is the weakest of the rooms. Although very well conceived and directed, it doesn't have that feeling the rest of the rooms do.7/10Segment 2 Room 404 - The Wrong Man Written and directed by Alexandre RockwellAfter a confusing phone call from a party in a room and unsure of which floor it's on, Ted arrives to room 404 where he finds himself in the middle of a fantasy hostage situation between a husband and wife. At gunpoint, Ted is forced to participate in the scenario, with uncertainty of what is real and what is part of the fantasy.---Room Review--- Of the four segments, this is the second best one. The entire concept, story, directing, acting and comedy is stellar and all around shows how a great story can be told in a short time.9/10Segment 3 Room 309 - The Misbehavers Written and directed by Robert RodriguezA husband and wife pay Ted to babysit their son and daughter as they go out to a New Years party. The very stern father demands his children to not misbehave and Ted to make sure they are well taken care of. Ted, alone in the hotel, cannot stay in the room so he orders them to stay in the room and watch TV. After Ted leaves, the children begin to explore and vandalize the room. After Ted arrives back after a few more times (the events of The Wrong Man take place during this room), the room is in total and complete chaos, which ends in a hilarious tone as the man and wife return.---Room Review--- The best of the rooms. Rodriguez cleverly put much thought and effort into this room using all of the actors skills, especially Tim Roth and made the entire film worth it.10/10Segment 4 The Penthouse - The Man from Hollywood Written and directed by Quentin TarantinoAfter a famous director request several items, Ted brings them to the room and is soon acquainted with the party. Ted is asked to take part in a challenge that comes directly put of an episode of 'Alfred Hitchcock Presents'. Ted. Initially declines, but is offered a guarantee $100 just to listen to the request and an additional $1000 if he accepts.---Room Review--- The third best, or second worst, depending on how you think of it. The room, of course, has the Tarantino formula of characters that never stop talking. Of course, the concept is nowhere near as original or as far fetched as the others but is still a very stellar segment. They even mention the very episode of 'Hitchcock' they use in the conversation. The ending is perfect, however for Ted to end his otherwise very odd and terrible night.8/10 "},{"Title":"My rating 8","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Quite different, with an unexpected story made up between four consecutive narratives. An incredible welcome of the new year with absolutely no predictable ending. Persons which appear on the screen surprise us one after another with their reputation and professionalism.Starting from the topic of the flesh immediately grabs our interest by asking us to assume more vulgar development. Then stuns with a familiar image in an atypical role and carries us into the world of children garnished with a dead hooker. And the end is even more unexpected, especially if you do not know anything about the movie. The action takes us to the top floor of the hotel room where we find him. This time, there is almost no blood, though the focus again is on death and pain.Maybe a little overstated but still I use it to make advertising of the place where I found out about it (https//www.facebook.com/sofest?fref=nf). I was impressed by the level of knowledge and headlines of movies that are shared there and decided to do an experiment whose result was quite successful. That is why I am moving on! You?http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Interesting Concept That Bathes in a Sea of Cheese","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Tim Roth stars as a twitchy, maligned bellhop in this wacky anthology of four loosely-linked short films. With a different director behind the wheel for each chapter, it shouldn't come as much surprise to hear this is an uneven tale that never settles on a firm identity for itself. The underlying theme is light slapstick suspense with a vibrant collection of supporting players, but each act also has its share of dark secrets and sinister overtones. The first two portions are colorful, but too thin for my taste. It seems like both had a solid beginning and ending in mind, and only set about painting by numbers to bring the two together. It's Robert Rodriguez's third act and Quentin Tarantino's closer, though, that drew me to the show anyway. Both serve as bite-sized capsules of both the best and worst traits and habits that have come to define each director. Rodriguez's arc, which naturally features both Antonio Banderas and Salma Hayeck (albeit in short cameos) is a middle ground of sorts between Spy Kids and Planet Terror. It's part kid-focused mayhem and part pulpy, black, gross-out trauma; an enthusiastic, if shallow, ride. Tarantino's adventurous final chapter is more dialog driven, with the director (of course) playing the leading role. Like a caricature of himself, he spends a good ninety percent of the scene spewing pop culture references and jazzy one-liners before the whole drama culminates in a jolting, blunt burst of adrenaline. Overall, Four Rooms is a mixed bag, and apart from the Tarantino chapter, none of the acts stand up particularly well. While fans of the director will no doubt love Quentin's arc, it's short enough that it would probably be just as easily - and effectively - viewed on YouTube or Vimeo. "},{"Title":"Uneven but has its moments of awesome","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Short story anthologies can often suffer from being only as strong as their weakest link. This fact almost destroys Four Rooms, an anthology seemingly organized by Tarantino picking some of his favourite up-and-comers of his generation at the time. Allison Anders and Alexandre Rockwell has since faded into obscurity, but two of the directors on the bill, El Mariachi's Robert Rodriguez and the man himself, Quentin Tarantino, are now two of my personal favourite working directors. Four Rooms has too many weaknesses to fully recommend, but the final two segments almost fully redeem it.The stories are mostly unconnected, save the presence of Tim Roth's Ted the bellhop character. As such, each segment should be reviewed individually.The movie opens with Anders' The Missing Ingredient. A coven of witches convene in the honeymoon suite with a cauldron and nudity at their disposal, attempting to revive a fallen comrade. When one of them fails to obtain their sacrifice of semen, she must get it from the only man in sight...the bellhop.This segment is by all means godawful. The only good thing I can even say about it is that it makes the next one look good in comparison. Ione Sky as the main witch has that girl-next-door look to her essential to her role, and is perhaps the only good thing about the segment. Madonna has a nothing role with an annoying goth daughter, who seems like she should have had a more important role but is instead throwaway. Of the other witches, only Lili Taylor is memorable in any way. The effects used are right out of Who Framed Roger Rabbit, and don't fit at all with the rest of the film. If you ignore this segment, the movie is likely all the better for it.Rockwell's piece, The Wrong Man, has a very interesting setup, but fails to be consistent. Ted is given the wrong room number to deliver ice to, and ends up in the hands a gun-toting jealous husband (an excellent David Proval), who has his wife gagged up and is smoking out the man named Theodore she's been sleeping with.The segment definitely has its moments, such as Ted yelling for help out of a bathroom window or Proval's gun-waving antics, but it digresses a little too much. A heart attack twist at the end is a major groaner, and Tim Roth hams it up far too much in his role here. The music is also quite horribly used. Not nearly as bad as the first part, but The Wrong Man doesn't add much to the movie.The saving grace comes in Rodriguez's The Misbehavers, the direct precursor to Spy Kids. A smooth Spanish thug (a hilarious Antonio Banderas) wishes to attend a party with his wife, and pays Ted $500 to keep an eye on his children and make sure they don't misbehave. Through Vapo-Rub and dead bodies, of all things, Ted has his work cut out for him.The Misbehavers is actually the high point of the entire film. The ending is simply hilarious, the setup is very well detailed. And, unlike the cleaner Spy Kids movies, its pretty damn dark. Banderas is absolutely excellent, as are the children.This leads to the final story, Tarantino's The Man from Hollywood. Fed up with the crazy night, Ted calls his boss and complains that he's quitting. A call comes in from the penthouse, and he is convinced by her that he must fill their request, as an important customer from Hollywood is staying there. Ted caves and finds himself in the middle of one of the most eccentric bets straight out of Hitchcock.While not as memorable as The Misbehavors, Tarantino's bit is very entertaining. It has that traditional Tarantino swagger. Tarantino himself plays the man from Hollywood, making the dialogue a little more annoying but at the same time all the more stylish. Marisa Tomei is excellent in her short role. And Bruce Willis has a cameo. Whats not the love? The ending is simply amazing as well.The only thing left to address is Tim Roth, the most uneven part of the whole picture. As the only character in all stories, being under four different directors must be difficult to maintain consistency. As such, Tim Roth gives us two horrible performances (The Missing Ingredient and The Wrong Man), one brilliant one (The Misbehavors) and one very strong one (Man from Hollywood). While his 50s-sitcom performance in Missing Ingredient fits in with the general badness of that segment, his performance is arguably the worst part of The Wrong Man. His timing in The Misbehavors is the stuff of legend, as is his role at the end of Man from Hollywood.If you switch on halfway through, Four Rooms is a delightful little hodgepodge movie. Its a shame two poor segments distract from that. For simplicity, here's all four rated individuallyThe Missing Ingredient 10% The Wrong Man 30% The Misbehavors 90% The Man from Hollywood 85%At least you leave it feeling good, despite sitting through some drudge at first. "},{"Title":"Frustation behind every door.","Date":"19 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Ted is a nerdy bellhop on New Years Eve and he ends up in four rooms with four separate stories. Hence the title of the movie. Anyway, he gives away something in the first room with witches and gets a little tied up in the second room. By the time he gets done with some kids in the third room he has really lost his cool and wants to quit. But there is a fourth room and once Ted has left, his frustration is gone. Ted is then on his geeky little way.It's a cute little movie and I think that I like the third room the best because it really takes Ted from a polite bellhop to a screaming mad man. He's keeping his cool throughout the movie until the boy and girl push his limits of sanity. By that point hospitality is out the window and he turns into who he really his. "},{"Title":"Only watch the last half!!!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  About 45 minutes into this film, I was convinced that this would be the WORST film that I had ever seen.  Quite simply, the first two segments of this movie are hideously bad.  Fortunately, things got better with the last two parts, but then again, it's not like things could have gotten worse. The segment by Robert Rodriguez was nothing great, but it was good enough to get me out of the coma that I was put in by the first two parts.  The final story was easily the best in this mess, as Tarantino shines yet again. SO...if you are going to take the time to watch this film, PLEASE skip the first half.  But if you do watch the whole movie, I think that you'll find that the coolness of the last half is still not enough to overcome the disaster of epic proportions that is the first half.  "},{"Title":"Comedy?","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Maybe other people appreciate this, but if you are a fan of Zucker Abram Zucker type films (airplane etc.) or Ben Stiller movies, you won't find much to laugh about in this film. I didn't find anything save for (spoiler) the finger cutting off scene at the end, which is a twist on the way movies usually do things. Even that was not laugh out loud funny, more funny in the sense of We are in on QT's joke about the film industry. Big Deal.This movie is worth it's 5.9 rating, i.e. it is below average. Don't bother. It must have gotten that rating for the elements of drama that it had, it seems that great comedies such as Austin Powers series etc. can't push more than mid 7s without having an element of social significance or drama as Dr Strangelove might have. "},{"Title":"A huge disappointment","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Bearing in mind the directors and cast involved, Four Rooms was a huge disappointment. Tim Roth gives a bizarre central performance which, rather than coming across as quirky, is simply irritating. Robert Rodriguez' slapstick section is best by a mile, followed by Tarantino's contribution, but the rest is extremely unfunny and rather tedious. One to avoid, unfortunately. "},{"Title":"Review","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is an excellent film... Looking at the credits the usual gang are all listed- Tarantino, Rodriguez, Bender, Banderas, Roth....As the name might suggest after a brief intro the film is split into four stories (each in a different room). The stories act independently of each other, although if you watch/listen carefully you should be able to spot how they interlink, (for instance; a background phone call made during the misbehaver's). The character who moves between all the stories is played by Tim Roth; The Bellhop. Roth is working on New years eve in the hotel as the bellhop. Throughout the night for one reason or another Roth is called into each of the four rooms and so each story begins. If you are a fan of films which usually involve Tarantino, Rodriguez and Bender, or if you just like to see something refreshing and different once in a while then you will like this. If on the other hand you need great special effects, and actors who can't act, then you probably won't enjoy 'Four Rooms'The dialogue is pretty intelligent, and the acting is excellent, although perhaps not to everyone's taste. Tim Roths character seems to be a bit of a tribute to The Bell Boy which is mentioned in the film (in true Tarantino style, who usually references other films in his own). Tim Roth is bang on as the Bellhop and I couldn't think of anyone better to play the role.The hardest part for me, was deciding which story I liked the best. The first was light hearted and hilarious. Admittedly I didn't enjoy the second story as much, it was a little slow. The style reminded me of the cut scene from Pulp Fiction with Esmeralda and Butch after the fight - it was interesting, good, but slowed the whole film down. The third story was much more attention grabbing and constantly had me cringing waiting for the worst to happen. The final story was witty, pretty fast moving, and when the purpose of Tarantino's bet is revealed you find yourself moving closer to the edge of your seat until the credits role.Favourite bits- The cheeky dialogue in the first story (The missing ingredient) Roth telling the misbehaver's how his baby sitter used to make sure he stayed in bed with his eyes closed. Tarantino's bet and the final conclusion! "}{"Title":"Dreck....check me out of this hotel","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is dreadful from start to finish. Even one possibly funny line asked of the old, retiring bellhop, if he had ever worked with the stars - his answer I once took Rin Tin Tin out for a s**t just seemed crass...had it been finished with crap or a dump would be a bit more funny. Profanity is not always the way to go - which is one reason I find so many modern comedies lacking - just profanity in disguise of humor. The other really annoying facet of the movie, and it would have been funnier played straight, was bellhop's Tim Roth dancing around all the time and playing the fool,like the rubbber-band man from the recent Staples commercials. Do yourself a favor, pass on this calamitous collage of putrid patische and rent California Suite or My Favorite Wife for a hotel comedy of higher caliber. "},{"Title":"I'm in a situation I can't begin to explain.","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've decided to review each segment separately, this may take a while so if you can't be bothered please feel free to move on, but I'm trying to save you time and money.Segment#1 The Missing IngredientAka this biggest piece of sh*t I've ever had the (dis)pleasure of viewing. If you want to see how not to make a short story then watch this segment, it's badly timed, badly judged, badly acted - just plain bad. I gave up watching the film on the first attempt because this was just awful, why the hell did they cast Madonna, avoid at all costs. (1/10)Segment#2 The Wrong ManThings don't get much better in Rockwell's piece, the cinematography and production design are nice but besides that the entire thing is just dull, the plot is just too deeply structured to work on this small running time. More threatening than comedic; let's move on. (3/10)Segment#3 The MisbehaversBelieve what others have written, this IS the reason to watch this movie, brilliant non-stop hilarity as Tim Roth's Ted the Bellboy is left in charge of two brat-ish troublesome kids. Rodriguez has a great handle on the mixture of slapstick farce and black comedy that's very satisfying. Things can only get better... (9/10)Segment#4 The Man From Hollywood ...Except they don't. Tarantino's segment is good enough, lots of experiments with primary colours and long stedicam tracking shots, but you can't help thinking the film is just pandering to Tarantino's ego (he play's the biggest star in Hollywood). But the ending works well and the tension built is fantastic. (8/10)To finish, Four Rooms would have been better if they had scraped the first two monstrosities (Anders and Rockwell where riding the coattails of Rodriguez and Tarantino anyway and have no where near as much talent) and kept the film as an hour-long TV special. If you must watch it, fast forward the first two segments, you'll save a lot of time and effort...Overall rating 4/10  "},{"Title":"You need to know Quentin Tarantino to watch this movie","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" 4 directors, 4 segments. If you watch this movie, you will have to crunch the urge to cancel watching, for a good 30mins. You have to work your way through some complete weirdo scripts and acting. The two first segments, really don't need to be in this movie, but are worth watching, for the balance you then get by watching the last 2 segments.Quentin Tarantino... well hold on, let me back up a bit. If any of you know about Joe Satriani, super guitarist, and his G3 project, Q.T. is doing what Joe does with those G3 tours. Joe Satriani invites 2 of the worlds best rock-guitarists to do this G3 tour with him. -and i mean great awesome guitarists. Then he lets them play some insanely good solos, and then Joe takes over and runs circles around them, playing, and sounding, 10x better than them.Quentin did exactly that with this movie, intentionally or not. Q.T. sort of let's those 3 other directors 'borrow' his gear and set, to let them have a go at his filming style. And then Quentin finishes it all off with a stellar performance, both as an actor, and script writer, and of course director, that leaves you thinking wow, it was really really worth not giving up halfway through this movieTHE END. "},{"Title":"Three (or maybe even two?) rooms...","Date":"2 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's hard to give a good grade to the movie, that's good in the half of it.'Four Rooms' is a story of one night in the life of the belly hop, the New year's Eve, which turns out to be one of the most unexpected nights in his life. He ends up being involved in four different stories as the night goes on, every one of which is like a single short film.The first room (MISSING INGREDIENT) starring Madonna is an part-erotic story about a coven of witches trying to resurrect a goddess. They're missing one ingredient, though. Pretty bad, actually... One of the very few good things about it is Tim Roth. It had a potential to be more sexy too... 4/10In the second room (THE WRONG MAN) Ted, the Bellhop finds a woman tied into a chair, and a man that turns out to be her husband holding him at a gunpoint. Good acting, some funny, dark humour dialogues and scenes. Much better than the first one, but still not satisfying. 5/10In the third room (THE MISBEHAVERS), Ted gets involved in baby-sitting two children, of Mexican-gangster-looking-a-like Antonio Banderas. ROdriguez is directing. Banderas is awesome in his role, lots of (dark) humour and crazy events. Very good! Lots of fun! 8/10The fourth room (A MAN FROM Hollywood) is the best one. Directed by Quentin Tarantino, and starring himself and Bruce Willis tells a story about a crazy bet, our Ted gets involved in. Tarantino once again proves his mad skills for writing witty dialogues, great acting and simply amazing dark humour. Strong 9/10As you can see, the further into the film, the room is better, but it's still hard to give an overall grade for a movie that included amazing Tarantino short, great Rodriguez one and two very decent, and even bad (the 1st one) ones. As the violence, one of Tarantino's trademarks is involved there isn't surprisingly almost any. And the pervasive language is the worse in the first two episodes I have to say.Two good things that connect all four rooms, are the music and Tim Roth, in a very weird but great performance.I hate to say but the overall grade has to be 6+Rent it, for the third and fourth room! "},{"Title":"At least it has Tim Roth","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a rather interesting experiment, and it could have actually worked if some of the material was a bit better. I really could have done without the first story, which somehow involves Madonna and her slumber party friends (or her coven, let's play ball) dressing up weird and saying vague unfunny stuff about sperm. It also has some really annoying animated effects. Not a good thing to open with, perhaps it's done to lower expectations or something. The second story turns out to be pretty good (by comparison at least), it's really entertaining and has a good twist to it. It makes no sense that the bellboy would get to the wrong room given the lights on his control panel, but that's just details. Then come the parts the audience showed up for, the ones directed by people they've ever heard of. Robert Rodriguez gives us a rather good segment, which gets better towards the ending. Nothing special though, decent and nothing more. Tarantino's is by far the best segment, and involves some of his typical situation comedy and dialogues. The outcome is also brilliant and unexpected. But what I like most about this movie are the pieces that tie it all together, which have a neurotic Tim Roth acting neurotic. Seeing him acting out his bizarre character is the most fun to be found in this movie, it's a really cool kind of over-acting. This thing shows promise, but especially that first room is embarrassingly weak. "},{"Title":"A wild mess, not always successful or funny but oddly watchable.","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Ted the Bellhop (Tim Roth) is Working overtime in a old-fashioned L.A. Hotel in New Year's Eve. He meets all of sorts odd-balls in that unforgettable, strangle night for better or worse.This is actually a compilation of four short films are linked by the point of view of Ted. This could have been first-rate but sadly it's not. At times, it's embarrassingly unfunny and wastes a talented cast. But it's not a total waste of time, thanks to the last two tales.The first story The Missing Ingredient is the worst, Written and Directed by Allison Andres (Gas Food Lodging, Grace to my Heart, Mi Vida Loca). It's about a coven of witches (Sammi Davis, Amanda deCadent, Valeria Golino, Madonna, Ione Skye, Lili Taylor & Alicia Witt) are trying to resurrected an wrongly accused beautiful witch from the pass. These witches have everything but a man's sperm to make it work! One of the witches tries to seduced Ted before it's too late.The second story The Wrong Man is merely OK, Written and Directed by Alexandre Rockwell (In the Soup). Ted accidentally goes to the wrong room to bring ice, where a mysterious man (David Proval) holds him at gunpoint... thinking he has seduced his attractive wife (Jennifer Beals).The third story The Mishehavers is actually the best. Written and Directed by Robert Rodriguez (Spy Kids Trilogy, The Faculty, Sin City). Ted decides to babysit two spoiled kids (Tomlyn Tomita and Danny Verduzco) for $300 for a rich paranoid man (Antonio Banderas) and his wife (Lana Mc Kissack). Ted has to check every half-hour in their room if they don 't misbehaved but there's strange smell in that room that becomes stronger by the minute.The fourth story The Man from Hollywood is actually pretty good. Written and Directed by Oscar-Winner Quentin Tarantino (Jackie Brown, Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs). Ted is called for the biggest suite in the hotel to served some strange people (Jennifer Beals, Paul Calderon and uncredited Bruce Willis) and a hot tempered Hollywood director (Tarantino) but they dare Ted to play a dangerous game for quick cash.Roth's performance is different in all four tales but he's way over the top in the first two stories. His comedic performances worked best in the last two stories. First story, despite attractive ladies... it is really boring and inane. Second story is watchable for the wrong reasons, although is amusing to see Beals talking dirty in some scenes. Third story is nearly perfect, everything works in this morbid tale. Black comedy is dead-on and so are the performances. Fourth story is fun to watch Tarantino, who was on top of the world for film-making in the 1990's and it ends with a great gag.Four Rooms is a curio to say the least. Back in the Christmas Season of 1995, when it was released by Miramax Films were expecting an box office success but instead it turned to a independent feature flop. Die Hard filmmakers fans of Anders, Rockwell, Rodriguez and Tarantino will be more kind to this very flawed feature. if you are truly curious, skip the first two stories by watching the last two segments by Rodriguez and Tarantino. Because you won't miss anything at all. Roth's performance is truly a mixed bag and so is this movie. Watch closely for Salma Hayek in the third tale and some familiar faces in between the segments. (** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"The Good, The Bad, And The Strange","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" i like strange movies, and in the case of four rooms, it's both good and bad.The scene before the beginning credits was funny, and a great way to start off a film like this.But then we go to our first room. I must say, it was pretty boring, except for the one part that involved the final ingredient. Personally, it was a drag.The second room was a little better, earns a few chuckles. What i liked about it was it's link to the third room.Ahhh, the third room, now this is where the film really picks up. All i can say is that it was a laugh out loud story, and a brilliant job by everyone involved, especially the little misbehaver's. Antonio Bandera's final line was just amazing.The following part where Ted calls his supervisor is almost just as funny, featuring a wonderful cameo with the great, but always underrated, Kathy Griffin.The final room was a perfect way to end this movie. Shot as a single uncut scene about Ted caught in the middle of an odd bet. Once again, good job by everyone with lots of FU CKS to go around. The End is as swift as a hatchet, and leaves you fairly weirded out, in a good way.To sum it up, this is one of those films that get's better as it goes along and is definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Good for an Evening's Light Entertainment - Holds Together Remarkably Well","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The multiple-director formula has resulted in some of the least coherent films I have ever seen. However, Four Rooms is, improbably, one of the best to employ this approach, despite the marked differences between most of the directors involved. Allison Anders is known mostly for her television work, Quentin Tarantino tends to recycle the same violent and absurdist formula over and over - but he does it well enough, Rodrigues has made some of the most brilliant action/comedies I have seen, and Alexandre Frank is more of a writer than a director - and has made about as many films as Tarantino makes in a couple of years over the last twenty years.Remarkably, Tim Roth, and the nicely focused setting and theme, allow this odd little film to hold together nicely. Roth plays a nervous and jerky and not terribly bright new bellhop in an aging Hollywood hotel, who is about to learn some hard lessons. He gets some advice from the old bellhop he is replacing in the first scene and then begins what might be the most challenging night in anybody's life. First, he is drawn into a coven of witches who are trying to ritually resurrect a woman who died in their hotel room 50 years ago. Then he plays a psycho-sexual game of cat and mouse with a woman in bondage and a gun wielding maniac reminiscent of Dennis Hopper's Frank in Blue Velvet. From this, he goes to a highly profitable gig babysitting the children of jet-setters Antonio Banderas and Lana McKissack, who- though they are just fun-loving smart little kids - make the Addams Family look like the Brady Bunch. Finally, he is sucked into a very dangerous game with Tarantino - a drunken, rich, Hollywood star and his obnoxious, drunken cronies.All of the segments are about equally entertaining, though Rodrigues' was my clear favorite for its cleverness, mythic qualities, and slapstick. The directing and writing are solid, and Tarantino's piece is better-scripted than some of his more popular works.The cinematography is all fairly good, and emphasizes Roth's weirdness very well.Roth's performance is way over-the-top, which seems very appropriate by the time you get about halfway through the film. I was never aware of his physical acting talent, but this film showcases it well. At times, he seems to channel some of the great slapstick artists - especially Chaplin and Harold Lloyd. Nice work Mr. Roth! Recommended for fans of the directors, fans of off-beat comedy, and people looking for absurdity mixed with just a dash of disturbance. "},{"Title":"Goddess Diana, fail you I will. / I was to bring you fresh sperm from my Bill. / I had him erect and his semen would follow. / Alas, I was hot. So hot that I swallowed.","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Now, this just happens to be the wackiest movie I have ever seen. It was actually four movies in one, but it was still over the top.Maybe they should have called it Hotel, je t'aime, as it feature four directors the Grindhouse pair Quenton Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez; Sugar Town and TV director, Allison Anders; and Jennifer Beals ex, Alexandre Rockwell.Beals was in two of the four stories, and the cast list has a lot of favorites. There was Ione Skye showing off her assets as a witch who failed in her mission until Ted the Bellhop (Oscar-nominated Tim Roth - Rob Roy, Planet of the Apes) helped her out. There was Salma Hayak featured on TV. There was a slick Antonio Banderas. There was Marisa Tomei and Bruce Willis. Those are my favorites, and I am sure that many can find their's in those I didn't list. There was even Razzie favorite Madonna as an incestuous mother.A little bit of everything for those with a twisted sense of humor and a broad mind. "},{"Title":"More Of A Pet Project Than True Cinema ...But Still ...","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" An anthology of short films bound by one character is what you'll find in FOUR ROOMS. And all of the shorts are directed by four different directors with decidedly four different styles that overlap one another via Ted the Bellhop (Tim Roth, DARK WATER).It is Ted's first day on the job and it just so happens to be one of the busiest days of the year for the hotel (New Year's Eve). Relieving the old bellhop who'd worked there for fifty years, Ted is given sage advice that eventually falls apart on him (mostly related to sex, accountability, and keeping one's own council.) The first episode is entitled The Missing Ingredient. A clutch of witches inhabits a hotel room and they try to stir up incantations to revive a lost sexual sisters. Sammi Davis, Amanda De Cadenet, Valeria Golino, Ione Skye, Lili Taylor, Alicia Witt, and sex-pot Madonna round out the cast here. All of the witches brings a required item to the resurrection ceremony ...except one. She forgot to bring the sperm of a young man to add to their concoction. Enter Ted the Bellhop who finds his manliness much in need. This was the weakest of the four stories, failing to develop the tale or any of its characters, thus making the entire thing fall flat on its cinematic butt (even though there were plenty of nice butts and boobs in it). SEX AND THE CITY director Allison Anders misses his mark.The next episode is The Wrong Man. Sigfried (David Proval) and his wife Angela (Jennifer Beals) are having an interesting New Year's Eve playing a rather kinky game of tie-up-the-wife- and-see-what-happens. Ted is brought into their midst and the sparks start to fizzle. Is Sigfried gay? Is Angela psychotic? Funny thanks to David Proval's history as a film bad-guy, this one had potential thanks to director Alexandre Rockwell.The third installment is The Misbehavers. A husband and wife played by Antonio Banderas (TAKE THE LEAD) and Tamlyn Tomita plan to spend a romantic evening out but have to take their two misbehaving kids with them. Or do they? Enter Ted the Bellhop again. They hire him to watch over the boy and girl while they're away. Porno channels, a dirty syringe, flames, and a dead hooker all await the husband and wife upon their return. More of a slapschtick homage to The Keystone Cops, this over-the-top episode was directed by SIN CITY director Robert Rodriguez &#151; who loves to direct Antonio Banderas (they worked together on El Mariachi and Desperado.) Probably one of the more laugh-out-loud endings of the four.The final short is The Man From Hollywood directed by and starring Quentin Tarantino (KILL BILL). At the end of his shift as well as his wits, Ted is summoned to the penthouse suite where he gets involved with a wager between two very drunk Hollywood types. Norman (Paul Calderon) and Chester Rush (Tarantino) have a bet going that Norman can't light his cigarette lighter ten times in a row without it failing. If Norman succeeds, he'll get Chester's cherry and expensive car. If he doesn't, Norm will lose a finger. But none of his friends in the room want to be responsible for doing hacking it off should Norman lose the bet. Enter Ted again. Offered a large stack of $100 bills if he'll do it, Ted numbly picks up a meat clever and...But we won't give away the ending.Seeming more like a pet project than anything of note, this 1995 offering is entertaining but sorely bland. The Jerry Lewis antics of Tim Roth are admirable (Lewis also starred in a film entitled THE BELLBOY, 1960) but the homage to comedy of days gone by felt forced or missing.There are still laughs to be found but don't expect too many chuckles. "}{"Title":"I wish I could give this a 10","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" But i can't simply because of the first two segments.Quentin Tarantino & Robert Rodriguez are the two reasons that this movie is even worth watching.Robert Rodriguez throws his stylistic direction around very nicely, the cuts are clean and the comedy is good amongst the characters.Now Mr. Tarantino does another one of his classic dialouge driven pieces and it's great. The whole idea of his segment is great, the entire scene builds up to a really awesome incident and leaves Ted or Theodore a little richer...watch it and you'll get it.But anyways watch Rodriguez's and Tarantino's segments and you'll feel that you hadn't completely wasted an hour an a half.7 out of ten solely based off of the Two fine Director's i mentioned. "},{"Title":"Half no good, half great... worth checking out.","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I had very mixed opinions of this movie. The first two segments (or rooms) were quite disappointing, The Missing Ingredient in specific. It made very little sense and seemed all over the place. The other, The Wrong Man, was also poorly written and didn't make much sense. Both segments had their moments, but overall were just too random and weird, and tried too hard.The last two segments, The Misbehaviors and The Man from Hollywood (and Tim Roth Himself) were by far what redeemed this movie from being crap. Not surprisingly, they were Quentin Tarantino's and Robert Rodriquez's. The Misbehaviors was freaking hilarious in all aspects (especially when the find the dead hooker in the bed and Tim Roth pukes while screaming... couldn't stop laughing), and The Man From Hollywood was funny and intriguing enough to always listen for what happens next. And the very end of the movie couldn't have been written any better&#133; one only Tarantino could deliver. Just for fun, after seeing this movie I tried lighting my Zippo 10 times in a row.The soundtrack to the movie is pretty awesome as well. Combustible Edison did the vast majority of the music, and, although quite eccentric, fits with the style and scenes of the movie quite well. I actually bought the soundtrack for the song Vertigogo, but there are many more good ones on there too.Overall, this movie is half good, half bad, but the entire cast, the soundtrack, and the overall strangeness of the film bump it up to a solid 7. I'd recommend renting it, but probably not buying it. "},{"Title":"rooms with many views","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I seem to recall that when Four Rooms came out, it was critically and commercially derided. When I saw it a few months later, I actually thought that it was pretty well done. I knew that Quentin Tarantino was involved in the making, so I could safely assume that there was an element of sleaze in the movie.Well, the movie is likely to blow anyone away, just in terms of how far they go. Portraying bellhop Ted (Tim Roth) and his loony experiences on New Year's Eve while waiting on several people in a hotel, they blow everything out of the water. The first two segments are pretty lowbrow the first one portrays a witches' coven and the second one portrays a psychopath who thinks that Ted had sex with his wife.But when we get to the third segment, that's where the movie really takes off. Ted has to watch the children of a slick Mexican guy named Man (Antonio Banderas). After a few incidents, Man comes back and finds the room in the most mind-blowing scene imaginable. And, the last segment. Ted, in a totally frenetic state, goes to a room where several Hollywood guys are having a discussion (with as many curse words as possible). What happens at the end of that segment...well, let me just tell you that no one sees that coming! All in all, people who think that the movie didn't go anywhere obviously missed the point. I don't know for certain whether this movie was just an excuse to be crazy, but it sure seemed like that. You're sure to have fun watching it. Also starring Madonna, Valeria Golino, Jennifer Beals, Salma Hayek, and even Quentin Tarantino in the final segment playing a Hollywood type. "},{"Title":"Two rooms are good, one mediocre, and one super cheesy.","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The entire movie takes place on New Years Eve and New Years Morning. It consists of four major story lines that take place one after another in four separate rooms with some in-betweens to tie them all together. The character that connects the four stories is Ted the Bellhop who's a main character in each story, played by Tim Roth. Each of the four story lines has it's own writer/director. Tarantino puts his writing and directing genius at work on the finale scene, (the fourth room). Robert Rodriguez has the funniest and possibly the best and most memorable scene that has Ted having to babysit a couple of misbehavers while the parents are out on the town. The way the movie starts out, with the first two stories (or rooms), might make you want to turn the movie off. But, don't. It's worth getting to Rodriguez and Tarantino's cappers and Tim Roth's performance should keep you busy for the first half. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun times four","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Not really knowing what to expect, I was pleasantly surprised by Four rooms. The stories are very different from each other and you can recognize the typical styles of the directors. Tim Roth plays his part brilliantly, being a kind of clumsy piccolo with a British accent when he's angry. His character fits perfectly in all of the stories. The rest of the cast is also quite good. I loved Madonna as the sleazy bitch she played, which is off course how she got famous in her early years. And, I was actually surprised to see Bruce Willis in the small role he played. Although the movie seems a bit of a b-movie now and then, it's just so much fun! I really love it! Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"2 good stories out of 4","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There is a mild spoiler in the second paragraph.I realize that I'm not the first person to point this out, but half of this movie really sucked, while the other half was great. There was also another part of this movie, in which Ted (the Bellhop) calls some woman on the telephone and summarizes the movie up until that point in a mildly comedic manner. I choose to ignore that part since it serves no purpose.The first story in the first room in this movie was terrible (except there was some joke about lesbian incest involving Madonna, and the bellhop's subtle reaction is hilarious), and I can't even remember the details of the second because it was so bad. After these it gets awesome.During the third room part, I was laughing almost incessantly. It was brilliant. The kids were just hilarious, throughout. In the last skit, the typical Tarantino style was evident and it was very enjoyable, almost at the level of Pulp Fiction.So, I would recommend renting this movie, and skipping past the first half. There is a bit of a crossover between the second and fourth rooms, but it's not really important. "},{"Title":"Solid Tarantino work","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When the film first started I was a bit worried that it would become boring very quickly as the main character is very hard to like. He hops around like a complete moron and is 100% bizarre. One of those people you could never even try to have a normal conversation with. However, each of the four big scenes got better and better as one moved to the next. The first room was Hot...the second was mysterious, the third was hilarious, and the fourth may just be the best scene i've ever witnessed in film. It was sheer Tarantino brilliance. The eye candy that is Jennifer Beals just adds to the magic. Watch it. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Rooms 1 and 2 are acceptable, 3 and 4 are SO funny!","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Four Rooms is a quite unusual dark comedy it features Tim Roth as Ted the bellhop, who has to work at New Year's Eve. The movie chronicles his experiences in four particular rooms...The first two episodes (written and directed by Allison Anders and Alexandre Rockwell), in which the protagonist is involved in a bizarre ritual and subsequently held hostage by a psycho, are decently acted by Lili Taylor and Jennifer Beals, but apart from that there's no particular reason to watch them, in fact after the first viewing they're totally skippable; the other two, on the other hand, are good in The Misbehavers (by Robert Rodriguez), the absolute best of the four stories, Ted has to deal with Antonio Banderas'nightmarish children, while in The Man from Hollywood (by Quentin Tarantino) he helps Chester Rusch (QT himself, who's enjoyable, but outacted by everyone else in the room) with a macabre bet...Rodriguez and Tarantino's segments are stuffed with black humor, extreme characters and ace acting (Tim Roth is terrific as the increasingly hysterical Ted) which make Four Rooms a very interesting film. It may not be as good as, say, Pulp Fiction, but it still is good fun, trust me...7,5/10 "},{"Title":"i thought it was OK","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I only saw this movie because i heard that Quentin Tarantino was co-directing it, and now that I saw it, I'm not disappointed that I did. Although it starts off slow with the lame witches story, I was immediately entertained as soon as the story that Antonio Banderas starred in, where the pesky two children constantly bother Tim Roth's character. I found it amusing and even grotesque when they showed the corpse of a woman under the mattress.I was especially entertained with the final segment of the film, with Quentin Tarantino. I love all of his films and knew that this one would be nothing short of a masterpiece.I would recommend this film to any Quentin Tarantino lover or anyone in the mood for a strange series of events. "},{"Title":"here's my thoughts","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  1everyone badmouths the first segment....i'll join them...it sux...its totally boring and just does not go with the rest of the film 2everyone also badmouths the second segment also...i wont join them...i think that the wrong man was the 2nd best in the movie, it has plenty of twists and turns and never a moment of boredom 3the best by far just blows the others away with the comedy...the ending made me laugh till my sides hurt 4 this one was pretty good, the ending was best, but this one cant top numbers 2 and 3 the end "}{"Title":"One Bad, One Good, One Great, One Disappointing","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Four Rooms (1995) Starring Tim Roth and Marisa Tomei 7/10The Missing Ingredient Starring Madonna Written and Directed by Allison Anders 3/10I was absolutely turned off by this segment. Granted, it provided me with my daily dose of... er... toplessness, but as a cinematic endeavor, fails on every level. Furthermore, it doesn't fit in with the rest of the film. That horrible stepchild everybody wants to forget. My advice rent the DVD, skip this segment.The Wrong Man Starring David Proval and Jennifer Beals Written and Directed by Alexandre Rockwell 7/10The Wrong Man really picked up the movie. It was well-written and well-directed. The themes, while entertaining to me, might be a little too much for some people, but for me, it worked. Good job, Alex.The Misbehavers Starring Antonio Banderas Written and Directed by Robert Rodriguez 10/10Once again, Robert Rodriguez proves he is quite an accomplished filmmaker. The Misbehavers was hilarious, and the best segment in the movie by far. Antonio Banderas was just great. The kids were funny, and the themes, while a little bit grown up for the kids in the segment, worked very well. Robert Rodriguez, you are awesome.The Man From Hollywood Starring Quentin Tarantino, Bruce Willis, and Jennifer Beals Written and Directed by Quentin Tarantino 7/10As big of a Tarantino fan as I am, I found this room to be quite disappointing. The direction, as usual for Tarantino, was absolutely perfect, and I suppose that is what makes the scene respectable... That and Bruce Willis' appearance in the scene, which was also very good. The ending was perfect as well. But the scene itself dragged on too long, I wasn't interested all that much, and I expected a little more from something written by Tarantino. I really liked the ending though. Maybe if they cut out the first half of the scene, and just got to the point, The Man From Hollywood would have received a higher score.In all, Four Rooms is a very interesting film, but it falls short of the greatness A Band Apart has brought us. It may have fared a little better without the first scene. I like the movie, but I expected a bit more from it. I feel it really is worth seeing for the Robert Rodriguez segment and the end of the Tarantino segment.Smitty's evaluation 7/10 - Not for everybody, but most will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Simply a great film that is destined to be under-rated","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is so diverse and comic at the same time that it makes it a great movie to watch especially for all the Tarantino and Rodriguez fans such as myself. Tim Roth is an amazing actor and his character the always polite and funny and sometimes psychotic bellhop he plays is brilliant. Of course you must also admire the fantastic cast such as Madonna, Banderas, Bruce Willis, Tarantino, etc as a true masterpiece.What is the most intriguing fact is the comments i've heard of this film as being a waste of time and a total disaster, can't truly be justified when you admire the coming together most of all of two demented, twisted but very imaginative minds such as the ones of Tarantino and Rodriguez in such an epic described as the man from hollywood and the misbehavers.This film is a beauty of directing, screen play and acting and shouldn't be judged only on superficial simplicity as it is more complex than you think if you really wanna get the full gist of it.    "},{"Title":"Watch it all.  Twice.","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is fantastic.  It's on the list of my top ten.  Yes, the first two rooms aren't /as/ funny as the last two, but by the end of the movie, you understand that the night had to start off slowly for it to end as outrageously as it did.  Though the coven may not be the funniest room, nor the most bizarre, you have to admit, as Ted says, that it's still a pretty odd way to start off a night at work.  That room sets the tone of the evening, and the film, for poor Ted.   "},{"Title":"Good, in parts skip the first half","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I wanted to see this film because of the involvement of Robert Rodriguez, Quentin Tarantino and Tim Roth.  I also wanted to see why it seemed to be getting a majority of negative reviews.Roth immediately draws your attention as the bell-hop, and keeps it throughout.  His acting is definately the best part of this film, and his quirky mannerisms(the twitching fingers, and the voice which periodically lapsed into a strong cockney accent)are highlighted effectively. The film itself is impossible to judge as a whole, as the four segments, the rooms, are all completely different.The first room, 'The Missing Ingredient', was easily the worst.  The plot was insignificant, and basically the entire story was an excuse for gratuitous sex.  Tim Roth, in this case, was the only redeeming feature.The second room, though marginally better, still appeared entirely pointless, and again the writer/director's use of crude sexual references in an attempt to maintain a story became slightly disturbing.The third room was directed by Robert Rodriguez, and was significantly better than the first two.  In it, Rodriguez maintained his directorial style, and the subject matter (of two misbehaving children) comes as a great relief from the first half of the film; in fact, it would have worked much better as a short, independant of the rest of this film.  The final moments of this room (the still view of the room in its dilapidated state and Banderas' consequent question, 'Did they misbehave?') provide a final hilarious scene, and an apt ending to this part of the film.The final room was written and directed by Tarantino.  Even though I am a fan of his other films, this disappointed me.  In its own right, it wasn't bad, however it gave the appearance of serving only one purpose, as a vehicle for his ego.  Cast in the lead role of this room, Tarantino dominated throughout.  This is most obvious in the beginning, which we see from Ted's point of view, purely a close-up of Tarantino's face.  Apart from this, and the constant (and often annoying) sense of improvisation that his dialogue delivers, this was another good short of sorts, and stood out alongside Rodriguez's directing and Roth's acting as the only parts of the film worth viewing.Without the first 2 rooms 8/10 Overall 6/10               "},{"Title":"I caught most of this again last weekend...","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I have seen this film numerous times and for some reason I find it quite amusing.  I enjoy the last two rooms the best, but actually the other two are not that bad.  I did notice one thing that sticks out in my mind because it was the first time I noticed this and I need to find it on cable to confirm, but it seemed like the final room (Tarantino's) went a good 10 minutes without a single cut.  If that is the case that shot is better than any of DePalma's continuous shots or Anderson's opening sweeping shot in Boogie Nights, because it isn't one short scene with people co-mingling with the star or the camera hitting the spot and having the actors start, this was all dialogue with the director in front of the camera delivering the lines.  Given Tarantino's performance is quite wooden, but just think about that for a moment.  That is very impressive.Besides the amazing shot, Roth, Willis, and Banderas all shine with their parts.  Alicia Witt gives the lone strong performance from the opening room.  Roth carries the second room with help from Jennifer Beals.  The entire cast from room 3 is excellent with Banderas and Roth standing out.  The final room seems like a film exercise.  I am pretty sure that the shot is continuous from when Roth opens the door until they show the magazine.  Roth does his part again with help from an uncredited Willis and Beals again. This movie is almost exactly the same tone and style of Pulp Fiction, only with more cheese and I think it is great for what it is.  Those that like that style will enjoy this film, those that did not find Pulp Fiction to be funny will not.  It's that simple. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth is the greatest!!!","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was recommended by a student in my film class.  I told her that I was a Tim Roth fan after I saw Reservoir Dogs and she suggested I see this movie.  It is definitely a weird movie.  The four segments all differ greatly.  The first two, I could live without.  They are mediocre, and not too interesting.  Roth, however, makes them funny.  He is very animated, and he just cracked me up.  The last two bits are very funny. I was laughing out loud while I was watching them.  This movie I would recommend to someone who wants to laugh at some very crazy situations.  I really liked this movie, and it made me an even bigger Tim Roth fan. "},{"Title":"absolutely hilarious","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  a great cast and a great plot. Banderas is perfect and while Tarantino sucks at acting in big roles he plays perfectly with Willis and Calderon. Rumors are, this is what pulp fiction was supposed to be like. if you're in to silly movies with great acting go rent this. "},{"Title":"Can't get bored with the shifting directorial mood.","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This flick is a composite of 4 different stories, directed by 4 different directors, taking place in 4 different hotel rooms (hence the title) in a hotel on New Years Eve, where apparently the only help is a harried bellboy, played masterfully by Tim Roth.  Roth is hilarious, he does on the brink of a nervous breakdown very well.  The first story is a bit slow and silly, about a coven of witches (Madonna plays a rather slinky, seductive, bitchy witch quite well--go figure).  The second story, a husband and wife play a sadistic sexual fantasy game, and the poor bellboy becomes unwillingly involved.  This story plays like pulp, and is pretty well executed.  The third story, and my personal favorite, is about two misbehaving children that the bellboy gets bribed, but sort of blackmailed into babysitting by their intimidating father, played excellently by Antonio Banderas.  This one was directed by Robert Rodriguez, and it shows.  He is wonderful at getting children to act as naturally as if they were play acting at home.  The two kids who play the misbehavers are hilarious.  The fourth and final story, directed by Quentin Tarantino, totally has the Tarantino flavor.  Roth has a large role to play in this story, and the end of it is so smoothly executed, I expected Roth to don his Reservoir Dogs black and white suit and tie and strut out of the scene. I believe the reason I found this movie so entertaining is that with 4 different directors, the mood constantly shifts.  It's pretty hard to get bored.  "},{"Title":"Thank the lord the Tim Roth.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a masterpiece of eccentricity and humor.  A film of four different situations one bellhop must face on his first night of the job doesn't exactly seem like it could make a motion picuture length film... but trust me, it can.  Tim Roth, the main character is astounding as the wonderfully frantic bellhop (who can be sauve one moment and throwing up all over himself the next) that must encounter witches, sadistic lovers, children from hell, and (my personal favorite) a group of drunk men that are in need of entertainment...  This film will be enjoyed by those of us who enjoy outlandish comedy and a wee bit of slapstick.  ***Just incase I am missing my opportunity to say a brief message to the light of my life, if you are out there reading this Mr. Roth, I adore you.*** "},{"Title":"Amazingly funny","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is almost too funny for words. It kept me laughing about it for ages after, and still does.To start off with, Tim Roth who plays Ted the bellhop, is fantastic! The way he changes from being posh and upper class one minute and then the next minute uses his real voice, all slang and cockney. His character also seems to have a nervous jitter about him which will leave you laughing for ages.Next, the first segment, The Missing Ingredient - While it is funny, it's the least ammusing out of the four segments. The story of how the witches are trying to unfreeze their goddess is ammusing and the little rhyme that the witch Eva recites  Goddess Diana, fail you I will/ I was to bring you fresh sperm from my Bill/ I had him erect and his semen would follow/ Alas, I was hot, so hot that I swallowed. Therefore, obviously the other witches want eva to get sperm from Ted the bellhop. Check out for Madonna in this segment!The second segment, The Wrong Man - This segement shows Ted ending up in the wrong room, leading to having a gun pointed at his head. My favourite bit in particular from this segment was when Ted ended up half hanging out of the bathroom window squealing HELP!The third segement, The Misbehavers - This was incredibly funny. My two favourite bits from this segment was a) when the little girl made Ted realise how stupid he was when he realised that he could have washed the vapour rub off his eyelids when his babysitter used to do it to him whenhe was a child. and b) the line Ted screams down the room-service phone to the little girl that goes along the lines of, If there's not a dead body in that room by the time I get up there, I'm gonna make one!The last segment, The Man from Hollywood - I found this the funniest segment of them all. Could be because Quentin Tarantino stars in this and I'm a big fan of his (that's probably the reason I saw this in the first place). Ted finds himself going up to the penthouse with various odd items on his room-service trolley and ends up staying there and getting mixed up in a scheme made by Quentin Tarantino and Paul Calderon. Also, look out for Bruce Willis who's there too but is uncredited. The trio are hysterical as a bunch of drunk guys on New Year's Eve. Quentin Tarantino more or less plays himself - a famous director.This movies is definately a must-see. I give it 10/10 "}{"Title":"One heck of a rent!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first sketch I didn't much care for, but with each consecutive scene the hilarity builds to a climax. The ending of the last segment is so quintesentially Tarantino that you'll think that you've stumbled into one of his movies! I watched this with a group of friends and none of us could stop laughing. The only recurring annoyance that I encountered was Tim Roth's flamboyant dancewalking, though this may have been added for comedic effect. "},{"Title":"Wild Tarentino at his surrealistic best","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  When Tarentino did his homage to Jerry Lewis's 'The Bell Boy' he gave it a twist of psychoactive mushrooms with a sprinkling of late night TV.  Don't enter this movie with preconceptions and try to look at it as a beautiful slice of a psychotic's mind.  I am so glad that Tarentino watched too much TV while growing up.. er older? "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie.  The whole thing, from beginning to end.  Despite being a huge Tarantino fan, I can't and won't give him all the credit for the film.  Yes, I will admit that the first segment, The Missing Ingredient, is probably the least funny of all of them, but I certainly wouldn't go so far as many people on here.  However, if it weren't for Tim Roth's brilliant and hilarious performance, remeniscient of Jerry Lewis or Rowan Atkinson, that segment wouldn't have survived.  The second segment, The Wrong Man, had some very funny moments, with a nice reference to The Jeffersons (this is the big one, Angie!).  The Robert Rodriguez segment, The Misbehavors, is hailed as the best of all the segments.  I did find myself laughing a lot, but early in the segment it suffered slightly by an overwhelming lack of Tim Roth and an overabundance of the kids, but once Roth started getting more to do, it really picked up.  However, I found the whole speaking-through-the-barf part too disgusting to laugh at.  The humor of this segment culminated in a laugh-out-loud ending, with the perfect punch line did they misbehave?  The final segment, The Man From Hollywood, had a lot of very funny moments, and also a hilarious end, but with a lot of big stretches between laughs.  Tarantino fans listen for a virtual reiteration of lines from Reservoir Dogs, when Tarantino says what was I just talkin about?  and Roth's character reminds him.  Don't listen to snobs who drive the first segment into the ground, they're exaggerating.  Also, don't listen to ignorant people with a bias against Tarantino for reasons they dont even understand, they're just going along with other ignorant people who seem to forget the sincerest form of flattery. "},{"Title":"Oh the humanity...","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I usually try to write long, thoughtful reviews of films/books/movies whatever...I try to explain why I don't like something or why I do like something else because I truly want to give people information that I think will help them make the decisions right for them. Well, then, here goes, because this is all the information you need about this movie DO NOT WATCH!! Quite simply, I've never wanted to jab a burning hot poker through my eye more than while I was being subjected to this pile of utter drivel. I can't believe this movie was ever made or that an actor of Tim Roth's capabilities would allow himself to be subjected to such uniformly awful directing. Oh, the pain...I can't even talk about it...just stay away. You'll be glad you did, I promise. "},{"Title":"all's well that ends well","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved 'Four Rooms'. I like movies that tell several stories with more than one director. I would have given it a 10 if it wasn't for the first room. Luckily, the other three stories were wonderful. Tarantino trusts his friends a lot(see 'Destiny Turns On the Radio' and the first story here), and with the notable exception of Robert Rodriguez, they suck. Tim Roth, Antonio Banderas and Bruce Willis were great, especially Banderas in the macho dad role. The third story was 'pee in my pants' funny with all the mayhem that the kids and the corpse in the bad caused. If you're a fan of Tarantino and can sit through 15-20 minutes of crap at the beginning, you'll love it.   "},{"Title":"Best comedy ever made.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Four Rooms is amazing. It is a comedy so original, so wild, so funny that it leaves you wanting to watch it again - as soon as you've just watched it. I will review each of the rooms separately1. The Missing Ingredient Stylish, amusing but the weakest of the four short stories. Tim Roth is a blast to watch, but the 20 minute segment doesn't have enough going on. Roth is put in an awkward position by a coven of witches who are trying to resurrect a woman on New Years Eve and they need his---well, just watch it to find out. It is a bit of a slow start to the film, but, as I said, its amusing. 6 out of 10.2. The Wrong Man Witty, sketch where Roth is becoming a little edgy as the night progresses and he is put right in the middle of an argument between a husband and wife. Some good dialogue present, and I love the ICE! bit, its better than the previous sketch, but nothing compared to the next two. 8 out of 10.3. Misbehavers A laugh riot. Roth goes from edgy to stark raving mad in this half hour as he earns $500 from an odd tough guy who wants him to babysit his 2 children who go from small trouble-wathching an adult film-to big trouble-finding a dead WHORE! in the mattress. I love this sketch. It's quick, quirky very funny and Roth is at his all-time best here. And it ends with a great line! 10 out of 10.4. Man from Hollywood My favorite. I cannot put my finger on why, but I absolutely love this one. Roth delivers a bottle of champagne---sorry Chester, a bottle of *CRYSTAL*--- to the penthouse sweet where a big-shot movie star and his 2 friends want Roth to help them out in a game that involves $1000, a hatchet and an expensive car. I have every wonderful line of this sketch memorized. I'm dead serious! 20 out of 10.All in all, watching four rooms is watching four movies from four very different directors, sewn together by Roth's over-the-top performance as Ted the bellhop. Roth, Tarintino, Banderas and Willis give spirited, hilarious performances and you'll want to watch the film over and over again. There are so many memorable quotes.10 out of 10. It's a riot. "},{"Title":"one of my all-time top ten films, but you gotta be a tarantino/rodrigues fan..","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  First time i rented this film, i watched it 3 times in the 48 hours i had the tape..But in order to enjoy this piece of art, you have to be into tarantino/rodrigues genre. For me it is the combination of many things 1. When something TOTALLY unexplainable happens, and then either later on, or earlier on in the film, the event is triggered by something you barely noticed. Once you've seen this once, you pay much more attention to the film. And when the film is good, you'll wan't to see it all..2. The story often take the cast through some pretty extreme, sarcastic, funny situations. Like the part of Four rooms where the strict father pays the bellhop to watch the kids. Lets just say that the kids get in to a LOT of trouble as the father and mother returns..3. Realism. Now I don't mean the kind of realism like fairies don't exist, or aliens dont exist. For me, these types of elements can be included in a film, and the film will still be realistic. Realism is when you have an alien or a witch that act like they are have a bit of personality. Take the witches in the first part of the film. They have issues with each other, and thus they are not just a bunch of anonymous witches. The thing is that, that them being witches is, not the main thing. The story is, and that is where the focus is being put. Try looking at Godzilla. The story in this type of film is almost invisible compared to the effort, thats been put in to the special effects. Some may like that, but i feel the story is more important.Summed up, if you've agreed with me on the most of these things then you cannot cheat yourself of this film. Take a cab down to the nearest video shop, have the cab leave the meter on while you threaten to tear guts out of the guy at the counter, if he doesn't produce Four rooms within the next 30 seconds. Return home, and don't bother taking off your jacket or shoes, just start watching.. "},{"Title":"Non-stop Hilarity For Those Who Dare","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I never would have seen this movie if a friend of mine had not highly recommended it to me as an extremely funny movie.  When I checked out the cast and credits at this very website, I saw the name Tim Roth and thought, Wow, he's great, but can he do COMEDY?  As it turns out, all my doubts about this movie were dispelled, but it takes a certain type of humor to be about to enjoy this movie, fortunately, the type of humor that is right up my ally.  I can see how one would not particularly care for this film, as it can be a bit crude and unconventional, but it's all in good fun.  Keep that in mind.First of all, the acting throughout this entire movie is absolutely phenomenal, featuring all well-accomplished Hollywood names.  The cast, lead by the ever-talented Tim Roth as Ted the Bellhop, brings to life some of the quirkiest, craziest characters I've seen in a long time.  Another aspect that makes this film unique is that it was compiled from the talents and visions of four people, each of whom wrote and directed on of the four segments that make up this wonderfully continual plot.  I thought I'd be in for a garbled, incoherent mess, but it flowed beautifully.A simplified version of the plot would be as follows Roth portrays Ted the Bellhop, a new employee at a small-time hotel with some rather unusual guests within.  We follow Ted into four such rooms and into the lives of some wild, wacky people.  I wouldn't want to give away much more than that because I want you to go out and see it for yourself.  If you can just sit back and not overanalyze, you'll discover it will introduce you to a sensational kind of comedy.  Please let me repeat this, for I cannot stress it enough this movie is all about fun, and nothing is to be taken too seriously.  I wouldn't exactly call Four Rooms filmmaking at it's best or anything, but it sure makes for a lot of fun and laughs. All in all, I give it an 8 1/2 out of 10.  Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Rodriguez is the only 1 who understand short films have to be SHORT!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I gave it an 8 just because The Misbehavers, written and directed by Robert Rodriguez was so hilarious, entertaining and primarily short and sweet. The other three shorts were too long-winded, although Tarantino's was still a pretty good closer, not to mention funny as hell. "},{"Title":"Only One Segment Is Worth Watching","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first two segments of this movie are absolutely atrocious!  The acting is bad and the writing is even worse.  Don't waste your time!  The third segment, The Misbehavers is well written, well acted and timed perfectly. Robert Rodriguez has an undeniable gift for comedy and for working with children and Antonio Banderas steals the show as the overly macho father with plenty of dough to throw around.  The last segment is decent but not nearly as good as what one might ordinarily expect from Tarantino.  Even Tim Roth, who is usually brilliant is annoying and over-acts throughout the entire movie.  Just watch it for the Rodriguez segment. "}{"Title":"OK movie, but be careful watching it if you are stoned!","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  (minor spoiler) This is the first time I've ever given that kind of warning, but I have an illness for which I take Marinol, which is synthetic THC, the active ingredient in pot. I accidentally took one too many and got really buzzed, and then this movie came on. I agree with most of the other viewers in their ranking of the various segments. It starts off weak, gets better to the end. However, if you notice, in the last segment, as the camera pans around the room keeping its central focus on Quentin Tarentino, the background does not correspond to reality (unless it is an eight-sided room!) It made me very dizzy, and the Marinol is for nausea! A minor criticism for a movie which I will watch again to get the nuances I missed the first time through. I think this is one of those movies you should watch more than once to get the stuff you missed the first time around. This is where I disagree with many other reviewers who said to not even watch the whole thing once. "},{"Title":"A Cool Flick!!!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was one crazy roller coaster ride of a movie. I enjoyed all four of these stories. It is New Years Eve and Ted, The Bellhop (Tim Roth of Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction,) is left alone in this hotel that , on this particular night, is filled with some interesting characters. Madonna, Ione Skye, Alicia Witt and others play a coven of witches trying to bring a goddess back to life. They need a missing ingredient from Ted. Antonio Banderas (Mask of Zorro, 13th Warrior) and Tamlyn Tomita (Kumiko, from Karate Kid, Part II) are a couple of parents that just want to have a night out without the kids. They leave the kids in Ted's seemingly capable hands. Sigfried (David Proval of The Sopranos,) suspects his wife, Angela (Jennifer Beals of Flashdance, The Bride,) of being unfaithful so he waits in the room when unsuspecting Ted walks in. Lastly, Chester (Quentin Tarantino of Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction,) and his friends Norman (Paul Calderon of Clockers, Pulp fiction,) and Leo (Bruce Willis of Die Hard, Pulp Fiction,) have an interesting proposition for our Beloved Ted. I'm not sure why Bruce Willis was overlooked in the credits. All in all a fine family film. "},{"Title":"I never stopped laughing...","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of those movies where I just crack up the whole time, while my wife looks at me with that smirk, knowing I (obviously) think it's funny, but she doesn't really.You just have to watch Tim Roth's expressions throughout the movie, and he is just right on the mark the entire time. A couple of slow points, but in general, it just keeps you going and going....The star-filled cast also makes it fun to watch, trying to place everyone in their 'normal' movies.  "},{"Title":"the first half of it is bloody awful","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  the second half on the other hand, is not so awful. Robert Rodriguez's section was terrific, Banderas was hilarious. Quentin Tarantino's section was average, at best. Far too much pointless Tarantino dialogue; the last 2 or 3 minutes is entertaining though, but not enough to recommend his 'room.' Rodriguez, (and his cast) make this watchable, just. Tim Roth is alternately funny and excruciating, (but to his credit, he puts an extraordinary amount of energy into his role.) "},{"Title":"Don't forget Tim Roth","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  All the comments that I have read here have forgotten how great Tim Roth is. He is so perfect and subtle in his humor. His reactions are dead on, with intricately developed mannerisms and a remarkably consistent character. Some say it doesn't move anywhere, that the character doesn't develop. I think this is an intentional choice, as the Bellboy is the thread throughout all four of the shorts. If he changed, part of the continuity would be lost. Its a wonderful performance from a talented actor (see Rosencrantz and Guildenstern and Reservoir Dogs if you doubt my word. "},{"Title":"Rodriguez saved the day","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all I loved the idea of watching the work of 4 different directors back to back, with totally in-coherent storylines except for the common strings, the setting and ofcourse the quirky Bellhop played splendidly by Tim Roth. Its a study of different styles and different approach to filmmaking, but alas i failed to notice any significant difference. all the 4 short films had loud, physical comedy, raser thin, situational plots.As it has already been told by other reviewers, you can skip the 1st 2 rooms, unless you are intersted in topless witches, chanting sometimes funny, but mostly nonsense rhymes. the 1st room hardly has any plot, and it ends abruptly. the 2nd room is even worse. i liked the camera work and Jennifer's performance though. the 3rd room is essentially what gets your money's worth. This is the only story which appeals to an unbiased audience. but if you are a Tarantino fan, you might like the 4th room more. 'The Misbehavors', that's the name of the 3rd short by Robert Rodriguz, has everything you need to make movie going enjoyable. well defined plot, very good acting by Antonio Banderras and specially the kids, good camera work and a real climax, which the first 2 stories never had. its charming, its witty. but the same can not be said about 'The man from Hollywood', QT's take.almost half-an hour wait for a 5sec punchline is not worth it. QT does show some of his raw style with the long takes, and mostly impromtu dialogues, but the plot moves along very slowly, and except for the last few minutes, the dialogues are not witty at all, a trademark of all QT movies. All in all a good experimental film, I wish more movies are made like this. "},{"Title":"How to judge a film multi directed?","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Well I think the easy way is to say that Robert Rodriguez and  Tarentino were directing half of the movie, so I would give 9 on  Rodriguez part for the hilarious story and also because the play of   young actress Lana McKissack was remarkable. And I give a 8 for  the Tarentino's part who was also pretty great.  The bellhop (Tim  Roth) is absolutely funny.  But for the 2 others parts were really  really bad and boring, so it make the final vote for the entire movie  pretty low.  If you want to laugh. rent it for the segment The Missbehavers and The Man from Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Begins fine...ends Excellent!!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie cannot be analyzed without breaking it down into four segments. The first one, not really great directing, not really great story, fine acting. This first segment was not excellent, but fine, it fits into the movie, and it doesn't take any points off. The second one, totally boring, pointless, and not funny. This part of the film totally put me to sleep, wanting to fast-forward it. The third one, the funniest, and the best one. Robert Rodriquez really shows his sense of humor. The characters are totally hilarious and well portrayed. Finally, the third one, Tarantino's part, is also an excellent segment. The direction is great, the story is really funny, and the environment of not knowing what the characters are doing because they are too drunk is excellent. The end is really unexpected and again,hilarious.An of course, we have Tim Roth, who through the whole movie plays Ted the bellboy. That is by far the funniest character in the film, and the only saver of the first two segments.  "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever!","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is the best i have ever seen period.  I swear that i actually coughed up blood while watching this movie...and i don't smoke.  The third room is by far the best room and is the room that was going on when i coughed up the blood.  I had to pause it and spit out the blood it was so bad....but i love it and even on my six seeing of it i still laughed hard. A great see...if you have children under the age of 14, don't let them see it. "},{"Title":"A difficult movie to review","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  **some spoilers** Four Rooms is a bit difficult to review because it consists of four separate episodes, which are directed by 4 different directors and the quality differs quite a lot. The first 2 episodes are pretty crap and worth between 3 and 4 out of 10. The last 2 however(directed by Rodriguez and Tarantino) consist of 8 and 9 out of 10 material. If you rent this on video you can just get to the good episodes right away and skip the first 2 episodes. Acting is quite good.  Antonio Banderas, Bruce Willis and Quentin Tarantino deliver great performances.   Many believe that Tarantino`s work is completely original, but it isn`t.  He borrowed heavily from City On Fire when he made Reservoir Dogs, and he borrows heavily from the short story Man From The South by Roald Dahl in his episode of Four Rooms. 6,5/10 "}{"Title":"It's always disheartening.....","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It's always disheartening when film critics coldly snub films upon release for what they are, or when film snobs dismiss it as the next thing.  With three good quarters, or rooms, how could you go wrong?  Granted, the first room wasn't funny, but it had pointless nudity.  The second room is hilarious, Tim Roth squawking and trying to weasel his way out of situations with such a scary gangster.  Third room being the funniest and then the last room.  What can I say?  I'm glad Quentin Tarantino learned self-respect from Howard Hawks, he's definately worth his salt as an actor.  ***** "},{"Title":"Seems terrible, but Rodriguez and Tarantino give the movie a reason for being.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first sketch is a poor excuse for a titty movie.  The second sketch has barely enough plot or script to give it any reason for being filmed.  The third and forth rooms, pure genius.  Or at least, watchable.  I've only seen this movie once, and I remember loving the second half, although, I'm not quite sure if I really want to see it again.If at all possible, rent this movie and skip out on the first two rooms.  This would be one of the worst movies ever made if the entire movie was like the first half.  However, Rodriguez and Tarantino's rooms have every dramatic element in them to make them worth watching a bet based of a Hitchcock feature, the antics of two quarrelsome kids, a huge kitchen knife, a trusty lighter, erotic chemistry featuring Antonio Banderas, a bucket of ice, and a mysterious odor.  Overall, there are plenty of surprises here, but not much else.  I think most people would at least enjoy one out of the four rooms.  Good for one viewing only.  My rating 6/10   "},{"Title":"Different","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie in whole was awesome. It was like four different movies all tied together. My favorite was The Misbehavors. It ended up soooo funny. I was laughing for an hour. My favorite character in any of them had to be Quentin Tarantino's. He was great. Especially getting touchy over the Crystalle.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, hilarious, a must see for everyone","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was probably Tim Roth's finest work and that's saying something because Tim Roth is a very good actor (one of my favorites) and his every movement in this movie was comical. He was born to play this role in my opinion and this movie is easily worth a rating of ten. Anyone who disagrees, is obviously too dim-witted to follow this story or else they simply weren't watching the movie. I recommend this movie for everyone, EVERYONE. I didn't stop laughing for the whole movie. "},{"Title":"wounderfully done movie","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I laughed until it hurt in some of the scenes.  The cast was just amazing all these stars, coming together to do such an odd/black comedy.Well writen scenes to and it all ties together in a sort of pulp fiction kind of mix of scenes You got to love it. "},{"Title":"UGH!!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is without a doubt the worst movie I have ever had the displeasure of seeing. I knew I was in trouble when I found out Ione Skye was in it. I knew I was in bigger trouble when Bruce Willis kept using the f-word without saying anything in between each time he said it. The only time I laughed was the last shot and that was too late to save this turkey. On a scale of 1 to 10 this gets a big fat ZERO!! "},{"Title":"Four rooms, four films, four ratings, four out of ten.","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As i ventured into my local video shop, i pranced into the comedy section, where a video called 'Four Rooms' caught my eye. I saw the name, Tarantino, so I had to hire it.This is a collection of four short stories that occur in the same motel.The first story is a dull and ridiculous look at witches. I heard that Madonna could act. Maybe I got the wrong signals. Anyway this sucked. 3 out of 10.The second story was not all that appealing to me either. It could have been a lot funnier, in a black sort of way. 5 out of 10.Story number 3. The misbehaviours is by far the best of the four stories. Banderas, in the short time he appears on the screen, is brilliant, and the two young children had me on the floor. 9 out of 10.The man from Hollywood, the fourth and final story, left an empty feeling for me. It wasn't to bad but this was the reason I hired the film. The end was brilliant but the lead up was rather dull. This gets a 6.5 out of 10.On averages this film gets a 6 out of 10, however we must talk about one Tim Roth. I am a huge fan of Roth's, however, in this film he annoyed me to tears, and for this reason I rate this film, or collection of films, 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An entertaining expierience with a shaky foundation","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the best way to review this movie is to break it into sections. #1-The Missing Ingredient. This is the worst segment in the movie. It is corny, unfunny, and almost spoils the movie. Madonna's appearance is the only thing noteworthy in the entire thing. 1 1/2 of 4. #2-The Wrong Man. This segment is somewhat cool but not up to standards with the next two. The acting is weak and the whole thing seems contrived. 2 of 4. #3-The Misbehavors. This is the best segment in the movie. Rodriguez gives excitement and Banderas is hilarious. Tim Roth also gives his best here. 3 1/2 of 4.#4-The man from Hollywood. This one is directed by Tarantino and is often hilarious. Strong contender for The misbehavors. Tarantino is funny and Bruce Willis is good in it. Also has good tension towards the end. 3 1/2 of 4. Overall the movie could have benefited from 2 stronger opening shorts. Overall score= 3 of 4 "},{"Title":"A Tip for Watching Four Rooms","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If you have just rented Four Rooms, I would like to give you a piece of advice before you play it. Fast forward it to about 45 minutes into the movie and watch from there. You won't miss a single important thing and you'll thank me later. Unfortunately I was never given that guidance when I first rented this movie. The only reason I sat through the first two stories was my complete lack of anything better to do... that and I knew Quentin wouldn't let me down.  The first two stories are unbearable, but after you've sat through them you're well rewarded by the hilarious second half of the movie. Also I've got to say the soundtrack is awesome. It fits perfectly with the mood of the movie. And finally a note about Tim Roth. His performance was spectacular! I never knew the guy could be so hilarious! For anyone who says he was ripping off any other actors, it's called a role. He played a role and did a damn good job at it too! He, by far, carried this movie through its horrid first two acts.  If it wasn't for him there's no way I could have physically survived the first 45 minutes.  "},{"Title":"Quirky Romp As Flat as an Open Bottle of Champagne","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first portion of Four Rooms is utterly terrible. The first, about a coven of sexual witches, seems more like a naughty 1940s cartoon, and it seems Anders was thinking more of a pornographic Looney Tunes Episode when she wrote this one. The next segment, The Wrong Man, was simply disappointing. A maniacal man named Siegfried ties up his wife, holds Ted the Bellboy as a hostage, and then bounces around, not making much sense. When it was over, I wasn't sure what exactly had happened -- was it actually just all a game? Did someone really sleep with Siegfried's wife or what? And hearing so many names for the male penis... Frankly, I could have heard that at a high school. Not what I call entertaining. After that, there was The Misbehavers, where Ted has to babysit a Mexican gangster's pair of children. I sort of liked this one, because it was so absurd, and the ending -- while it might seem a little cliche -- still brings forth an earnest chuckle. Robert Rodriguez, if he had tried a little harder, could have saved the Four Rooms ship from completely sinking, but he only manages to keep it afloat a little longer. Tarantino's efforts are a little more shoddy. It's classic Tarantino, and it seems like a scene from a Tarantino movie. But the previous four segments have just ruined your viewing capability, and ruined it all for Tarantino as well. His take on The Man From Rio is downright cool, and his minute to convince is excellent. But it isn't brilliant, and so Four Rooms remains destined to fall to the bottom of movie history. "}{"Title":"awesome","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Maybe I'm just a sucker for dumb movies, but I enjoyed every piece of this particular film.  I was interested throughout the whole movie, even through the first piece.  I guess I'm the only one who got something out of the second skit with Jennifer Beals.  The third skit was great but not any better then the others.  The last one, with Tarantino, was the only skit that got remotely irritating.  It seemed to drag and mislead a bit but the ending was worth the wait.  Tim Roth, who I don't see a lot of, was awesome enough to make me a fan.  He was hilarious the whole way through.  Also, this movie puts the f-word to really good use, I really appreciated the way expletives were inserted into just about every sentence.  "},{"Title":"I agree with the last guy.","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is the very definition of 'patchy'.  It comes across like the directors responsible were just filling in free time between their real movies - which is probably true.  Only Rodriquez's piece has any real merit.Tim Roth plays the bellboy who is the link between all the stories and subsequently the main character.  I think someone should have slapped him and told him to sort his act out.  I love Tim Roth usually but here he was just way too over-the-top.  If he had exercised a little bit of restraint, the whole film could have been improved.  Instead, his overly exaggerated mannerism's really began to test my patience.Now to the stories.  The Missing Ingredient by Allison Anders is peculiar to say the least.  Now peculiar is a good thing in my book, but after promising to be amusing this just goes nowhere .  It's just dumb.  The only thing that sustained my interest were the somewhat unnecessarily bare breasts of two to the actresses.The Wrong Man by Alexandre Rockwell unfortunately doesn't have breasts to sustain interest.  I think this is the piece most affected by Roth's overtly comic acting.  If he had played it straight, maybe, just maybe, this situation might have come out alright.  But it lacked any of the requisite tension or nervous comedy required.  Like the first story, it just comes out dumb.The Misbehaviors from Robert Rodriquez is the real standout.  If I didn't know better I would have guessed it was by the Coen brothers - which is a compliment to Rodriquez - there are obvious parallels to Barton Fink.  The climax is a simply superb culmination of black comedy and stylish camerawork. Antonio Banderas is terrific as the father of the two little 'misbehaviors'.The Man from Hollywood, while better than the first two stories, is probably the most disappointing, only because it's from Quentin Tarantino who I expected more from.  He takes the lead role himself here.  Now Quentin gets a lot of knocks for his acting, but I find that when he plays obnoxious (like in Pulp Fiction) he is fine, that's what he plays here, and he's fine. The problem is, somewhat surprisingly, in the script.  The whole thing is a purposely long winded set-up for a quick punch line at the end.  That's fine, but the set up is just too inconsistent.  At times it's entertaining, at other times it is just dumb, which typifies too much of this whole film.I'd give the film 6/10 on the whole, mostly on the strength of The Misbehaviors story alone.  Don't pay to watch it, and certainly don't expect for your life to be changed by it and you won't have a bad time. "},{"Title":"1/2 wretched, 1/4 good, 1/4 mediocre","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Ugh.  Only the Rodriquez segment is worth anything.  The Tarantino piece at the end is basically a shaggy dog joke - a long, unfunny setup that goes nowhere until the 'punch line' in the last 5 seconds.The first two segments?  Oy vey!  The Anders piece has barely enough content in it to make a 30 second beer commercial, let alone a piece this long.  The second attempts some sort of Blue Velvet/After Hours bizarro episode (naive guy struggling among dangerous psychos).  Again, given the short nature of each segment, you'd think this would be pretty tight, but boy does it ramble.And Tim Roth!  Mr. Roth has been fantastic in everything else I've seen, but he's utterly unwatchable in this, and we're forced to see his twitching Tourette routine in nearly every scene of the film.  He's basically doing a variant of Martin Short's Ed Grimley character, but with no real explanation for this.I'm sure this movie is some kind of homage to a particular movie or micro-genre of the 60's or 70's, but it doesn't work for me.  Thank goodness I picked it up with a 'free movie' ticket at Blockbuster. "},{"Title":"irregular, but overall good","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Four rooms, four stories.  Beginning with the weakest one and finishing with the best of all  Tarantino's talent making a joke with one of the most memorable episodes of Alfred Hitchcok Presents.   "},{"Title":"Hit and Miss","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Four Rooms has got some high points. But it also has some very, very low points. The first third of the movie is almost unbearable. See, the film is split up between four stories and four directors, and the first two stories are awful. I mean they are bad to the point of fast-forwarding. But if you stick with it long enough you get to the parts directed by Tarantino and Rodriguez you'll be pleased, trust me. And while as a whole Four Rooms is average at best, the second half's sheer coolness more than makes up for the travesty that is the first half of the film. "},{"Title":"A nice surprise","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I must say, when i first saw Four Rooms, i didn't think it would amount to much. All i knew about it was that it had a lot of big name stars in it. In fact, thats the reason i hired from the video store. Upon viewing, i realised that it was an amazing film, which has now become one of my favourite movies of all time.Let me first say that Tim Roth is the actors equivalent to God. Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction, and now Four Rooms. He is an amazing actor, one of the few out there who actually deserve more credit than they are given. Combine his skills and comic timing with four brilliant scripts and you've got one hell of a movie.The film shocked the hell out of me in more ways that one. The culmination of events in 'The Misbehavors', The absurdity of 'The Missing Ingredient', The frustration factor of 'The Wrong Man' and the brilliant ending of 'The Man from Hollywood' all combine to produce a hilarious, dark and sometimes borderline psychotic amalgamation of four peoples overwhelming talent.One last thing; even if you dont like the movie, the ending is one of the best finales i have ever seen in a movie. Watch it just for that!  "},{"Title":"A gem in the rough","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It's really too bad that the critics initially panned this film so badly, because it has a lot to offer.  As with all experiments there is the potential of failure, but here are four film-makers with unique visions making a film together. Even if it is not a total success it is interesting as a footnote to these important directors work.  On that level alone it is worth seeing, it is better than 98% of the films out there. It is often personal, often quite funny and very very dark. Check it out!  "},{"Title":"One of Tarantino's best!!!!!!!!","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Excellent.  Tim Roth is unbelievable, my favorite story is the Misbehaviors, then the Missing Ingredient, then the Man from Hollywood, then the Wrong Man.  It is a dark comedy, with twists, and surprises.  Comedy, that could be used offensively, but shouldn't be.  Another good one for Tarantino's personal film vault.  Keep reeling em' in!!!!!!!! ;) "},{"Title":"No matter how embarrassingly bad the first half is, stick with it!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Just about any review you read of this movie (by a real critic) will say this is an awful, unfunny movie with a great but totally wasted cast. I would say that is true for the first half of the movie. The first segment is pretty bad, and the second is truly awful. But the third act, which gets off to kind of a slow start, comes together beautifully at the end. The fourth segment is the most different in style than the first three - but that's Tarantino for you. The one thing that still bothers me about this movie is Tim Roth - now what the heck was he thinking??? For anyone who loved him in Reservoir Dogs (like I did) and longs to see him in a comedic role (like I did), this is a serious disappointment! Mr Orange was my hero in Reservoir Dogs; in Four Rooms, Ted the Bellhop is just totally silly, but not in a funny way, just in an annoying, why-the-hell-is-he-acting-like-that way. No matter how embarrassingly bad you find the first half to be, stick with it, I think you'll be glad you did. I had to take breaks - it took me three days to get through the first hour. My advice to anyone who wants to see this movie is don't give up on it! "},{"Title":"Highly watchable.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Despite mixed reviews when it came out I think that Four Rooms is a highly watchable film, filled with great one liners and, especially the last two stories, a great sense of timing. I think anyone who believes that this is soley a Tarrantino film is getting the wrong vibes. Sure he has an input and the stories are very much Tarrantinoish, but each director has their own particular style that has to be admired. For me the last two stories stand out, the third has a fantastic sense of timing that is rarely seen, and the last, by Tarrantino himself, builds you up with suspense and then all of a sudden the story is over in a unique twist. Just watch it with an open mind and I'm sure you will enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Good story, great actors' play, great sound track","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Not as great as other Tarantino's movies, but good enough to watch (and re-watch). There are four episodes like in Pulp Fiction, but this time directed by different people. First episode is the weakest one despite (or because) of Madonna's appearance. Two next are great, and the last one, slightly dull at the beginning, ends... well, think it is better to watch THIS at least once. Add to this wonderful sound track by Combustible Edison (the best music in Tarantino's movies I saw and heard) and Tim Roth as Ted the bellhop - and you'll understand you mustn't miss this film. "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" 1st room just painful to watch 2nd room again nothing interesting very bad 3rd room had some funny moments and 4th room is the only room you feel directors work , the ending shot was very good but that's it . the only thing that was really really good in the movie was the music and Tim Roths overacting if you like him you gonna enjoy it . everything else was just terrible especially first two rooms they just killed the movie and before you get into 3rd and 4th room you already want to quit........... this movie had sounds its gonna be fun and it had everything to be so but the result is complete opposite . Even Bruce Willis was not able to save this movie "},{"Title":"Love it or hate it, my vote is to hate it","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Some reviewers posting here go on and on and (yawn) on as to why they loved the movie, whining all the while that it deserved better reception among audiences. I will not bore anyone to tears with my take on it, but will keep it simple and succinct 3 directors took Tarantino's bait, and became deliriously, selfishly and obliviously self-indulgent in making tripe. When 50% of a movie is bad, the entire project is spoiled, and the first two shorts of this 4-parter are so over-the-top in stupidity (the first being stupid in an immature, pubescent sense, and the second being stupid simply because it is pointless rambling and nonsense). Those reviewers who favor Rodriguez and Tarantino can do much better than to point to this film as some work of art, which it cannot be since it was only a kiddie playpen for 4 buddies, and at the end of the day their diapers need changing. "},{"Title":"A Terrific,Hilarious,Underrated Comedy With A Brilliant Performance By Tim Roth.","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Four Rooms is a terrific,hilarious and underrated Comedy that's filled with great direction,a brilliant performance from Tim Roth and a wonderful cast and amazing laughs. All of those elements make Four Rooms a memorable Comedy that is worth your time.Set in Los Angeles,Californa on New Years Eve Four Rooms tells the stories of Ted(Tim Roth),a new Hotel bellhop working at the fictional Hotel Mon Signor on New Years Eve on his first night on the job. While there Ted gets involved with four Comedic,different and interconnected tales with some weird and offbeat Hotel guests on a night Ted will never forget.Released in 1995,Four Rooms is a wonderful and hilarious Comedy that was directed at the time by independent film makers such as Allison Anders(Gas Food Lodging),Alexandre Rockwell(In The Soup),Robert Rodriguez(El Mariachi,Desperado)and last but certainly not least Quentin Tarantino(Pulp Fiction,Reservoir Dogs)doing four different tales with an all-star cast. However,despite the talented names involved Four Rooms was not a Box Office success and was panned by the critics which is very unfortunate because Four Rooms is a fantastic movie that is very overlooked and better than it's reputation but at the same time Four Rooms is a film that seems to have found a small Cult audience since it's 1995 release. Four Rooms is a great movie that is just hilarious and a fun blast from start to finish giving viewers an anthology film which is usually for the Horror genre but instead of an anthology Horror film we get an anthology Comedy done in a demented style that just never stops and is the kind of movie that is perfect to watch on New Years Eve. The Comedy and laughs in Four Rooms funny, hilarious and is done with a surreal and offbeat style that is wild and insane because when you watch Four Rooms you never know what's going to happen next with some situations being surprising which is why the movie works so well. The main character Ted is funny and memorable because most of the things that happen in the film are seen from his point of view and when things get bad we are rooting for to get out of it while laughing at the insanity that happens to him from the dangerous to the very weird. We as the viewer wonder will Ted lose his cool or just explode. Four Rooms should be used as a training video(or a warning)for anyone who wants to work at a Hotel. The first story The Missing Ingredient while amusing and filled with beautiful Actresses is the weakest of the four stories because there are a few nice moments the Humor is few and far between with no real payoff. Things are much better and fun in the second story with The Wrong Man,a complete laugh fest where Ted(in a bad case of mistaken identity)is asked at gunpoint to play in a sex and hostage game with husband and wife Sigfried(David Proval)and Angela(Jennifer Beals). I think many would agree that the best segment(and my personal favorite)in the whole entire film is The Misbehavers,an hilarious and laugh a minute tale that finds Ted being paid money to look after a husband(Antonio Bandaras)and wife's(Tamlyn Tomita) two children(Lana McKissack and Danny Verduzco). Imagined if Ted had to baby sit Bart and Lisa Simpson from The Simpsons and going through a hellish situation and you get that with The Misbevavers with scenes that are funny and unpredictable with a crazy energy that is insane,wild and will have you roaring with laughter. The last segment of the film is The Man From Hollywood,a tale about a famous Hollywood director(Quentin Tarantino)who is having his own New Years Eve party and asks Ted to play in a bizarre game and bet. The Man From Hollywood in true Tarantino fashion is the most dialog filled of the four stories and like Tarantino's other movies the dialog is memorable and fun with a great conclusion. The ending of Four Rooms is amazing and Humorous with a twisted style and is a fitting ending that matches the rest of the film. A fantastic conclusion.The cast is great. Tim Roth is excellent and hilarious as Ted,The Bellhop,with Roth bringing an amazing and over the top comic energy to the film. Valeria Golino(Athena),Madonna(Elsepth),Ione Skye(Eva),Lili Taylor(Raven),Alicia Witt(Kiva),Sammi Davis(Jezebel),Amanda De Cadenet(Diana),Jennifer Beals(Angela),David Proval(Sigfried)Antonio Banderas(Man),Tamlyn Tomita(Wife),Lana McKissack(Sarah),Danny Verduzco(Juancho),Selma Hayek(TV Dancing Girl)Quentin Tarantino(Chester),Bruce Willis(Leo),Paul Caulderon(Norman),Marisa Tomei(Margaret),Kathy Griffin(Betty)and Marc Lawrence(Sam The Bellhop)give good performances as well.The direction by Ailson Anders,Alexander Rockwell,Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino is amazing and memorable with each director bringing a different style and pace to the film and always moving the camera. Great direction by all of them.The score by Combustible Edison is great,amusing and quirky matching the movie's tone perfectly. Nice score,Edison.In final word,if you love Comedies,Anthology films,Quentin Tarantino or Robert Rodriguez,I highly suggest you see Four Rooms,a terrific,hilarious and underrated Comedy that is worth your time. Highly Recommended, 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"Four Rooms, Few Laughs","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Anthology comedy about a bellhop named Ted (Tim Roth), whose first night on the job has him meeting various characters and getting involved with their problems. I've heard about this one for years but never watched it because (a) the concept seemed lame and (b) the word-of-mouth on this was that it was awful. Having now watched it I can say that it does, in fact, stink.The first story, written and directed by Allison Anders, is a slight but amusing story about a coven of witches trying to perform a spell to resurrect a goddess. Each witch is responsible for bringing a certain ingredient for the spell but one witch (Ione Skye) was unable to get hers so she has one hour to get the ingredient so they can do the spell. I won't spoil what the ingredient is. You'll either laugh at it or find it childish and stupid. I chuckled so I guess I'm in the middle on the maturity scale. This was the best segment in the movie, although it ends abruptly.The second story, written and directed by Alexandre Rockwell, has Ted the bellhop delivering ice to the wrong room and being accused by the husband of having an affair with his wife (Jennifer Beals). There was something very familiar about this plot, although I can't seem to remember where I've seen it before. Anyway, it's not funny in the slightest. This is the worst of the four stories. The third story, from Robert Rodriguez, has the bellhop being paid to babysit Antonio Banderas' kids. He leaves them in the room alone with and they predictably get up to mischief. This segment isn't very funny either. It's like a more adult version of the kind of humor Rodriguez used in the Spy Kids movies.Quentin Tarantino writes, directs, and acts in the last story and this is probably why most people even watched this. Being a Tarantino fan, I was cautious about it because I've often heard this called his worst work. Quentin plays a movie director who places a bet with a friend. If the friend wins, he gets Quentin's car. If he loses, Ted the bellhop has to cut off his pinky finger. Pretty flimsy stuff. Very dialogue-heavy as you would expect from Tarantino, although nothing memorable. Quentin's acting is atrocious in this. To be fair, even a better actor wouldn't have made the crappy script work. Bruce Willis appears in this segment for free, resulting in a SAG dispute which is why he's not listed in the credits. This segment also features a ridiculous amount of F words, even for Tarantino.Overall, it's not a funny movie. Roth is very weak. He's obviously trying to be over-the-top with his comedy, like some kind of foul-mouthed Jerry Lewis. He just got on my nerves in every segment. He pulls out all of the cornball stops rubberfacing, silly voices, slapstick, and everybody's favorite last resort F bombs every other word. I didn't find him the least bit funny. There's enough of interest about the movie to at least watch it once. But it's not something I would watch again. "},{"Title":"Terrible First Half, With a Pretty Good Second Half","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I'll admit, I do have a bias towards Tarantino. I love the guy's stuff. Not a single one of his films do I dislike in the slightest. However, he has dabbled in some side projects that don't carry the full Written and Directed by... promise of, say Pulp Fiction or Kill Bill, that aren't the biggest successes. But for a single segment of the four that make up Four Rooms, we have Tarantino behind the pen, the camera, and in front of the screen! It's no coincidence that his segment is actually entertaining. But I'm ahead of myself. Let me review this piece by piece.The Missing Ingredient is both the opening chapter and the worst chapter. It's terrible. A group of witches (Real witches, apparently.) are trying to reincarnate their goddess, but require several specific items, the only of which they don't have is a man's sperm. I'm not joking. So, the witch who hasn't fulfilled her part must acquire her item within the hour. It sounds like the plot of a pornographic film. It's just stupid. The witch seduces Tim Roth's Ted the Bellhop, and some silly special effects later, she has her final item. I can't tell you how much I hated this. Not once during this chapter did I crack a smile, I was just hoping the next part was better. It is, but not substantially so.The Wrong Man is the second chapter. A little more interesting and far less ridiculous, Ted the Bellhop finds himself staring down the barrel of a revolver when he accidentally enters the wrong room when responding to a call. The chaos that comes from a mistaken identity ensues, and Ted is put between a man with a gun and his gagged wife. What I found to be one of the best quotes from the movie comes up here. Something about wearing a bonnet, I can't recall it right now. Though, I felt the situation was a little hard to follow here. Maybe I wasn't really paying attention, maybe it was supposed to be convoluted. Maybe it was because Tim Roth is delivering his lines in an angry whisper the entire time.Seriously, I like Timothy Roth, he's had some great roles in some great films, but god he chose the wrong role here. Ted the Bellhop is a flamboyant, fast-talking wreck. I couldn't understand him sometimes. Maybe that's what made the movie funny but I found it annoying. It was like watching the protagonist of a kid's movie trying to get laughs from children by acting silly, but surrounded by swearing and adult themes.With the third chapter, thing get better. Perhaps it's because it focuses less on Roth's silly character. The Misbehavers is directed and written by Robert Rodriguez. In this fun little short, a tough husband and his wife leave their children in their hotel room for the evening, hiring Ted to check up on them now and then. Don't misbehave he warns. The two kids are portrayed in a funny, childish way and their innocence leads to a gruesome discovery that I won't spoil here; it's one of the few parts worth not spoiling. Rodriguez really gives us this picture of a dysfunctional family headed by a strict father-figure (Who MAY or may not be a gangster!) And this chapter ends with a great scene.The moment I'm sure many had been waiting for was Quentin Tarantino's segment The Man from Hollywood. QT stars in this segment as a drunk, rich movie star. He and his posse are drinking, having a good time. The alcohol in their system leads to them recreating a scene from a Hitchcock story where one of the men must light his lighter ten times in a row, or have his pinkie chopped off. It's really well played out here as the drunk trio of friends (And a character from a previous chapter.) move about their suite, throwing their money around like it's nothing. If you like Tarantino's writing, you'll like this segment. If not, you won't! It's classic Tarantino. Again, Roth is sort of put in the background, behind this intoxicated cast of characters. I think Roth was the problem with the movie, possibly. Or rather, Roth's character.So there. It's an interesting concept that, with four skilled directors, could have been phenomenal. But alas, the filmmakers who directed the first two chapters are unknown for a reason. I think I'd have to say Rodriguez's segment was the best. So, I give this a 6/10. Really, the second chapters are fun little shorts, and even the second one isn't all that bad. But the opening part is so unforgivable. It sets such a negative tone for the rest of the movie. And since these segments are all part of one film, they must be given a rating as one. "},{"Title":"Only one good story","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When I set to watch this movie I taught that I'm gonna laugh all the time.At one point of the movie my mother asked me what am I watching and I answered,just some comedy.She obviously was asking that because I wasn't smiling much during the whole movie.From my point of view I liked only one story completely(Rodriguez) but I want to say something about every story.The Missing Ingredient by Allison Anders.I must admit that I've never heard of her but since she's in company with directors like Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino,I decided to give her a chance.But director Allison Anders disappointed me.The Missing Ingredient is so stupid and dull story about witches.We can see well known actors,like Lili Taylor,Valeria Golino and Sammi Davis.Also Madonna is in this segment too,but about her acting I don't wanna spend lines.So The Missing Ingredient is worst story of all four stories.0/5The Wrong Man by Alexandre Rockwell.Rockwell did solid story and I think this was very amusing segment.StarringJennifer Beals and David Proval.3/5The Misbehavers by Robert Rodriguez.This story is my personal favorite.Excellent and so Rodriguez way of filming.Antonio Banderas is excellent,just like two kids in story.The only story where I could really laugh.5/5The Man from Hollywood by Quentin Tarantino.Tarantino's story wasn't good to me and it only has stupid dialogs and Tarantino's idiotic acting.Tarantino you just don't know how to act.Why can't you accept that?2/5Tim Roth is the only actor who plays in all four stories as Ted the Bellhop and he's very good.But he's good only when the story is good.Like in Rodriguez and Rockwell stories.Only because Rodriguez I gave this movie grade 5/10.Without him the whole thing would be much worse. "},{"Title":"2397","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When the movie starts off you begin to feel a bit queasy (is that how you write that?). The introductory credits are cartoonish, insanely stupid and long. Really self-indulgent. Like they really thought they were being incredibly funny, when in actuality they only remind us of the intro bits of the Pink Panther cartoon, only much more childish.And sure enough the first of the four movies is so horribly unfunny, badly written and overacted, all I could think about it was 'Errr...' My movie-watching companion concurred. We had vacant stares upon our faces. The only decent part about the first movie were the bare tits and Madonna's cleavage. Furthermore it was mindbogglingly dumb and theatre-acting like. (Insert sound of disgust here.) 2 out of 10.The second movie same deal. Overacting, theatre-like overacting, dumb story, silly situations, unlikely and unlikeable people. Really, I was thinking how I could've spend my time even worse than looking at this crap, and nothing really popped up. Maybe intentionally breaking my leg or knowingly unhinging my jaw would be even less fun. 3 out of 10. Also, the first two directors have had no career at all after their sh^tpile contribution to Four Rooms, and rightfully so. Go do something you're good at. Theatre?Then came the third one. We weren't sure whether we had already seen the ones of Tarantino and Rodriguez, and luckily we did not. This was the Robert Rodriguez one, we quickly figured. The style, the humor, all that stuff. Also, Tim Roth, the main character was not overacting so much in this one. It's an awesomely told story about two kids left behind in a hotel on new year's eve by their parents (one of which is a really cool Antonio Banderas). With only the bellboy (Roth) to look after them. It has funny dialogue, decent acting (even by the kids) and is more realistic, and towards the end pays off in a climax that had me and my friend laughing out loud for a couple of minutes straight. Forking awesome 9 out of 10.The last one of the bunch was the one by Tarantino, which we figured when Tarantino himself was in the first scene. It's typical Tarantino, but a bit more over the top in the start and with (pretty much signature) overly long conversations (remember Kill Bill 2? Good lord...), that were not nearly as funny and well written as in say Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs. This one is decent as well, only it drags on and on. The pay-off though is again remarkable, having to do with a wager involving a car, a big meat-cleaver, a pinkie and drunk party guests. Too long, boring at times, but the climax saves it 7 out of 10. Thus we add up 2+3+9+7= 21. 21 divided by four 5.25, so 5 out of 10. Just skip the first two bits if you want to keep your stomach contents. "},{"Title":"Could be sooooo good, but ended up mediocre.","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Starring Tim Roth.Plot On New years Eve Ted has just started at this popular old hotel, and he gets into many wacky adventures.Segment One The Missing Ingredient Directed by Allison Anders. Stars Valerie Golino, Madonna, Ione Skye, Lili Taylor, Alicia Witt, Sammi Davis and Amanda DeCadenet.Just horrible. This segment is my, and almost everybody's least favorite. It is about a coven of witches who try to resurrect their beloved goddess Diana by putting in different ingredients into a potion. The final ingredient is semen, and oh look, she swallowed. So they have to turn to good ol' Ted the bellboy for the missing part, and stupidity ensues. This segment plays like a porno movie with weird random nudity and a stupid plot. I know you won't, but I recommend you skip this segment. My review 2/10.Segment Two The Wrong Man Directed by Alexandre Rockwell. Stars David Proval, Jennifer Beals and Lawerence Bender.A big improvement over the last one (Which isn't saying much). This little ditty is about Ted getting a call from a drunken partier (Bender) and accidentally ending up in the wrong room, where, by coincidence, a man is waiting for someone to come and have sex with his wife also named Ted (Theodore) and this man, named Siegfried (Proval) makes Ted the bellboy play out a psycho sexual drama with his wife, Angela (Beals). Not very good, but it is stylishly directed and it has good music. Much more tolerable than the last one, but no where near good. My review 4/10.Segment Three The Misbehavers Directed by Robert Rodriguez. Stars Lana McKissack, Danny Verduzco, Antonio Banderas, Tamlyn Tomita, Salma Hayek and David Proval(voice).This is a segment I would actually classify as good. In fact, i'd say this was great. This segment is about a couple of parents (Banderas and Tomita) who need Ted to take care of their kids while they go to a party. Ted soon realizes that the kids are a couple of trouble makers, doing things like turning on dirty movies (Slama Hayek pole dancing), drinking champagne, smoking, and playing with needles. When Ted tucks them into bed they all notice a strange smell in the room. Later, the kids find a mangled corpse of a woman in the mattress, which leads to a hilarious instant barfing scene. I really love this segment, and this is truly what slapstick humor is all about. My rating 10/10.Segment Four The Man From Hollywood. Directed by Quentin Tarantino. Stars Quentin Tarantino, Paul Calderon, Bruce Willis, Jennifer Beals, Marisa Tomei and Kathy Griffin.Nothing could top the last segment, but this is a nice ending to the stories. We start off with a pre-segment where Ted explains his dilemma to a lady at his boss's house (Tomei) then his boss (Griffin) over the phone. It's pretty much just a way to stretch out the film, but it's pretty funny. Marisa Tomei has quite a few funny lines as the stoner-y woman. Now to the actual segment.....Ted goes to actor Chester Rush's room in the Penthouse Suite. Chester (Tarantino) is partying with buddies Norman (Calderon), Leo (Willis) and Angela, who was last seen tied up in segment two. They are totally wasted and they want to play out an old Hitchcock story. Normman is going to try to light his lighter ten times in a row. If he does, he gets Chester's car, but if he fails, he gets his pinkie chopped off. That's where Ted comes in...they want him to be the dice man. I did enjoy this segment, but it's too much talk, and far too little action. However this segment was successful all in all. This segment was only around 24 minutes long and managed to use the f-word 116 times. My rating 7 and a half/10.My final rating 6 out of 10. A good enough comic anthology to quench my thirst, but not enough to leave me satisfied.98 minutes. Rated R for Strong Language, Violence, Nudity, Sexual Humor and Drug Use. "},{"Title":"Slightly hilarious little gem","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I think I can understand why a lot of people dislike this movie. It's probably because all of the actors (deliberately) go way over the top, Tim Roth in particular. And also, the kind of humor used in FOUR ROOMS isn't for a wide audience. I've watched this movie for the third time recently (with a few years in between), and I still like it as much as the first time I saw it.It's about a bell-boy (Tim Roth) in a hotel who's about to have the craziest New Year's Eve of his life as he gets involved in four different stories all taking place that very same night. I've always been a fan of anthology-movies as you often get the chance to check out different talents at work (and a lot of talents were involved in this one; just check out the cast and directors). It was also a nice change to see it all happen in the comedy-genre instead of the horror-genre, which is the usual habitat for anthology stories. I'm not even gonna go into the good or (possible) bad aspects of the movie, 'cause to me this movie is a success with perhaps the second segment The Wrong Man my least favorite (but still good) and the last segment The Man From Hollywood being my absolute favorite. Instead I'm gonna give only a few of my personal high-lights (of the many) from every segment.The Missing Ingredient beautiful topless witches, kitschy cartoon-like effects,...The Wrong Man David Proval & Jennifer Beals, Ted's attempt at escaping through the bathroom window,...The Misbehaviours Antonio Banderas redefining the word 'macho', the crescendo of chaos in the climactic ending,...The Man From Hollywood Quentin Tarantino's constant verbal ramblings, a drunk Bruce Willis, the bet,...I might add that FOUR ROOMS contains, in my opinion, a lot of extremely funny dialogues and there are some nice, inventive shots in every segment which perfectly reflect modern day film-making. You can also find much references and trivia to other movies and on a last note, I think that Tim Roth, with his performance, finds that perfect balance between annoying and hilarious. So don't anybody tell me that FOUR ROOMS isn't a funny and interesting film. "}{"Title":"funniest movie ever","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was so funny. It was cheesy, yes. But it was so entertaining. There was really never a dull moment. Any critic that said the movie was bad, is so completely wrong. I would urge everyone to see this movie, you will love it. So please go see it, you will laugh till you are blue in the face. If you think you have ever been in a bad hotel with a lot of crazy people you haven't' seen anything yet. the poor bellhop in this movie went through so much and how he got through it is beyond me. this poor guy went through so much on his first night. seriously, if i ever went through this on my first day of work, i'd probably quit. I was never bored throughout the whole movie, I pretty much laughed through the whole movie. It's best when you watch it with friends,the laughter and sheer unbelievable crap they pull in this movie will just leave you in awe, and laughing a whole lot. "},{"Title":"Another example of why Tim Roth is a genius","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I've watched this movie dozens of times. I've shown it to my friends. We all agree that although some of the segments can be lacking from time to time Tim Roth makes every bit of this movie worth watching. You get 4 different peoples stories so there's a little something for everyone. There are well known and not so well known actors which makes the whole thing really enjoyable. Nothing is quite what you expect and it keeps you on your toes. Everything about this movie screams hilarity. Between fantastic choices of actors and funny and smart directors Four Rooms is one movie I have no complaints about when I show it to others. I highly recommend it to anyone with a sense of humor and for those types who like to take movies too seriously, please please go else where. This movie is for fun people only. "},{"Title":"Step by step","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Segment 1 The missing ingredient Man what a torture this was. If it hadn't been for the prospective of seeing some of Quentin's and Robert's work, I would have stopped this film after a mere 10 minutes. I mean the acting was soooo bad I think everybody who thinks Madonna is bad should check this out to see who is worse. The story was pretty worthless as well and the whole thing really got me thinking Am I gonna be able to keep watching Ted the bellboy for 90 minutes+? 3,5 out of 10 Segment 2 The wrong man Immediately a big improvement over the first segment and a definite step towards Robert's and Quentin's style of directing and story-telling. Upon hearing Angela's monologue (or should I say word-list) the film really started to get a Tarantino vibe and I loved it. But most importantly, the acting got a lot better here and Ted wasn't as irritating as in the first segment. Story-wise it was OK. Not very original, but there were some funny elements in it.6 out of 10 Segment 3 The misbehavers I knew this one was Rodriguez all along, for having Banderas in it and I must say I was a bit surprised with the bit at first, since it felt much more like a bit out of Dennis the Menace than anything I had expected out of Rodriguez for such a film (ALSO Spy Kids wasn't made back then you know). Nonetheless I really felt this was a fresh piece, combining Rated-R elements very well with mischievous comedy. Oh MAN!, back then Rodriguez still had it (don't blame me for not having seen Sin City yet!!!).7 out of 10 Segment 4 The man from Hollywood Judging from the quality of the last segment, the motto of this ensemble film must have been from worst to best, because with his segment, Tarantino puts the icing on the cake. The direction is top notch, the acting is good and there is a lot of tension and intensity in the room, which keeps the bit vibrant and exciting throughout. I know many Tarantino-haters will say Can't you see, this guy steals everything!. While I think Tarantino's piece in 'Four Rooms' will be the perfect aim for all their criticism, I regard his 'stealing' as inspiration, because when one is true to oneself one must admit that every story has been told before in one way or another. And if (I say IF) Tarantino is a copycat, he's a truly brilliant and original one, cause let's face it, his dialog's are one of a kind.7,5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Little Lord Fauntleroy...","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" 'The Misbehavers' is the best part in the entire movie. However, Little Lord Fauntleroy is a fantastic part too. Madonna almost killed this movie. And thats too bad. But once you get to the 'whore' scene this movie gets awesome. When Ted starts vomiting... oh man, I don't think I've ever laughed that hard. There are some Reservoir Dogs related scenes. Like, in the bathroom when Ted is looking for Jennifer Beals' husbands pills, the condoms are white, orange, pink and yellow. Hahhaahahahaha. Fantastic Flick. The music rocks. Tim Roth makes me like Mr.Orange now, I mean, how can you look at him making all those hilarious faces and not like him. He's adorable but ugly all at the same time. And one last thing, the movie could have been a billion times better if Kathy Griffin wasn't in it at all. THEODORE! "},{"Title":"Four Rooms Not one of the best films, but Quentin and Tim rock!","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A movie about four different rooms, each directed my four different directors. But the last two rooms and directors are the most important two in the film, as of Robert Rodriguez (director of dusk till dawn) and of course the directorial god- Quentin Tarantino. He not only directs but stars, as a very fictional, very successful director. Although there are a few points to stress, with one- the continuity of the film, and a writing error. and are both on room three... o dear rodriguez. 1- At one point we see the mother at right hand side of the father,then a close up of the father, then the shot cuts and widens to the mother on the left hand side of the father.she cudnt have moved without us seeing, because of the mirror.... unless i didn't see it. 2- When the little girl calls room 409, (room two) the same conversation takes place when we actually view room two.The first room How did Madonna bend over in that dress? With guts i think! A weird room. Lightly entertaining. Th ere are some funny bits, when Athena whispers don't use you mouth. But overall, i rate 5/10.Th second room Three words- O My God. Why? A quite comical emotional moment including the gangster Sigfried and Theodor, but no! Not saying no more...The third room Take away the mistakes and bring in ANTONIO BANDERAS! THe most sexiess role he has ever done! Don't misbehave! and the suaveness in the elevator! Ab Fab! The little girl- very classic demon sister. Selma Hyack- 10/10 dancing, very sexy. The fourth room THE BEST ROOM! A 10/10 for my dear Quentin! Good directing, fantastic acting by the great man! Jus love the ranting about the Crystal, love it when he rubs alcohol in his eyes- the fool. bruce willis screaming in the background- brilliant. the best hotel room ever! And at the end wen they drop Norman's finger, and the clothes Que tin wears on the front of the car magazine! classic! the humour shines through! And of course 10/10 for tim roth! his best acting up to date! the bum groove- very tasty! his acting is absolutely superb! so inspirational!So, overall- i give the film an 8/10. not perfect. but great! very funny in some parts!  "},{"Title":"Tim Roth is completely awesome.","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Oh man Tim Roth is incredible. The film itself isn't all that funny, but seeing Tim Roth portray the bouncy bellhop is great. This film basically divided into four sections, each one done by a different director. The best section is of course Quentin Tarantino's, as there is some of Tarantino's great dialouges in it...his dialouges are part of what make him so good. Anyway, a different event happens in each room, adding to the bumbling bellhop's fun filled evening. Tim Roth proves in this that he certainly can play a wide range of characters. Also, what's good about Tarantino's section is that he acts in it...now he's not a very good actor, but there's just something funny about watching him act that makes it interesting. In any case, get this to watch Mr. Roth, and to have a good laugh. I rate this 9/10.  "},{"Title":"Impossible to rate as one movie","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not a big fan of this kind of collaborations.First of all,the movie is impossible to rate as a single piece of work since there are several stories,actors and directors involved.Second,the quality of one or two of these short movies are always bad.As it is in this picture.After seeing New York Stories and not liking the Coppola short at all,I knew that it would happen here once again.Only now there are two tales that are of low quality.Still,the last two movies save it from disaster and it is not a lucky shot that these are the tales by Rodriguez and Tarantino.The first two shorts (especially the first) are not good at all and miss acting talent and a good story.Madonna is awful as always which makes the first tale even worse.At this point I really feared for a disaster movie.The second wasn't much better but at least it had some humor.Still,I wasn't satisfied at all.But then Rodriguez and Tarantino get to do their bit and that's when the movie kicks off finally.So a piece of adviceTune in after about 40 minutes!Rodriguez' tale has got some fine moments and good laughs.Antonio Banderas is convincing as the evil dad and the youngsters do a good job.The finest is saved for the end though with Tarantino's short about a forgotten Hitchcock show.The entire short is filled with movie jokes and some brutal dialogues.The climax is really funny and surprising.The part of Bruce Willis (not mentioned in the credits) is convincing and necessary for the story.Tim Roth is the overall leading actor who returns in each segment but his role is not very good,He does not come to the level of his Resevoir Dogs performance.Just like Tarantino for that matter,I assume that he was involved in the entire project but his earlier work Pulp Fiction and Resevoir Dogs are far superior (as is his later work by the way).Looking at the entire picture it is not an enjoyable ride but I give it the benefit of the doubt because of the last two shorts. 6/10   "},{"Title":"Interesting.","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is quite interesting. It is comprised of four separate vignettes, all tied together by the presence of the hapless bellboy, Ted, played by Tim Roth. The first segment sucks, the second one sucks a little bit less, but the third one is hilarious. Roth's performance gets better as the film progresses, and it reaches its apex here. The fourth segment is entertaining enough, though why anyone thinks Quentin Tarantino is a genius is beyond me. He is as derivative as it is possible to be. Credit has to go to Robert Rodriquez for the excellent third segment. Who knew Antonio Banderas could do comedy? "},{"Title":"You'll either love it or hate it","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I was about ready to turn this off but Tim Roth was doing such a splendid job I figured I would just watch a little while longer. Good decision. By the time I got to the Misbehavers segment, Tim Roth was on a roll and I was laughing hysterically. Four Rooms is an unusual film, to say the least, and you'll either love it or hate it. However, watch it for Tim Roth because it really is a one man show...rather like Jerry Lewis meets Monty Python. "},{"Title":"Good movie, to bad it sucked","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, i'm a guy so i had to like all the toplessness in the first Room, the second room was quite annoying, 3rd room was humorous, gotta love the children, the little boy is from desperado. cute kids. The 4th room, well, its tarantino so its a 10. The only reason i got this movie was for Robert Rodrigous and Tarantino. Wasnt worth the 14 dollars though. I think Tim Roths character got annoying after the first 10 mins, obviously tarentino or rodrigous didnt pick the music for they're rooms, all in all, Dont waste your money, but if your a True Tarantino fan you must get it.  "}{"Title":"Barely worth watching","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Four Rooms is a collection of four stories -- all of which take place within the same hotel.  The first segment (The Missing Ingredient) is, quite possibly, some of the worst drivel I have ever watched.  It's downright painful to sit through.  I got the strong impression that it was written very quickly, and that it was written with the intention of being humorous by a person who doesn't know the first thing about humor.I can't even remember the 2nd story (The Wrong Man), which is a testament to the poor quality of the first half of this tape.Thankfully, things start to pickup with the 3rd installment The Misbehavers (written by Robert Rodriguez).  I'm glad it came along when it did, because I was painfully close to ejecting the tape.  This segment is, by far, the best of the lot.The 4th segment, The Man from Hollywood is exactly what you'd expect from Quinten Tarantino.  It's chock full of outrageous dialogue and Tarantino overacts like there's no tomorrow.All in all, this is not a movie worth renting.I give the first two segments a 3/10, I give the latter two segments a 6/10.  Overall I'd rate it a 4/10. "},{"Title":"Another gem from Miramax.","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  We all know Miramax has made some great flicks over the years like Clerks and Chasing Amy. Four Rooms is another great one. It's the story of Ted the Bellhop as he goes through numerous adventures throughout four different rooms on New Year's Eve.Some of the stories are better than others though. The Man from Hollywood was without a doubt the best one. It was just awesome. It just shows you how crazy people can be when they're drunk. The second best was The Wrong Man. Jennifer Beals did an outstanding job in this one. The Misbehavers came in third. The kids were really annoying but Tim Roth was good here. And last of course is The Missing Ingredient which wasn't very great. It was more stupid than clever.But you should check this out if you're in for a wierd time. 9/10  "},{"Title":"losing proposition","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I curled up with this one last night and felt like i was looking for love in all the wrong places.  What did Tim Roth think he was doing?  Actually, I watched it because i expected the bellboy character to evolve through the four episodes.  The first episode didn't turn me off.  In fact, the incantatory rhymes of Eva the all-girl witch were one of the few good laughs in the whole four-part joint.  The next bit of absurdity, Room 404, has been done so much better elsewhere.  Jennifer Beals' acting kept me involved here, believing some actual content might emerge -- like a plot?  Her eyes promised so much!  The dialogue gave so little!  From time to time the art direction was notably okay.  Charming.  Meanwhile, wincing at every other facial maneuver Roth tries.  So, by the time we get to Rodriguez's great kids, the big ones and the little ones, a parallel of adult/child misbehaviors, Roth is hardening, yes?  He calls into the (cliche) pad of his boss, firm, resolute, quitting.  Now I'm yawning.  Yes! Yes! get this thing over with.  Just one more room (oh, dang!).  Is that Bruce Willis?  Will he punch Quentin Tarantino in the jaw and shut him up?  The bellboy, the twitching Candide, does come through in the end.  But i was asleep, and had to rewind to see what happened.  Quentin Tarantino is apparently some kind of loser that people talk about with excitement.  The shock value of being bad is something a lot of us worked through when we were pre-adolescent.  Some took it to advanced stages.  Some are still working out their anger issues.  Some are doing hard time.  Some are dead.  The writer/director has to be very sharp to make this funny.  QT should pay me to watch his work.      "},{"Title":"Each story has a different rating","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The rating I gave (6/10) is cumulative. The Missing Ingredient is at most a 3/10, just a novice high school flick and the only reason I watched it is because I was curious how Madonna would do on this one. Well if they had fun making it, we didn't have fun watching it. The Wrong Man had potential and it ended up being about 6/10, since it was a dull story but had good acting. The Misbehavers is the best one, with an excellent Antonio Banderas and a bit more of a plot than the rest (7/10). Finally The Man From Hollywood is worth watching because of Quentin Tarantino directing (repeat directing, not acting) (6/10). The guy who steals the show in all segments is of course Tim Roth. He's absolutely Oscar material and I enjoy him in every movie I happen to find him play. "},{"Title":"Four Rooms","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is undoubtedly one of the funniest movies that came out that decade. Nothing sits in my mind better then the scene where Tim Roth holds the leg of the corpse in the torched room with the children smoking and drinking and with Antonio Banderas walking back in through the door. Sheesh, never forget the first time i saw that, i laughed and rewound it about 20 times. I think in summary this movie is a level above most comedies its a bit black, but look at the cast, Bruce Willis, Tim Roth and Madonna - with all the other glitz and glamour of Hollywood appearing at different periods. It's a special movie and deserves a ten every time. I hope you all get this one for the DVD collection. "},{"Title":"Bizarre and light!  You do like laughing, don't you?","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A few years ago I used to type up little capsule descriptions of the movies on my shelf, you know, just to have a list, and Four Rooms went something like A bellboy's first night on the job degenerates into nonstop humiliation, abuse, and torture. A comedy. Maybe I was just in the perfect mood the first time I saw this, but, really, I never had a problem with any of the episodes. I thought every one was great! The whole thing is entertaining as heck. I especially like the breezy surreal mood in the beginning (before things get really horrible).The music hovers largely between Combustible Edison and Esquivel, seamlessly, I might add. I was not familiar with Esquivel's music at the time, and I didn't know where the older music ended and the more recent music began. The music contributes heavily to a clever time-blurring mid-60's effect. Just when was this movie made? I really don't think the film as a whole intends to make any serious points about anything. This is a gag film of setups and payoffs, featuring an endless parade of bizarre and freakish characters.A friend I showed this to had worked in a hotel some time back and had this to say This movie is exactly what hotel work is like! It's not a joke! The thought frightens me. "},{"Title":"High Potential + High Talent = Big Waste","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  FOUR ROOMS *1/2It's always sad to see a film with such an interesting premise and extremely high potential go to waste. Such is the case with Four Rooms.The film opens with Ted the Bellhop (Tim Roth) taking over the job of bellboy in an almost whimsical hotel on New Years Eve. The cartoonish opening credits cue in, and it all goes downhill from there. The film is made up of four different segments, each written and directed by a different person. The directors include Allison Anders, Alexandre Rockwell, Robert Rodriquez, and Quentin Tarantino. Each story has only one thing in common Ted the Bellhop.The first segment titled 'The Missing Ingredient,' stars Madonna and Lili Taylor (among others) as witches who are trying to resurrect their goddess from the dead. It's a very interesting promise, but goes racing downhill when they realize they need the semen from a man then enters Ted the Bellhop.To top it all off, this segment doesn't even end, it's almost as if they suddenly ran out of ideas and just stopped writing it. The whole segment makes no sense, and is such a bore to watch.The second segment titled 'The Wrong Man,' is at least a notch above the first, starring David Proval (The Sopranos, UHF) as a man who forces Ted at gunpoint to commit sexual acts with his tied-up and gagged wife. Although completely ridiculous, the segment at least features a few 'inspired' shots, and a certain ridiculous lunacy.The third segment titled 'The Misbehavers,' is the best of them all. As a matter of fact, it deserves a movie of it's own. Robert Rodriguez (Desperado, From Dusk Till Dawn) wrote and directed this segment with such flair, and artistic ability.It features Antonio Banderas as a slick, smooth talking man who wants to take his wife out for a little fun. However, there's something that stands in the way his kids. He pays Ted the Bellhop five-hundred dollars to watch over his kids while he's gone&#133;seems pretty easy, right? Wrong. The children end up getting into alcohol, tobacco, needles, and even end up finding a dead prostitute stuffed in the mattress of their bed.It's creative and stylish, and the most fun I had during the film. I personally think that Rodriguez should have just made the entire film himself.The final segment titled 'The Man From Hollywood,' was written and directed by Quentin Tarantino, the genius behind such movies as Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction, and Kill Bill. Naturally, I had the highest hopes for this story, Pulp Fiction being my all-time favorite film. However, I was quite let down when Tarantino felt it necessary to parade himself around in front of the camera and whine about flat champagne.It's about a group of wasted guys who make a bet that Norman (Paul Calderon) can't ignite his Zippo lighter ten times in a row. If he misses one, then he gets one of his fingers hacked off. In comes Ted the Bellhop, who is greedily seduced into playing out their sick, twisted game.Tarantino overstays his welcome, and the ending of the segment, (which is also the end of the film) doesn't pay off for the endless minutes of blabbering we have just heard. The original idea could have been good, but Tarantino took it in completely the wrong direction.However, this segment does feature a very impressive signature long-shot from Tarantino, lasting around ten minutes. It also features Paul Calderon and an uncredited Bruce Willis.Overall, this movie was not good&#133;not good at all. I couldn't imagine myself watching it again, except for Rodriguez's bit. I'd say it's worth seeing once, especially to see Tim Roth's little strut and speaking manner.  "},{"Title":"Loved it!!","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I seen this movie in the theater the night it came out and loved it!!  It is so funny!! Tim Roth does an excellent job!  There is alot of language in it but the humor is just so right on.  All the cameos were great I kept thinking who's going to show up next.  I would highly recommend this to anyone who wants a good laugh! "},{"Title":"A excellent film- One of the funniest I have ever seen!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Ted, the only bellhop working the Mon Singnor Hotel on New Year's Eve, has what may turn out to be the worst, or best night of his life.  No doubt the third story is the best.  The Misbehavers by Robert Rodriguez, could have been a stand-alone short film, and that's saying something.  I don't believe I have ever laughed so hard as when I saw this story for the first time. Ala Murphy's Law, anything and everything that could go wrong does.  I will go as far as to say that this film could be perfect, if only they had left out the useless, boring, and hopelessly unfunny first story by Alison Anders.  No offense to Miss Anders, but what happened with this story? When raising a dead bondage idol, witches must take off their tops?  Actually, not all of them do.  Only the actresses that were willing to do so have to, apparently.  The rest may stay fully clothed with no hindrance to the magic. Now, I don't care either way, but all or none, eh?  The second and fourth stories are both equal parts funny and bizarre, but can't hold a candle to story #3.  Take my advice, get this movie, but when you watch it, as soon as the introductory scene is over, fast forward about twenty minutes. "},{"Title":"A nice appetizer for the time between Jackie Brown and Kill Bill...","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Four different rooms, four different episodes, four different directors, four different qualities The Missing Ingredient Unfortunately this flick contains only a few funny moments! Too much empty talk, Madonna is in, Lili Taylor´s talent instead is not fully stretched and the punch line is a disappointment! 3rd place for Allison Anders contribution! (4/10)The Wrong Men About a married couple that wants to have psycho-sex with the bellboy Tim Roth... Jennifer Beals and David Proval are trying their best to save the promising story from the tame direction. After all the worst episode in this film! (3/10)The Misbehavers Great work done by director Robert Rodriguez, because The Misbehavers has it all a good short story ought to have brilliant acting (especially the kids are stealing the star´s show!), tempo, irony, a hot Salma Hayek and a macabre punch line at the end! By far the best episode of the whole film!! (8/10)The Man From Hollywood A witty farce about a man who´s got to inflame a lighter quickly for ten times. If he doesn´t manages it his little finger will be cut off... Entertaining and amusing, enriched with the typical Tarantino-spirit! Ranks on position two!! (7/10)Tim Roth´s performance as feebleminded bellboy however is constantly great - in all episodes!!! (10/10) "}{"Title":"rambling mess","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Ted (Tim Roth) is the bellhop at the old Mon Signor Hotel in Hollywood. Elspeth (Madonna), Athena (Valeria Golino), Jezebel (Sammi Davis), Raven (Lili Taylor), and Eva (Ione Skye) are a coven of witches trying to release the goddess Diana. Elspeth brought along her daughter Kiva (Alicia Witt). Husband and wife Siegfried (David Proval) and Angela (Jennifer Beals) are role playing a fantasy game. A couple (Antonio Banderas, Tamlyn Tomita) leave to go to a New Year's Eve party and has Ted watch their kids. Ted calls his boss Betty (Kathy Griffin) and have a long talk with Margaret (Marisa Tomei). Betty tells him about important famous director Chester Rush (Quentin Tarantino) in the penthouse.Tim Roth is going insane with his performance. His manic energy gives this a drive. However the disparate stories rambles on and on. It's a mess and not a compelling one. Tim Roth's strange act is weird but it gets tiresome. That's basically the whole movie. The witchy start is a simple sex romp. Beals and Proval are boring. The movie loses my interest. The kids are OK and they end with a fun scene. Then Tarantino loses me completely. There is maybe one passable story or one and a half at most. There are too many boring parts in this. "},{"Title":"Half bad and half good","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" At the early point in the careers of Alison Anders, Alexandre Rockwell, Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino they all came together to make this anthology film. It's a frame story where we follow the nameless Bellhop (Time Roth) through the night as he interacts with the different bizarre tenants of the hotel ranging from drunk Hollywood directors to witches.There's not much linking the different stories other than cameos from the some similar characters between sketches, a few references to previous segments and the constant presence of our nameless bellhop. Other than this, each sketch follows its own distinct style and story to give the filmmakers greater control of their own shorts. This is partly beneficial as it creates originality. But it also lacks consistency between segments, with even the character of the Bellhop's personality switching between segments. The Missing Ingredient- By far the weakest segment, it follows a Covent of witches who need to complete a ritual. However they are short of a mans semen and decide to get it from the bellhop. The entire sketch is mostly annoying from start to finish through its mixture of bad performances and dreadful writing from Alison Anders. There's not even many jokes in this segment and most of the attempts at humour were creepy. 4/10The Wrong Man- When the bellhop goes to the wrong room, a couple forces him to join in on their strange game. This time the sketch does actually have good performances with David Proval giving an enjoyably over the top performance. But unfortunately he doesn't have much to work with as just like Anders segment, Rockwell made a weak script that's light on jokes. 5/10The Misbehavers- The bellhop must look after a pair of kids, so their parent (Banderas) can have fun at a party. But every time he leaves the room they both get into more and more trouble. This is where the film becomes enjoyable and has some entertaining situation comedy moments. It's like a prototype version of Spy Kids (albeit with some adult humour thrown in) showcasing Rodriguez great flare for slapstick style comedy. It's witty, memorable and is enjoyably eventful. 6/10The Man from Hollywood- This is by far the films greatest segment. Mostly based around a Hitchcock episode by Roald Dahl, Chester Rush (Quentin Tarantino playing a parody of himself) wants the bellhop to cut off their friends finger if he loses the bet. The segment is well made with many of Tarantino's usual traits being present in the film and includes one impressive long take to open the scene. On top of this it follows a very tense build up before getting to a very enjoyable and funny pay off. 8/10It's very much a roller-coaster film, with some high points but also some low points. The first 2 segments are dull and unenjoyable. But then it does pick up for both Rodriguez and Tarantinos segments. Whilst it may not feel like it at first, the film is worth watching with some memorable and entertaining moments picking up speed as it goes. "},{"Title":"ever building humor","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Four Rooms is a slap stick four part tale of a Bell hop (Tim Roth) who encounters witches, crazed couples, trouble making kids, and drunken movie makers on new years eve at a once great Hollywood hotel. The brand of humor usually isn't up my alley, being very physical and less dialogue driven. But this movie still had me cracking me up. Each room is brought to you by way of a different director. Going in order you have Allison Anders, Alexandre Rockwell, Robert Rodriguez, and Quentin Tarantino. For me each segment was better than the last, Tarantino's being my favorite. I enjoyed watching the style change from scene to scene. I am not familiar with the work of the first two directors so there influence was less obvious to me than that of Rodriguez and Tarantino. Maybe that's why I enjoyed there scenes the most, but everyone is a little biased. Everything from writing to camera work shifts with the changing of directors. That is probably my favorite thing about Four Rooms. It's interesting to see Ted the bell hop interact with the different worlds painted for him by the directors. Even if your not into physical humor, you can get a certain amount of enjoyment just watching the camera change hands. But if you like feminist witches, marital problems refereed by revolvers, dead hookers, and wagers worth a little finger and a slick ride, this is a movie for you. "},{"Title":"Two rooms out of four...","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I believe that the idea of this movie is quite swell. Although the first half of the flick is not well accomplished, the ending is absolutely brilliant.The first scene is about a strange group of witches spitting fire and performing a ritual to resurrect one of them who was petrified. That's it... Not very inspired, in my opinion.The second room presents us a tense and wacky fetish of a man accusing the bellboy of sleeping with his wife. I find this scene a little dull and drags on a bit too much.Finally, with the start of the third scene, the movie has a sharp and funny development. The main character has to look after two misbehaving kids. As the situation unfolds and spice is added to it, an excellent ending arises before us.In the last room we are graced by an inspired Tarantino with the help of Bruce Willis and Paul Calderon. Everything, from Chester monologues to Leo's discussion with his wife, is really entertaining. The way this scene unravels is rather original for those who haven't seen Hitchcock's Man from South. This is a remarkable ending and worth the entire movie alone. "},{"Title":"I'll be looking for my copy","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's hard to give a worthy review of a film sometimes so brilliant, and other times so pathetically boring. First of all, the only thing that kept me watching past the first film was Tim Roth's hilariously comic performance of a cartoony style bellhop. The first film seems to be a feminist lesbians excuse of making a point that SISTERS ARE DOIN' IT FOR THEMSELVES. With a story that begins nowhere and ends up in the same place, it seems only fitting that Madonna should play a roll in it. The second film while not entirely stupid seemed a little unsure of itself and required me to think about it a lot before understanding its rather pointless plot. The third film was comic genius. Hilarious and had me laughing all the way through especially lines such as Impossible! You've got the ointment on your eyes, you can't see S@#T!. The fourth film, I wanted to like, but couldn't. Yes it's clever the way long shots are used, yes the dialogue seems spontaneous, ad libbed, realistic, but riveting? Exciting? No! Tarantino seems to think he can carry a scene on his own, when clearly he is better suited for bit parts, the only exception being From Dusk Till Dawn. All in all a good performance and worth seeing if only for the third film. Tim Roth is hilarious, and for these reasons alone, I shall be looking out for a copy of Four Rooms on my next visit to HMV. "},{"Title":"Not For Everyone","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The story goes that Quentin Tarantino once planned to have different people direct the various segments of his eventual masterpiece Pulp Fiction. That obviously never came to pass, but a year after the release of Pulp Fiction came Four Rooms, a black comedy with four segments and four directors - Allison Anders, Alexandre Rockwell, Robert Rodriguez, and Tarantino himself. The stories take place at an old hotel on New Year's Eve, with a bellhop named Ted (Tim Roth) acting as a link between them. Four Rooms was panned after its initial release, but has since become a minor cult item. It's an ambitious, uneven little movie - the shaggiest of dogs.Weird decisions were definitely made with the opening segments by Anders and Rockwell, particularly in the editing room. Quite a bit seems to have been left on the cutting room floor, picking up the pace but increasing the huh? factor.The Rodriguez segment is funnier and more focused. It's some of the best work of the director's career, and Antonio Banderas is fantastic as a Mexican gangster.Marisa Tomei makes a brief but priceless appearance as Margaret, a stoned but amiable New Year's reveller, and then we are launched into the main event - Tarantino's room. His story is the best of the lot. It's talky and tense and ends with a wildly funny flourish.Tim Roth is charged with holding this whole thing together, and he acquits himself just well enough. It's tough to imagine anyone else pulling off that bellhop uniform, and he provides the film with one of its most memorable images when he sashays down those hotel hallways to Combustible Edison's adorable retro-lounge soundtrack.Four Rooms will surely attract Tarantino completists and the more adventurous movie buffs among us. To them, I can only say this Be ready for something different. Have patience. Best of luck.  "},{"Title":"Amazon... could you be more wrong!","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd would like to comment on the review submitted by Amazon.com... What a crock! I grant you that The Missing Ingredient is unbearable, but as far as the other 3 segments go, well they are great. Tim Roth flitting from scene to scene! Tim Roth is excellent in this film, he does overact, but that is what is excellent about it. This slapstick work of art makes me laugh every time that I watch it; with contrasting directorial styles, arbitrary happenings, indelible quotes and a great line up of actors/actresses it makes for excellent viewing. So please disregard Tom's jejune attempt at reviewing this masterpiece.Yours unequivocally, Reign in Requiem.  "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, however...","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Lot of prolonged rather arousing topless scenes, so you can watch it if nothing else is on. Otherwise, I mean its terrible. Tim Roth is not good, never has been. Making him the star of a movie, and then allowing him to attempt tour de force comedy is unwise. But not with wisdom shall we cinema see. The plot and dialogue is stupid and rather vulgar. So watch for the beaucoup seins, cause thats all your gonna get out of this. "},{"Title":"Why dont I like this movie?","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  And why have peopletold me this movie is uproarious. Its not at all, its great to see madonna in here, but personally the whoel movie looks like it would be shown at a theater, which is not bad..but nothing in this movie is funny.  The Misbehavers is pretty good, but Quentins Segment was pretty dumb, along with the wife and husband... avoid "},{"Title":"A mixed bag at best","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  To be honest I only picked this movie up because I knew Bruce Willis was in it and I never pass up a chance to see Bruce on the big screen. It is New Years Eve in a fancy hotel and Ted the bellhop (Time Roth) is the only person on duty. He has four different adventures from four different directors. Of course having one movie with four directors is bound to have its ups and downs so the best way to review this is to pick it apart peice by peice. The first room is a boring unfunny but about witches who run around topless, next please. The second one picks up quite a bit with lots of hilarious jokes while Ted is held hostage by a man with a  big gun after he delivers ice to the wrong room. There is also a very funny bit while Ted is trying to escape from the room out the bathroom window and incounters the original guy he was supposed to take the ice to, very funny. The next room is rather annonying and extremely gross. The only funny bit is when the kids try to make a phone call to ask if any other rooms has a needle in them and they get the guy with the gun from the previous room. The last, and by far the best is directed and stars the great Quentin Tarantino. It also has a great uncredited performance from Bruce Willis. Both Willis and Tarantino and hilarious as drunk, foul mouthed ganster types, and oh boy are they ever foul mouthed. They decide to enlist in the help of Ted to play a game taken from an old episode of Hitchcock Presents. IF the victem can light his lighter 10 times in a row he gets a car if not Ted has to cut his hand off. Let's just say the results are very funny. So even though it has its flaws the moments that this film shines are worth the price of admission.  "}{"Title":"Quirky, Clever and one of a kind","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I will admit that this is definately the key-lime pie of movies (an aquired taste) but for those who love hillarious writing, clever directing and quirky characters, this movie is a must! Being a huge Tarantino fan, I jumped at the chance to watch this movie. The final room is written and directed by Tarantino and definately has his twisted comedic flair written all over it. But I became even more interested in the other writers/directors. They all have unique styles of writing and interesting visions but their casting choices were perfect! Even if you can't stand Antonio Banderas, you'll find him pee-your-pants funny! And Tim Roth's (pulp Fiction, Resevoir Dogs) Ted the bellhop is well worth watching - extreme physical comedy that is over the top but not too extreme. Treat yourself to this all star cast, brilliantly written and directed film. You won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Four Rooms of Fun!","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was originally an Off-Broadway play which made it to film and happens to be one of the funniest films I have ever seen!  Each room is funnier than the last!  Although, I was surpirsed to find that it was directed by Quentin T.!  And, THIS from the man behind Pulp Fiction? It's hard to imagine- but, it's great! "},{"Title":"How can you not love this movie???","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't see how anybody could hate this movie. It has everything from nudity, to prophanity, to a dead rotting whore stuffed into the bed springs. All to the unluckiest guy in the world. The ending was the best for any movie I have ever seen. It also has all these huge stars with 5 minute bit parts. I recommend it to anybody with a sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Three rooms that need cleaning, and one spotless, perfect room.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  FOUR ROOMS (1995) is a curious misfire.  It is basically made up of four short films all set in a little hotel on New Years Eve.  Four different directors handle each episode.  I won't talk too much about three of the segements, including one directed by Quentin Tarantino, coming off his PULP FICTION high.   The best segment is the one directed by Robert Rodriquez.  This quirky, totally bats little movie concerns two out-of-control kids left alone while their gangster daddy (a very funny Antonio Bandaras) goes off with their drunken mommy.  The kids play dangerous games with sharp objects, torment the poor bellboy (Tim Roth at his comedic best) watch smut on TV (actually it's the torso of Selma Hayak doing something like the twist), and defaming a woman's corpse they find under the bed!  Rodriquez's little film was a welcome comedic oasis in a desert of self-praising boredom.   "},{"Title":"The Misbehavers is the best...the rest is bad","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Ouch, this film is very bad, I really hurt to see such a bad film with Madonna on the cover, she is such a good girl in other movie like truth or dare and many others. This movie is just ridiculous. There is only one good scene and it don't last long, Salma Hayek as a tv dancer in The Misbehavers. Here is the story thanks to Tad Dibbern.This movie features the collaborative directorial efforts of four new filmmakers, each of whom directs a segment of this comedy. It's New Year's Eve at the Mon Signor Hotel, a former grand old Hollywood hotel, now fallen upon hard times. Often using physical comedy and sight gags, this movie chronicles the slapstick misadventures of Ted, the Bellhop. He's on his first night on the job, when he's asked to help out a coven of witches in the Honeymoon Suite. Things only get worse when he delivers ice to the wrong room and ends up in a domestic argument at a really bad time. Next, he foolishly agrees to watch a gangster's kids for him while he's away. Finally, he finishes off the night refereeing a ghastly wager.If you really are into Salma Hayek, rent this one just for her scene, that's what I did. The rest is pure crap. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie?","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A great comedy!!! My favorite parts were Robert Rodriguez's and Quentin Taratino's parts they were really funny. A great 20 above movie. Tim Roth was absolutely exquisit. One of my all time favorite movie's from directors I love.  "},{"Title":"Great acting and fantastic script","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie because it has great acting by my fav. hottie actor Tim Roth. My least favorite room of the four rooms is the witch one because it didn't need to have a.) Madonna b.) stupid dialoge and c.)nudity. But all-in-all it was great. I like the opening credits and Tim Roth's gestures and nervousness.  "},{"Title":"2 1/2 stars","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The main reason I watched this was because Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriquez are two of my favorite directors. The other two I could really care less about. They haven't done anything since their indie-hits that got them this job. And as it turns out, the latter mentioned had the worst part of the film.The first skit, The Missing Ingrediant, was absolutely horrible. To me it seemed like just a excuse to get some woman naked. And why, I may ask, did 3 out of the 6 get naked. It would even make sense (not really, but just kind of) if they all took their clothes off. And Tim Roth really overacted in this skit, he gets annoying.1/5The second segment, The Wrong Man, was mildly better, but still nothing to write home about. Tim Roth is mildly better, but he still got on my nerves.2/5The third, The Misbehaviors, is what really gets the film going. It shows Rodriquez's ability to direct slap-stick, as well as he can action. The editing of the skit I might add was great, too. And Tim Roth seemed a little more likeable, but he yells too much at the kids. 3.5/5The fourth, and final, The Man from Hollywood, is definantly the best one. And I'm glad that the film ends on a funny note. Quentin has been criticized for his acting, but when he plays someone like himself, he is hilarious. The dialoque goes even faster in this than most Tarantino movies, now that's saying something. Tim Roth was actually funny to me in this one. 4/5Even though I enjoyed watching the last two, that cannot make up for the horrible first two. 2.5/4 "},{"Title":"Fun, But Sometimes Slow","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was pretty good.  I, of course, will have to grade this segment by segment The first segment wasn't very good.  It was dumb and raunchy (with an bizarre amount of nudity.)  Does Madonna seek out bad roles?  Nothing really seemed serious or funny enough for you to really care about what was going on, and the conflict is resolved with so little effort, that you wonder why they even bothered creating it, and why Madonna would waste her time.  Lily Taylor is completely wasted in it.  Still, it's moderately entertaining mostly because of all the gimicky wipes, bad humor, and a dumb, feel-good attitude. 4/10 The second segment tried a little harder to creating an interesting situation, but, alas, it was a big dull dud.  Nothing else to say. 2/10 The third segment was really good.  It was packed full of good humor and some funny (and disturbing) surprises.  I can't say much more about it, except to say that it was really, really good.  9/10 The final segment ended the movie well.  The long takes got kind of annoying and distracting, but overall it was pretty good.  The first half of the segment was kind of dull, but the second half was pretty interesting, and it ended the movie on the perfect note.  8/10 Overall, despite some dull parts, this movie was good enough to recommend.  However, I wouldn't watch it again.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Caught in a Tarantino snowball","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I first saw this film when it was first released in the UK on video, and thought it was quality through and through. Sadly, on later viewing I have to admit that this is a poor movie.The first and second rooms are poor. The third not much better, although not as bad. the final room is worth watching if only out of a love of Tarantino's work.I think I was caught up in the whole Tarantino hype after Dogs. A snowball effect that, sadly, led me to think that this tragic effort was in anyway any good.Tim Roth What was he thinking?My advice AVOID. "}{"Title":"The Missing Ingredient is the highlight of the film","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I noticed looking over the list of comments about this movie that a lot of people were urging viewers to fast forward through the first 45 minutes of this movie.  All I have to say is that those people are PRUDES and LACK A SENSE OF HUMOR.  The first part of the film (with Madonna as one of the witches) is my absolute favorite part. It is full of wicked humor that I found wonderful.  Don't hesitate to watch the flick.  Madonna IS A GREAT ACTRESS no matter how much people like to cut her down.  So what if some of her movies come off as cheesy---they are meant to.  Give the first part of the movie a chance and don't be afraid to laugh, and please cut Madonna some slack. "},{"Title":"Four Rooms","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Thank God for Roth's masterful interpretation of a bumbling bellhop...for it's the only thing that saves this film (or series of playlets that somehow fit together to make a film). Trust me, fast forward through Alison Anders' sequence with Madonna, Ione Skye...It's that awful! You'll thank me.   "},{"Title":"A Decent Anthology","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Four Rooms is an anthology by different directors, taking place on New Year's Eve at a hotel. The Missing Ingredient is the first one by Allison Anders. Ted, a bellhop, helps a group of strange women to the honeymoon suite, where they have a large cauldron in the middle of the room in order to brew a potion to summon a goddess. They each add something to the mix, until the last witch needs to find semen within an hour to complete the potion. She works on Ted for a donation. I liked this one and give it 8/10.The Wrong Man by Alexandre Rockwell places Ted in an awkward situation in the middle of a fight between a husband and wife. Ted is accused of a sexual encounter with the lady by her husband and after Ted escapes, another guest goes through the same insanity. So so, and a 5/10.The Misbehavers by Robert Rodriguez puts Ted in the position of babysitter for two little brats. Antonio Banderas and his wife leave their boy and girl in the room and pay Ted $500 to make sure that the children behave. The bellhop places them in front of a television, and when he returns, the girl has a bottle of champagne in her hand, the boy is smoking a cigarette, and the TV is on an adult channel. Rodriguez must have had some bad experiences with children to come up with this one. It is funny and a 7.5/10.The last and not least is by my favorite director, Quentin Tarantino, who plays a movie director(talk about typecasting) who is gathered with others who enjoy a good bet. The wager involves a guy being able to light a Zippo lighter ten times in a row. If he succeeds, he wins a car; if not, his pinky will be chopped off with an extremely sharp hatchet. Ted is drafted to be the executioner with the promise of $1,000. Though a quicky by Tarantino standards, it contains the expected darkness of the diabolical genius. An 8.5/10. The combined score is a 7.5 and a decent assembly of talent. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie at 10, and loved it! Yesterday, I saw the movie again, and it was even funnier! Tim Roth was hysterically cartoonish in his movements, hand gestures, and facial expressions. He really stole the show. The Misbehavers was my favorite section of the four that make up the film. I also like the Easter Egg of the TV playing Bedhead in the background during that scene. As the movie progresses further, it gets funnier and funnier. In the beginning, it was like meh, but at the end, I was in tears of laughter! If you have Netflix, stop reading this review, and watch it immediately. It's on instant play. I highly, HIGHLY recommend it. "},{"Title":"Worst than it seems","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" i don't know if most people watched this movie under the effects of drugs or alcohol, no matter which one, this movie sucks, why? because story is not funny at all at any sense, its full of stupid characters, in fact, the only characters that seems real were a couple of kids. you might laugh about some stuff, but you can find those laughs at any movie.movie consists in 4 storiesthe first one its about some witches; dull as white colorthe second one its about some crazy husband in a wrong room; this is where i felt this movie were going to improve, my bad.the third its about the bellboy babysitting some rich kids for some money; this one has more sense.fourth story goes on the penthouse and a lot of time wasted for a stupid bet; well acted, still sucksif you have time to waste go and watch another movie. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the reviews!","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is incredibly underrated. The critics on rottentomatoes.com gave it a 27% (Rotten) approval rating, and they couldn't be further from the truth.After seeing the movie once years ago, I couldn't get it out of my head. I tried unsuccessfully to rent the movie again for a long time (but no movie store carried it), until this past weekend. I wondered if it would be as good as it was the first time, and it was better! Admittedly, some parts do drag (the first bit, specifically), but the rest are great. This film is filled with gems, including Rodriquez's segment The Misbehavers. Antonio Banderes is great, and Tim Roth is quite hilarious.The concept for this film is wonderful, and it is very well done for the most part. As a comedy, it has definitely made it onto my all-time top 10 list. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Two rooms are horrible, two are very good...","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I made a blind buy on this one. Why? I like Tarantino. I like Rodriguez. I enjoy their films. I thought, Why not? I hadn't heard good things about it, but it looked like it might be good or really bad.The first forty minutes didn't help my initial fears. The first sequence is awful. It's called The Missing Ingrediant. It's about witches who check into a hotel room and are missing an ingredient (male sperm) to complete one of their potions. Ha-ha. Valerina Golino and Madonna are in this one.The second (The Wrong Man) is better, but still too messy, crude and weird. The bellboy Ted (Tim Roth) is taken hostage in one of the hotel rooms for a seedy sexual game between a man and his wife (Jennifer Beals). The joke wears out fast.The third, Misbehavors, directed by Robert Rodriguez, is great fun. It's inspired physical humor in the vein of Chaplin and Keaton. It starts out with Antonio Banderas leaving his kids under the care of Ted the bellhop and they, well, misbehave. It escalates into a frenzy of disaster. Very funny, and Banderas and Roth are great together.The final skit, by Tarantino, The Man from Hollywood, is sick but typical Tarantino - all dialogue, references to other actors and films, etc. Lots of profanity, as well.QT casts himself as a director who entices Ted into his suite. There, he finds Bruce Willis and some others ready to chop a guy's finger off as part of a drunken bet. They pay Ted to do the evil deed, but he doesn't know if he has the guts to do it. (The bet, by the way, inspired by a Hitchcock film with Steve McQueen and Peter Lorre.) Overall this isn't great and I hated the first half. But the last half makes up for the rest and really flies by fast - I loved Rodriguez's sequence, if the rest of the film had been of that caliber, it would have been a great physical comedy. QT's wordy conclusion to the nonsense is kind of apt and the movie ends on a good note.It's also worth noting that Roth's performance in the first half is unbearable, and wonderful in the second half. Very strange, how good directors can transform an actor's performance. Or maybe he was just saving the best for last. "},{"Title":"too stupid","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I really can't understand those who like this movie, and I really can't understand this movie!The first two episodes are totally nonsense, and I think the first is the worst of the movie. The only part I liked is the Rodriguez one because Banderas is really funny and the plot and the circumstances are fine. The fourth part of the movie, or the fourth room is not totally bad but I think it's boring. Tarantino speaks, speaks and speaks again, but the action of the finger-cutting is too short. Really bad in this movie is also the Tim Roth's Character, with that strange way to walk, to run , to talk or to make lots of thing! My conclusion is that this movie is not funny in a good way, but in a really stupid way! "},{"Title":"Falls short of funny, mostly for Tarantino fans","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The film is more wink-wink, nudge-nudge, instead of just plain funny. While it does have it's moments such as several points of the misbehavers including the end shot and the suddeness that ends the man from Hollywood. But the rest seems to fall rather flat with poor production and muddled continuity. (a couple of the four acts play out at the same time and while at first glance seeing both sides of a phone call in different segments seems novel, you realize that the timing would not allow Ted the bellhop to be in two places at the same time.) Even the opening of Tarantino's Logo with Tim Roth's Mr. Orange unzipping to become Ted the Bellboy is funnier than most of the intended jokes. There are a lot of surprise cameos here, but that doesn't make the final product much better than an interesting diversion. Purely for fans of Tarantino and his gang. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a fantastic piece of work - I love the way four writers/directors have cooperated here. I will say though, that it starts with a let down. It increases in quality throughout the entire film, and the last segment, The Man From Hollywood is brilliant! Quentin Tarantino brings his characters to life unlike any other director, with his long shots and genius dialogue. The third segment, The Misbehavers, is funny in another way, it holds a lot of the childish humor we can recognize from Desperado and the Spy Kids-franchise. The second installment is a very well-written piece of work, but gets overshadowed by what is yet to come. Tim Roth's performance is phenomenal, he dares to bring his acting to the very limit of what could be called over-acting, but doesn't cross the line entirely, and it brings the movie a very eccentric energy. All together a very good film, and I would recommend all of you to watch it. "}{"Title":"Peculiar and sophisticated,  but uneven coherence","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" One should clearly admit that Rodriguez and Tarantino are better directors and screenwriters than the other two, episodes No 3 and 4 are much more ripe and interesting. No 3 by Rodriguez is probably the most stylish, Tarantino, on the other hand, is the master of intense, funny and smutty dialogs.Most of male performances are excellent, especially Roth and Banderas, Willis and Tarantino are outstanding as well. Unlike other similar films, female parts are quite dull and mediocre, the cast in the episode No 1 is rather poor.Awkward characters and witty scenes are still worth watching (total length less than 1,5 hours), although Four Rooms is not among the best films where Rodriguez and Tarantino have participated. "},{"Title":"It is a really hilarious movie.","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Usually a Tarantino's movie is very very hilarious with lots of sense of humor. The best thing about his movie is you can never predict what is gonna happen next, so we never get bored during the movie. Four room comes from four separated, yet, still connected stories. What I especially like is the third story, titled 'misbehavior'. A leading character, Tim Roth, named Ted in the movie, a bell boy in a gorgeous hotel is asked to take care of some naughty kids left in the hotel by their parents. He job is to make sure the kids would not misbehave while their parents are away. But the kids went far beyond Ted's control. By the time, parents came back, the situation was completely messed up, so that Ted decided to quit his work. As usual, you hear F word every 5 seconds in this movie, which makes the dialogs in the film simply so funny. A bell boy Ted, stared by Tim Roth acts very very well in the movie. We can just enjoy watching him go nuts when he encounters series of troubles. It is a very funny movie. I can guarantee you enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"This movie should be watched by all!","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Four Rooms is a cult classic! With an amazing cast and twisted, humours stories that will please even the most critical film buff.Tim Roths performance as Ted the Bellhop, is something that consistently holds the movie together - not just as a thread linking each of the rooms, but as someone that help us to understand how we would feel if we were to be confronted with such things.The writing and direction for each of the four rooms by the all brilliant Allison Anders (The Missing Ingredient), Alexandre Rockwell (The Wrong Man), Robert Rodriguez (The Misbehavers) and Quentin Tarantino(The Man From Hollywood) are, in my opinion all as good as each other. They are all interesting stories with a great visual content and great acting. "},{"Title":"Madonna and Quentin Tarantino","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  After Tarantino's impressive success of 'Pulp Fiction', even Madonna wanted to work with him. Tim Roth stuck with Tarantino in the same way that Samuel L. Jackson did in 'Jackie Brown', but Roth would not receive his deserved recognition as an actor until he appeared alongside Laurence Fishburne in 'Hoodlum'. This is probably the start of Tarantino's shared effort of directing a film with other directors. Here, he works with Robert Rodriguez and various other directors, and does the same in 'From Dusk till Dawn'. He would renew his alliance with Robert Rodriguez by directing the sequel to Rodriguez's debut film. Antonio Banderas also begins his alliance with Rodriguez and goes on to appear in 'Desperado' and 'Spy Kids' having already appeared the gay lover of Tom Hanks in 'Philaedelphia' with Denzel Washington. "},{"Title":"It's a keeper.","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" One of the most re-watchable movies in my DVD collection. Tim Roth's performance is priceless. The conversation between Ted the bellboy and Betty is classic. QT's room also contains some memorable bits of dialogue.On another note, this is my first post to IMDb and I'm pretty disappointed by the draconian censorship methods which they employ. Originally, this post contained a quote from the aforementioned conversation between Betty and Ted. Apparently, IMDb denies the use of any language besides English. The last two words of Ted's rant are the Spanish translation of good night, which the IMDBot forbids me from quoting. Because the alteration of this quotation violates US copyright laws, I must omit the text in its entirety. This Catch-22 comes dangerously close to compromising my first amendment rights. While I understand that IMDb is a private organization, this experience has only furthered my belief that US copyright law is in desperate need of reform. "},{"Title":"Derelict","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I've never been a fan of Tarantino. He borrows from past giants and assembles. I admit he hit a sweet spot with `Pulp Fiction,' but I am convinced that the most interesting levels of irony in that project are unintentional.So here we have a project loosely based on Jerry Lewis (and true to QT, we are told so), but without the ironic effect intended. The project misses, though Rodriguez is competently comic.Roth fascinates. He's not particularly intelligent, but he does have excellent control over his instrument. He's been great when guided by directors with vision Altman, Stoppard, Greenaway (!). Here he tries to make up for lack of depth by increasing the energy.I came to this not because of Roth or Tarantino, but because of two of the women in the first episode. Alicia Witt played brief by extraordinary roles in `Dune,' and `Liebstraum.' Sammi Davis was in a Ken Russell film I had seen, `Lair of the White Worm.' Russell is like Tarantino except without the luck in stumbling into a niche of palatable self adulation. In that film, she outshone the project.But alas, the actresses are now both off my watch list.  "}]