[{"Title":"Not too bad actually","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"45 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Actually, after seeing the rating on Halloween 6, I have to admit that I was a bit scared to see this movie, not because it's a horror story, but because it just had a low rating. But still I wanted to complete the Halloween series and when I rented this movie, I was really surprised that I liked it as much as I did. I think the rating is a bit harsh, this story brought us back into the story with Jamie, even though a warning in advance, she does get killed off with this sequel, I liked how they continued the story with one of the original characters, Tommy Doyle. It was cool to see him grown up and how the events of 1978 effected him. Honestly I don't know why this movie has a lower rating than Halloween 5, but I guess to each his own, but I really do think this story carries itself a lot better.Michael Myers, his niece Jamie Lloyd, and the mysterious Man in Black have all been in hiding for six years. It is revealed that the Man in Black is the leader of a Druid-like cult, and the Man in Black kidnapped Jamie and had her impregnated. The baby is born on Halloween Eve and is carried away by the Man in Black. Later that night, a nurse helps Jamie and her baby escape. Michael Myers, in pursuit of Jamie and her newborn, kills the nurse. Jamie, meanwhile, steals the truck and flees to a dark and empty bus station where she calls in to a radio show that happens to be doing a broadcast about the Haddonfield murders. Jamie gets on the air, begging for help and warning of Michael's imminent return. Beaten and exhausted, she makes her way inside of an old barn where Michael is waiting for her. He kills Jamie, only to find that Jamie does not have the baby. Meanwhile, Tommy Doyle has his eye on a family who's moved into the old Myers house across the street from the boarding house where he lives. The boarding house is run by a mysterious old woman named Minnie. Tommy has been obsessed with finding the truth behind the murderous motives of Michael Myers. After hearing Jamie begging for help on a local radio show, Tommy finds her baby at the bus station and takes him into hiding. The people living in the Myers house are relatives of the Strode family, and among the current residents are Kara Strode and her son Danny. The plot takes a turn when the Man in Black finally reveals himself as Dr. Wynn from the original Halloween. Wynn has been experimenting with pure evil, does he think this is a good idea? Happy Halloween.Granted, Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers is very different than the other Halloween stories, but I think this was a good pick up. Plus you have to admit that Jamie's death is very effective and scary. The whole cult thing was a bit much, but still I think it was a good scare factor to add into the story. The acting is better I think and the writing was a little more accurate. Plus unlike Halloween 5, Michael actually scared me again, thank God, I was getting a little frightened that he was loosing his touch and his butcher knife. So I do recommend this movie if you're looking to complete the series or if you're just looking for a good scare.6/10 "},{"Title":"This should have been the final film in the Halloween series.","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"37 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 666 (1995) The producer's cut review!Halloween 666 starts of with a recap of the horrific ending to Part five. If you thought the last chapter was dark, this one will really blow your mind. A mysterious Man in Black has raided the Haddonfield Police Department freeing Micheal Myers. In the process poor Jamie Lloyd was abducted by strange cultists. What they want with her? Who knows, but let's just say her long suffering will end soon. Doctor Loomis is back spending the rest of his twilight years trying to stop Michael Myers from killing any more innocents (good luck). A friend of Loomis, Doctor Wynn comes back after a four sequel hiatus to help the good doctor. Another old face from part one guest stars as well.This dark and dreary sequel was dismantled during the post production editing. For some reason the distributors felt that the final product wasn't worth the average horror film watcher's time. So they decide to dumb it down. Then after having the film sit on the shelf for several months it laid an egg at the box office. No matter what they did to the film, they made it worse. They should have left well enough alone. Hey, the film company knows better than the filmmakers now....don't they?Producer's Cut Highly recommended Released version Not recommended "},{"Title":"It Was A Really Good Film, It Could Have Been Better","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"34 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a really interesting Halloween film.  I wasnt to thrilled with the whole Thorn theory but it still makes for a good film.  I liked getting to see Tommy Doyle back but sadly Donald Pleasance died right after shooting.  The film had a really REALLY bad director who didnt give a flip about the series, from what I heard treated Donald bad, and wouldnt let Danielle Harris come back as Jamie.  Its like he was just trying to bring down the film, but I still liked it.  There were alot of cuts and music changes and if you're lucky you can get the Producers Cut which features over 40 min. of never before scenes. With those scenes it turns into a whole new movie. Check it out if you have the chance. "},{"Title":"Must see the Producer's Cut","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"24 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is pretty good as it is, but the unreleased Producer's Cut is my favorite movie in the series after the original. Jamie's story is handled differently, the death scenes are done 10 times better, there's more footage of ritual type stuff giving more story about Micheal, Jamie and her baby. There is also an alternate ending which is also better. Why they didn't release this version instead I have no damned clue. If you can find this version, see it.  "},{"Title":"A mystery best kept under wraps","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What made Myers so scary was the fact that you didn't know what drove him to such insanity or made him indestructable.  Trying to explain his origins would have been a tough thing to do right, and this doesn't come close.  Does this film bore? no, but had they kept the producer's cut instead of this version it might have been worthy.   "},{"Title":"Underrated Sequel.","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" For some reason, I always enjoy movies that people hate, when I really don't think they're that bad - and this is one of those films. In the case of this movie, I think it is way too over-criticized, I really isn't that bad of a film at all. In fact, I think this is one of the better sequels. Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers begins on the night before Halloween, where Michael brutally murders Jamie Lloyd (who was taken captive by the Man In Black in part 5) after she gives birth to his baby. We are then introduced to the Strode family, who is now coincidentally living in the old Myers house (which seems to change in each film). Kara and her son Danny are the main characters, along with Tommy Doyle, the now adult boy who survived the original killings. They must fight together to save Jamie's baby from an evil cult that takes care of Michael, while Michael himself is driven to kill by an old Celtic ritual where he must sacrifice an entire family in Haddonfield.This is surely one of the best sequels in the series, in my opinion anyway, and I can't understand all of the hate it has gotten. It had some nice suspense, an interesting plot (but sometimes confusing, I'll admit), some scary moments here and there, and plenty of gore and knife slashings to appease all of you gorehounds. Not all of the acting wasn't particularly great, but it was convincing enough for me. Marianne Hagan is the leading lady and she is very likable. Paul Rudd plays a grown-up Tommy Doyle, and is also very talented and plays his part nicely. The rest of the supporting cast (besides the brilliant Donald Pleasance) isn't much to praise, but it wasn't too bad either, all things considered. I'm still not sure if giving an explanation for why Michael kills was completely necessary, but it turned out to be okay in the end and I wasn't upset with the way they tied everything together. The open-ended conclusion was also kind of eerie, but could have been something more. I have also seen the infamous Producer's Cut of this film, the original cut of it, and I think that in some respects, it is better. It further explains the Thorn curse that drives Michael and has some extra scenes that really helped support the film, plus the ending was a lot better in my opinion. It felt more natural than the conclusion that we're given in the studio cut of the film. I wish that Dimension would release this alternate version of the film, because I personally think it is better. The chances of that are very slim though.Overall, Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers is a very good sequel and will please all of the fans of the series. This movie isn't the best of all horror movies, but it's definitely worth renting if you want to see Michael do his thing. Just don't expect brilliance, and you'll enjoy it. 7/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best in the series","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"    H6 is one of the best sequels in the series if you ask me.  I think the film had an awesome look to it.  It's hard to describe, but there's something about it that makes it look like a really well made horror film that is entertaining and scary.  The scenes in the barn are pretty good, as are most of the rest of the film...but the barn scene is basically your first big look at the movie, and it leads into a really great movie that keeps you on edge the whole time.  H20 sucked badly...it was made for teenagers, like Scream and IKWYDLS, etc...H6 was made as a horror movie, NOT a teen horror movie, and there is a big difference.  The film has decent acting...no wonderful performances or anything, but most of them are no name actors.  The mask in this movie is pretty awesome looking, I think...even tho Myers looked fat in the film.  He looked a lot stronger and menacing.  Paul Rudd, who went on to become a bigger star than he was at the time, totally put down this movie and said he was ashamed he was in it...I think he's crazy, because I liked his character, and I think he did a good job of making you like the character.   8/10 "},{"Title":"Cursed","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Taste is a subjective thing.  Two people can watch the same movie with one of them loving it and the other one hating it.  As it concerns 'Halloweenthe Curse of Michael Myers' I fall into the latter category.I'm of the opinion that John Carpenter, in 1978, made one of that decade's finest fright films, which despite its flaws, still holds up well into the 21st century.  It reused many of the old horror film devices but utilized them in original and effective ways.  It had no pretensions that it was anything other than a movie about an escaped mental patient stalking babysitters on Halloween night.  And yet there were 'ideas' in the film but they were subtly introduced and not hammered into your skull.  It juxtaposed the myths of the macabre festival with the reality of what was taking place in the story and it did this with a wonderful ambiguity. The 'filmmakers' of this 'film' probably wouldn't even understand that previous paragraph.  That's why we're saddled us with this miserable and inept piece of disposable celluloid.  Direction, script, acting are of the lowest strata imaginable.  This is the type of film that is so mind numbingly dull and nausea inducing as to make you want to crawl back into the womb and die.  It is also truly, truly sad to see veteran British actor Donald Pleasence wasting his acting abilities with this saliva puddle of a movie.  He seems drained of all his energy and resigned to the fact that this may be his last film.  Maybe that's what killed him. "},{"Title":"Producer's Cut","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The producer's cut is an example of studio interference gone haywire, or should I say the theatrical cut, or maybe both versions. This version of the movie is a lot more character driven and has some moments that are alittle creepy but the cult element really seems to be the one factor that faults both versions of the film. In the Producer's cut, Dr.Wynn's explanation of the thorn cult is better and I must say kind of creepy but the SPOILER ALERT! reason for Jamie's babies existence is absolutely absurd and is definitely not in tone of any Halloween movie. Michael raped Jamie! Come on! What a loud of trash. The film would have worked if they added more chase scenes and went further with the cult ending, or make it exciting or suspense instead of just having the kids run out the building and Tommy stopping Michael with mystical ruins, that did suck as a kid said in a test screening. The chase ending of the theatrical cut could have been added and just gave Michael a better death than the stupid lead pipe gag. Halloween 6 is a prime example of pre-packaged crap! When studios don't give a dam! "},{"Title":"Halloween Six eh i could think of another word beginning with S","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay wait let me get this street, there are actually some morons on this site who reckon this is one of the better if not the best Halloween sequel. I even read someone saying it was just as good as the original. Pah what nonsense don't believe them I've watched every Halloween and clearly unlike some people knows what makes at the very least a good horror movie and this shower of S is one of the Worst horror movies i have ever seen in my life. Frankly if i was John Carpenter i would sue the person who wrote this either that or go around to his or her place with a hunting rifle. Seriously Halloween sequels in general are nearly all rubbish, two was crap, three was stupid, four is alright, five is well five, H20 alright, Resurrection painful. Yet, in many ways i find this to be the worst of a very bad bunch of sequels. Why? Well let me just embark on some kind of rant not so much a review but a mindless rant on why Halloween 6 the Cure of Michael Myers is one of the most abysmal movies i have seen in a very long time. OK where should i start, ah yes the plot oh boy the plot. Basically the plot is a heaped together mess containing cults, signs of Thor and some other crap. It's just stupid it really is, the film tries to be flashy and intelligent yet, its heaped together in such a horribly made way. Why does Michael Myers got to have a reason for killing people? Simple enough explanation Micahel likes to kill his relatives that would suffice, but no we have to have a man in black and mysterious cults and signs of Thor and utter crap. God its so bad it made me want to cry it really did, the writers have tried to add to the character of Myers but have actually managed to do the entire opposite. Apart from wearing a mask and a boiler suit < which is a completely different colour by the way, Myers just isn't the same guy from the original or even two, heck maybe even four. Thats another thing why has Myers become a Jason Voorhes parody? I thought it was meant to be the other way round, yet Myers is so similar to Jason, all he does is endlessly kill people in gory ways. In the original he teased his victims took his time and as a result the whole thing was far more suspenseful. In this he just walks around hacking people to death. I mean in the space of Half an Hour we had equalled the amount of kills in the original it was just ridiculous. Oh and Myers in this seems to have a really big head, i mean its huge and hes put on loads of weight. What else is crap, oh yeah the return of Tommy Jarvis thats pretty bad, in fact all the characters in this film are crap bar Dr Loomis of course. I can't stand the little kid, i wish he had got it he's really irritating. Our Heroin is boring and not interesting. And her whole family are a terrible bunch of actors. The mother is rubbish, the brother is bad and the Father i mean was this his first part or something? He was like a cartoon villain for gods sake he was actually more evil than Myers < By the way his death is one of the most abysmal i've ever seen i think even Friday the 13th wouldn't come up with something so entirely laughable. What else is rubbish oh yeah Tommy Jarvis, don't know the name of the guy but he really can't act, he tries his best to be serious and all that but i just wanted to laugh at him. I wish he had died in fact if everyone had died it would have been quite good really. There is Dr Loomis a horribly aged and dieing Donald Pleasence by all account. Despite him being on his last legs Pleasance is still the stand out in the brief amount of time he features. Its such a pity that such a corner stone of this franchise had to say farewell in garbage like this. What else is rubbish, oh yeah the bit where the radio DJ gets it. Firstly how the hell did Michael manage to get in that van when five minutes ago he was in his house? Secondly it was just a pointless kill which may boost the body count but is just another peace of nonsense which adds to the drivel that is this film. Its in fact that death which said it all for me in that it was pointless a lot like this film. "}{"Title":"A Mess!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 6 is simply a mess, what it has in style it totally lacks in substance.  It just feels as if its incomplete and it is.  Upon seeing The Producer's Cut, which I reccomend you find, it is a different film.  While the theatrical version has more slash and less story The Producer's Cut is far superior.  The suits behind H6 wanted to make an MTV style slasher to attract the teens, but they insult the viewers intelligence with an inane story and a wasted finale.  Track down The Producer's Cut and avoid this version. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever made","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Since a week's passing, from having watched The Curse of Michael Myers again, I'll still contend that it's one of the most powerful works of art ever produced (referring to the theatrical cut - not the much inferior version the Producer's Cut).JC Brandy, as Jamie Lloyd; Marianne Hagan, as Kara Strode (the first female adult protagonist in the Halloween franchise); and Paul Rudd, as Tommy Doyle.. The three of these actors are all brilliantly cast.Watching the movie a week ago, what I experienced was honestly a life experience. The texture. The maturity. The music and settings - the aura of dread! Watching it, I knew I was experiencing an aspect of reality which deserved to overrule all other aspects of reality national histories, personal identities, cultures, all other movies and entertainments, philosophies, political ideologies, science etc..In my opinion, one of the most potent expressions of humanity. "},{"Title":"The Curse!","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" New installment of this famous saga of the famous yet it is very different, give it another touch that is not doing well, the good thing is that it remains entertaining and it is noteworthy that one of the bloodiest of the series, the performances are not convincing, they are not bad, but not convinced highlighting the important Dorctor Loomis which then unfortunately pass away before the premiere  certainly but little to say other deaths are, well much gore has good photography and good management is the final remains very predictable and yet open to another possible sequel.Entertaining sequel to this saga why this pretty undervalued, honestly there are worse, it's just a matter of checking most, not the worst, because undoubtedly be followed by an eighth, that's really at fault.But without doubt it is a saga that traps and interesting. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Halloween 6 The Curse of Michael Myers 6/10","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The sixth installment to the Halloween franchise brings Michael Myers back to Haddonfield to kill Jamie's offspring. This movie way gloomier and darker compared to the previous Halloween films, which was kind of a breath of fresh air. Paul Rudd as Tommy Doyle, yes the kid that was babysat by Laurie Stroke, does a great job as the co-lead to the movie alongside Donald Pleasance. Dr. Loomis returns to his last movie of the franchise to stop Michael, only to run into a person from his past, The Man in Black. The Curse has a really good story and atmosphere but I have to really knock on the ending for being what I felt very incomplete. In order to satisfy the urge for a better ending, there is a Producer's cut of the film out there but sadly it isn't as strong as I hoped it would be. The 6th movie may follow the events from the 4th and 5th but it truly stands on its own for being a memorable film and a decent addition to the Halloween franchise. "},{"Title":"Cursed Indeed","Date":"27 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The sixth entry in the Halloween franchise picks up some years after the conclusion of Halloween 5. Jamie Lloyd is now a full grown adult, and she's just given birth. Unfortunately for her, Jamie has been kept in the basement of Smith's Grove Sanitarium (the facility that has housed Michael during his stints in and out of custody) by the likes of an underground Druid cult that seeks to somehow restore the once great night of Halloween to its former glory. What that former glory entails is anyone's guess; some gibberish about mayhem, bonfires and star alignments is thrown into the mix, but said references are every bit as vague as they sound.The question you likely have is this How does Michael Myers fit into all this ridiculousness? Well, as the previous movies have indicated, he's somehow connected to the Druid sacrificial rite, but a lucid explanation of the exact role he plays is&#x97;yet again&#x97;conspicuously absent. I suppose it doesn't really matter, though; he's still alive, still angry, and still killing people. Once again he's after the last living remnant of the Myers bloodline, the newborn baby of his aforementioned niece. Oddly enough, Tommy Doyle&#x97;one of the children from the original Halloween that Laurie babysat the night he came home&#x97;has become obsessed with the persistent rumors about Michael and has rented a room across the street from the Myers house to keep tabs on its residents, one of whom is a kid with the same penchant for murder that Michael himself demonstrated so many years ago.Loomis is back, too. He is, of course, not surprised in the least when Michael reappears in Haddonfield, and the usual hijinks ensue (namely, people don't believe the famed serial killer is still alive, make the mistake of writing him off, and end up getting axed in oh-so-creative ways). The atmosphere generated in the movie is admirable, and this is one of Michael's more menacing outings. Still, one can't help but feel disappointed by the lack of story development, and the movie's conclusion feels much too abrupt. This almost certainly is a direct result of director Joe Chappelle's apparent distaste for Pleasence. According to the Internet Movie Database, Chappelle found many of Pleasence's scenes boring, and thus engaged in heavy editing in an effort to trim down his presence in the movie. The result is a disjointed affair that's not nearly as effective as it could have been.In short, The Curse of Michael Myers is a convoluted mess that only pretends to answer some of the longstanding questions surrounding the Halloween mythology. The movie has its moments, and the presence of Paul Rudd as the now adult Doyle adds some memorability to the cast of characters. "},{"Title":"An absolute mess...Producers Cut is way to go","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had the fortunate experience of watching the Producer Cut of this movie before I saw the 'official' version and may I say i'm glad I did otherwise I might have been too shocked and hesitant to watch another version. The official version is an absolute mess to say the least, it has deleted and shortened SO many scenes that were crucial to the story and simply replaced it with blood and guts with no real explanation besides a small scene with Tommy Doyle talking about 'Thorn' and its history. Overall, this version of the movie was simply re-made for mindless idiots who only view a movie for possible breast exposure or violent madness. The final nail in the coffin is the editing and and scene skips. Watching this you can plainly see that it was an ATTEMPT to re-do half of a movie with frequent black outs to scenes where people have magically appeared and scenery changes with no explanation to why those people are either there or what happened between the skips. These fade in/fade outs in the movie left me feeling weird and irritable about the lack of story telling and ability to draw in the audience. I ask all who read this and agree with me about 'this' version to not give up hope, check out the producers cut and see the dramatic changes and superior story that will leave you satisfied and not confused over what you just saw. It's your game now, Doctor Loomis!(sinister laugh) "},{"Title":"producer 's cut","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I want to tell dimension films that they should release Halloween 6 the producer's cut on DVD. you tell them that.well I have seen the producer's cut version it is very good. and I want it on DVD I have got a copy of it.but it is useless it is not that clear.so it better to be released on DVD because the halloween fans are waiting for it.I am hoping that it should be released some time this year or next year.they should have not cut the scenes just because Donald pleasence had died. in 1995 he was a good actor and halloween 7 or 8 is not the same with out him. I miss him sometimes. and I am looking towards of finding one and buying it if it is released on DVD. "},{"Title":"Equally Cursed & Blessed?","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ****MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*****Okay, so not many people like Halloween 6, but I do.  I admit that the spark has gone from this film, it is no way as good as Halloween 1, but then, none of the Halloween's are.  There are no sneaky attacks etc, but thats not what makes Halloween 6.  Some say the 'Curse' plot-line is crap, but I dont think so, it does explain a few things, ie, why he lives alllll the time.  Also the 'cut' version is much better than the normal ending, contary to popular belief Sam Loomis does not die, he as to return in H20.  Doing Halloween 6 was a good move to the future, because Mikey is back in H2K, and it may be linked to H6, apparently that was not Mike Myers' head at the end of H20...you live and learn.!!EVIL NEVER DIES "},{"Title":"Better than Haloween 5, but that's not saying very much...","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 (1989) was a rushed project with a ridiculous story and a stupid ending. It pretty much killed the franchise and it took six years before a new sequel was released. The rights once owned by Transcas Films were bought by Miramax/Dimension (a division of Buena Vista/Disney). The one brave thing this sequel has is that it's trying to explain the mess Halloween 5 was. But unfortunately, the new story is potentially even dumber than Part 5. According to the movie, it's six years later. Jamie is being held by a cult and gives birth. How can than be, she's what, 14 years old ? We get a new actress, J.C. Brandy (the producers didn't want to pay Danielle Harris the 5000 euro for her return) who looks like she's almost 30 years old. She flees with her newborn baby (according to the producer's cut, Michael is the father (..)) Eitherway, the introduction of the baby is dumb. Michael Myers is not skilled or cunning in this one. For example, he's not able to figure out that Jamie hid her baby in the women's room of a bus station. Even though he's been there chasing her, and after he kills her, he even finds a paper roll of that same restroom in her car. It's a shame Jamie was killed off so quick in the Theatrical Cut, it was as dumb as killing off Rachel right at the beginning of Part 5. Than we're introduced to Tommy Doyle. One of the kids who Laurie Strode babysat in the original Halloween. He's obsessed with Michael and finds the baby in the bathroom the next morning. Apparently, it's not a popular bathroom since no one has been there that entire time for about 12 hours. Must be because of the massive blood trail Jamie left the night before that no one bothered to clean up.There's also a new family in the old Myers house. They are relatives of the Strode family who adopted Laurie after Michael killed her sister in the original. Besides the father, the family doesn't know that they live in the Myers house. Rather silly when you think about it. Again, it's not the original house they used in the classic, but it's not as silly as the Old Myers house in Part 5. The story makes no sense at all, trying to explain why Michael kills. The evil cult thing is awful. The reveal of the mysterious man in black is unbelievable. Remember, he's the one who took out an entire police station like the Terminator at the end of Part 5. Main reason for the messy story is that half the movie was re-shot and re-edited. The Producer's Cut has a way better story but it's still not a very good movie. It has much more scenes with Donald Pleasance and the music is way better. This Theatrical Cut suffers from a lame and incoherent story, very bad editing, unnecessary gore and an unsatisfying ending. Michael Myers is once again played by stuntman George P. Wilbur (he was also Myers in Halloween 4) but here his moves and posture are just not right. He looks more like Jason Voorhees in this one. The cast is not even that bad compared to Part 5. Paul Stephen Rudd (he also starred in Clueless that year) plays his part very well, just as Marianne Hagan. Mitchel P. Ryan is underused since he's a great actor and has more potential (Lethal Weapon).It's sad to see that Donald Pleasence's role has almost been reduced to a cameo. He's the only one who held up the Halloween franchise. Too bad director Chapelle cut out a lot of his scenes for the the Theatrical Cut. I'v always been a big fan of Halloween and horror films in general. The first one remains the best. Halloween II (1981) was a very well made sequel that was almost as good as the original. After that, my most favorite Halloween is H20 It was fresh, revived the franchise, had Jamie Lee Curtis and a scary Michael again and went back to the roots of this franchise. Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers (1988) was a solid entry with great performances by Donald Pleasance and Danielle Harris. Since that one was a success, a sequel had to be in theaters the next year to compete with Jason and Freddy. Unfortunately, 1989 turned out to be a very bad year for horror Friday VIII Jason Takes Manhattan, Nightmare 5 The Dream Child and Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers had 2 things in common they all did very poorly at the box office and were among the worst in their franchises. Halloween 5 was bad. The introduction of the man in black is the worst thing of the entire franchise. I didn't like that direction with the matching tattoo's and the cult that controls Michael. That's just lame. I'm glad that the far more superior and successful Halloween H20 totally ignored the events of the previous three films. "},{"Title":"The Halloween Saga Halloween - The Curse of Michael Myers","Date":"23 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 came and went at the box office. Although a better movie than part four, it didn't perform as well at the box office. Audiences it seemed, were tired of the slasher genre of films. The last Friday the 13th (Part 8) and Nightmare on Elm Street (Part 5) had bad performances at the box office too. After 11 years it appeared that the slasher film was dying out.In 1993, Jason goes to Hell The Final Friday was released and was poorly received by both critics and audiences. The lack of horror movies and the lack of box office gold for horror movies seemed to have put a dent in the plans of Moustapha Akaad in regards to the Halloween franchise. Halloween 5 ended with lots of mystery and intrigue and, even more so than the first four films, was begging for a sequel to continue the story.Thus production began many years later and on September 29th, 1995, Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers was released. It continues the story of Jamie and Michael Myers, and answers who 'the man in black' was. It brings back Tommy Doyle, the boy that Laurie Strode babysat in the first Halloween and it ups the gore to levels never yet seen in a Halloween film.But Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers is also the worst film in the series. It is terribly directed, has even worse editing and for the most part the acting is terrible. The cinematography is terrible and Michael Myers doesn't even look right. It feels rushed and choppy and really has no ending.Other than Paul Rudd (in his big screen debut) and Donald Pleasance (in has last performance), the acting in Halloween is sub par. The girl who plays Jamie (formerly Danielle Harris) is a terrible actress and many of the supporting roles are so stiffly acted that it's a wonder that Rudd and Pleasance come off as good as they do. Michael Myers too, is terrible in this film. He seems shorter, and has a pot belly. He walks and acts differently and the thing that is most off is his mask. It just doesn't look the same as it always has; and with all those changes Michael Myers comes off as an un-scary, pale impostor of the real menace from the previous films.The look of the film is terrible too. For the most part it is to dark and things can't be seen well enough. It has shaky and badly choreographed photography and abysmal editing. For no reason at all, and in impossible and stupid ways, there is an abundance of gore that makes absolutely no sense. Gore works well when it's done right, but to have a head explode, in glorious detail, just because, doesn't work. In fact, virtually every death in this film is very un-Michael Myers like.Coming out of part five, the filmmakers attempted something very ambitious with this film, but ended up failing more often than not. The resolution of 'the man in black' story is rather weak and disappointing. It was a great idea to have Tommy Doyle back, older and wiser, who states over and over again that he knows how to kill Myers. In the end, he beats him up and runs away, again very weak. There is a scene where Loomis and a cop are looking at a murder scene. There is a large (re-occurring symbol burned into some haystacks. The cop asks what it is and Loomis says 'it's his mark', referring to Myers. This makes no sense in the context of both the previous films and this film. The whole first hour of this film seems to be building to something. Although badly shot, badly acted and badly edited it is somewhat watchable. Then as the resolution to the film begins it starts to fall apart. By the time the end rolls by the editing and story both become incomprehensible. There is actually no ending to this film. It just ends. The last 15 minutes of The Curse of Michael Myers is so badly edited and put together it almost feels like the filmmakers just gave up and never finished their film.Other than Paul Rudd and Donald Pleasance (who isn't even utilized enough), the only other merit to this film is the fact that, unlike part five, the Myers house is actually the Myers house. The last film used his house in the storyline but used a house that looked nothing like the house from the original films. This film at least brought back the original house, which turned out to be the scariest thing in the movie.Although slightly enjoyable for the first hour, with uncharacteristically great murders, and a little bit of nudity thrown in for good measure, Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers is a big mess that is a complete waste of time. With high ambitions it had the potential to be great, instead it is a muddled heap of confusion and incomprehensibility. There is really no reason to watch this film, unless you are ploughing through the Halloween series and if you are, when this film ends you will be left with a very strong feeling of sadness. Sadness for Donald Pleasance, who's great career ended on such a poor and utterly terrible note.Film Rating 36%Breakdown (How Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers scored 36%)Production Design 5 out of 10 Cinematography 3 out of 10 Re-playability 4 out of 10 Originality 3 out of 10 Costumes 3 out of 10 Directing 3 out of 10 Editing 3 out of 10 Acting 5 out of 10 Music 5 out of 10 Script 2 out of 10Read more of my reviews at www.fullmetalreviews.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"so bad it makes part 5 look like a classic.......","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This series should have stopped after the fourth movie. That movie was at least decent. The fifth movie was ridiculous, and quite frankly, boring. But this movie should be the poster child for sequels that should never be made. Absolute rubbish! The whole man in black storyline and the cult is absolute nonsense, and really makes no sense whatsoever to the storyline in parts 1,2 and 4. It's like they added it to simply add some excitement to a badly failing franchise. Oh, and by the way, it was an abysmal failure. In my thirty plus years of being a horror movie fan, this is quite possibly the worst horror film I've ever seen, and without a doubt the worst of this series. Avoid this.... "},{"Title":"The goriest out the series,","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Out of all the Halloween films, Halloween The Curse of Micheal Myers is the most violent, brutal and goriest out the series and that's why I love it.Since this was supposed to be the final chapter in Halloween, the tag line says on the UK video box the only thing more terrifying than how it started is how it ends! they wanted to make it more violent than before and explain Halloween 5's moments.Micheal is also more meaner in this one, breaking a man's neck around, axing a woman in the head, killing everyone in surgery, crushing a man's skull through a barred door, impaling a nurse through a spike, stabbing a woman in bed and so on.This may not have much of the suspense but it makes up for that with the gore. "},{"Title":"Halloween 6 Worst Horror Sequel Ever","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge Halloween fan but my feelings towards this sixth installment is when this came out they f'd up the whole series. After 7 years of waiting for the next one to come out I was forced to watch this piece of crap. Which did nothing to further the Michael Myers legacy. The story was so ridiculous and off, the writers should be banned from ever writing again. The whole thing with the cult was so not the right way to go in continuing the franchise. The thing that made the previous movies so great was the keeping us in the dark about his motivations for wanting to kill his family. It just made it scarier and more mysterious. I have seen the producers cut after hearing this version was so much better. And to me it still sucked. Yeah it had a lot of different things going on in it, but it still basically had the same story and had even more to do with Michael's crew (THE CULT) Michael always worked alone and now he has a crew of loyal cultists and what appears to be a bodyguard (THE MAN In BLACK). Even Michael Myers himself wasn't the same, he didn't really look like he did before or walk the way he walked. I myself wasn't impressed with this movie. And do not recommend it to no one. Not unless you want to laugh at a movie that shouldn't be funny. "},{"Title":"My review","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In my eyes, this sequel is brilliant, i love this film in both cuts. The acting is brill and i luv exploding heads )Wilbur really helps the series as he is the best  shape  in my eyes. The kills aren't very realistic though as in others for example ;Shape crushes mans skull then pushes threw metal bars on gate. Or volts make mans head blow up.In the producer's cut, the extended thorn storyline is very cool.In both cuts i have to admit, the soundtrack is best in the series, especially theatrical cut, guitar strings on  Jamies Escape Talyhooo "},{"Title":"Give up now","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is such a terrible movie. I don't know why I rented it. Maybe it was because I still thought that some day someone smart would come along and make a good Halloween sequel. It will never happen. I have a message for all of you Halloween fans. Do what I'm doing. Give up the ghost. Don't expect a good Halloween sequel to come. After this terrible movie I gave up hope for a good sequel. Comparing this movie to the very first Halloween would be a joke. First there was a great horror film made called Halloween. It had John Carpenter and he did a great job. Then after seeing how well Halloween was received they decided to make more money and make Halloween 2. No Carpenter, just Rick Rosenthal. By the way, years later they were so desperate that they brought him back for Halloween Resurrection. AKA Halloween Homecoming. Halloween 2 was definitely the last you were supposed to see of Michael Meyers. It's obvious at the end of 2 that he's dead and it's not even left open for a sequel. A third Halloween was made. There was supposed to be a whole bunch of Halloween movies with different stories. The idea fell through and they brought back our chalk faced murderer again. I guess after 2 he survived after being burned alive. I guess he also got a new pair of eyes because last time you saw him he was shot in the eyes and swinging his knife around. After that they just couldn't leave him dead. With Halloween 4 you got a not so bad, but disappointing sequel to the Halloween series. Still yet another movie was made that couldn't hold a candle to the very first. I was disgusted after 5, but after seeing this movie with bad writing, directing and acting that's when I knew they finally lost it. This has to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen. After this I didn't bother anymore. I heard from people that the best part about a recent sequel; H2O, is that it ignores 4, 5, and this garbage. That's sounds okay to me. I'll check it out, but I'm not expecting anything fantastic. The people who are making the Halloween sequels are making suckers out of us. I think we should let the next one fail at the box-office. They're not movies they're magnets that attract Halloween fans with high hopes for a good sequel. Don't waste your time or money. Give up on the Halloween series. Just see Michael Myers as I do. Burnt to a crisp and dead after Halloween 2. "},{"Title":"What a waste...","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (SPOILERS AHEAD)Ok, the Producer's cut is said to be far better (I haven't had the chance to see it), but I sur didn't need to check the section of alternate scenes here in IMDB to realise almost half the film was reeshot. How can you more easily tell? The Shape. In the original producer cut, he's played by George P. Wilbur (same as in number 4), which in my opinion is the best Myers. He's mostly seen in the middle of the film. He's tall, very strongly built and has dark blue overol. Tne new scenes (Jamie's death and the entire end in the hospital) show another guy as Myers. He's also tall, but is medium built (he's got no rib cage at all, just long hanging arms), acts like he's on LSD, and wears a sky blue overol (even the burn scars on the hands look different if you pay that much attention).Overall, just crap!!! "},{"Title":"Pretty Bad Sequel","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I always have to put a disclaimer in front of a review because there is always some joker out there who likes to argue taste which I find annoying. The first film since Dimension (Disney) took over the franchise. The two movies that followed were considerably better H20 and Resurrection were better movies than this.This movie plays with the idea that Michael Myers can be controlled is ludicrous. It plays off the storyline from the last film that the curse came from something astrological, a constellation called thorn if memory serves. This movie lacks real scares. It replaces them with violent shocks. Sadly this would be Donald Pleasance's last appearance as Dr.Loomis. "},{"Title":"Worst.","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I planned on watching all of the Halloween movies after enjoying the first so much but what the hell did this one lead to? It would seem like a good idea having Tommy all grown-up after the event in the first film but instead it was a desperate attempt to write-up another sequel. Michael returns to finish off the remaining Strodes living in his very house where he killed his sister. Little do they know, Michaels hot on their trail with Loomis in the lead! Overall there was a good lot of gore, a fair few jumps and a better looking Myers mask but it still doesn't make up for the cheesy storyline.A good Halloween fan should watch this, otherwise avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"The worst in the series!","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, this was the worst Halloween film. Because of the ending of Halloween 5, I thought this was going to be great but I was totally wrong! The story is really bad, the music is like it was made for an action film and the acting wasn't very good (Apart from Donald Pleasence.) But the stupidest thing about the film is Dr Wynn. It turns out he is a leader of a group of evil druids who study pure evil, they kidnap Jamie Lloyd and make her pregnant so the baby will be a final sacrifice for Michael Myers and he will be able to kill it. What makes it so stupid is that he worked with Dr Loomis for all those years and was worried when Michael escaped from Smith's Grove sanitarium in 1978 and it turns out he was the voice that told Michael to kill his sister and he was the 'stranger in black' that lurked the street and set Michael free in Halloween 5.Nearly every time Michael kills someone you see him in the background or know it is going to happen, So this film has no suspense also and not one bit scared me! But Donald Pleasence's acting was perfect as always. R.I.P Mr Pleasence "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween the Curse of Michael Myers was one of the last movies I critiqued before I left movie reviewing for good. In any case, it takes place several years after Michael disappeared from Haddonfield. The little town is about to end its moratorium on celebrating Halloween. At this time, a woman escapes from a hospital and calls a local radio talk-show. She claims to be Jamie and tries to warn the people that Michael Myers is back. We then go back to Haddonfield and meet a grown up Tommy (Paul Rudd) teams up with Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance). They visit some of the Strode family, worried that Michael might return to take their lives. Of course, no one listens, but Michael does come back and lets his havoc reign down. There were problems with this movie from the get go. The film went through a few directors. It also went through several re-writes. Danielle Harris did not reprise her role as Jamie. And, Donald Pleasance died before the film was finished. The first mistake of this movie is trying to explain why Michael kills. There is no need to do this. Screenwriters feel the need to do this in order to frighten the audience, or out of a need to feel superior. The idea is we know why, and so we have to explain it to you. Let the audience fill in the rest. Let us try and figure it out on our own. Our most frightening thoughts will find the explanation. Just as Dr. Loomis said in Halloween II, We are afraid most of the dark inside ourselves. The second problem is Michael again betrays his character. In the original concept, he only kills to set a trap, or when he is cornered. He also relies on brute strength. In this outing, he goes on a raging rampage. Michael needs no rage. His is simply pathological. Finally, the absence of Danielle Harris is sorely missed. She was magnificent in Halloween IV and V (in fact, she saved V from being a total bomb). In case you are wondering, I have seen the producer's cut (since when do we have producer's cuts?) and it did not help this terrible film. It is the worst of the Michael Myers franchise. Sure, Halloween III was boring, but this one was plain bad. "}{"Title":"One Of The Best Out Of The Halloween Series!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers is one of the best ones in the series. I also liked Halloween Resurrection, and Halloween H20. This one is one of my favorites. It is more my cup of tea than Halloween 5 was. I liked this one better. Joe Chappelle, the director of the brilliant Phantoms did a really good job, I thought so. The guys who play Michael Myers are always big and scary, just like a boogeyman. This movie also had plenty of gore, which is a horror lover's festival. The acting was okay, and the first time actors in this movie did well for their first big screen performance. The storyline didn't weaken hardly at all. The plot was good and thick, and there was so much going on in this movie helping to tell this story. When you see the beginning of the film, you won't understand it instantly, so don't think your watching the wrong movie. It is a little confusing at the beginning, until the story moves on about ten minutes after the opening sequence. Then everything begins to come together. To me, the movie didn't seem very long, I mean it was only 88 minutes, but still, it seemed really short. I also recommend Halloween 4 The Return Of Michael Myers. If you want to se a seriously fun, entertaining, scary, and good horror movie, surely see it. I give Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers a 10 out of 10! ) "},{"Title":"One of the few movies which left me depressed after watching it","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A horrible film upon all acounts, Halloween 6 the Curse of Michael Myers is abysmal in every aspect imaginable including plot, direction, acting, suspense, etc. Halloween 6 is the total and complete opposite everything a horror film should aspire to be. An atrocity which tarnishes the original's spectacular image beyond belief which I am amazed managed to even get greenlighted. After soiling my mind with such filth, I felt depressed because I wasted ninety minutes of my life I will never be able to get back. Ninety minutes which I could have spent doing something productive. Avoid. zero out of four stars. A curse indeed.  "},{"Title":"a potentionally good sequal, but...","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...what the hell was it about?  i own it cause of the creepy atmosphere and feel of the movie, but i'm embarrassed to own it because the plot could not stay on the same track, it kept wanting to go in different directions...and most of the directions sucked too.  I did not enjoy our hero Michael Myers taking the backseat in this sequal, but i did enjoy seeing what tommy doyle was like after the events in the first film.  Watch with caution. "},{"Title":"I Liked it!!!!","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Confusing.Yes. But I still liked it. I did not like the person they got to play Jamie I think that they should have gotten the original person to play her.I even liked the way it ended it made sense since the guy who played Dr.Loomis died in real life.It is definitely not better than the origanal.but I even liked the 5th movie. "},{"Title":"Not worth watching","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was so excited to see this final Halloween movie and I was so disappointed about the storyline. The whole idea about a curse and a man in black was kind of dumb and seemed not like the Halloween movies I used to love. I think this movie would have been better if the writers were not lazy and did not make up a totally dull and lame story. It did not have the same greatness as all the others. It would have been better if it wasn't a curse that was making him kill. Just his mind and that would make him seem more messed up and you could think that anybody could be a cold blooded killer and this could happen to anyone. I did not like this movie at all and this series deserved one last great movie to finish it up and tie all the strings together. I do not even count this movie as part of the series. "},{"Title":"Curse is right!!","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Not withstanding the other persons comments on the producer's cut version of this movie(I have not seen that version) This movie is a mess and makes no sense. Halloween 5 gave us the set up for this movie that Michael Myers was under a Celtic curse(thorn) . Furthermore this hooded assistant to Michael Myers is a Doctor at the mental hospital where he was once a patient. The Doctor gets some crazy notion that this evil can be controlled. Michael of course murders all the doctors and nurses at the asylum. Most of the characters in this movie you could care less about so you don't have a real issue with Michael knocking them off.As I may have commented before Michael pursues his victims at a break neck pace. In the earlier films he moved more slowly and still caught up with his would be victims. Which I think is scarier than him just killing them with no rhythm just a fast pace. This marks the first entry under a different studio. Finally a sequel worse than Halloween III. "},{"Title":"The best in the series so far.","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I must confess, i am rather upset that so many gave this movie such a poor star rating. In terms of violence it is the goriest Halloween of them all, and on the basis of sheer thrills, it should already get at least 6/10. Having said this, i didn't enjoy Jamie Llyod getting knacked like that. But then again, that sets the tone for this film - it is a very dark and unsettling one. Halloween 6 did do one great thing-confuse the heck out of everyone. It certainly is far better than the rubbish Halloween 5. I was little puzzled at how Jamie had her baby- what i mean is, who was the father? And did the infamous Man in Black set up her death. Oh, and where was she for the last six years. I mean, surely if she disappeared along with Michael at the end of the last film, he would have killed her then, wouldn't he.Anyway, there are far greater aspects in the film to cover up for this little plot hole, such as the amount of scares and clever deaths. Michael's mask is by far the best in the series so far, and the cinematography, in terms of lighting, helps provide that dark atmosphere of this film. the performances are very good- they convey a lot of emotion and fear. The film ends nicely with a respectful dedication to Donald Pleasance, and leaves room open for another sequel. I am thoroughly upset however, that H2O simply went on by ignoring all the events that took place in episodes 4-6. I mean, Michael still has another living relative. His niece, Jamie Lloyd's baby. I mean really, that seems like a pretty decent aspect to center another sequel around. Instead, they go on and mess up the series completely. However, Halloween Resurrection wasn't a bad film, despite Busta Rhymes terrible performance.I just hope they finish off things with the 9th installment, and that they tie up loose ends, such as what happens with the baby. Afterall, Michaels entire inspiration for killing is to murder all the members of his family, and those that stand in his way. If anyone has anything to say about my comment, please write back. Id like to know what you think "},{"Title":"UNIQUE","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween series is classic. Personally i love halloween 1-6.  Some people say this sequel sucks, well i liked it.  i have both the theatrical version and the producers cut. I like both, they are both different, which makes it cool to see 2 different films, though a lot of the scenes dont change. it really bothered me to see the overrated h20 totally abandoned this. and just because this grossed 15.1 mil and h20 grossed 55, leonard maltin gives h20 3 out of 4 stars? thats stupid. and it seems the box office crowd is too. for making h2blow a hit. "},{"Title":"Somewhat underrated.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has its share of flaws heavy doses of graphic gore, that almost degrade a series which began with a gore-less film, and moments that simply don't make sense - why does Myers kill his collaborators at the end? Still, I found the attempts to explain his origin mostly fascinating. It's the easiest, the laziest and the greediest thing to present a killer without a motive and to keep bringing him back for more sequels even though he should be dead. Why do people say that this series never contained supernatural elements? When Myers is shot six times in Halloween and nevertheless lives, was that natural?  Script and direction were a bit muddled, but not TOO muddled I've never seen Halloween 5, yet the plot made sense to me, even if some details didn't. The classic music score has been unfortunately altered, but as a whole this sixth entry seems to be somewhat underrated - Halloween II is much more boring. Fair acting, too. "},{"Title":"The second best sequel in the series.","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"46 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, The Curse of Michael Myers what a great film. Suspenseful, entertaining, creative and a clever plot which I love. Many hate the 'Thorn' concept, I love it. I think that it gives the Halloween series some plot. Marianne Hagan is a wonderful actress and turns in a excellent performance, especially for her first film and Paul Rudd and Donald Pleasence are great also. My only complaint is that why wasn't Danielle Harris in this film as Jamie? She wanted to return, but the producers said no. I thought J.C Brandy was great, but I love Danielle Harris. Still, I love Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers. I think The Shape's mask looks the best in this film and George P. Wilbur is the best Michael Myers ever. Incredibly creepy and suspenseful, Halloween 6 rules! I adore this very violent, but immensely enjoyable film. The Halloween horror series - by far the best in the Genre.10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"What went wrong.","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is awful no question about it I haven't seen the producers cut which i heard wasn't that much of an improvement but explained more. Now this movie was meant to answer questions to the last film but didn't it just made more a bit like Prometheus did we found out who the man in black was and the tattoo of the thorn which is connected to a cult. Now Paul Rudd makes his debut in this film and he honestly sucked so much another shameful thing was that Donald Pleasence died during the production of this film and this would be the true last appearance of Dr Loomis until Rob Zombie happens.Now the film starts with Jamie giving birth to Micheal son which is disturbing not only because it's incest but I can't imagine Micheal having sex not saying I want to but it's disgusting. So with the incest out our heads let's move on so Jamie escapes and Micheal pursues her he then ends up killing her okay well that ends it credits roll nope we got another hour an 10 minutes to spare. So then Paul Rudd who plays Tommy from the original which I love the connection then he finds Jamie's baby and confronts Dr Loomis and I love seeing these two together it's one of the things that stop you from killing yourself while watching the film. So the family that adopted Laurie is living in the Myers house which results in Micheal stalking them. Yeah they do explain that the curse of the thorn is what makes Micheal kill his family but they don't make it clear. So Kara is kidnapped by the cult and Tommy and Loomis go and save her in one of the oddest endings with Micheal bleeding green blood why i don't know and i don't want to talk about this film anymore.So the film is awful and I would highly recommend a gun so you can kill yourself after the film is done or just watch it with a group of friends and rip it apart or get really wasted or high and you might enjoy it. "},{"Title":"last survivor Donald Pleasence","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Jamie Lloyd gives birth in a cult. Michael Myers is coming after her and the baby leaving a trail of bodies. She manages to call a radio station and broadcast out a warning. Retired Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is visited by Dr. Terence Wynn (Mitch Ryan) from the first film when they hear the warning. Loomis returns to Haddonfield, Illinois. In Haddonfield, Halloween has been banned for years. Tommy Doyle (Paul Rudd), whom Laurie Strode babysat in the first film, is obsessed with Michael Myers. Michael kills Jamie Lloyd and Tommy finds her baby. Back in the original Myers home, Kara Strode (Marianne Hagan) has returned home with her son Danny. Her father John is abusive with her mother and brother suffering. Tommy, Kara, and Danny are on the run with Jamie Lloyd's baby.The first problem is that Danielle Harris doesn't return for Jamie Lloyd. It's hard to understand that it's Jamie Lloyd without her. Donald Pleasence does return for a few scenes in his last outing for the franchise. It's really too bad that the movie isn't better. None of it scary. The jump scares don't work. Maybe the other versions work better and is scarier. To some extend, it's because I don't care about these characters. Other than Pleasence, these characters have connections with the franchise but are played by newcomers. It's a bit of a history test to remember where all of these characters fit. It is interesting to see Paul Rudd when this came out around the time of Clueless. This episode tries to continue the franchise but the only connective tissue is Pleasence and he isn't in it enough to hold this movie together. "},{"Title":"If there's one thing I know, you can't control evil","Date":"11 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Poor Jamie Lloyd. After being kidnapped at the end of Halloween 5 and held captive by the Thorn cult for six years, the movie begins with her giving birth to her uncle Michael Myers' baby after being subjected to the cult's ritualistic experiments. She manages to escape along with her newborn son, with Michael in pursuit, but her victory is short-lived when he successfully tracks her down and kills her.Luckily she manages to hide the baby, who is later found by the now adult Tommy Doyle (the boy Laurie Strode babysits in the original movie), played by Paul Rudd in one of his first movie roles. Tommy is deeply affected by his brush with Michael in his childhood and now spends his time obsessing over him and even rents a room across the street from the Myers house, now inhabited by his former babysitter's adoptive family, The Strodes. Among them, a young single mother, Kara Strode and her son, Danny who is seemingly succumbing to the same voices and visions that befell a young Michael Myers.Kara, Danny, Tommy and the Strode family are now the primary targets for Michael's wrath.Donald Pleasance reprises his role of Doctor Loomis for the fifth and final time, showing his love and dedication to the character.I must admit that when I first watched this movie as a teenager in the mid-nineties, I didn't have access to the internet and wasn't aware of the all the production problems the movie had. Looking back now as an adult it definitely shows. This was the first Halloween made in the nineties and it has a very noticeable shift in tone from previous entries. Michael is notably bigger, more savage and mean-spirited. Unlike popular opinion, I actually do like the Thorn Cult storyline and don't think it diminished Michael's menace as much as everyone says. I just think it was very sloppily executed. I can see why it was scrapped in subsequent entries of the franchise.There exists another version of the movie known as the 'Producer's Cut' and after watching both, the Producer's Cut is arguably the better version. "},{"Title":"The best Halloween film - by far.","Date":"19 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Curse of Michael Myers has and will always be my favorite film of the Halloween franchise. I am a Halloween freak and I've seen each film hundreds of times. In The Curse, Michael is the scariest he's ever been. He's huge, menacing, malicious and extremely violent. Something about the way this movie is filmed, it has the feeling that embodies the spirit of Halloween. Just watching it makes me feel like I'm knee deep in a pile of leaves in the middle of autumn. Paul Rudd is fantastic as returning character (from the original) Tommy Doyle. His acting really pulls off the mental anguish that Michael has caused him since childhood when he had his first encounter with THE SHAPE. Towards the end, when he practically comes face to face with Michael, you can feel the tension and I love it. If you can find the extra/deleted scenes (YouTube, special edition DVDs) it can add a few twists to the film. I love the explanation of Michael's back-story - the method to his madness. Sadly, this film saw the end of Donald Pleasance - as Dr.Sam Loomis in the movie, and in real life. His death came not long before the Curse was released. He was one hell of an actor. This movie, for me, portrays Michael the way he should've always been portrayed. Terrifying. It was the first Halloween film I saw in theaters. Watch it and love it. The last 20 minutes of the movie are E P I C. "},{"Title":"Better than 4 and 5, but still nothing to be proud of....","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK they should've just stopped trying, like seriously the Halloween movies passed number 2 were just crap. I mean 4 and 5 were just embarrassments to the Michael Meyers franchise. I'm telling you, they should've made Halloween, Halloween 2, then skipped to Halloween H2O, and left it at that, that would have been perfect! But here we go I'll jump into Halloween 6. Halloween six was somewhat entertaining at times, but it was just mildly entertaining. The acting really isn't anything to brag about at all, sorry it's just not. And the script was just eh, nothing that great. Probably the most exciting part of the whole movie is the first five or six minutes, but I did have a problem with the first five or six minutes. SPOILER ALERT!!!!! Laurie Strodes daughter and her baby escape from this secret society or whatever that cult thing was, and the baby makes it out alive, but the daughter gets brutally murdered, and I really took issue with how graphic and disturbing her murder was, she could've just been stabbed or thrown up against something, but no we have to see her get thrown onto some corn thrasher thing and then see her get grinded up and see her scream and suffer. Like really I didn't need to see all the garbage!! And then the movie is just a bunch of pointless killings with a sliver of a plot line. I did like Mark Ruffalo and I thought he did well. So there you go that's one positive, Mark Ruffalo was pretty good, because I just don't want to sit here and bitch about the whole movie. Thank God we got Halloween H2O after this, which in my opinion, is the best Michael Myers movie of all time. I will get this movie credit for being better than the previous two, but on its own, it's just not that great. 4/10 for Halloween 6 "},{"Title":"Nothing out of the ordinary...","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I never really gotten as much into the Michael Myers hype, as I always found him and the movies inferior to Jason Voorhees (Friday the 13th) and Freddy Krueger (Nightmare on Elm Street). So I only gotten around to watch the Halloween movies if they were on TV or if I found them at the local secondhand DVD store. As such, I only got around to seeing this 1995 movie twenty years after it was released.First of all, I was quite surprised to see Paul Rudd in a slasher movie. But it was still a treat to see him in such a movie, because he is a good actor.The story does seem familiar to every other previous Halloween movie that I have seen; Michael Myers is returning to his childhood home in Haddonfield just in time for Halloween. And in his wake a trail of blood and corpses follow.I was even laughing hard like never before from a slasher movie. And what had me laughing was the scene where a man's head exploded from being electrocuted.The acting was good throughout the movie, and there were some nice enough talents on the cast list.As a gorehound and avid horror fan I watch such movies for the shocks, scares, and of course for the kills. There are absolutely no shocks or scares to be found throughout the course of Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers. There is, though, a fair amount of slayings which makes it sort of worthwhile to sit through this otherwise mediocre slasher movie.But when it comes to it then Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers isn't particularly outstanding for a slasher movie. But I am sure that those who swear to Myers and the Halloween franchise will find some more enjoyment in it than I did. "},{"Title":"Not As Cursed As Other Sequels.","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 6 The Curse of Michael Myers (1995) Dir Joe Chappelle / Cast Donald Pleasence, Paul Rudd, Marianne Hagan, Mitchell Ryan, J.C. Brandy Perhaps the best sequel to Halloween while still being a graphic mess. Broader plot concept emphasizes the curse that killer Michael Myers left upon a small town. Jamie Lloyd gives birth to a son that is to be the final sacrifice to Myers but she flees and makes a frantic phone call to a radio station in hopes that Dr. Sam Loomis will hear her. A now grown Tommy Doyle watches the Strode house from across the street and overhears her cries over the radio. Upon arrival at a bus station he finds Lloyd's baby but she has been murdered. The rest is numerous graphic murders. Directed by Joe Chappelle with Donald Pleasence playing Loomis for the last time. He overhears Lloyd's cries for help and travels to the scene only to unearth old secrets that lead to a questionable ending. Paul Rudd plays Doyle who watches the house and determined to protect the child from Myers. Marianne Hagan overacts as the heroine living in the Strode house. Mitchell Ryan plays the mysterious man in black who knows not what he is attempting to control. J.C. Brandy gives a riveting performance as Jamie Lloyd who escapes her captors leaving her baby to safety knowing her fate is sealed. Cursed as pointless graphic mayhem but at least given a decent send off. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Refreshingly brutal entry","Date":"21 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I feel like Halloween 6 is one of the more overlooked and underrated entries, because by that stage of the game people may have started to think oh it's just another Michael Myers stabathon without any new twists or added effort. I really like it, it injects a new ferociousness and bloodlust that Was missing not the last two. In four and five Michael is there, but he's a shambling, groggy mess, and it's like here he emerged from the hangover with revitalized energy, to enter the nineties with impressive violence and renewed energy. And he's got a good mask again!! It's really a buzzkill when they half ass the mask, but not this time around. He's back and ore violent than ever, and indeed some of the death scenes are incredibly graphic and intense, even for the early stage of the franchise. Could have something to do with is being the first entry to have a nineties style instead of the camp laden ones that came before. Michael is once again on the hunt for a pregnant Jamie Lloyd (JC Brandy stepping in for Danielle Harris). He makes his way to a modernized Haddonfoeld to raise a shitstorm once again, this time focusing on the house where his family used to live. A youthful Paul Rudd plays an adult Tommy Jarvis, who tangled with Mikey wayy back in Hallowoween 1. He's on Michael's trail along with a geriatric Dr. Loomis, Donald Pleasence participating in what would be his last excursion as the doc. Apparently he was deathly ill for filming, what a goddamn trooper. There's one complaint I have about this, and that's the inclusion of a half baked subplot regarding a spooky cult called Thorn, basically redneck illuminati that are responsible for the way Michael is. Way to suck the mystery out of it guys. Nuh uh. Ignore that and you've got a refreshingly brutal addition to the franchise that pulls no punches in getting back into the ferocity and terror that makes it so great. "},{"Title":"Part 6 is better then part 1 3 4 and 5","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the sixth Halloween movie. The original Halloween from 1978 is pretty scary movie. This one is scarier. Halloween III season of the witch is just crap. This 999 times better. Halloween III is not a Halloween sequel. But this is. Halloween 4 the return of Micheal Myers is a very scary movie. This is scarier. Halloween 5 the revenge of Micheal Myers is very scary. This is scarier. This one is not has scary as Halloween II (1981). The seventh Halloween movie Halloween H20 is also scarier. Halloween II (2009) is also scarier. But still this is a great Horror movie. It is very scary. It has a great story line. It has great acting. Micheal is a Warlock is consider this horror fantasy. "},{"Title":"Tedious and uninteresting","Date":"18 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the one with Paul Rudd, the a-hole shock-jock and the Druid rubbish.At least I didn't feel as bad for Donald Pleasence as I did in prior installments, such as 4, where he is forced to act so disturbed and aghast throughout the entire movie without a screenplay that gives him anything to work with.This doesn't give him much to work with either, but at least it doesn't push him into overdrive constantly.Besides that, the movie is really just a boring waste of time. Whatever the druid crap was about, the movie doesn't really explain, and isn't seen enough to make an impression... like everything else in the movie. "}{"Title":"The producers cut highly recommended theatrical cut not so much","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I will say when I saw the theatrical cut of the film, I will admit that I didn't like it since it felt like convoluted mess and made mistakes by reducing the screen time of Sam loomis and killing off Jamie Lloyd too soon after Danielle Harris declined to return because of the low pay, issues with the script, and some say I don't blame her. However when watching the producers cut which I think is the true and intended version in my own opinion, since it restores many of Sam loomis list scenes and explains the story. Six years after Michael was presumed killed in a fire that destroyed the haddonfield police station, Michael returns yet again but this time is after his son Stephen who he plans on using as his final sacrifice As a way of passing his thorn curse which explains why Michael wanted to kill his family line. I will say the producers cut ending left it open for the series to continue in a new direction but h20 decided to ignore the events of the three previous films. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people think. It's good for what it is.","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Now granted Halloween 6 was confusing as hell. It took me a while to understand what was going on. I personally find it better and more enjoyable than Halloween 5. The story was inventive, and ambitious but the problem is that it wasn't executed very well. However, I still enjoy this film. In fact, I counted it as one of the best ones, of course now I know it is one of the weaker ones, but it is still entertaining and it could have been much worse. The main problem I have and pretty much everyone who hates this, is that Michael is now part of some cult that every once in a while, someone is chosen to sacrifice their family to spare the lives of thousands of people. Now as cool as that may have sounded, it didn't end very well. First of all, it took away the mystery and creepiness of Michael. That was a huge let down. Second of all, in the Producer's Cut, you find out Michael impregnated Jamie. Now that was just horrible. Now making Michael incest? Really?? Terrible move. Now, having discussed all the negatives, I will now move to the positives. Firstly, Michael is awesome. I know he is always awesome but in this, his brutality is immense. Secondly, the characters are very interesting and likable. The kills are brutal and inventive, and the setting was also very well done. The score for the Theatrical Version was okay. I liked it but it could have been better. However, the score in the Producer's Cut is much better. It is spooky, creepy and very chilling. In conclusion, I understand why people hate this film, but I enjoy it. It is entertaining and I actually find it underrated. I like it. "},{"Title":"An OK fantasy horror.","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Reading what others think of this movie really makes me wonder if I'd be enjoying the later movies in the Halloween series a lot more if I wasn't obsessing so hard about the original cult classic, and to some extent, it's sequel. It's entirely possible that I'm simply setting my standard way too high, and getting annoyed when these movies don't fulfill the criteria I've set for a movie in the Halloween franchise.Anyway, on to this one, the sixth installment, which explains a bit more about the mysterious man clad in black that we saw glimpses of in the previous movie. Not a whole lot is explained other than that they're experimenting with pure evil, and Jamie's baby, who is born on Halloween, plays an important part, in the movie, and for this cult.I'm no longer going to demand goreless killings. The precise Myers is long gone, and the current Myers is all about using whatever he can get his hands on, as well as the surroundings, to take care of business. He still has his patented kitchen knife every know and then, but flashy is the new silent, and Myers at least does that well.This movie however, goes over the top. The cult really adds nothing to the story. It could've been good, but it suffers from a complete lack of backstory, and while it's important for the story to progress, the fact that it is so unbelievable and that very little is actually explained about the cult and its members makes it come off as a bad joke.The movie kicks off with Jamie and her newborn child being saved from the cult by a lady that took pity in her. Jamie makes it to a public bus station with her baby, where she manages to get on air with a radio station covering the Myers murders, calling for help from Loomis. Myers does eventually catch up to her, ending her in a spectacular fashion, but she manages to hide the baby before it happens.The cult wants this child, and Tommy Doyle, the kid Laurie babysat in the original Halloween, takes it on himself to protect the baby, as well as Danny and Kara Strode. Danny has somehow gotten some sort of connection with Myers from sleeping in his room, so he's also of interest to the cult. So now, not only are they running from Michael, but also these cultists clad in black.What this movie makes up for in spectacular deaths and somewhat better acting, it loses in writing. It's too confusing, it doesn't make sense with the lack of explanations, but it's still a decently scary flick. Myers is still a scary bastard! "},{"Title":"The version they should've released","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sequels have and probably always will be a hard thing to get right. When the first is so good, how can one follow it up with a satisfying successor? In the 1980s, there were more horror sequels than can be counted on two hands. The amount of time that would lapse between them usually wasn't very long. By the end of the decade however, the genre was running out of steam and people had become tired of sequels. If any had a cliffhanger, it would be years before audiences could see what happened next.After the success of it's predecessor, 'Halloween 5' was rushed into production. To the dismay of the people involved, it ended up being the least successful in the franchise. Add to this issues with the rights and the result was a long, arduous wait for the next chapter. Fast forward a few years and the project was finally back on track, this time with a studio behind it. There were a lot of elements that made this look like a win-win situation. Unfortunately, there be would even more problems than in any other sequel before.One thing we can't fault Dimension Films for is a lack of promotion for 'Halloween 6.' Like many other fans across the globe, I was over the moon when I got to see the film on the big screen. But like the previous film, this one too failed to find an audience. Soon after, it was revealed that many changes had been made to the film. The infamous Producer's Cut leaked out and for years was only available via bootlegging. Finally, after nineteen long years, the version we were meant to see has gotten a legit release.Pros Top notch performances by all, whether a veteran or new comer. Steady direction by up and comer Joe Chapelle. Well written script full of great ideas. Spellbinding score. Atmospheric cinematography. Great production design, particularly for the cult's lair. A few good scares. Lots of cool nods to the other films. Some jaw-dropping twists. Perfectly paced, starting slow and building until the third act.Cons Michael seems to have retained his ability to teleport.Final thoughts This was actually the first 'Halloween' film I saw on the big screen. That version certainly has it's strengths, but the changes enforced by the studio are glaring. This was the first time one was involved and the film suffered for it. That being said, it's so amazing that we get to see a quality version of the earlier cut. It's more original, more suspenseful and makes a lot more sense. In fact, it's my favorite in the series to date.My rating 5/5 "},{"Title":"Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers","Date":"30 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the major disappointment of the fifth one, 'Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers' delivers the goods for fans as we find out the motivation behind Michael's killing spree. As you know, 'Halloween 5' ended with Jamie in the police station after some man in black killed all the cops. Well for six years, Jamie has been held against her will by that man and several of his twisted staff. She was also impregnated and now has a newborn baby. Sadly Michael murders, Jamie but could not find what he was really after - her baby boy. Tommy Doyle (the little boy from the first film!) is all grown up now, and still obsessed with what took place that night in 1978. He finds the baby where Jamie hid it from Michael, and spends the film with Kara Strode, her young son Danny and Dr. Loomis trying to keep it safe from the masked killer.I like 'Halloween 6' because it puts a real effort into taking us back to the original. We see Tommy Doyle, the little boy whom Laurie (Jamie Lee Curtis) babysat in 1978. We also get introduced to a part of the Strode family, the Strode's of course were the family that adopted Laurie from the Myers'. And the Myers house ACTUALLY resembles the original house, which of course it didn't in the fifth film. George Wilbur makes his return as Michael Myers. He played Michael in 'Halloween 4' and did a great job then, so it was glad to have him back after the underwhelming job Don Shanks did as the killer in part 5. The acting was good all around, in particular from the Strode family characters (Marianne Hagan, Kim Darby and Bradford English). And Donald Pleasence puts in a marvellous performance to end his brilliant career.The real story of this sixth instalment is that we find out WHY Michael has been killing for all of these years. We first saw the Thorn symbol in 'Halloween 5'. Well apparently, Michael was programmed as a child (using this Pagan/Magical Thorn symbol) to kill his family! They give a large explanation on this, but basically when the Thorn symbol appears in the stars on Halloween night each year, it prompts Michael to murder. It explains the method behind Michael's madness. It's a bit far fetched of course, but I liked the efforts to bring a refreshing twist to the story. And it ties all the loose ends we were left with in 'Halloween 5'.Although I liked the idea of Thorn because it brought life to the series, I also view it as a flaw. I think it was far more dark not knowing what was behind Michael's wanting to kill his family. It made him more creepy and insane. Knowing that he was controlled to do what he did for years, only tarnishes his villainous reputation and makes viewers almost sympathize. The gore was good in this, a step up from 'Halloween 5'. And we get some good eerie atmospheric scenes within the streets of Haddonfield. It brings back some genuine scares to the series. Check it out! 6/10 "},{"Title":"And Maybe Just Maybe It's Closer Than You Think!","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Day 25 Of My 31 Days Of Horror.Director Joe Chapelle gives us the sixth installment in the Halloween series with Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers. The film follows an all grown up Tommy Doyle played by Paul Rudd who discovers the reason the way that Micheal Myers cannot die and finds The Cult Of Thorn which is the source of Michael Myers. Good Movie with nice cast and interesting story cannot stop this movie from just lagging on for at least a half hour but still an interesting movies to watch I recommend it.Rated R For Strong Horror Violence, And Some Sexuality.Theatrical 1hr 28min/88min. Directors Cut  1hr 29min/89min. Producers Cut 1hr 35min/95min.2 uses of the F-word.**1/2/**** "},{"Title":"Halloween 6 The Curse of Michael Myers (1995)","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When thinking about the worst sequels in horror history (which I do quite often), few films elicit as many groans from me personally as this one. A Dimension films hack-job (from the same people who brought you the six Children of the Corn sequels), about the famous Michael Myers- now something of a hometown hero and a lame controversy resulting in the town banning the celebration of Halloween, stalking anyone who lives in his former house. And, just who lives in that house, you may wonder? Why, the Strode family of course. Cursed, the same way the family who lived in the Amityville house seem to be, with physically abusive relationships, children out of wedlock, and even possible discussions of incest. What can you say? It was the 90's; teen angst was in, and artists like Marilyn Manson and Trent Reznor were superstars (rightfully so, they were both insanely talented). It was the era of extreme self-analysis, which unfortunately resulted in mostly underwhelming horror. Though Halloween's Curse does manage to be slightly better than the childish and offensive Jason Goes to Hell The Final Friday. Though not by much.As a matter of fact, the major edge Curse has over other bad sequels is style. The film doesn't look as cheap as Leprechaun 4 and Jason Goes to Hell did. The director is something of a genius of the pace of the stalking scenes and knows how to use shadows and camera angles to achieve some creep outs. Most noticeably in the sequence where Tim and Beth return to the Myers house after their run-in with the wannabe-Howard Stern shock jock talk radio host Barry Simms (who looks and acts a lot more like Harry Anderson), and she tries to spook him. But, for every hint of a positive in Curse, there are 5 negatives. Back on the positive side (because you know it's going to take me some time to run down the negatives), the film's ending isn't as bad as it could be- featuring a quite impressive strobe effect (though not as colorful as the type seen in, for example, Nine Inch Nails' video for The Perfect Drug). And best of all, Curse has the greatest looking autumn season set-up of the entire franchise. The film's daytime outdoor scenes are simply breath-taking. You really just want to live in this town. It's beautifully picturesque. Oh, and, there's one great death scene involving a washing machine, an electrocution, and an exploding victim. Probably the only one of John Carl Buechler's outrageous special effects that made it into the movie.Those are the positives. Now, for the negatives. Donald Pleasence was a great actor. But in the last years of his career, he seemed to form a sorry attachment to the character of Dr. Sam Loomis. At times, watching him on screen is a downright tragedy. Not because horror fans miss him, which we do. But because, of all the great work he did (including Disney's Escape to Witch Mountain, Dario Argento's spectacular Phenomena, and just an immense body of film and television work running a mile long), this part will be the one he's most remembered for. What makes that so tragic is that after John Carpenter's original masterpiece... there is no more character. Not only do we have to watch the poor man age and become weaker, but he nearly humiliates himself trying to inject the character with vitality and humanity to make up for the writers' terrible scripts. The rest of the cast is pretty much wasted as well. Bradford English (from the much better Wolf and Basic Instinct) plays a sadly unrealistic father. Comedic actor Mitch Ryan (hilarious in Jim Carrey's Liar Liar and the TV series Dharma and Greg) tries his best to play dark and menacing, to no avail. And the underrated (and incredibly sexy) Paul Rudd (of Clueless and Reno 911! fame), playing the grown up Tommy Doyle... with a mission. And here I was hoping he would have been given a life.The writing is so uninspired and stupid; veering off into cockamamie subplots involving Michael Myers' ties with astrology, ancient Druid history, and a cult of trench coat-wearing worshipers, which have absolutely no bearing to the films previous. Except for, possibly Halloween III, the film about a novelty costume manufacturer plotting to take over the world by killing children (the film which had nothing to do with the character of Michael Myers, ironically). The dialogue is gratingly shrieking, melodramatic, and painful to listen to. The characters are uninteresting and under-written. The music score is ghastly. Especially when it attempts to re-play its' own version of Carpenter's original pieces, in the scene where we first meet the new generation of the Strode family. Or worse still, in the opening scene featuring a new actress playing Michael's niece Jamie trying to escape him in the rain. A kind of electric guitar and tin-can drums hard-rock version of the most famous theme from Carpenter's score.What else can be said? The film's a mess. From top to bottom. What were these people thinking? Or, perhaps the better question is- has Halloween super-fan Daniel Farrands ever been involved in a quality project? His resume also boasts the horrifyingly juvenile, offensive, and brainless Friday the 13th franchise documentary, His Name Was Jason 30 Years of Friday the 13th. Which the little cretin also directed. I was told he had his hands all over the far superior Halloween franchise tribute, Halloween 25 Years of Terror. But after inspecting that rumor using IMDb, it merely says Farrands provided archival material for it. As well as was interviewed in one of the panel discussions. Good going, because that's about as much of that guy as I can handle. Thankfully, Stefan Hutchinson and Anthony Masi were the brain-children for Mikey's doc. Which I'd recommend you rent or buy before even considering this pile of smelly trash. "},{"Title":"The curse is here to stay.","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ah, the 'The Curse of Michael Myers'&#133; what a particularly odd inclusion to the series. There was a time when I didn't even know this entry even existed, until a friend brought it up. When I first watched it, I was left with a bitter taste in the mouth that I probably had wished it stayed out of my mind. Halloween 5 (where my memory of has faded, so another viewing is in order), followed by Halloween; H20 sounded good enough. Over time the often mentioned producers cut has peaked my interest to see how/or if this cut could improve on the theatrical version. But first I'm curious to watch the original take again to see if the film is as bad as its labelled, or it was just disappointment that filled my first viewing.You know what&#133; I didn't seem to mind it all that much the second time around. That's not excusing the problems the feature does have though. Mainly due the confusing plot (involving the occult Thor theory and the influence over Devin Gardener's character) and messy editing&#133; and what was with that groan-inducing ending. The to-the-point simplicity is what made the original great&#133; and to a degree the first sequel, but trying for depth it becomes overly convoluted for its own good. Where credit is due, at least it's trying take it in a different direction (leading off from 'Halloween 5') even though the concept is bewildering&#133; as I guess you can only go so far before getting stale with the standard stalk and slash formula. The opening sequence involving Jamie and her baby being stalked by Michael Myers is atmospherically done (surprisingly there are few inclusions), but it does seem to drag on. Even the heart-racing violence is bloodier, and quite nasty with little in the way of thought. Myers is more like a furious predator here, where he seems to pick up the pace (power walking which leads to very heavy breathing) and lose that silent manner in the way he went about things. There's something quite different to his presence, and a brittle-looking Donald Pleasence returns to preach his 'pure evil' theory. Too bad his role is so minor, that now his Loomis character is a throwaway part to be there for the sake of it. I don't remember him even sharing any screen time with Myers. Having the Tommy character (who Laurie Strode was babysitting in the original film) played by with a weird intensity by Paul Rudd was a neat touch. Marianne Hagan is wholesomely solid too. Leo Geter is amusing as radio disc jockey.Director Joe Chappelle persistently engulfs the films with stark and flashy visuals, but there was a professional slickness and tightness about it. The jolts are foreseeable, but there are moments of creepiness and dash of suspense. The zesty pace helps too. The positioning work with camera and the use of shadows seem to play an important part to the Myers character. Makeshift editing aside, I can't put a fault on Chappelle's handling. The score keeps the traditional edge, but packs a screaming sting with its squealing electric guitar cues. I have really done a back-flip on my initial thoughts. "},{"Title":"Released version vs. the Producer's Cut","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sixth Halloween entry is a tough one to call. On the one hand we have a fairly interesting version of the film that has never been officially released and a released version that is mediocre at best.The fifth film introduced a man dressed in black (and sporting a weird tattoo) who freed Michael from jail. What the heck was that about? Well, it seems that Michael belongs to some sort of cult who adore him and once the stars in the sky form some sort of pattern Michael gets the urge to kill. On the next Halloween night the baby of Jamie Lloyd, Michael's niece, has to be sacrificed and Michael is the one who has to make the kill.I really can't make much sense out of this drivel. Giving Michael a supernatural background story was always going to end up badly and here the script (for the released version) is all over the place and nothing makes much sense. It does have a number of effective murder sequences and director Chapelle (who all Halloween fans hate, by the way) does an OK job at giving the film a stylish look.Then there's the infamous Producer's Cut version which made better sense of the whole supernatural element behind Michael's origins (initially the film was to be called Halloween 666 The Origin of Michael Myers). Ironically that version is much more similar in style and atmosphere to the original. There's less bloodletting and mayhem and the supernatural element is handled pretty well and it has a shocker of an ending. It's more stylish, somewhat Gothic and caps the whole story off in a much better way.Why this Producer's Cut was axed and a more confusing version released is baffling. Everybody seems to agree that the released version is inferior and much more senseless. I have to jump on the bandwagon and support those who like the unreleased version better.Donald Pleasence is very old here but he's a joy to watch as Dr. Loomis, Michael's main nemesis in the series. It was reported that director Joe Chapelle had no respect for Mr. Pleasence and tried to keep him out of the movie as much as he could. Apparently the guy thought it was beneath him to direct a Halloween movie and somewhere he stated that this was merely a price he had to pay to move on to bigger and better things. Nice! No such problem was with the film's screenwriter Daniel Farrands, a big fan of the series. He relished the chance of writing a Halloween movie and his original script (used for the Producer's Cut) is actually very decent. The whole Thorn aspect is explained in as good a way as possible (although I never liked the concept).Other actors are pretty good, especially Mitchell Ryan who gets a much bigger role in the unreleased version. Paul Rudd pulls off his role well but it bugs the hell out of me the way the actor has talked about this film after it's release. He and Chapelle must have been big pals as Rudd offered to refund those people who had paid to see the movie. This to me is an arrogant and unprofessional move from this overall very decent actor.The verdict here is that the unreleased version is a solid film overall. The released version, while not all bad, is mediocre at best with some effective set pieces that compensate for a truly confusing story. The Producer's Cut should be released on DVD so every curious horror fan can take a glimpse at what should have been. "},{"Title":"An exercise in style over substance (and producers thinking they know something)","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 6 The Curse of Micheal Myers (1996)Director Joe Chapelle (Phantoms)**out of****ReviewAfter the 6 year wait from the ambiguous, hated by most, loved by some ending of 5 I finally got to see it, being I was only 11 at the time I unfortunately did not take the pen to paper for my first impression (which was positive if I remember correctly), but alas, I'm now 22 and I can clearly see the movies flaws, as well as good intentions and the bad (producers?).The movie opens with 15 year old Jamie (now played by the 25 year old looking J.C. Brandy) screaming in labor while a MTV like montage of blood soaked carnage is shown and the soundtrack is filmed with screamed filled horrors of the past. We then have a pointless narration by Paul Rudd, who more or less solemnly describes the events of the franchise till now. It seems Jamie was kidnapped and kept hidden underground (or something, the movie is to breathless to ever tell us what this place is) and is now in the Man in Black's evil scheme of world domination or something crappy like that. She is rescued by a nurse (who is rewarded with a spike in the head) and runs screaming into the night in the hopes of finding help.I must state, that the first 20 or so minutes of the this movie are really well done, the suspense was high and a sense of nihilistic dread was rampant, the movie was fast paced and the Bus Depot and Barn sequences were awesome highlights for me. The Farm Machine death was grisly and down well (considering whom it happens to) and I felt that the movie was quite entertaining up until the point when it is day. Title inserted, Halloween Haddonfeild. The movie then proceeds to slowly (but surely) downhill from here on as, we are introduced to a despicable batch of characters with the least appealing types of conflicts. Angry dad is mad at moody daughter, while weepy mom sits about, awful child actor tries and acts and the son/brother makes an ass of himself, by trying to be hip' I lost all investment in the characters (I will mention the likable and competent Marianne Hagen though) so suspense was cut short. The movie is another one of those 90ies flicks that constantly has mundane objects or people usually being the cause of the false jump scare, accompanied by a loud DUUUNT noise on the soundtrack, followed by the person out of frame usually saying sorry or it's only me. Urban Legend did it, Candy Man Farewell to the flesh did it as well as all the Screams. So if jump scares are your thing, you wont be displeased, as for me, I turned it into a drinking game, take a shot every time you here DUUNT and you will be nice and sauced after wards. The plot is such a god awful confusing mess that it leaves a lot to be desired after the final frame. I could go into specifics, but it won't matter, NOTHING will ever help to explain weird druid cult nonsense that inhabits this movie. I mean NOTHING. So try and ignore the mumbo jumbo and you can just see the movie for its slasher tendencies. The kills in here were far more violent then 4-5, so I guess it served some redeeming qualities. Snapped neck, a spike in head, farm machinery, axe fun, exploding head(!?!), and a brutal machete killing spree (Jason would be proud) abound, so I was pleased to see Micheal being so po'd in this one. Still, the lackluster plot still got in the way time to time.Although nothing to write home about, Chapelle injecting a very kinetic and vibrant look to this movie that will have MTV purists taken a back. Compared to any of the other Halloweens, this is the most visually appealing. Horror Candy for the fans. It's bleak and flashy and quite colorful, think Nightmare 4 Dream Master and you'll get the idea. It's too bad the director gave up on suspense the 20 mark in. It also seems pointless to mention Dr.Loomis this time around as he was brutally wasted. A shame, that Loomis was so arbitrary to the plot. Apparently his plight is far more better handled in the producers cut, but since I cant see me seeing that any time soon, it doesn't help me change my mind that the movie was a disservice to Pleasance. The guitars twang revamping of Carpenters score was actually quite good, and really upped the suspense in scenes that though they were far scarier then they appeared to be. I dug it. After waiting six years, I also though that the revealing of the man in black was sooooo lame, and quite boring, should have just stuck with him being Micheals brother as opposed to the stupid character this time. I really wanted to like this movie, I like its look, sound and gore, but content wise it's an embarrassment to the series and in film-making in general. Producers, screw off, you have no linear thought o fans of the genre, and you certainly ruined what could have been a awesome sequel. Micheal and the Druids? What's next, Freddy and Scientologists? This movie is only slightly acceptable because it eons ahead of H20 and Resurrection, which are insults to any fan of this weirdly made series.Watch to see style over substance at it's best, but unfortunately it doesn't follow up to 5 even!!!. That must be all the advice you need. "}{"Title":"Surprising interesting, despite a few thin scenes, but this is the least entertaining installment in the Halloween series","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was surprised at the way Halloween 6The Curse of Michael Myers turned out. I expected this movie to be a terrible addition to the Halloween cycle, and after while watching H5 one can begin to see the drawbacks. Halloween 1-4 were very interesting, and so was H2O and Resurrection, Halloween 6 is good too but there are flaws that the fans probably noticed in Halloween 5 that were passed onto this installment. Halloween 6 is an OK movie, and it is notably the darkest film in the series, it mixes typical horror with a sort of sci-fi theme squeezed into it. A few scenes in the movie even slightly, just slightly creeped me out, and the flashing images in H6 are creepy too. What I like about this movie is that it has some creative death scenes and as I mentioned before,it mixes horror with sci-fi, it also has some creepy scenes, and in my opinion it will probably be the scariest Halloween film the fans will see (not necessarily the best, but just the scariest. What I don't like about this film is some of the thin scenes that it has, and flaws such and some wooden acting. So overall, Halloween 6The Curse of Michael Myers is the lowest film in the Halloween series, but it is an OK film and some scenes of this movie will generally freak, and creep viewers out. ***/***** "},{"Title":"FAR Too Many Holes...","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Egh... In all honesty, (and only in my opinion), this film's lack of existence would have helped the series over-all. It was intended to tie up all of the loose ends, but personally, I think this film created more holes than it patched.First off... the actress of Jamie Lloyd in parts 4 & 5 should have been played by Danielle Harris herself, IF the movie absolutely HAD to be made. Second, I'm aware that the ending occurrence of Dr. Sam Loomis was in reality, unexpected, but... perhaps they could have went about announcing it a bit differently. I didn't really like the way that they let the audience know about it in the end. Also- as most of us that have seen it before know, the film introduces Jamie Lloyd's son, (which is obviously Michael Myers' 'grand'-nephew, and therefore explains why Michael wanted him- because of his family/blood relation to him,), but it never offers any kind of follow-up to what ever happens to the baby.The following sequel, Halloween H20 didn't provide any kind of information on Jamie's baby, or Jamie herself, yet featured what would be Jamie's biological brother, John, as Laurie Strode's son. ...Which was a mistake on their part. (The writers of H20) To top all of that off, just the simple idea of Michael being involved in a cult is rather... disappointing. I think it's more enjoyable not knowing what's behind Michael's actions. It's better being kept in suspense and in wonder, rather than having it be explained. If they absolutely HAD to explain it, they could have at least made the viewer do some thinking to figure it out on their own.With so many things wrong with this sequel, it's a wonder why I'm giving it even a 3/10. I suppose that 3 can be divided into three parts A) It at least HAS Michael in it, unlike Part III. B) It's at least a good stalker/slasher flick if you're dying of boredom. C) Dr. Sam Loomis' story is explained and the occurrence is made know, as opposed to what they could have done, and left it unknown, and that would have caused viewers and film-researchers to complain wildly. So those three things exist, which makes this film just above Halloween III, but it's still the worst sequel made with Michael involved. "},{"Title":"Danielle Harris","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The producers didn't say no, she didn't want to be killed and the budget was so low, she would't have gotten payed enough. and whoever played Jamie in Halloween 6 was horrible. Danielle alos should have been in 6 but not killed off so Jamie should still be a character today. H20 was great but it could have been a lot better if the plot was more like this. Jamie (played by Danielle) was still alive and later finds her mother to be alive. then Laurie (played by Jamie Lee) returns and the mother-daughter team up and fight to kill Michael. Then at the end, Jamie and Laurie believe Michael is dead, but the surprise ending would to have Laurie be murdered (I love the character and Jamie Lee but bringing her back in Resurrection to be killed off after 10 minutes was pointless, Jamie Lee probably wouldn't return again anyways) and then in Resserection instead of being to much of a black movie, have Jamie fight with Michael again and then have her run into hiding. P.S. My favorite five characters from all the movies are, Jamie, Laurie, Loomis, Rachel and of course Michel. "},{"Title":"Deeply flawed Halloween sequel is somewhat fascinating.","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers' niece (J.C. Brandy) has been kidnapped. Six years later, She impregnated by Michael! and then his niece and his baby has escaped and she returned near to her home town of Haddonfield, Illions. Since Michael (George P. Wilbur) has found her niece and killed him but didn't find his baby. Tommy Doyle (Paul Rudd), who survived Halloween night in 1978. He finds the baby in a bus station and ended up protecting the new born. Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) is been contacted by Tommy and they know that Michael is back but he's not alone. There's also the old Myers place is been restored and now a family lives there. Michael stalks them one by one.Directed by Joe Chappelle (Phantoms) made an unusual, interesting sequel to the Halloween movies. Chappelle pays some homage to the original. Although the film suffered after the production was over. Since it was released by a major studio and it tested poorly at the test screening. The picture had to be re-shot and changing the premise of Daniel Farrands' already heavy script without his knowledge. Most of the third act was changed.DVD has an fine non-anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an good-Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. DVD doesn't have any features. Die Hard fans of the Halloween Series will appreciate the movie more than the others. This film did some business at the box office back in 1995. But thanks to horror films like Scream, which it was released by the same studios. HalloweenH20 came out, three years after Halloween 6. Since H20 has Jamie Lee Curtis coming back in the lead and she had an effective cameo appearance in Halloween Resurrection. Hopefully, Dimension Films should make the right choice of releasing the original version of Halloween 6 as it was originally intended by the screenwriter, producer and the cast. Since most of the cast and crew were disappointed by the theatrical cut. Still it's watchable and it is improvement over Halloween 5. For the original theatrical version (*** 1/2 out of *****).The Producer's Cut of Halloween 6 is a much better film, although the video quality of bootleg version is a mixed bag at best. The new scenes are in dark quality from the bootleg print but nicely mixed together with the sound. Although the conclusion is different but just as flawed from the original theatrical cut. It has more scenes with Donald Pleasence and a few more scenes with J.C. Brandy (Who plays Jamie Lloyd in this movie). The best thing about both versions is Paul Rudd's performance, he is good in the movie. Not to mention... his career is quite good in movies, especially high concept comedies he stars in lead roles or in supporting roles. I wonder... when Dimension Films will released this version in good quality. If Anchor Bay Entertainment had the rights, it will be released shortly. If u never seen the bootleg quality of The Prodcuer's Cut, see it now. (****/*****) for the Producer's Cut. "},{"Title":"Is Halloween The Curse Of Michale Myers A Real Thorn In The Series Side?","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well to be fair this film has everything to go for after the lackluster Halloween 5 disappointed most Halloween fans.The films sees Michael returning to Haddonfield to find Jamie Lloyd's young child that is now in Tommy Doyle's (Paul Rudd) possession. But Michael is coming home to a surprise as now the Strodes are living in his house and he isn't best pleased to find them there.The plot of this film is one which has continued to cause controversy since the very release of the film yet all the plot tries to do is give Michael reasoning, reasoning to who he is, what he is and why he is which in this reviewers opinion wasn't a bad idea but came a little too late in the franchise for any real Halloween fan to accept. While the narrative is driven with good characters such as the Tommy Doyle character and of course Dr. Loomis the films seems to suffer in other areas.Of course as most Halloween fans know the theatrical cut is not the only cut out there. A producers cut can be highly sought after and is often talked of as being better than the theatrical version and this may very well be a factor in the poor editing and at many times shoddy directing.The film suffers from poor editing as it tries top cover up and bridge scenes obviously taken out from the final theatrical cut of the film, this in effect takes you right out of the film and at times makes you think how in the hell could they release this to theaters? The direction suffers in places but doesn't exclude Joe Chappelle from leaving his mark on the franchise with his music video approach to the film.OK now your wondering why i have given this six out of ten and only gone on about bad points, well there are a few but it does have some great things going for it. The film's narrative is clever and Daniel Farrands should be praised for a different approach to the film from what could have been the simple hack and slash that we'd expect of Myers by now. This film however refuses to fall into that trap to some extent and deliver a clever story.The acting should also be commended for this entry in the series, Donald Pleasance is as good as ever but fails to gain the amount of screen time he deserves for being with the series as long as he did. Paul Rudd plays the total opposite of what we would expect today playing a character who knows he must stop Michael but also has the demons within. These two performances alone made the film gain the extra mark to give it a six out of ten for me, had these performances not been there then this probably would be a lackluster five out of ten.Of course it wouldn't be right for me not to talk about George P. Wilbur who of course plays Michael Myers for his second time and is still the only person to do so. Michael in this film feels a little different to what he has been in previous incarnation yet it is still the Michael we know and love. Wilbur does however give a good turn as Michael as he did with Halloween 4 and i believe is one of the stronger performers of Michael even if he did look as though he had a beer gut in the film.Overall the film was everything i expected from a 90's horror cliché film yet i wanted more than the total runtime would allow. The ending feels altogether rushed and rather OTT and you are left feeling there was no resolution and of course we do not find out what happened to certain characters which is a real downer. I feel a great warmth to the character of Dr. Loomis and yet i think the director felt that his character was none too important well to you sir i say you do not know this franchise! The films worth seeing just to see the idea being played out which continues to cause controversy amongst fans today. Although considered one of the weakest films in the franchise i'd say give it a shot, i was very unwilling but upon watching i saw something different to the masses and you might do too. All i'll say is it's better than H5 and certainly on par with H4! So is the film really a thron in the series side? in my opinion certainly not. ****** out of ********** "},{"Title":"Amazing that it even made it to a 6th movie!","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the most bizarre HALLOWEEN movie that was ever produced. In many ways, this film feels 'rushed'. What I mean is that this film seemed like it was made in a hurry. I seemed like the producers were trying to make this film as quickly as they could so that it would hit theaters by the release date. This film is still OK. It has Michael and all of the trimmings. Takes place in the wonderful town of Haddonfield, and Michael is after Jamie's son! SPOILER Jamie dies at the very beginning. She is thrown onto some farming equipment and is chopped up into little bite sized pieces. Gross! Acting and directing is good, but not great. Also, this film was edited so much that sometimes you have no idea what the hell is going on! ANyway, good try for a 6th film. "},{"Title":"The Producers Cut Review of Part 6","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well, I should start by saying that the Halloween series is not among my favorite of the slasher genre. I will certainly admit that the first of the series is a genre bending movie and a horror classic. I just never was able to really connect with the series (minus part 3). So naturally, Halloween 666 was not what I would call a great movie. I thought it was confusing and had very little direction. What I didn't know was a producers cut of the film had been made adding in much of what was cut out. Interest got the better of me and I searched and tracked down the film. This is what I thought...For those of you who have seen the movie I won't give a summary of what the film is about. But for you haven't seen the film, I suggest you read a different review as I don't want to spoil anything for you.For one, this version of the movie is virtually gore-less. In the theatrical cut there are several moments in which the gore is rather extreme. The scene in which Jamie being impaled on the farm equipment is gone. She is merely stabbed and actually doesn't die until later in the film. Also, the scene in which the nasty Father comes home and Michael electrocutes him until his head blows up is gone also. Michael pulls it old school and just stabs him and pins him to the wall of the basement.As I said earlier in the review that the movie was confusing, in this version much of those questions are answered. The whole storyline about Thorn and how they have control over Michael because of some strange ruins. This makes for a much different ending then what was original seen in theaters, but it still leaves you with an even more confusing ending then the theatrical version does. The best part of the producers cut is the fact that they bring back all of Donald Pleasence's scenes. He is the best part of any of the films and is what really keeps the original film interesting.Overall, didn't really like this film. But, it is definitely worth seeing, especially if you do like the series. I think this is worth the time looking for a copy. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Michael's work isn't done in Haddonfield yet...","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" By now, everybody knows that Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers was butchered by Dimension Films prior to release. Several scenes were cut out of the film, others were shortened and the ending was entirely (and probaby for the best) reshot. That's not to say that this theatrical cut ending is anything good...but acceptable and a little less silly than the original ending.This sixth entry in the Halloween series has its problems to be sure, but it's also pretty scary. Picking up six years after Halloween 5, we meet up again with Jamie Lloyd who has just given birth to a child in the confines on the Thorn cult compound. Jamie escapes with her baby and Michael follows. From here on, Michael returns to Haddonfield, Dr. Loomis (the returning Donald Pleasence in his final performance) is in pursuit and the mystery of the man in black is finally revealed. The problem with this theatrical cut is that it's largely incoherent. Most of the plot seems to have been removed, several key character development scenes have been snipped and what remains, is basically, the stalk and slash carnage that Michael Myers wreaks on the family living in the Myers house.All of this may sound like carping, but far from it, this Halloween is actually one of the scariest (right behind 1 and 4), although it never quite matches up to those superior Halloween films, this one gives the viewer plenty of spooky scenes and some undeniable suspense. Rising star Paul Rudd turns up in an early starring role as Tommy Doyle who Laurie Strode babysat for in the original film. Tommy is now obsessed with Michael and knows that he has returned. Rudd's Tommy is a great character, Paul Rudd brings a lot of charm and charisma to the role-he makes for a great screen presence, it's too bad the series wouldn't revisit this character, for he is much more interesting than the sniveling alcoholic Jamie Lee Curtis gave us in Halloween H20.Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers is widely debated amongst Halloween fans, while it's flawed to the extreme, to deny its impact is to be ignorant. Director Joe Chappelle takes a lot of flak for this film, but he actually infuses a lot of style and suspense into the 88 minue running time. The operating room massacre scene is a highlight among the Halloween series..not to mention the cool quick cut opening. In an earlier cut of the film, Chappelle actually comes off as a much stronger director, we see lots of awesome homages to the original Halloween such as a scene of Michael stalking Kara as she walks home from school, and a scene of Dr. Loomis fighting with the local police. Many nice touches were abandoned in favor of a shorter film...it really is a shame.In the hands of a more capable, competent studio, Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers may have had a better chance...the makings of a great sequel were definitely there (track down the infamous H6 producers cut). As it stands, turn your brain off, turn down the lights and be ready to be scared. Michael has come back to Haddonfield to kill and Halloween will never be the same. "},{"Title":"Halloween with a super-government conspiracey","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There was an uncomfortable trend in the slasher movie franchises where you had to give a supernatural twist to your maniac and a deeper meaning to what turned them into homicdal maniacs. Halloween 6 gives equal time to both it's slasher franchise and the bizare add-on story of the secret of Michael Myers. Halloween 6 doesn't suffer to much from it's very small budget and the production values are very good and plenty of inventivness in the kills keep the hardcore fans in their place. Like most of the Halloween films there are very few big names in the film apart from Paul Rudd as the messed up Tommy Doyle (Jamie Lee's Baby Sitting Assignment from Halloween) and a very frail Donald Plesence in his cult hero role as Dr Loomis. Plesenace frailty and alling health give his performance much more weight that carries the film through to it's gripping climax.Halloween 6 should have been fitting end to the franchise but instead has been almost blacklisted in the franchise due to it's huge side step in the story. Look past the supernatural storyline and you have a highly enjoyable halloween film that should satisfy long term fans. "},{"Title":" He walks amongst us , brother; he has come back. And he is very angry.","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This Halloween film and Halloween 5 were very interesting from all the rest because, it had something to do with symbolism. It was the symbol of the thorn which causes the person to KILL when a constellation of stars are seen on Halloween nights! The story begins when Jamie (J.C Brandy) had a baby and she had to save it from the murderous brother Michael (George.P.Wilbur) and then she got killed in a barn close to Haddonfield.Now, a family had moved into the Myers' residence called the Strodes, these were relatives who adopted Laurie when she was a child.A grandmother, mother, father, girl and two boys were living in the house together.They were being watched by a man who lived across the road from the unwary family and he could remember last seeing Michael on October 31, 1978. The man's name was Tommy Doyle (Paul Rudd).Soon, the family's youngest son Danny (Devin Gardner) was having night mares about the Boogey Man and he started to draw thorn symbols on paper. Tommy decided to track down where Jamie's baby was and he discovered it in a bathroom at a train station. He decided to call the baby Stelia.The detective is now Dr. Winn (Mitch Ryan) because, Mr. Loomis ( Donald Pleasance) had retired. Loomis decided to go over to the Strode's and tell them what happened in the house they were living in. He told the story to Mrs.Debra Strode ( Kim Karby) she was horrified by the story and called up John Strode (Bradford English). Fortunaely, he didn't believe her and not so soon, she was killed by Michael in the courtyard.When the daughter, Kara Strode (Marianne Hagan) returned home, Debra was nowhere to be found and suddenly, she discovered Danny in his room with Tommy and he brought Danny and his mom over to his place and he explained the story to Kara. Suddenly, Danny saw Michael outside Tommy's window. And when Tommy's mother mentioned to Kara that Michael heard a voice that told him to kill his own family. As this was all happening, Mr. Strode came home and noticed that Debra was nowhere to be found and when he went into the basement; he noticed that the washing machine was on and when he opened it, he pulled out a shirt covered in blood. And then he got pushed into the main power of the house, got stabbed and then he got Electrocuted!!! Oh, I could remember this freaky part when a little girl was dancing under a tree, and her mom noticed blood on her dress and then; this dead body DROPS OUT! Gruesome. And when the oldest son, Tim (Keith Bogart) followed by his girlfriend Mary (Susan Swift) while the mom was watching through Tommy's telescope from his room. And when the mom went into the house to look for Danny because, he went in there, and when he went upstairs, her mom's body drops out of the ceiling and she discovers Tim's and Mary's bodies' under a duvet in Tim's bedroom.And to end this review, there were some kiff scenes too! When Kara saw Tomy's mom coming after her with a knife; she goes through the window to save herself and when she woke up, she was in a maximum security ward. Another was when Michael went into a surgery room and then, STAB! SHRIEK! HOWL! CRASH! BOOM! BANG! Everyone's dead. And the last one, was a full shot with Michael throwing Tommy across the room in the maximum security ward and when Tommy smacked Michael so hard against his head with fluid squirting from his eye with him screaming so house that it goes through Haddonfield, to the Strode's house, and with a medium shot set on a Jack'O' Lantern which was on the veranda and it went out.This movie was the last Halloween film that Pleasance stared in when he passed away in the Alpes- Marines in France from the complications from heart valve in surgery. R.I.P Pleasence. You made directors of the Halloween movies PROUD!!!! "}{"Title":"It was Alright","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When i watched Halloween 6 , i was prepared for a good sequel...but i quite disappointed. it was alright...but the horror wasn't there really. Yes It was chilling and only a few scenes that were scary i don't know something about this Halloween film seemed not right.TheActing was a bit dull but Donald pleasance as usual was great and he sadly passed away a few months after the movie came out, The man in black and thorn plot was explained and worked out nicely.And Michael finally kills his little niece finally with machine farmery, George P Wilbur was Michael Again so that was good...an fairly good Halloween film.Halloween 6 Is My sixth favorite Halloween film "},{"Title":"The need to have fixture in Halloween 6","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I liked that this film of Halloween being the sixth film in the Halloween series was different but i did not like the plot of the film it involved this curse of Micheal Myers which is Really quiet complicated to me and Jamie being Killed at the beginning of the film is poorly done it needed to Have Jamie Return for a third time instead of killing her off of the film she was a fantastic character in Halloween 4 and Halloween 5 she needs to Return in part six to be a victim again i Really liked though the creepy feel of this film when i first watched it on November 14, 1997 a few years after it was Released on video VHS after having viewed it about 44 times already it is still a good film to me personally the only flaws it may have are not having Laurie strodes daughter in it that needs to be redone and have her in part of the film.............. "},{"Title":"OK, but like the last one, flaws","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS (1995)starring Donald Pleasance, Paul Stephen Rudd, Marianne Hagan, Mitch Ryan, J.C. Brandy, Kim Darby, Bradford English, Keith Bogart, Mariah O'Brien, Leo Geter, Devin Garnder, Susan Swift.plot Six years after Michael Myers was mysteriously rescued from jail after murdering about 30 more people and Jamie Lloyd (J.C. Brandy) went missing, Halloween is banned from Haddonfield. But on Halloween Eve, Jamie finally escapes from a strange hospital, impregnated with her murderous uncle's child (he raped her). The day after, Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance) is forced out of hiding and teams with Dr. Wynn (Mitch Ryan) and a grown-up Tommy Doyle (Paul Stephen Rudd) to protect the new baby and the Strode family from Michael's fury, uncovering the secret behind his murderous impulses.the good First of all, the mask! It's creepy as hell and I'm glad they didn't get something just as bad (or worst) than the one in H5.The murders are kick-ass as well, very gory and suspenseful.Dr. Loomis and Tommy Doyle were great characters.Great directing! Dark scenes such as the massacre of nurses all seen with a strobe light.the bad J.C. Brandy as Jamie. Jamie would have been 15 years old, but the actress looked 30 (they should have payed Danielle Harris that 5000). Donald Pleasance is not nearly shown enough and as his last performance of Dr. Loomis, thats a disappointment.The worst mistake of allTHE CURSE THING!!! It was horrible, they should have left Michael's motives unexplained. Instead we had the who-dun-it of the mysterious Man in Black and dumb druids in jump suits. But if you think about it, it makes sense.RIP Donald Pleasance.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good, but I was expecting more.","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers was a movie that as a kid, I was anticipating for quite some time. Growing up, I was infatuated with the character of Micheal Myers. I remember seeing both sequels of parts IV and V in the theater with my Dad. After watching the fifth installment, I was puzzled by the ending. Immediately, I wanted to know who that man was with the black trench coat and black boots that had pointed silver tips on the front of them. I couldn't understand what connection this man had with Myers, especially that strange tattoo marking on his forearm. I felt cheated with the ending where this man bails Michael Myers out of jail. In this case, it was without currency. Instead, he bails him out with an arsenal of high powered assault rifles. Once I heard that a sequel was being made, I totally got excited. I thought, finally all of my questions were going to be answered. That was really not the case, though. For starters, Jamie Lloyd's character gets killed of in the beginning of the film. I was upset about this because I thought that after she made films IV and V, she was an asset to the series. However, it didn't bother me too much because Danielle Harris didn't reprise her role. I guess she wanted $5,000 and Dimension didn't want to give it to her. I think that was Dimensions loss because for a kid, this child could act. All of the basics settings are the same. Everyone in Haddonfield seems to think that M. Myers is forever gone because he was killed in the fire at the police station at the end of the fifth sequel. Nope, it's now six years later and Myers is back. This time Dr. Loomis comes back for one last battle with his estranged patient. Unfortunately, it was Donald Pleasance's last role in movie cinema. He died shortly after completion of this film. The character of Dr. Loomis could have been better used. I am not sure that I agreed with the approach that the director, Jim Chappelle, took on this film. Still, the movie left a lot of questions to be answered. I heard that Daniel Farrands wrote a total of 11 drafts for this script. Well, the one that he chose to go with didn't impress me, as I was expecting it to. The movie certainly isn't the worst sequel in the series. I did think that it is better than H20 and Halloween Resurrection. Both of those sequels stunk. Stay away from the genre LL Cool J, Busta Ryhmes and Josh Hartnett. All of these jerks really screwed up some potentially good movies. Both of these sequels had good directors attached to the projects and I think that casting these characters might have ruined the films altogether. Both Rick Rosenthal and Steve Miner were good choices. Anyways, back to Halloween 6, once it ended I got to see who the mountain man was all about, I was disappointed after waiting all these years for a good follow-up sequel. It just didn't fall into place, as I thought it should have. Maybe it is hard to do a follow up to a sequel with such a strange ending, as did Halloween V. I don't know what the problem was, but I felt that I was shorted on this film. "},{"Title":"What A Terrible Thing To Do To The Halloween Series","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was where the Halloween series ended. Sure, there were two sequels after this one, but they were almost as bad as this piece of junk. The film takes everything that the previous sequels represented, and then it throws it all out the window.In this film, Michael Myers is not the main killer. It is a demon named Thorn. I hate to break it to these people, but Thorn does not sound scary. We find out that Thorn is the demon that has been controlling Michael Myers and telling him to do all this stuff. Blah Blah Blah.As you can tell from the plot, this film is nothing like the other previous Halloween movies, and it is not worth seeing at all. I wonder what Akkad was thinking when he agreed to let this movie be the next Halloween sequel. He must have desperate for a new idea.Horror Fans, Stay Away From It, Halloween Fans DON'T GO ANYWHERE NEAR IT! "},{"Title":"A good scare","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film does not adapt to the michael myers story as well as the others did , according to this film michael myers has been hidden away for 6 years which is true but how could michael myers be locked up in that cave , This movie has too much gore and not enough story line , Michael also must have lost at least 4'' of his height , haha..... because in halloween 1 he was about 6'2'' then halloween 2 the same then halloween 4 about 6'5'' then halloween 5 round about the samer now he is about 5'11'' its very weird his mask is much more bumpy and yellow and he walks slower than usual the ending is quite good but looks too much scientific to be a halloween maybe but over all it would be good for a non halloween follower such as the gore and so on but id give this film a 6 and a half which is not a bad mark its a good movie that I did enjoy but never had enough story line id advise this movie to anybody who likes a good horror but id advise to watch halloween 1 then 2 then 4 then so on ( missing out halloween 3 because it wasn't michael please don't watch haha.) thank you for reading this  "},{"Title":"As scary and enjoyable as the first one!","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Right I know a lot of people don't agree but in my opinion it was.A lot of people didn't like the fact that Michael raped Jamie in this film(neither did I in fact) but there were reasons for it. For a start it meant a family member for Michael to pursue. Also it made Jamie more vulnerable for the too short time she was on screen and this directly made Michael scarier as we knew what he had done. This should have made us think how evil is he? Is he so evil that he would do anything and everything that is so evily unthinkable?Also I like the score that is basically the first one on a different instrument. Halloween 4 tried to do that but didn't succeed as well as this film.I liked the Thorn link. It links back to the Samhain theme. It should remind us that Halloween is an Irish festival and not a night about some mass murderer. Also to me it made Michael more powerful and scary.Any Pleasence's and Wilbur's performances were the best in this movie but Pleasence is the best in this film. Pity it was his last.Anyway some scenes were unforgetable because of how scary they were(the first scene that was reminiscent of the first one and the telliscope scene). Anyway I think this film is the best Halloween along with the first one. I recommend this to all slasher fans.  "},{"Title":"The Curse of a bad movie - spoilers -","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it picks up whenever the last left, sorta....So now Jamie is is about 18 maybe and is pregnant? She is kidnapped, apparently by the same people that kidnapped Michael at the end of the last one. Now she could have gotten pregnant off of the guys that kidnapped her or she could have already been pregnant, who knows right? Anyways, we move on from that to Jamie giving birth, a nurse helping her out and Michael chasing them both and of course, they both die. Moving on, Tommy (remember the little boy from the first one with the jackolatern) make a weird, diluted return in this one (with hopes of making it a better movie I think, which they fail to). Tommy is tracking Michaels return and finds Jamies baby where she left it, in the bus station (after six hours inside a bus station, not one women had to use the restroom and find a baby crying mind you). So Tommy finds Loomis and they talk about the baby. The men in black return and kidnap the little boy and the baby to make sure that Michaels final sacrifice is a good one. Anyways moving on, Michael kills all the doctors and the men in black (which I think is really dumb that they had them portrayed like that), and finally has a showdown with Tommy. Tommy beats and drugs him to death but Michael still gets away from it all, without his mask. He ends up back home screaming.I think the ending here was, once again, retarded. Michael doesn't talk, which means, he can't scream or cry or do whatever the heck they thought he was doing at the end of this movie. Unfortuneately this was Donald Pleasances last movie and a good tribute to this. Good rest your soul and a good actor he was.3.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"GOOD ENTRY!!","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"      After the horrible HALLOWEEN 5,fans at least wanted another one because of that cliffhanger ending.So director Joe Chappelle and writer Daniel Farrands teamed up to make the ultimate come back for Michael and give insight on the man behind the mask.    After the events of HALLOWEEN 5,both Michael and Jamie(J.C. Brandy)has disappeared without a trace by evil cult leaders,who also got Jamie pregnate.After the baby was born,Jamie hides it from Michael.Only to be found by a grown-up Tommy Dolye(Paul Rudd),the boy Laurie Strode babysitted on HALLOWEEN 1.For years Tommy has trying to found out what evil is in Michael Myers.Now protecting the baby with the help of Dr.Loomis(Donald Pleasence)and Kara Strode(Marianne Hagan),all three will try to stop both Michael and the curse that has haunted him for years.THE CURSE OF TORN.    This is a good film no doubt about it.This is not the best in the series,but it certainly is the scariest.The tone and mood to this film is darker than usual.Also the gore is more aggressive in this one.Certainly makes up for HALLOWEEN 5. "},{"Title":"I wanted it to be good.","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted it to be good.  I would say 1, 2, 4 and H20 were the best. 5 was tolerable.  Donald Pleasance of course was as much a part of those films as Christopher Lee in Hammer's Dracula.  This one is the 6th in the series.Unfortunately this one dwells on gore and blood and is pretty mean.  There is a lot of scene jumping and quick editing.  It is more about how he kills and a lot of blood spattering and this seems like a cheap creepy film.  It still maintains a little of the Halloween feel and I believe most fans really wanted to like it.Of course, the only reason to see it is to be part of the Halloween legacy and to see Donald Pleasance last performance though his part isn't nearly as involved as before.  Oh we will miss him.  The next film Halloween H20 is much better made and too bad Donald wasn't there for that climatic battle in H20.    "}{"Title":"Michael Myers is explained...or is he?","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Play to your strengths is advice all moviemakers should remember.Let's face it, Halloween isn't art.  It's fun.  It's a mindless slasher film that's fun.The first two movies are pretty enjoyable (although they hold up poorly over repeated watches).  Didn't see the third.The fourth and fifth movies were atrociously bad.  And they attempted to introduce an element to explain Michael Myers.Good god, people, don't introduce plot twists that you don't plan on expounding on or explaining coherently.I barely remember much of this movie, which shows you how compelling it was.They attempt to explain Michael Myers saying he heard 'voices' and try to tie him in with those dumb idiots who wear black, but never really fill in much of the details.  Not that it matters, the plot is the same anyway otherwise.If you're making mindless slasher, do it.  Don't attempt to be intelligent if you can't be.SUCKS. "},{"Title":"Why do people say this was dissapointing?","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (some  spoilers)I thought this movie was great. I dont Know what people are talking about when they say this was dissapointing. I will agree, the thorn idea is a little far- fetched, but the whole thorn cult thing helps make this movie what it really is - good. Of all the sequels, this is the only one that i actually saw that made me afraid. the others were great, but i wasnt afraid of them. these give some of the scariest murders involving spikes on walls, farm machinery, and electrocution. I thought it was really scary when Kara was talking to beth across the street, and through the telescope she said that michael was behind her, what do you know, he was, and what do you know, she didnt escape, and what do you know, this movie is awesome! "},{"Title":"Tries to repair the damage","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Following the events of number 5, this one tries to capitalize and repair what mistakes were made in 5. Unfortunately, part 6 was also out to make new mistakes. It explains more of the ending to 5.  The character of Jamie was back in this one, but she wasn't played by Danielle Harris. That was one mistake. Another mistake is one I don't really understand...SPOILERS At the beginning of the movie, it insinuates that Michael is the father of Jamie's baby. Why? Now we're making a incesting serial killer!? The whole storyline since the second movie has always had Michael trying to kill his family.  Why would be make more members by raping his niece? The only explanation I want to give is that it was artificial insemination. The man in black (later revealed in the movie) probably did it while Michael was knocked out. That is the major thing I hated about the movie. END SPOILERSPart 6 also tried to give reason as to why Michael kills people. That was told very sloppy and completely out of context to any believable reason. Now, all of a sudden, they have Michael associated with druids and curses? That was too unexpected. It should have been told a different way, if even at all. Do we really need to know why Michael kills? Kind of takes away from the character if you add a big pointless back story. Tommy Doyle (the kid from the first movie) makes a return; a different actor of course. That was cool that they at least tried to tie it into the first movie in a way. I didn't care for the Strode family. The actor that played Danny Strode was one ugly kid. George Wilbur also takes another shot a playing Michael. I liked him in this one better, although 4 is a much better sequel. Most of the kills are pretty standard. I liked the little girl with the it's raining red bit. That was cool. Sadly, it had an ending that didn't make sense, and an introduction with a story that was very poorly told. Those both brought the movie down greatly. Still, this movie IS better than part 5...  "},{"Title":"M. Akkad should've let terror rest in peace!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If Halloween 5 was not enough, Dimension  comes with Halloween  The Curse Of Michael Myers. This film tries to explain something that doesn't needs any explanation  the origin of Michael Myers. Please! Myers was introduced in 1978 as the scariest maniac in slasher cinema. Sadly, as years pass Michael Myers' image is declining. He's not longer in the slasher  respected killers list. He's very popular by now as 3 Halloween movies have been released in 8 years, with an upcoming sequel. In the original Halloween and in Halloween II he was scary and mean, by now in Halloween Resurrection he's just a cartoonish killer. Anyways...The Curse Of Michael Myers is a mediocre horror film, and all this whole Thorn thing is stupid. Why would the producers relate the origins of Michael Myers with the occult and the devil? Beyond reason. This movie is filled with stupid explanations, situations, and crappy death scenes. The movie is pointless, that's why it was ignored in Halloween H20 and Halloween Resurrection. The plot was rejected by die hard Halloween fans, as it has nothing to do with the 1978's classic!They should ended this franchise with part 2. Part 4 was a decent effort but didn't do as well as the  previous films. Of course, not including part 3.Donald Pleasence (as always) shines on this film, I guess that he's the best thing in this dying franchise. Paul Stephen Rudd delivers a believable and decent performance. The rest of the cast is awful. Myers never looked as weak, vulnerable, and dumb. Anyways, just watch this film if you are a big fan of the Halloween series. The plotline may attract many newcomers to the franchise or the genre in general. I can't believe it took 6 to release such a bad plot.Watch it at your own risk!2/10 -After watching it, immediately boot it to the trash can! "},{"Title":"absolute rubbish!","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have been a huge fan of the Halloween series for well over a decade and when this came out i was desperate to see it. And how disappointed i was. (warning, spoilers ahead).This movie was poorly scripted, badly written and extremely badly edited. The plot made absolutely no sense, the acting (except for Pleasence, whose role in the film was cut to barely a few minutes) was nothing short of abysmal, the musical score was plain stupid (an electric guitar Halloween theme, please!!!)and above all, the characters were so boring and poorly acted that you didn't care if they lived or didn't. The biggest problem with the film is that it tried to do what always kills a good horror movie series, it tries to explain too much. Why try and complicate things by introducing the whole ridiculous 'thorn curse' idea to the film, why not just portray Michael Myers as a being who is trying to kill his family members for no apparent reason. How much more fun was the Halloween series when you knew little about the history of Michael Myers except that he was an unstoppable killer!.After this film, i believe, all the following Halloween films have been just as bad (especially the equally terrible Halloween Resurrection). Halloween 1, 2, 4 and 5 (especially 1) were all great films because they contained the key element of any horror film which is scariness.If have heard that the as yet unreleased original edition of the film is far superior but that it was changed because director Joe Chappell, a man rightfully despised by many fans of the series, including myself, for ruining this film, wanted to cash in and simply create another slasher film.So, my advice to anyone considering to watch this film is simply, don't. Watch Halloween's 1, 2, 4, and 5 and ignore the rest, "},{"Title":"Michael Get A Life","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Seriously people if you liked this Halloween you might have mental problems. I mean the actors can barely act. The killing isn't even freaky. And the longest chase is like what? 4 minutes long???It was boring. But did u c the deleted scene were michael goes out with a scheming betty? PFFT! He doesnt even kill her1/2 star out of 4 "},{"Title":"This show rocks!","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Halloween is the best of them all! I hope they make new one's though! Hopefully they go to halloween 20! That would be nice! I highly recommend this movie. Whoever made it did a good job. The cast was great and the movie was awsome! Good Job Guys! "},{"Title":"Halloween has broken its curse.","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers Six years after he and his niece Jamie disappeared, Michael Myers has returned to his home town of Haddonfield to settle some unfinished business and to continue his rampage of the small American town, but this time he brought help. After being abducted by Michael Myers and a band of evil druids, Jamie Lloyd makes a desperate attempt to escape their clutches. Along with Michael's child, Jaimie returns to the once quiet town of Haddonfield but is quickly pursued by Michael, who needs the child back to set a most unholy plan into motion. Jamie's only hope of keeping the child from Michael lies in Tommy Doyle, the boy who years earlier was traumatized by Michael while he was being cared for by Laurie Strode, as well as Dr. Sam Loomis, Michael's former psychiatrist turned arch-nemesis. Michael's plan becomes more sinister than they first anticipate as Michael involves Kara Strode and her adopted parents who now reside in the old Myer house. Stopping Michael was never an easy task before, but now, hell bent on carrying out his mission of death, and being helped along by the cunning and wicked druids, even slowing him down will be next to impossible. The sixth installment of the Halloween series once again casts Hollywood legend Donald Pleasence in the role of Michael's arch-enemy Dr. Sam Loomis.Alongside Pleasence are Marianne Hagan as the film's heroine, Kara Strode, and Mitch Ryan as Pleasence long time friend, Dr. Wynn. Pleasence turns a much better performance in this film than he did in the last, as he gives his character more than one dimension and emotion. Although this was sadly Pleasence's last film, it did happen to be in, what is my opinion, the best and most intelligent of the series. The other main stars, including Hagan and Strode, help to comprise a more than formidable cast for a slasher film, as they actually act instead of not. For example instead of just screaming for the effect of fright, Hagan actually acts like she's frightened. Curse director Joe Chappelle does a much better job than the series' previous directors, even series starter John Carpenter, in building up the film's intensity with emotion and suspense, as per example the scene in which Michael chases Jamie around an abandoned bus station. It seems the other directors just thought talking and theme music would do the same trick and, although Carpenter's score is not bad, it hardly makes a ninety minute film terrifying. There is also a good amount of gore especially for the fans, but some of the scenes could have used a bit less gore and a bit more depth. Don't get me wrong, I like exploding body parts as much as the next person, but sometimes sharp dialogue and a little character development doesn't hurt either. Which actually brings me to what may be the film's strong point, writer Daniel Farrands' story. Instead of just having a film about a group of every day teens talking about everyday things until their terrorized at the end of the movie, this film actually has its characters terrorized from beginning to end. He also adds a nice dash of flavour into his story by furthering Michael's association with the druids and having a more extensive plan than just walking around waiting to kill a couple of teens. Even with its typically overwritten and overdirected ending, Curse does have some great shocks and is entertaining if nothing else. I shall put it like this, if getting a bad horror film is like acquiring a bad plague, then at least the Curse of Michael Myers would be a slightly more appealing ailment.Overall Rating 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Get the Producer's Cut","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Producer's Cut (or P-Cut, as it's known by fans of the series) of Halloween 6 is infinitely superior to the cut of the film that made it to theaters. There's less stupid and implausible gore (no exploding head, no wheat thresher) and a lot more story. And the ending is creepy and enigmatic...as opposed to...well...did the theatrical cut of this movie HAVE an ending? I kept waiting for it, but then the credits rolled and I still didn't know what the hell was going on. Director Joe Chappelle (perhaps the one man on this earth most reviled by Halloween fans) felt the need to cut most of the story in favor of explicit gore, and thus the resulting film was confusing, to say the least.Also, there's a lot more Donald Pleasence in the Producer's Cut. Mr. Chappelle found Donald and the Loomis character to be boring...so he used Donald's death as an excuse to cut about half of his dialogue from the film...despite the fact that Donald was the heart and soul of the series. Talk about your disrespect for the dead. Donald has some great moments in the Producer's Cut, however, particularly when talking with Mrs. Strode about Michael Myers.The bottom line is that had the movie been released in this form (before Chappelle decided to order those ill-fated reshoots), it could have been the best Halloween since the original. So...even though it's never been officially released, and may NEVER be officially released by Dimension Films, I suggest you find a way to see this Producer's Cut. And there ARE ways. Honestly, I haven't watched the theatrical cut of the film since I saw the Producer's Cut...there's absolutely no point. The P-Cut is just a superior film all around.And I also want to point out that a reviewer who spoke of the P-Cut here referred to it as the alternate version and to the theatrical cut as the original version. Well, this isn't quite the case. The Producer's Cut IS the original version of the film...edited together before Joe Chappelle decided to throw away a good deal of the script, rewrite it himself, and order reshoots...which ultimately destroyed this otherwise great movie. If anything, the version of the film released to theaters was the alternate version. The Producer's Cut is the real thing. Check it out, with my highest recommendation. "},{"Title":"A mediocre sequel","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After six years of waiting, this film just wasn't what we expected it to be. Not to say it was horrible. It does retain a lot of the same elements like the previous sequels, but Jaime's death in the film was very disappointing and very graphic to put it more bluntly. I was upset to hear that they didn't want to pay Danielle Harris the $5,000 she wanted to reprise the role she created. I think she is worth it. Plus, it would have been nice to see another familiar face. This movie does offer us a new twist as to explain the reasoning behind Michael Myers madness. It also adds suspense and excitement and I did like some of the new characters. The acting was decent. Compared to the more recent, Halloween Resurrection, Halloween 6 is a masterpiece.   "}{"Title":"What in the world!","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Alright this is the weirdest of the Halloween series. It tries to explain Michael's origin,and his motives,but it fails and turns into a dumb piece of crap. Sure it has some great death scenes,and another wonderful performance by Donald Pleasence (Sadly it was his last) manages to save this movie just a bit.2/5 "},{"Title":"Why bother?","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Superficially, this looks like a quality film - well photographed, with good acting.Unfortunately, the story and direction do not compare.The bizarre semi-supernatural storyline, the beginning of which seemed to have been shoved into Halloween V as an afterthought, is continued in this film, but nothing seems to fit together properly. It's just an incoherent mess. The attraction of the original films was their simplicity, which has been thrown away.There's little in the way of thrills or suspense. "},{"Title":"Not the best. But certainly not the worst.","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay. Most Halloween fans will disagree with me on this But. I liked the movie. It was a new spin on an old idea. Sure it was more complicated than the first five movies. And how they killed off Jamie stunk. But I liked the characters. Especially Tommy Doyle. I like how they brought the character back to the series. The way it was planned seemed to be for him to take over where Loomis left off. I can't see that happening but it was a good idea. Now as for this being the worst film in the series. BULL. Halloween H20 and Ressurection are both complete crap. Michael has got to be the biggest wuss in history according to those movies. Well H20 anyway. I give this movie and 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not as good as I'd hoped.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing Halloween 5 I went off to rent this one as fast as I could. I had grown to really like Jamie and wanted to see what had happened. But this had to be a disappointing movie Jamie dies, Dr. Loomis dies, Donald Pleasance died in real life, the cult was a pretty weird idea, the characters were boring and undeveloped, and though he was ok, Michael wasn't played as good as in the 1st, 2nd, and 4th Halloween. The movie did send a few chills down your spine, and the death scenes were pretty good, but I found that I had an urge to fast forward to any good parts there might be. *Spoilers* It's been 6 years since Jamie and Michael vanished from the Police department. Jamie's been kidnapped and inpregnanted by a cult, (in the alternate version, she was raped by her uncle, Michael Myers.) She runs with her child and escapes with the help of a nurse, who Michael ends up killing anyway. Michael runs her off the road. He catches her and grinds her up with farming tools. Before she dies, she tells him that he can't have the baby. He looks for it only to find that it's gone. Tommy Doyle, from the first movie, found the baby at a bus stop. And relatives of Laurie Strode are living in the Myers house. After that, Michael tries to get the baby and tries to kill off eveyone there. Kara (Laurie's cousin)her son and Tommy get away with the baby, but Dr. Loomis is killed. That's about it. I would see the movie only if you're a real big Halloween fan, don't have high standards for movies, wanna see for yourself what happens, or are just bored. I give it a 5 and 1/2 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"a really bad movie","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is really bad.  Michael Myers returns ONCE AGAIN which is immpossible.  He is after 3 people a man a women and the womens son. This is really bad I highly unreccomend it. AWFUL. BAD BAD BAD.  RATED R for strong terror violence/gore and brief language. DONT WATCH IT. Can you believe I own it myself .  Just kidding I would'nt buy it if Michael Myers were after me! "},{"Title":"Halloween 6 Damned or Misunderstood?","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Out of all the Halloween sequels, none have been lauded messing up the whole story like Halloween 6 did when relased in 1995. Earlier, I may have said that it was either the best of the sequels or even the worst. Until recently.A few weeks ago, I had the pleasure to see the infamous Producer's Cut of Halloween 6. I almost did not watch it, having had the sour taste of the theatrical version in my mouth still (even the popcorn tasted bad!!)But I sat and watched it, and was amazed at how different it seemed.First of all, I had hated it originally because A)Donald Pleasence had just passed away and that meant one thing the death of Dr. Loomis, who had been the standpoint for all the sequels without Jamie Lee Curtis since 1988. I did not like the way they sent the character off and this was one of the reasons I refused to see it again. But in the PROD. CUT, Loomis is now cursed with the Thorn, which means that HE, the very man who set out to destroy Michael Myers's evil, the very doctor who devoted a good part of his life to, now is cursed to walk the earth like Myers, not alive, though not dead.Secondly, the Wynn character was interesting in both versions, and he should have been around for either H7 or H8. He is third on my list of  movie villains (underneath Myers who is underneath Khan Noonien Singh). He was a tormentor to Loomis and everyone else in Haddonfield.Third and finally, Myers himself. George Wilbur played a great Myers in H4, but seven years later, Wilbur has pakced on some poundage and makes the character look bigger than he actually should have been (but it plays well in the age timeline of the character because as of H6, Michael Myers should have been 38). But because of that belly, Myers looks more like Jason Voorhees did in the last three Friday The 13th films than the slim figure of H1,2,and 4.But I can't really complain much about these elements of the PC. Other than the fact that the Producer's Cut should be released. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable!!","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A few years ago when I got into the Halloween series, just as H20 was coming out I watched all the Halloween films before its release. It was only after I watched H20 i even realised there was a Halloween 6, it was no where to be seen in shops and I only found out when it was on Channel 5! That alone tells you this film isn't highly rated!So I watched expecting very little, if anything hoping it would explain the end of Halloween 5. I have to say it was a thoroughly enjoyable 90 minutes and passed all expectations. Not only did it bring back Jamie, but introduces her new born child, and brings back old characters such as the popular Dr. Loomis and Tommy Doyle (now a slightly ecentric loner). The start is very shocking, especillay the grizzly death of the nurse! In my opinion this film had Michael Myers at his meanest and best I've ever seen him since the original (Unlike Ressurection...that was very frustrating!!) He looked good, the mask was great, and he didn't toy with his victims, he was just his ruthless self (the hospital scene at the end!!)**(Spoilers follow)** The death of Jamie was very dissapointing, especillay after all the cheering her on, everyone did in Halloween 4/5, but this has to be expected with todays horror movies (we see this at its worst in Halloween Ressurection!). But when she got, boy did she get it! By far one of the most gross Halloween killings. Dr. Loomis does look too old in this but this can't be helped, and its great to see him back. The main reason people hate this is because the explanations of why Michael is the way he is, ok the whole star thing is a little exaggerated, but surely its better than H20's explanation...are we really meant to believe he just waited around for 20 years! I really liked Tommy Doyles character in this, and the way he stood up upto Myers. The Strode family were easy targets to raise the death toll of this movie, haha but you have to love John Strodes death, no matter how stupid it is! He's not shown as the nicest guy in this film so you know he's gonna get it bad!  The final finale is fantastic, and Myers is truly scary, especillay the tunnel scene (does Michael actually run there!). Overall no this isn't the best in the series by far, but it's definitly up there with the most enjoyable! I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"the scariests one of them all yah right","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  the scariest one of them all yah right this gives halloween seiies a bad name this movie was the worst of them all no wonder the didn't show this on the monster movie marathon because it stunkkkkkkk i woudn't neather see this in theaters or video "},{"Title":"worst of the lot","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 6 is by far the worst sequel of the entire series.  Even Halloween 3 (which has nothing to do with the rest of the now 8 film series) had some redeeming qualities. I'm a big fan of the original and a couple of the sequels, but this one comes as a huge disappointment.  Ridiculous plot and lack of continuity ruins the already struggling series.  This film loses any creepy feeling associated with the previous films or with our favorite character, Michael Myers. "},{"Title":"Killed off?","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If it is true that Jamie is killed  then that is terrible. We watched this little girl so valiantly escape from Meyers in 5 an 6. How can this happen when people waited 6 years to see what happened to her.  Maybe Danielle Harris refused to play the part when she found of the kill off and rape too.  Give me a break.  I have too much faith to accept that Jamie is to be killed.  At least she was not played by Danielle Harris.  Too play these games with people who followed this series so long is unforgivable.Also with Pleasence dying in real life this is all so depressing.  And the bragging I hear that the gore is more graphic defeats the whole purpose of the scary Hitchcock like series.  Save the gore for cheap stupid films.  Jamie and the doctor gone say it isn't so.  Please!! "}{"Title":"If there's one thing I know, you can't control evil.","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You can lock it up, burn it, and bury it, and pray that it dies, but it never will. It just rests awhile. You can lock your doors, and say your prayers, but the evil is out there... waiting.~Spoiler~Halloween 6 isn't the best entry in the series, but damn is it scary.  It's a really dark film relying on atmosphere versus plot.  The plot's not too terrible, but it's a tad hard to swallow.  I mean, ancient runes that are actually constellations that show up every Halloween when Myers decides to go on a killing spree and a crazed cult that helps him yet can't control him.  It's a little twisted.  At the same time though, that, along with your imagination, does explain several things (read KubrickisGod's fascinating review).  The other thing that sours this one  Where's the Halloween theme?  It's strangely absent from the majority of the film.  There is an upside to the madness.  I love the fact that the Man in Black is finally explained (after waiting six long years).  Mitchell Ryan is awesome as the villainous Dr. Wynn/Man in Black.  Equally awesome is Paul Rudd.  It's great that they brought little Tommy Doyle back into the fold.  I'm so upset Rudd didn't appear in the following entries.  I'm also saddened that this is Donald Pleasence's last Halloween film.  I view it as the last Halloween film for that reason.  Oh yeah, I almost forgot...the deaths are excessively gruesome; very pleasing for gorehounds.  All said and done, I was thoroughly satisfied with part 6, and with hope I'll find the infamous producer's cut sometime in the near future.  It's just too bad they never continued with this plotline as you will have a lot of unanswered questions after the finale. "},{"Title":"In Defense of a Good Idea","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While it may seem awkward that I should defend a sequel in a slasher film series, I believe that I have several valid points to make in defense of a much maligned and many-timed manipulated film.  As a former horror aficionado, I find that I have an obligation to uphold.The Halloween series is not only the originator of the slasher series (TCM being an obvious stand-alone film that did not set the standards of the morality ploy in the slasher genre), but also perhaps the best as well. Halloween is the only series that maintains a consistent timeline, with the stories following the exact time elapse as their release; Halloween also maintains a consistent range of characters, specifically, Dr. Loomis and the Myers family (no matter how distant the relations in peril may be); it also has one of the most interesting mythologies of any horror genre a nd refuses to fall into the same pattern of ignorance of its counterparts.While Halloween may be associated with the rules of the slasher genre popularized in the Scream films, it actually endeavors to eschew the supposition.  You may be familiar with The Rules a series of rules based primarily on a crude adherence to Manichean moral fundamentalism where punishment is applied to perpetrators of immoral acts while pure individuals are rewarded with their lives, such as virginal young girls being spared while their sexual companions are butchered.  This is a common misapplication of the New Critical method, which, while it has made interesting observations in the films of Hitchcock and Godard, has a tendency to oversimplify the plot in order to make these symbolic gestures.Despite whatever actions the protagonists/victims may take, Michael Myers' stalking and killing machinations have mostly been based on strategy in the original, Michael attempts to kill his sister by killing her friends in order to draw her from her house; no matter how cold Michael may be, he has shown that he refrains from killing people unless they interfere or unless they might lend aid (such as the hospital staff in the 2nd film).  After all, Michael has yet to kill children in the series, despite several opportunities, and perhaps sought to avoid killing the children Laurie Strode was watching.  In the 4th installment, Michael destroys the power station to cripple the town and then the police station to eliminate support, so he is establishing an environment that will enhance his chances of achieving his objective.  It is only after the 4th film that the series degenerates into a typical, formulaic slasher farce.  And this brings us to Michael Myers himself.Mythology has always been important to the Halloween series, primarily because of the implications about the season during which it takes place. From the very beginning, Michael Myers is already considered a powerful source of evil before he even escapes, and in the subsequent films, his myth always preceeds him, paralyzing the protagonists/viewers with anticipation and imagination before he even arrives (the 4th film does this rather well). I only wish that Loomis did not become so much of a charicature as he does, but that is more the fault of the writer than a capable actor such as Pleasance.  In films such as Friday the 13th and Elm Street, all the authority figures are impotent because they are ignorant.  In the Halloween series, they are always aware of Myers, but unable to stop him because he is just too powerful.  But this is all related to Myers himself.Michael Myers may be perhaps the most dangerous villain in a horror series (not the most disturbing, however); Freddy Krueger is bound to the dream world; Jason Voorhees (my own personal favorite) never leaves Camp Crystal Lake; Chucky depends on others to get around.  Myers is not only mobile (can drive a car), but relentless and patient, almost never making snap decisions.  His invulnerability is addressed in this film and this is now where I shall make my point.Myers, as far as we know, is invincible, but not invulnerable.  When he is shot, he bleeds, when he is hit, he falls.  The other villains have an excuse, such as being undead, but Myers is very much alive.  This film suggests that its idea may have been planned from the beginning.  The Man in Black is Wynn, who was in the first film; the story involves the Man in Black and the Thorn symbol from part 5; and the periods of dormancy of Myers and his strength.  Not that Myers had his eyes shot out in the 2nd film, yet regains them by #4.  Note that his skin has healed despite third degree burns (Loomis is virtually crippled, but Myers is stronger than ever); Myers gets larger with every film, and so does his strength.  So it is not entirely unbelievable that the film may be an acceptable explanation for Myers' power.  Not that while he has been shot several hundred times, Myers has never taken a head shot; he evades the dynamite in #5 because it could kill him.  This indicates that while Myers may be strong, he is not unkillable.  It makes sense to me that a demonic force could be controlling him because Myers would be the perfect vessel his body is enhanced after each defeat, both in size and in strength; his injuries healed during the periods of catatonia, and the lapses of inactivity to preserve his strength until it is needed.  I could go on, but what this film suggests is entirely plausible from a horror movie stance, and certainly ties together threads that have existed since the beginning.I think where the film ultimately fails is that a story based on Myers and his manipulators would requrie a different approach.  A conspiracy film does not require teenagers coupling in dark houses or false shocks because the plot does not have the time nor the need for them; nor would Myers bother with them because he has always been a machine with a mission, and has always avoided peripherals (#5 was ridiculous because Myers killed many people for no reason, which violates his motivation).  The viewers want naked teenagers and lots of false scares, and this film by neccessity would have to discard them, which explains why it was manipulated by Hollywood to make it more accessible and not only limited to a fanbase.  So the film has (obviously) been hacked to pieces to make room for typical slasher formulas to placate the desires of the ignorant masses (a feat sadly not exclusive to horror films), and the result is this piece of tripe that is a shame to the series (although not the extent of #5 or H20).So this film had great potential, and if the missing footage was restored, and the film made to resemble the original plot, it may actually be a decent installment.  But since that is an unlikely event in this neo-fascist culture of simplicity, I doubt we can even hope for that. "},{"Title":"Interesting, Bizarre....","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As I am recently re-discovering Halloween after many years since seeing the original, I must say I was quite fascinated with this movie. Granted, that with the 6th installment (technically 5th), one automatically has low expectations for this movie. The plot line fairly closely paralleled Halloween.  We figured out why Dr. Wynn allowed Michael to escape in 1978. We see Tommy Strode all grown up. But, what happened to Lindsey Wallace? (Was she the Lindsey in Part 4?) We also have a better understanding as to why MICHAEL MYERS WILL NOT DIE!!! The supernatural influences are even reminiscent of Halloween III Season of the Witch. Perhaps the producers were attempting to tie the entire series together???   The Myers house was not the original Myers house, but MUCH more acceptable than Dracula's Castle from Part 5.  The kills were interesting, grotesque, and chilling. The lighting, the shadows, the cinematography were all equally creepy. I was saddened, though, that Dr. Loomis would no longer be with us. Halloween 6 did a great job of tying the series together. Here we had forgotten all about Laurie Strode, and the series was going in a totally different, and unique direction. Then, comes H20 and we're back at square one. Granted, I really enjoyed H20, but one has to either accept 4 - 6 as the definitive story of Michael Myers, or reject it as fiction with H20.  So, what happens to Kara, Danny, and Tommy? Will they resurface in Halloween 9? Anything has to be better than Resurrection!       "},{"Title":"michael's back and he's very angry","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  once again dr.loomis (donald pleasence) hunts down the legendary michael myers. the charactor tommy doyle (paul rudd) returns as well. it all starts when michael finds out that the rest of his family that is still living including his sister kara strode (marianne hagan)his step mother debra strode (kim darby), his step father john strode (bradford english)his brother tim strode (keith bogart), and his other half sister beth (mariah o'brian).michael also stalks some of the strodes family freinds barry simms (leo geter)and dr.loomis's strange sidekick dr.wynne (mitch ryan). this is the 6th sequal in the series and it's still scary as ever. by the end of halloween the curse of michael myers you might not even be alive to watch the credits. "},{"Title":"Bottom of the barrel (Spoilers? sure.)","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Halloween series has it's highs and it has it's lows, just like any other movie series with eight installments within it. Following up the equally horrible Halloween 5 Revenge of Michael Myers, this one plays out more like a straight-to-video MTV production of a Halloween sequel. In this one, Michael and his niece Jamie are taken home by a cult, the same people who shot up the police station in Halloween 5, led by the mysterious man in black who also debuted in H5. The movie begins with an older Jamie giving birth to a baby and escaping the cult. Of course, it is pretty predictable what Jamie's fate is, and soon the baby falls into the hands of 25 year old Tommy Doyle, the little boy who Laurie Strode babysat in the original Halloween. Tommy lives across the street from the old Myers' house and watches it and the family inhabiting it persistently. By the time October rolls around, Thomas is more than sure that Michael will make his return home. How does he come up with this theory? Something to do with runes and star patterns. Yeah, it's that weak. Well, what ensues is probably the bloodiest Halloween to date. And for that, I did appreciate it. But god, the story is so LAME! And not to mention the dizzying acid-like direction by Joe Chapelle. This movie looks more like a Poison video than a horror movie. The Producer's Cut has yet to be released, if you don't know what that is, look up alternate versions on this page or read some other reviews below me. I hope someday it will make it's way onto DVD, there's an audience for it. Keep your eyes peeled this month though, cuz this movie always airs on TV around Halloween and they include a lot of Producer's Cut stuff on the TV version. Grade C- for excessive gore, the color blue, and flat nudity. "},{"Title":"2 words Super retarded!!!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Movie is like so dumb. When I saw the preview (trailer for those goody-goody movie grammar peoplz) I was absolutely horrified. I thought to myself I am so not going to live through this movie!!! Guess what pplz?? I'M ALIVEEEEEEE!This movie was horryfying. HORRYFYINGLY STUPID!If YOu knew better, you wouldn't watch this. "},{"Title":"Scary and Original","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Halloween has a lot of scary kills in it. Like at the beginning when Michael first kills the nurse and then the music starts as he tilts his head. Also, how Mrs. Strode later in the film tries to get the family away from Michael but ends up being the broad daylight kill in her own yard. The ending is cool how Tommy Doyle beats Michael with a pipe after he got the best of him years before. It's not the best Halloween but it still is scary. "},{"Title":"Avoid the real film but LAUD the Producers Cut!!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Many people have written this off as the worst sequel to date and I'd probably be the first person in that line... in fact, I was. I never saw this in theaters but when I got it on video I was highly disappointed because it didn't explain anything that happened in the previous films, or maybe it did and I just didn't understand what they were getting at with all of this Rune stuff...It was then that I began my search for the rumored Producers Cut which featured what should've been shown in theaters... a GOOD MOVIE! The Producers Cut features a clean cut, workable plot that intrigues me to no end... they actually took what was a hopeless film and turned it into a believable Halloween film that was actually scary...If you'll notice that in the Theatrical Release the entire Halloween theme has been cut from the movie... how did they do this, you ask? They cut all of the eerie back round music that was included in the Producers Cut. I have no clue why it was cut from the movie because we all know that a Halloween movie isn't the same without that eerie music that builds the suspense and makes us jump out of our seats when it gets scary.After Kara jumps out the window and is captured by the cult members, the movie takes a completly, never before seen path that takes you into the deapths of the true mystery that is Michael Myers and takes you on a rollercoaster ride all the way to the exciting and somewhat clever ending instead of locking the main characters in a room and letting them beat the heck out of Michael with a lead pipe...I won't give away too much but I'd recommend that you get your hands on this video because it's a true gem that any Halloween fan should have in their collection.If you have any questions, E-Mail me  "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now this movie was ok it was a little boring at the start and i didnt get it to much but its about micheal after this baby and killing every strode well anyways he tries to get the baby but there is DR loomis, kara and Tommy doyle the little kid from halloween 1 that are in his way. i thoguht this movie was OK i give it a 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Halloween 6 or Dr. Loomis'last hurrah","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Curse of Michael Myers is a very frustrating piece to deal with for a fan of the Halloween series. After a very disappointing letdown in Halloween 5, the series reached a near ebb in plot lines, with a silly devolution into witchcraft and a teenage cult dedicated to the worship of Michael Myers. Curse of Michael Myers ups the ante in blood and gore, but really represents a decay in the series' integrity. It's too bad to, as this is the last movie for Donald Pleasance as the  character of Dr. Loomis. Pleasance has some good screen moments (precious ones if your a fan of the series) as the now very aged and as he says very retired doctor. Sadly he died before the movie was completed, and it is very apparent at the conclusion of the film that the stories original climatic scene was never realized. Right from the beginning credits, Halloween 6 has more of the feel of a made-for-TV movie then that of the block-buster horror flick that it started out as in 1978. Any loyal Halloween alumni should have demanded more from this film,... Dr. Loomis and Donald Pleasance deserved more. "}{"Title":"The ultimate Halloween Movie!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *contains possible spoilers* This movie was awesome! Some people might think it was stupid, because they can't see the coolness of Myers being cursed. The death sequences are very realistic, the plot is original, and even though it was not explained in any other Halloweens, so what?? You don't diss something that wasn't in all the movies. Thorn was very cool. The sign, in case you have not seen it looks like a P with a neck splint.If some people think this movie is very cool, then they are the last remaining H6 fans. "},{"Title":"Bring On Producer's Cut.....","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel to John Carpenter's Halloween isn't terrible, but it's not good either. The makers of this film were obviously in a rush to get this cut of the film finished. It's evident enough. I have both this version and the Producer's Cut and I think the PC version is better because it explains more about Michael and the Thorn cult, which by the way is a real cult that happens every so often on Halloween night. So in closing I hope the makers of this film decide to make a DVD that has this version and the theatrical trailer, because we owe it to Donald Pleasance to show as much of him in the film as possible. R.I.P DR. LOOMIS. THEATRICAL VERSION 3 OUT OF 5 STARS; THE PC VERSION 4 OUT OF 5. OH AND SOME PC SCENES CAN BE FOUND ON THE TV VERSION OF THIS FILM.  "},{"Title":"This Movie was good but at the same time stupid","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I mean the movie wasn't that bad but it didn't really make sense i mean Michael Myers like turned into a complete joke in this movie. And the movie is as brutal and scary as the other ones but needed a better storyline i mean Michael Myers going after a baby, that is the lowest story i have ever heard of. I mean they stuck with the story with Jamie at the beginning but later on it just kind of seemed boring and stupid. So i rate this movie a 2/5. "},{"Title":"Third best in the series.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The original was the best,H20 was second best and this is the third best.It was made for tv but that didn't put me off.It had more suspense than the others,too bad it wasn't well done enough.This time it has Tommy (the kid who was babysitted in the first movie) and Jamie who is killed at the beginning.There is a new family living in the Myers house now and Micheal is back.Halloweenthe curse of Micheal Myers is brilliant in all ways except one,it isn't quite as polished as the original.What was good,I watched it in the evening and I was more gripped than I have ever been before,it just holds you still and you don't know who will survive and who won't.I was in suspense the whole way through.I loved it.Even the ending which I don't understand.Micheal has made a history for himself in films and has become a symbol of terror amongst youngsters.I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"Not that Bad!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  People out there are saying that it's the worst sequel of Halloween. I very much disagree, I mean just look at Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers... LOL. Sure, Halloween 666 isn't the best Halloween, in my mind it's either Parts 1 or 2, but it does have it's moments. You're just better off seeing Halloween 666 The Origin of Michael Myers aka The Producer's Cut because it is so much better. Don't listen to other people's reviews because I bet half of them aren't even horror film freaks or buffs, like myself, they probably are someone who likes dramas, I mean come on! "},{"Title":"this is an insult to the HALLOWEEN series","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What's the point of this movie?! Try to explain Myers's origin? Why he stalks his family? Ah, for sure we don't care. What we liked about the HALLOWEEN movies was the creepy settings, good death scenes, and of course, the scary Michael Myers. This whole thorn thing is stupid, not even interesting!. The man in black instead of being scary is to laugh for!. I can't believe Moustapha Akkad agreed to produce this movie. Donald Pleasecence -again- is the best thing in this movie, he saves the day. This new twist in the Halloween series didn't work, in fact, it was completely ignored in H20, and in the upcoming HResurrection. AVOID THIS CURSE!. "},{"Title":"My first Review","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this is my first review ever.  I agree with what all of you have been saying.  The movie did have bad acting and it kinda Did confuse me with the thorn s***e, but the movie really wasn't that bad!  It was extremely gory, which was bad!  I hate how in almost every Halloween movie he walks like a freaking robot!We start out with Michael's neice pregnant and about to give birth in some hospital place.  Then Michael comes and bobs your uncle kills all of the staff.  Jamie escapes to a bus depo and calls this radio show that Tommy Doyle and Dr. Loomis just happen to be listening to.  She then goes into the bathroom while Mikey comes down the stairs.  She escapes out a window just in time and starts driving to somewhere.  Mike catches up and runs her off the road.  She finds herself in a barn and Mike kills her.  Then he goes back to the truck for the baby.  He grabs the blanket, but whats this?  The baby isn't there.In the morning, Tommy Doyle goes to the bus station and goes down into the bathroom.  He hears a cry coming from a cabinet thing and Tah-dah!  He finds her baby!  (Pretty stupid so far!)Then, for some idiotic reason, we go to The Myers house, but relatives of Lauries are living in it.  Some kids have put a sign out front that says He's coming for you and the dad, who is an alcoholic, Says Enough of this Michael Myers bull$hit!  Wow, this is a really great movie wink, wink. I'll leave it to you to watch the movie to see the rest but I'll tell you one thing, Loomis disapears.**********DO NOT CONTINUE IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THE MOVIE**********See, I don't really get the thorn thing.  Wow, stars line up every Halloween.  SO?  Another thing I don't get.  Who is this person that can supposedly control Michael Myers?  What is the deal?  Throw me a fricken Bone here!  If H2O wouldn't have come out, the entire series would have been ruined! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you've heard...","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the ominous and rather ambiguous ending to the fifth Halloween movie, now finally we have the sixth, which came a grand six years after its predecessor... Without a doubt, Halloween 6 is certainly the most artisticly-shot of the Halloween movies. There is a great use of shadows - both over faces and in the general surroundings - that lends the picture a very eerie look, and it seems that great attention was paid to the setting as well as the beautiful people who have to stand in it. The houses themselves are very unusual looking, and there are some nice montage effects which ooze style. The entire film has a feel much like the first Halloween.It was a nice touch to bring back the Strode family - who we never really knew anything about other than they adopted Laurie Myers at a young age - as well as Tommy Doyle (the kid from the first film). It is a touch which gives the entire franchise a much tighter feel, and gives the impression that the writers/producers do actually know what they're doing. Marianne Hagen made a great heroine, and it was nice to see that horror movies can actually have leading ladies that are post-twenty. Alongside her, Paul Rudd impressed me with his portrayal of an obssessed and slightly-insane Tommy Doyle who is intent on finding the man that so terrorized him as a child and had killed so many people in his home town. His character was actually surprisingly smart, and the interaction between him and Hagen made for an interesting hour. It was a shame that Danielle Harris couldn't reprise her role as Jamie Lloyd for one last time, but I guess that the amount she asked for just couldn't be met by the company.The introduction of the Thorn theory was one that was disappointing and ridiculous - one of the factors that makes this movie harder to enjoy. If you're going to have one of the most notorious and genuinely scary film serial killers have an actual driving force, don't have it linked to some mundane star patterns! Also, the idea that he is being controlled by the Man in Black (I won't reveal his identity here, but it's a fitting twist for a franchise that seems almost incapable of creating them) makes him seem far more docile and unthreatening, but a chilling climactic scene within the mental hospital when Michael single-handedly massacres an entire staff of doctors is enough to put the fear of God in anyone daring to defy Mr. Myers. Michael does, however, look far bulkier in this movie, and many times I found myself wondering if the oaf would ever realise that if he just ran a little every once in a while he could get the job done so much quicker.The musical score is something of an odd comodity. It is unlike anything I have ever come across in film, but I liked its fresh and original take on the 'Halloween Theme'. Although at times when it is mixed with a squealing electric guitar it tends to sound rather Eighties, it's a refreshing change to the typical score we have come to know. There are also some nice sound effects used which make a change to the now annoying stinger sound.For a nineties movie, there is excessive gore to be found for once, which is a surprise considering how lacking in gore so many horrors are these days thanks to the MPAA. I am not a huge gore fan, but it was a nice change to actually see blood for once, instead of hearing a stab sound and then seeing a body on the floor.THE VERDICT Halloween 6 can at times tend towards the ridiculous with some terrible scenes and equally cringe-worthy dialogue, but mixed in with them are some great moments that are genuinely sinister and filled with tension - in particular scenes where Kara Strode is being stalked through her house, and the final moments in the mental institute. Although this is a fresh sequel that can be surprisingly original, the formula (Michael + relative slaughter everywhere) seems to be getting old, and perhaps they should just leave the franchise where it is... "},{"Title":"The best in the series!!!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You might have seen the popular T.V. show beat the Geeks,, Well if I were ever to be on that show as a geek, I would be 1 out of three Geeks, 1 the Michael Myers Geek, 2 the Jason Vorhees Geek, or 3 the Ninja Turtle movies, Geek... So let me start by saying that in most if not all horror movies, and even more with slasher series's there are rules, guidelines, faults and defaults.. Rule 1 is that no matter what you do to the killer in the last movie, you can always bring him back.. Just look at Jason, he was electrocuted twice to bring him back, how original is that? And you know it couldn't happen in real life, but that, my friends is the point now isn't it!! The rules of movies aren't like Jamie Kennedy explained in Scream, they change for who ever the killer is.. Take Jason again, he is not a pointless killer, he has his rules and likings.. He kills people at his camp mostly, he like teens, this is known by most.. What he will not ever do, is kill a child!! your best bet at crystal lake is to bury your self in a pig pile of live children, because he was a kid when he was killed, and he will not kill kids.. Myers has strict rules, very strict rules.. Here they are.. in order.. 1 He kills his closest blood line.. Sisters, brothers, cousins,, so on and so fourth.. 2 He will kill anyone who lives or goes into his house!!.. Once he catches you there, it doesn't matter where you go, he hasyou.. 3 Any one who gets in his way from killing his blood line, or people that were in his house!! Then of course there is the other less important rule that still makes everything work.. No matter how hard you try, no matter how fast you run, no matter where you go, when you stop, he will be there!! And Myers will never even walk fast to do it!! I have read most of the comments here and I am mad at what people have written!! The curse was one of those movies in a series that explained things so that even if you had never seen a Myers movie before you would understand, every series needs one.. Why he was killing was perfect with the plot of the series.. He followed all his rules to a T.. The acting was bad you say!! Can we say idiot? Every horror movie has bad acting, and if you say that this one's acting is bad, I hope to hell you never saw the other 4 in the series.. (part 3 was a mistake, and was taken care of in the same year by the return of Michael Myers)Because this movie was made in 1995, and released in video in 1996, his first movie in 5 years, having a bigger budget and more production, making it the best looking movie at the time it was done in the series. You see by the time you have good acting in a horror movie, you end up with one out of two things, 1, a movie that isn't a horror, or slasher at all, you end up with a suspense thriller A.k.a Scream.. or even worse, a movie that kills the series, a.k.a, Jason Goes to Hell, or Halloween H2O.. H2O was all wrong, you want to talk about a bad movie, talk about that one!! Myers was played by little short Chris Durand, a small stunt guy with a mask that was too tight to his face, (he was no George P. Wilbur)and who was he after? Laurie Strode, His direct Blood sister, who had no idea that he had been killing people every year, year after year in Haddonfield, her home town, but at the same time was frightened every Halloween since.. And yet how come she wasn't killed in 4? she was the closest in line.. Why?, cause we forgot about her, we thought and just figured she was dead, but some Idiot brought her back!!! H2O, Bad movie, Curse of Michael Myers, Good Movie!! All my life I have been watching horror movies, I am the most extreme Horror/Slasher movie fan I have ever met, and I am upset to see all these movies bashed by people, why do you think they don't make great or even good horror movies in the old school style anymore? It is because people like the people who posted in this sight say nothing but bad things about these movies.. Don't rock the boat!!! You say the acting is bad, people wouldn't act like that in real life, un realistic,,, than I know what you did last summer is what you get, Urban Legends, Scream,,, sure better acting, where you have to play the guess who game, and the killer is nothing but a normal teen himself, in a costume, that doesn't even show much blood, or gore!! It's not like any one of those killers have a body count like Myers of 74 people, 79, when you ad the dogs he killed.. or Jason of 191.. But you get what you ask for right? I only comment on movies I like, because every movie should have a chance, the only time you will see me comment on a movie I hate is when it is a must!!  "},{"Title":"Words Almost Can't Describe How Bad This Is","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If Halloween 5 was a cruel joke to the fans of the series, than Halloween 6 is a like a vicious insult. The storyline has gone to the dogs everyone. Michael is used as a helpless pawn in this film and he isn't at all scary. He reminds me of an over-weight alcoholic man than the boogeyman that struck fear in our hearts back in the original. There are almost no redeemable qualities about this feature and i'm so glad H20 came out because it would be an insult to fans to have this be fresh on our minds.Halloween 6 had about 2 aspects that I liked. Having an adult Tommy Doyle in the film was a nice touch and it linked it to the original. Donald Pleasance is here(in his last performance...what a bad film to end an otherwise nice career on). When he's on screen he makes you remember the good old days when Halloween was actually scary.That's about it my friends. The stalk sequences are unoriginal. One of them being a blatant rip-off of the Laurie/Michael chase in the original. The other characters are terribly under-written and just aren't likable. The music, on of Halloween's highlights even when the film is bad, is tortured in this film. we get a silly rock version of the stalk/chase theme. What were they thinking when they made this film.*SPOILER*Their biggest mistake was killin off the character of Jamie(Now played by another actress who isn't worth mentioning)We watched this character escape death in two films. We rooted for her and when she is killed in this film you cant help but feel sorry for her and realize that the filmmakers don't care when good characters are established in a film.*END SPOILER*The less said about thi embarrassment the better. I wish it didn't exist. I suggest skipping this film, and even 5, and just going straight to H20 because if you watch this you may not want to see another Halloween film again. "}{"Title":"Michael returns-but a little rusty","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In the Curse of Michael Myers, Michael Myers returns after I almost died of shock at the end of Halloween 5. Now he's back to kill the Strode family(the relatives of the people who adopted Laurie Strode). I think the story was fair but a litle misleading. I didn't understand that whole Curse/Thorn thing. And what is up with the Myers house. Why in Halloween 1 and 2 it looked like a normal two-story house? But in Halloween 5 it looked like a huge victorian mansion. And in this film, it looks so new and refreshed(a good change for this type of movie). And the Question Mark Ending was a nice touch too. Not scary, but it has it's tense moments especialy an hour into the movie when a murder takes place a-la-Rear Window style. It's the kind of movie you should rent on a rainy halloween night.Grade C "},{"Title":"A Good Movie That Had The Potential To Be Better.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  **SPOILERS**I first saw this movie, many, many moons ago in the theatre. That's right friends, I'm an old, old man of 24.  But seriously folks!  When I first saw this movie, I was literally bouncing in my seat, a Halloween installment, how could it be ANY better!  Lots of ways, I'm afraid.  I recently discovered (thanks to IMDB) that there was an alternate version of this film (The Producer's Cut), which after researching, made me feel cheated and insulted by the pale imitation that was spat out into theatres.  I mean, come on!  In the Producer's Cut, you learn that Jamie's baby was in fact Michael Myers' (!), the ending is completely different, and the opening spoken intro was voiced not by Paul Rudd (Tommy Doyle) but by Donald Pleasence (Dr. Sam Loomis).  I mean, for crying out loud, is THERE ANYONE out there that understands the theatrical version's ending?  *Kind Of A Spoiler*  Michael's mask lying on the ground next to a syringe and Loomis screaming in the background?  I didn't understand it in the theatre, and I didn't understand it last night when I watched it on VHS.  If not for the good people at IMDB (who love movies just as much as I do)  I still wouldn't understand....it deals a lot with the alternate ending. Look it up yourself, it's too good for me to spoil.  For fans of the Halloween series, this one is not to be missed, even though it's nowhere NEAR as good as Halloween 4  The Return Of Michael Myers, which I not only enjoyed, I understood completely.  Okay, okay, I understand that Donald Pleasence died and the original ending would have put him in a sequel, but for corn's sake! Don't butcher a movie just to take all that out.  Release it untouched and original, and put a In Memory Of......at the end.  PEOPLE WILL UNDERSTAND, but even more, serious genre fans don't like being cheated, and that's how I feel when I compare the two versions of this film.  So, here's my final thoughts.  Friends, get to EBAY as fast as you can, and try to get a copy of the Producer's Cut that way (It's not commercially available) and then get a store bought copy and watch the versions back to back... Then call up John Carpenter and scream at him for a REALLY long time, asking him, Why, John why?  Just kidding.  But, final deal.  It's a good movie, but it could have, should have, and orginally was....better. "},{"Title":"Horrible!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very bad. In fact, the only reason why I've given it a 2 rather than a 1 is because it made me laugh. Without giving anything away, a man's head actually explodes in this film. It was so pathetic, I laughed. I don't believe the scene was meant to be funny but it's nonsense. Complete nonsense. The original Halloween is such a good film, it's a shame they had to go and make such a stinker. "},{"Title":"Average Curse","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of moviegoers had a hard time accepting the idea of Michael Myers being part of a cult. Therefore, it is understandable that this sixth Halloween installment was not well received by many critics.But if you ask me, I agree that it is definitely not the best in the Halloween series. However, I don't consider it to be at the bottom of the barrel either (the non-Myers installment, Halloween III Season of the Witch, was FAR WORSE). To me, it's just an average sequel.While some of the answers concerning the mystery of Michael Myers are not totally satisfactory, the film itself has some redeeming features Most notably, it sheds light on the mysterious ending of Halloween 5. Plus, the intriguing, yet enigmatic, man in black has his identity revealed.Also, it is interesting to note that both this film and Halloween 5 have two mass murderers Michael Myers and the man in black! (The latter gunned down all the cops at the police station during the closing minutes of Halloween 5.) And if that isn't terrifying, then I don't know what is! "},{"Title":"YUUUUUUUUUUUUCK!!!!","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is sick.The Thorn curse is an unusual thing to come up with,but I think it's okay.The movie is like a Friday the 13th film.Disgusting!Like Halloween 5,this one is just kill,kill,kill.No major plot fact(s).SPOILER AHEADJamie dies and Mr.Strode's head explodes(aaahhh!) PAST SPOILER ZONE Tommy Doyle was the best character in this movie,besides Loomis(this is his last film,Don died afterward in real-life) The mask is one of the closest to the original. One thing I don't get...Jamie has the Shape's child?! "},{"Title":"Pretty good for a 6th sequel","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 6 is over-all a pretty good movie. It seems to kind of pick up on part 1, like the neighborhood for instance, and the Myers house is fainally back to normal. And theres a whole new family of Strodes living in the house also, along with Tommy Doyle ( Little boy being babysat in part 1 ) living across the street, obsessing over Michael Myers. **SPOILERS** And the death scnenes are good also. Like Karas brother Tim's death ( even though i can't quite remember what it was ) and the part where the radio d.j. gets his throat slashed is good as well. I also liked the acting in this. On a scale of 1-10 i give it an 8. Well thats all ill say for now. "},{"Title":"For Michael Myers Fans","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a major fan of the Halloween slasher series, I have watched this film quite a few times. Though not as good as some of the other installments, it is still one of the better slasher films of the 1990s. The plot is a bit confusing (mainly because the director decided to screw around with it), and a couple of the death scenes over the top. Still, it feature great atmosphere, great music, and near the end one of the best kill scenes in slasher history! If you enjoyed all the other Halloween films, or just really like horror, this is required viewing. "},{"Title":"The word Curse really describes this movie.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Actually it wasn't THAT bad....until the third act. What started off promising and what could've been the best Halloween film since the first, ended up a total travesty and an insult to the rest of the series. It took a great set-up done by Halloween 5 and trashed it all to hell. But still....it actually wasn't THAT bad...STORY Let me start off with the things I liked. I liked all the little references to the original. I liked the return of Tommy Doyle and how he was used as a direct link to the original film. I liked how they TRIED to explain some series plot holes that had been plaguing the hardcore fans. Hell, I even liked this movie.  Then the druids took center stage and everything took a huge nosedive with BOTH the theaterical cut and the producers cut. I'm sure Daniel Farrands had good intentions when he wrote the script, but the studio and the director both got in the way and we got a muddled mess. While the last half hour did have some good parts, it was mostly crap. Steaming crap. It's a shame because I was really into the movie by the point where Loomis, Tommy, Kara, and Danny were all trapped inside the Doyle house with Michael outside the door. If the Thorn crap had been dropped and we had been given a suspenseful finale that kept with the flow of the rest of the movie...well then, Halloween 6 could've turned out to be one of the better sequels rather than one of the worst.ACTING This is Donald Pleasence's last film and he gives a great performance. My main beef is that he's underused. He doesn't have one scene opposite Michael Myers and that's a shame. Paul Rudd was great also as the weird but likeable Tommy Doyle and he got the rub from Donald Pleasence to take his place...oops...guess that producers botched that one badly too. Marianne Hagan is on and off as the heroine. The supporting cast is fine and none of them got on my nerves...except for that kid who played Danny.DIRECTING The highest point of the movie. Lots of flashcuts. Lots of kick ass lighting. Some suspense. Chappelle did everything well on a technical level, but helped screw the movie over on a creative level. I guess he should've done his job and let Farrands do his. Overall this is one of the best looking and one of the better directed films of the series.MUSIC Kick ass guitar version of the Halloween theme as well as the traditional version. On the other hand, Chappelle prefered sound effects over a full score so we got lots of annoying sound effects that spoiled the tension in some scenes. OTHER Some good violence here, but two terribly over the top deaths. The first is the broken neck (just struck me as cheesy) and the other is the exploding head (just struck me as plain stupid). Other than that, we have Michael Myers in top form. Oh yeah there's nudity in this one too. Something that a few of the previous sequels sorely lacked. When you look at it, this should've been the ideal Halloween film for the MTV generation. Instead we get stupidity. A lot of effort certainly went into it and they certainly tried to make this more than just another sequel...but they screwed up.*1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The best sequel with mindless violence!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best Halloween sequel. It is basically plotless, but is more fun to watch then the other sequels. The violence is a lot more graphic and there is a definite eeriness you can feel. Great for fans of the series.7/10Michael Dalston "},{"Title":"CORRECT NO MORE","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best sequel,it´s better than H20 because the history is funnier and scarier than the other one.Actors are unknown except Donald pleseance.If you want horror you mast watch the first (THE BEST OF ALL). SENTENCE FOR HALLOWEEN 6If you have not anything to do you might watch it. ***** "}{"Title":"Best sequel apart from Halloween 2","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This sequel is brilliant and is the last film Donald Pleasance (Dr.Loomis) worked on before his death. I loved the new direction the film took with the story instead of just Michael Myers wanting to kill his family. I love this whole series and apart from the first and second movies this is by far the best. "},{"Title":"You wonder why H20 seems to be getting it from people","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Having looked at several reviews of Halloween 6 from people here, the only trend I'm picking up is the constant whining about how H20 dumped the silly Druid/Thorn subplot and ignored the other sequels. While I do agree it would have been nice to have the series connect, 6 was the reason why H20 broke off from the others. The theatrical cut was a horrible piece of moviemaking with no scares, bad acting and a storyline that was to complicated to begin with and ended with one of the worst endings I have ever seen.The main problem I think these people have with H20 was that it was made in the Scream vain, which meant less gore and plots that made sense. What the people who liked the theatrical cut of 6 need to do is go back and watch John Carpenter's original. No gore there and a story that works without Druids and the other goofiness.Gore does not make a movie great. A good story does. "},{"Title":"good, but odd","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Since the Producer's Cut has never officially been released (bootleg copies are available), and this page is for the theatrical release, I'll have to review that one. As it stands, the Theatrical Cut is a rather odd film. The film was heavily dissected by director Joe Chappelle during post-production many scenes were trimmed, rearranged, or entirely cut out, gruesome deaths were added, the music was changed, and the final 15 minutes or so (virtually the entire final act of the film) was completely reshot. After a six year disappearance, Jamie Lloyd suddenly appears Halloween Eve on a radio talk show, frantically calling for Dr. Loomis. Michael is back, looking for Jamie's baby after he kills her. The baby is found by the know-grown up Tommy Doyle from the original film, played by Paul Stephen Rudd, who has become obsessed with Michael over the years. And he thinks he's uncovered the reason behind Michael's madness. (The explanation is too long and complicated to go into here). THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS was probably the least successful HALLOWEEN film, but a lot of series fan consider it one of the best. A lot of things in the film are confusing and left unexplained, as a result of Chappelle's meddling with things before it's release, but the film has a great sense of atmosphere and suspense. And Rudd is great as Tommy Doyle, a character that would be a worthy replacement for Dr. Loomis, now that the great Donald Pleasence is, sadly, no longer with us. And as Kara Strode, the lovely Marianne Hagan makes a great modern-day replacement for Jamie Lee Curtis's Laurie Strode in the original. The bootleg Producer's Cut is virtually a different film, with a stronger story and more answers to the questions raised by the film, with a surprise ending that is lightyears from the ending seen in theaters and on video. The theatrical version of the film is still good, but the original version is great, possibly even the best since the original. "},{"Title":"Halloween Cursed by Mad Dissenters","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The sixth film in the Halloween series was strangely one of the biggest targets of critic and fan hatred. After watching the film, I was left wondering why it was so hated. I, personally, thought it was probably the best of the sequels and a worthy, entertaining film, despite some faults.In Curse, the mystery of Michael Myers' (a.k.a. the Shape) dark origin is cryptically explored as he reappears searching for his last surviving relative. Discovering that Michael has returned, retired Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasance, I believe in his last role) embarks on a quest to stop Michael once and for all, with the help of a grown-up Tommy Doyle (Paul Stephen Rudd)--the boy Laurie Strode was babysitting the night Michael attacked in 1978. They must also protect the Strode relatives, who now live in the Myers House.Enigmas abound as to the Curse of Thorne and Michael's true origin as the story progresses, the characters constantly threatened by the specter of the Shape. What ensues is an entertaining and fun, despite what Halloween purists might say. And yet, while this film is decried, H20 is supposed to have saved the Halloween franchise!? What's that happy crappy!?Oh well, the Curse of Michael Myers is pretty good. If you thought it was bad, then you probably haven't ever seen a TRULY bad film in your life. Try Lady in the Lake or Grim, and perhaps you'll gain a greater appreciation for this unfairly attacked movie. "},{"Title":"a surprisingly entertaining sequel","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone knows that a great movie is always disgraced by ridiculously painful sequels. Just take a look at Nightmare on Elm Street (1985), Hellraiser (1987), and The Crow(1994).  The legendary John Carpenter's Halloween is no exception.  Even this film, that stands as one of the greatest horror masterpieces, is not immune.  Because I am such a fan of the horror genre, I cannot turn one down.  Halloween 6 blew me away and made me proud once again to say `I love Michael Meyers!'  Of course this sequel doesn't stand a chance against the original, but if you are a fan - it is definitely worth your time. Check it Halloween 1 and 2 were connected in story line, #3 strayed completely into a whole other plot without Meyers, and 4 & 5 loosely started a new chapter where #2 left off.  Now, let me say that I am not a fan of any of the sequels...except Halloween 6. This sequel miraculously pulls all the previous 5 films' story lines together into its own plot.  Even #3 (Halloween 3 Season of the Witch) that had nothing to do with Michael Meyers whatsoever is linked to this film! Some may argue that the story line for Halloween 6 is a bit unfocused and maybe even confusing, but you try writing a worthy sequel that connects the series.  I don't want to spoil anything in #6, but if you pay close enough attention you'll see all the clues linking the 6 films together. I want to shake the man's hand who wrote this screenplay and thank him for restoring some (`some' mind you) dignity back into the Halloween series.  I of course wish that no sequels were made to Carpenter's original film.  Unfortunately, many bad ones were made.  However, #6 restores my pride.  The ending sets the stage for the final chapter.  As soon as the credits rolled up I jumped out of my seat eager for the next installment. Unfortunately, and this is so incredibly tragic, Halloween 7 H20 has nothing to do with #6.  It ignores numbers 3-6 completely and `pretends' to pick up where the second one left off...only its 20 years later.  I nearly cried with disappoint upon viewing Halloween 7.  Just as some progress was being made in the series...BOOM, #7 comes out (trying to cash in on the whole Scream series fad) and destroys Halloween 6's advancement. Bottom-line kids if you love the original and have regretfully watched the inferior sequels, give Halloween 6 a viewing and witness the miracle of incorporating cheesy sequels into a good script. "},{"Title":"better than i expected","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i bought this in the budget department last week. i had halloween and halloween II already, and since i aim to collect every horror film ever, i chose this. after all, the 1st two were good.this film is pretty intelligent to tell the truth. it seems to create the correct atmosphere, and has a nice history of michael myers. it uses the old locations from the original, and the main character is the kid whom laurie strode babysat that fateful halloween in 1978...the climax also is fairly satisfying. anyways, it is A LOT better than H20, which frankly, is absolute crap. "},{"Title":"Michael and the Druids????","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What else is new. It seems that after a sequel hit a certain number in the series, they bring up something new in a sequel that was not previously mentioned in all the others just so that they can continue the series. Well, that is certainly apparent in this sequel where they discover that Michael is cursed from the Druids. Go figure. However, I still seem to like the movie for this reason, I was getting tired of the killing off the family bloodline thing just like the previous sequels. Also, this sequels has some good scares which seem to be the best since Halloween 2. Also, it seems they finally got the right Shape to play the Shape, considering that Michael Myers is now in his 40's and shouldn't be as thin as he once was. **+ out of **** "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think.","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Believe it or not, I found Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers to be very entertaining. But it had the same feeling as part 5, not really scary but entertaining. This movie had it's good and bad qualities just like the other sequels.Good stuff1. The tenseful beginning. It had quite a sad, but gruesome, end to it.2. I thought the music was awesome. That was the films highest point. Those guitar riffs were sweet.3. The characters were very intriguing, particularly Tommy Doyle. Kara, Tim and Beth were likable characters.4. The mask was pretty cool, compared to the last one.Bad stuff1. TOO much gore! That's not really the Halloween trademark.2. Lack of screen time for Michael Myers and Dr. Loomis.3. Too many unanswered questions. One I'd like to know is when is the producer's cut going to come out?All in all, I enjoyed this movie, but it's not the original. 7/10  "},{"Title":"A good movie...","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was tight film! This movie adds quite a bit in to the Halloween series and I liked seeing Tommy Doyles older. The acting isn't THAT bad, although it could have been better. One thing I didn't like about it was using the Thorn symbol. I mean, it hasn't been mentioned once in the series yet (although we do see it one other time) and then Dr. Loomis says It's his mark. What the heck? He suddenly adds this mark into the series in the 6th movie? And then it is never mentioned in Halloween H20 either. However, the plot was pretty good and even though this isn't the best Halloween movie, it is definitely worth watching for all real Halloween fans.  "},{"Title":"In-between","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was an in-between movie.  It was neither bad nor good.  The plot was somewhat confusing, of course, maybe if I'd seen parts 4 and 5 then I would hopefully get the point.  Barry Simms was somewhat funny in this movie especially when he talks to the nympho who wants to fall in love with Michael (man, it'd be kind of like the Bride of Chucky, since both are psychos).  So, I guess this is another one of those in-between Halloween movies, I'd say a tie for third with part 2. "}{"Title":"it's not all that bad....","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  one comment stated that there was no indication in the earlier films that michael was cursed. what kind of person would start his psychotic career at age 6 besides a cursed one? (besides, they hinted towards it in 4 and 5.) i still haven't seen the elusive producer's cut (now producers are getting in to the act,eh?) but the theatrical/video release of it was not THAT bad. halloween III to me was MUCH worse! bringing back tommy doyle was a cool idea as well as jamie's tie-in. i kind of wish that they got into how she got pregnant, what she went through, and all that besides just hinting-but, of course, if they did that they wouldn't have further movie fodder to entice us with. h4 and 5 were not as polished as this one but being in the middle of the new-hollywood resurgence of horror in the 90's this was expected. i think horror films are more fun when their not as polished but this one was a good all the same. believe me i've seen much worse films than this. i rewatched it this week in context with 4 & 5 and maybe that's why it meshed really well. if i saw it by itself i probably wouldn't enjoy it as much... "},{"Title":"I thought it was really good.","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why don't people like this movie, it was one of the better sequels.  It may not have been the best halloween but it certainly was the scariest.  I liked the fact that they explained a motive for why Michael kills and his mask actually looks pretty good compared to the one in 4 and H20.  This is refering to the theatrical version.  If anyone knows where I can get the Producer's cut please contact me at JawbreakerJohn@AOl.com.  For the people who thought this movie was dumb and pointless you are obviously not a true Halloween fan "},{"Title":"Badly executed, but an interesting idea","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  *1/2  (of ****)This review is based on the theatrical version, not the Producer's Cut. I would like to see the real version one day, but for now...I thought it was a great idea to explain a motive for Michael Myers, but I was dumbfounded at the movie theater when I saw this badly muddled mess of a movie on the screen. The trouble seems to be in the execution, not the idea. The editing was appallingly awful, and the result was a senseless jumble that kept an audience from getting into the new storyline. I've tried to re-evaluate the theatrical version on home video a couple of times since its initial release, but so far I'm left unimpressed. I need to view the Producer's Cut. Based on chapters 4-6, it's great that the powers that be wound up ignoring them when they made the underrated HALLOWEEN H20.... As it stands, HALLOWEEN, HALLOWEEN II, and HALLOWEEN H20 make a perfect trilogy (just don't give us the proposed H2K....!!!!!!)  "},{"Title":"the best of the series","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  apparently this is not a movie for anyone over the age of forty or anyone who is so hung up on the fact that no sequel is better than the original even if it is but they just wont admit to it. what is wrong with this movie? It does everything a cheap low-budget horror movie should, it thrills it's viewers, it has some but not much comedy, and it has the coolest bad guy in the world(disregard the usual supects's kyser soze). so what if it wasn't nominated for best picture. so what if it doesn't have julia roberts or tom cruise in it. it is a fun movie and there is nothing wrong with that. "},{"Title":"Halloween 6 - The Producer's Cut","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The version of Halloween 6 that was released to theaters, was really not a very good movie. It wasn't terrible, but it just didn't flow right. Here is the reason why. The original, or so called, Producer's Cut of the movie. It is no small statement to say that this is an almost completely different movie. More story, less gore, so smash cut edits (complete with flashes of the knife and some metallic slashing sounds), a different fate for Jamie, a TOTALLY different ending sequence, and most importantly, more screen time for Donald Pleasence in his final film. Pleasence's character seemed to serve to purpose in the theatrical version. He seemed to be a dottering old fool that could barely stand. He is given so much more to do in this cut that he, once again, becomes an invalubable part of the story. While I'm not a fan of the Thorn cult storyline of Halloween 5 and 6, it is handled much better here. There is no strange operating scence and impending slaughter of the cultists by Michael. We see the actual ritual that intends to pass Michael's curse/power onto Jamie's baby. MAJOR SPOILER AHEAD!!!! We learn that the baby is actually Michael's, we see Tommy confront Michael with the power of rune stones instead of a lead pipe to the head. There is also a much better ending. In the original you just see Michael's mask lying on the ground and Dr. Loomis screaming off camera. Now you see not only why Loomis was screaming, but what becomes of Michael. I simply can't understand why this version was not released to theaters. It is superior in every way, and is actually, the 3rd best of the series, right behind the original and H20. Oh yeah, they actually got the mask to look really good in this one too. If you can find it (bootleg), see this version of Halloween 6 and avoid the theatrical version. Let's hope this version makes it way to VHS and DVD. Theatrical version ** out of **** Producer's version ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Jekyll and Hyde","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 6 isn't the unwatchable mess some people make it out to be, but after the original, the series has been hit 'n miss and that's being kind. Fan or not. That puts H6 in a weird place. It's not great, but it's not entirely awful either. In fact, through all the silliness and absurd turns, it perhaps had the most promise of any Halloween sequel. It delivers on little of this by the end, but the feeling remains. If this had been done right, Halloween 6 could have been the final and most respectable sequel in the franchise. Back in 1995, when it was still relatively fresh. Of course, how things should go doesn't dictate how they will.The majority agree H4 was an upswing in the series, but then came H5. Now whenever you found it entertaining or not, it was a definite misstep in the series. It was up to H6 - six years down the road - to repair all the damage done to story, character and still be an entertaining product on its own. Did it falter under it's own pressure, time lapsed from the previous installment, massive human error or fan hype left unchecked? Let's say all of the above.H6 is sporadically entertaining and effectively dark. Michael is scary. Donald Pleasence is still a treat to watch as the tireless Loomis, but it's also got a lot of things both big and small wrong with it that cannot be dismissed. Hence the disappointment on the part of many including me. I remember with nostalgia when H6 was about to come out. I remember those awesome trailers. Finally after six years we'd get to learn what the heck was going on. What happened to Michael. Jamie. Who the MiB was. What that symbol meant. They botch this delivery, but I appreciated the effort if nothing else the series was taking to flesh out Michael and keep a flow of continuity, story and mythology going. Along with Dr. Loomis, the rock of the series in my honest opinion, bringing back earlier established characters like Tommy Doyle and Dr. Wynn and expanding 'em was a nice touch on the hand of the writer. Anything else positive could be said in bullet form. Good mask. Bits of real suspense. Nice track by Brother Cane and select pieces from series music stable Alan Howarth. Paul Rudd pre-stardom doing his thing. The Myers house looks right again.What's wrong? Almost everything intermediately. It all leads back to the same point in the road. The level of interference involved. We all know the story. Bad test screenings, meddling by the director / producer / studio, the reshoots, rewrites and all the problems they brought about. Donald Pleasence's passing, amping up the gore factor, the infamous bootleg P-Cut that made the rounds, not paying Danielle Harris a measly five grand to replay her role, releasing a Halloween film in September, etc. Honestly you couldn't plan to mess up this bad and then mess up this bad. It's truly epic how in the pursuit of making a relatively cheap film on five million dollars this went the way it did. No one expects world class cinema from a horror franchise ... especially by the point you've reached the fifth sequel, but it boggles the mind how easy it is to bang up a series so badly over time, but they've done it.Where does the fault lay? Ultimately it doesn't matter. Sufficient to say the end product known as Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers is a jumble of two different movies merged into one that is by and large suffering an identity crisis. It's still fun in places, but those parts (and the film's sordid history) are worth more than the sum of its whole unfortunately. "},{"Title":"Five Discouraging words","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Joe Chappelle and Daniel FarrandsThe writer and director who should not have made a Halloween movie.  Other problems?-No John Carpenter (surprise surprise)-No Daniella Harris (she is Jamie.  Period.)-It took them six years to follow up H5 (which should never have ended the way it did.)  And even so, they should not have completely changed styles (again).  Halloween 6 (The Curse of Michael Myers) has a different feel from any other Halloween--it has more of a Friday the 13th wanna-be feel. Sorry, Friday the 13th was and always will be a cheap Halloween rip off, that's not scary.-The mask is different.  Heck, even Micheal, himself, in his jumpsuit doesn't look right.-Sorry Alan Howarth, guitars are not scary.  Not even if you're playing the Halloween theme on it.  (And theme, which doesn't appear enough in this film.)-Why must authors of a sequel twist and warp all ideas from original movies to make a sequel?  This was like a documentary featuring Micheal giving examples on how he kills.  It talks about the curse of thorn, and twists it to the point of confusion.  If a severly screwed up mental patient comes after you, trying to strangle you, do you care what his reasons are?-They use gore to scare, and not the original Halloween's patented freaky camera shots of Myers.-And most importantly ... no John Carpenter.I went into this film with no preconeived prejudice, and came out severly disappointed.  A lesson a writer has to learn is to separate themselves from their writing, take a few steps back and ask yourself, Am I getting too wrapped up in this?  Makers of Halloween 6, you got way too wrapped up in this sequel and neglected the important elements of the film.  Stick with John Carpenters formula and poliicy, drop Halloween already... "},{"Title":"Not everyones taste. You may...","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...dislike this movie and everyone would understand why. The plot is poor, so is the acting. But in my opinion it is better than Halloween 5, although even this does not give many surprising moments. A few scenes are really well directed. But these few moments do not deliver the reason to rent it. I do not despise violence in movies, but H6 features extraordinary strong and bloody scenes which do not fit to the tradition of the Halloween-Movies. The most sucking aspect about H6 is the lack of tension. No comparison to the first masterpiece.Halloween 6 only gets 4 out of 10 stars from me. If you want, rent it. But don't expect a great horror-experience.... "},{"Title":"Released Version vs. Producer's Cut","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The released version isn't nearly as good as the producer's cut.  The Producer's cut explains more about the origins of Michael and about the curse of thorn.  It has that something that the other movies lacked, a background story.  If you are lucky enough to get your hands on the producer's cut, get it.  It is well worth it and much better than the version that was released "},{"Title":"You either love it or hate it. I love it.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Many people find this the least part of the series, on the other hand it's my personal favourite. It's a dark movie, showing a cruel and brutal Michael Myers, who, unlike in the previous episode, never shows any mercy or humanity. It deals with Thorn, the curse Michael has been saddled with since he was a little boy, causing an unbearable rage inside of him, that won't go away until he has killed all his still remaining relatives. Yes, Halloween 6 is a very gory movie with lots of bloody and highly inventive killings, but isn't that what good slasher movies are all about? Well, that and of course suspense, which it doesn't lack either. See for yourself. Love it or loathe it. Oh, and my advice When it's a dark Halloween night, the lights are off and your washing machine starts acting weird, leave it and run. "}{"Title":"The Better of the Halloween Sequels","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers, is in my opinion, the better of the Halloween sequels. I think a lot of you would like this installment if it were released as intended. The film was so drastically edited that it's Producer's Cut is nearly a completely different film. A better one at that. It is a bit scarier. I cannot understand how some of you don't like this one. It's really a good movie. I think a big problem was the director. I guess he wanted to leave a mark on the series. But instead kinda messed the movie up, Some. As for those of you that don't like the newer Halloween sequels, dont' go see them! It is a known fact sequels will not be as good as the original. I don't understand why there are some of you who go in the theatre thinking these sequels will be the greatest and come out complaining. It's kind of a drag. But you are entitled to those opinions. But there are some Halloween fans who still try to enjoy the sequels without complaining much. Anyways Halloween 6 is a really good movie but if you are one of those people who just expect it to be just as good as the original you will be dissatisfied. "},{"Title":"disappointing *small spoilers*","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I say disappointing because this movie could have been so much more.  The whole idea of Myers being controlled by a cult takes away from the atmosphere of the series. Watch this one and then try to watch the first one right after.  Can't do it can you? What made Halloween such a scary movie was the idea that this guy wants his family dead for no other reason than the fact the he is insane. That's why pt 1 through 4 work(3 not included). But  then here is part 6 and Micheal is being controlled by a cult and well i guess i am just a little let down by this one. The other beef with this movie I have is with the man in black. This concept had so much potential. Tell me, how many of you forgot  Dr. Wynn was even in Pt.1 by the time this one rolled around? Me too. I just hope that H2K redeems the series. "},{"Title":"It's Getting Old","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After a six year hiatus, Michael is back, and now he's got help from the cult Thorn. After the suspensful ending of Halloween 5, I expected this movie would follow that up well. It didn't. It started out confusing, I mean REALLY confusing. I didn't get the plot until my brother told me. The main problem with this movie is that it's old. It gets boring to see Michael kill. This is the fourth sequel people, haven't you had enough? Dr.Loomis was nothing but a old man who yells alot, and the characters were just boring(except for Barry Simms), and the confusing plot made them more boring. And the ending was very cheap.               1 1/2/4. "},{"Title":"Oh its a curse all right","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It took the makers of the Halloween movies almost 6 years for a sequel to part 5. I waited and waited and got so excited when I saw the previews for it. And after I saw it, I was so disappointed. What a load of crap this is. Since when is Michael Myers under a spell from druids? I think that Michael Myers is clearly the centuries all time horror icon. But this movie just turns him into a Jason. Sadly Donald Pleasence died shorty after this movie was made. So for him having the guts not to say no to a Halloween movie I have to give this movie a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Better than H5","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Although this is the 6th Halloween film ,this is the 5th installment of the Michael Myers story and normally in a horror film series this is usually the point were it becomes 'the same old crap'(The elm street series for example).However I don't beleive it to be the case with this film which i really like alot. This film gets criticised by other fellow Halloween fans mainly for introducing the Thorn legend to the story. To be honest I'm glad they did. Being the 5th Myers film they really needed to inject some new blood into the story to prevent it from becoming incredibly stale and basically exactly the same as the others. Although Halloween being my favourite horror film and vastly superior to elm street & friday the 13th, Michael Myres is quite a bland character compared to the likes of Freddy Kruger, Leatherface and even Jason. The introduction of Thorn and its curse adds more depth to both the story and the Myers character.I was quite surprised actually that in H7 the whole cult and curse thing was dropped completely. I thought the story really could have advanced quite well into the sequels but it seems the makers of h20 deceided to pretend that this film never happened (storywise that is).H6 isn't as blasphemous to the series as many fans will make it out to be and is probably my 3rd favourite after H1 and H4. It has brillant performances from Donald Pleasence (as always) in his last ever film and the soundtrack is as good as ever featuring a couple of songs from 'Brother Cane'.  "},{"Title":"Ok","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie kind of answered some questions that 5 never didWe got to see who the man in black wasThey brought back a character from the first Halloweee. Different Acter.Anyways the story was ok. The ending was kind of weird. What happend to the man in blackWell I say see this one.  "},{"Title":"Halloween 6 is ... different (!SMALL SPOILERS!)","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am not quite sure what to say/think about this movie. It is definitely not the worst in the series (there's still Halloween 3). The style is just very different and it focuses on other elements than its predecessor did. It tries to explain why Michael Myers freaks out on Halloween and starts butchering around. Well, all that stuff about Michael Myers being cursed and the evil cult was a rather nice effort, but I didn't buy it. None of the other installments in the series tried to come up with any fancy explanations.The movie contains lots of gore. Actually it's plain carnage. If you haven't seen the other Halloween films you will probably like this one for its blood content. But for a real Halloween freak this sequel might be just too different to be seen as a good one. Suspense was turned into terror and carnage (exploding heads..., you get the point).The ending (theatrical cut) is simply awful. Michael gets stabbed with a needle, then beaten up with a pipe, then stabbed again, this time with more needles, then beaten up a little more until there's slime running out of his head (where did this green stuff come from anyway?). Basically it's nothing more than trash worth 5 million $.There was one good thing though Michael's mask!Dedicated to Donald Pleasance, quite a disgrace. My rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"The best slasher film ever!!!!","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (This review is based on the producers cut)After what I thought was the 2nd best of the series, came this extremely terrific sequel.Don't listen to the people who give this a bad review, but do listen to the people who give H20 a bad review.The thorn thing is very cool, and the action is non-stop.Unfourtunately H20 may have destroyed any chances of a continuation of H6's storyline, because of it's teen bobber, pop culture ways, but H2K might fix it.Exciting, suspenseful, great story, acting, and music score.***** out *****. "},{"Title":"Halloween 6-The movie that could have been....","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a terrible film. It makes little sense and was incompetently directed by Joe Chappelle. The main problem with it is the director. See, the ORIGINAL cut of the movie was far superior to this version. It's amazing that in the original version, dubbed the Producer's Cut, we actually get a suspensful, well written Halloween film that (in my opinion), ranks up there with Halloween 2 and 4. See, in the Producer's Cut, there is more characterization. Jamie is actually in the movie a lot more, and she does not die by being impaled on some farm equipment. Even more amazing is the fact that Dr. Loomis actually serves a purpose in the Producer's Cut. He has tons more scenes, along with Dr. Wynn. In fact, it actually doesn't feel like a cheat in the Producer's cut when the man in black is finally revealed. And although the ending is arguably less climatic, it is ultimately a million times better than the theatrical cut ending, which has hands down the WORST replacement for Michael ever(A. Michael Lerner, who actually RUNS while chasing the doctor at the end!). It is truly amazing to compare the two films. Director Joe Chappelle actually took almost every strong, clever, and suspensful scene and completely edited it from the film or cut it down. Although the Producer's Cut is a great film, it still is not what it could have and should have been. Because of Joe(and Dimension Films), Danielle Harris was replaced as Jamie because they did not want to pay her the mere 5,000 dollars she was asking for! Also, the Producer's cut still suffers from some tampering by Joe, who actually put in the We were drugged scene, and scaled down the original ending. It is still superior in every way to the theatrical cut, and with Anchor Bay now owning the rights, hopefully fans will be able to see this version on DVD, with  great picture quality over the poor bootleg copies that I own.  "},{"Title":"what the hell did they do to the series","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween the curse of Michael Myers is just stupid! they go more for shock then scares, the director tried to do what John Carpenter did with the shots he used, but this guy sucked. and what's the deal with the curse of thorn? this tells us why he kills, i thought the reason he killed his family was cause he was psycho. the plot was very hard to follow. The whole curse of thorn killed then series, Michael Myers was scary cause he was just plain evil and the curse of thorn killed that. it's a shame that this was Donald Pleasence last film since he died shortly after filming. if you're a Halloween freak like me you will hate this movie, but if you have seen all the other Halloween movies then check it for that reason alone, this movie could have been decent but once again the curse of thorn ruined that i give this movie 4/10 "}{"Title":"Suspense and gore galore, but -undeveloped- plot.","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Most of this film was okay, for a sequel of a sequel of a sequel...I was impressed by the amount of suspense there was; I HAD actually expecting that to be chucked out the window in favor of gore, gore, gore. It wasn't, but there's some pretty ridiculous deaths.The thing that I disliked, however, was all of the plot complications. Those could have been okay, if the scriptwriters had taken the time to explain all of them through.  But what was the purpose of the secret society in the mental institution, specifically?  Why were they protected from Michael's damage until a certain point? What exactly were they going to do with the baby?  How did Jaime Lloyd get pregnant, for that matter?  Why lock her up for 20 years for her to get pregnant, too?  Why did Michael kill all his co-conspirators in the end? Why were there fetuses in the lab?  The actors seemed to have figured it all out once they saw the fetuses.. But it was never explained to the audience.If you're just going to watch this film to see people get snuffed, then this'll be okay for you.. However, if you can't stand a plot being thrown at you which remains unresolved by the time the credits roll, you should go watch something else.  "},{"Title":"must see Producers cut for it to make sense!!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just bought the uncut version from a video company and after watching it, it made more sense. Although a couple of things still were not explained fully, the flick has tons more footage.......(about 15 min. worth) and a totally different ending. The first Halloween is still the best but I will put 3 and 4 below this one. Again, you must see the uncut version to see that it's better than what people who haven't seen it is!! "},{"Title":"Ridiculous but enjoyable","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This one was a little ridiculous but it was enjoyable, it had the motivation like the second one and Michael Myers appeared to move a little faster in this one.  The thing that really screwed this one up was the thorn cult, if that had never been in the movie, the movie would have been alot better. "},{"Title":".....","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't see Halloween 5 so this was a bit weird for me. It was ok but I have missed a huge part of the story. At least Michael is still here. Loomis is still in it and boy has he aged. The return of an original.... Tommy Doyle, the little boy that Laurie Strode was looking after in Halloween is in this one and he is intent on finding Michael Myers.  There is also a Producers cut, but i haven't seen it so I can't comment on that ........   A good movie lame ending though. A 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The never-ending series just got worse.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is easily the worst of the series. The plot's confusing, throwing in elements that simply don't fit. It has a profit-driven feel to it, which the best Halloweens (1,2 and 4) didn't have. Those films felt like they were being made because someone wanted to make a film that entertained, not because Mr Akkad wanted to make a bit of quick cash. The deaths are too gory, even unrealistic (like when a poor bloke gets electrocuted and his head explodes. Would that really happen?). The acting's so-so and the script is childish. Having said that, the direction is OK, and I hear the Producer's Cut is much better. "},{"Title":"Again, a HALLOWEEN sequel that is so-so.","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's cool in H6 that the curse stuff was brought in. Some people say it's stupid, but it gave Michael Myers a motive to kill anyone in his family or who got in the way of doing so. It also gave a reason for his immortality. It was cool that Paul Rudd was Tommy Doyle and that Jamie (from H4 and H5) had a baby and that she protected it from her uncle. This again was an OK sequel to HALLOWEEN, but it's only a 6/10, but still it's part of a legacy so see it.  "},{"Title":"Great entry!","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Many people that love the first Halloween, hate the others. But I think they are very jaded. Too many people don't let their  minds free to see these other Halloween movies. This is a cocksure scary film. The sound is loud as hell (this helps a horror film, and it is a great element for scares) and Michael Myers defines aggressiveness in this chapter. The heavy metal Halloween-theme is cool.   "},{"Title":"The best one in the whole series!","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I think this movie is the best! And im really mad at the people who disagree because i mean think about it The acting is great, And it explains a lot about Michael Myers. It is a lot better than Halloween H2O OK? So watch this one NOW! 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Halloween series shoots itself in the foot, yet again.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Terror never rests in peace, unfortunately in the case of this series, it is true. Michael Myers attempts to make up for lost time by slaughtering a fresh bunch of teens, while tracking down the baby of his young niece, whom he has already murdered. Worse yet, they attempt to inject a storyline here. Apparently, Michael Myers has his roots with the druids, contradicting the groundwork laid out by the first two movies. This series has gone straight downhill since part 3, and it has never regained itself. It has become a Friday the 13th knockoff, with one noteable exception, the first one was good. Written by a man who is reputed to be a Halloween fanatic, but his overly ambitious attempts to give this movie a story backfire. Part 5 may have seriously damaged the series, but this, the sixth installment, finally killed it.  "},{"Title":"This one really REALLY sucks!!!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Avoid this one! It is a terrible movie. So what if it is very exciting? All it is is just pointless murders. And the whole thing with Thorn and Michael's curse, that was the absolute worst thing they could possibly do to the series! Why couldn't they leave Michael's story a mystery? He's supposed to be the Boogeyman, not part of some stupid cult!! Ugh! Thank God for Halloween H20, which wiped out Halloween 3-6! They all sucked! But anyway, if you see this movie, please expect no more than pointless murders and gore. "}{"Title":"TERROR NEVER RESTS IN PIECE! Except in this movie. YUCK!","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, Michael Myers is no longer scary or as evil as before. The stupid curse of the Thorn thing is as dumb as mystic character origins get. The only upsides of this movie were 1) The death of Jamie Lloyd, and 2) The end. Don't watch this unless it is absolutely necessary. "},{"Title":"The Absolute WORST sequel to Halloween ***Read***","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What have they done with Michael Myers?!?  First of all, NOTHING will ever come close to Halloween I & II.  John Carpenter made Michael Myers who he is, and everyone else ruined his reputation as being the scary shape that he once was.  This movie really disgusts me in all ways.  All of the cult/thorn/black-suited men/symbols/babies/nieces is all stupid.  Is that what makes Michael Myers scary???  The ONLY thing that made me finish the movie was the Halloween Theme.  Horrible acting and horrible plot earns this movie a nice 1/10.  I hate to disappoint those who like this movie, but obviously you have not watched the original Halloween and have been fooled into believing that Michael Myers is some cult devil worshiper who really has enough intelligence to think about what he's doing.  He's mental!  He's scary!  He's a psycho! He's a killer!  He's Michael Myers damn it!  I have to admit that H20 revives Myers from the pansy the sequels made him into.  "},{"Title":"Confusing. Very, very, confusing...","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 6 stinks. Plain and simple. Many things about this movie stink and its storyline strays so far away from the simple one the original had that it ruins the reputation of that classic. It picks up 6 years after Halloween 5 ended. Jamie Lloyd was kidnapped by the Man in Black who broke Michael Myers out of jail and gunned down all of the Haddonfield police officers. She has a baby and escapes but Myers trackers her down because the baby is part of some ceremonial ritual for the Thorn Cult, which Myers is a part of. He also sets his sights on a family, relatives of Laurie Strode (Jamie Lee Curtis' character in 1 & 2) who is now living in his old house.This BAD film is marked by gratuitious killings, a head explosion, bad acting, a little old lady with a butcher knife, a nice impalement on a spike, DNA experiment stuff, green goop in needles, and the list goes on. Sadly, this is Donald Pleasence's last film before he passed on and it's sad to know that this horrible film was dedicated to him.   "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  There were a lot of questions to this film.What was Dr Loomis screaming about at the end.What happened to the man in blackAnd they also messed up on Jamie Loyd's age.However the killings weren't bad. The story was ok.Nothing compares to the first Halloween. "},{"Title":"The Best Sequel since part 2","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 6 is a masterpiece of horror. It finally explains the method of Michael's madness. Þurisaz, or Thorn, was used exactly as depicted in the movie. Paul Rudd did an excellent job of the role of Tommy Doyle. A lot of people don't believe in runes, but the ones that do know that this film is entirely realistic. That's why he was going after his own kid; His kid was the last of the bloodline (now it's Laurie and her son Josh) This film was very well done. The original ending is a lot better than the one that was used. It is in the producer's cut of H6. If only part 8 can show EXACTLY what happened at the end of 6... "},{"Title":"A sweet, candid look at teenage violence in the '90s","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie should be watched by all teenagers. . . for kids who are troubled and need help.  This was a great movie, Hing-Shang Chung was remarkable as the character Billy.  Take my advice and go rent it today!  "},{"Title":"Not that Bad","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 6 is not that bad a film (though it is not exactly good either). So Michael looks like he's been at the burgers (and it was so surprising how the weight just fell of him in the last 15 minutes of the film, perhaps he had an operation while at the hospital) and that mad Doctor still shows up in Haddonfield Spouting on about pure evil every five minutes and the actress who plays Jamie looks about 90 when Jamie should be in her mid teens but the film itself is no worse than parts 4&5.The big fault with the movie was the Tommy Doyle character - he was so annoying he was begging to be slaughtered but alas not. The main problem with the series as a whole has been the Dr Loomis character - each sequel they tease us with the fact that Michael might have finished the old git but he keeps coming back - by this point he is more deranged than the killer he's after.The best part about the film is the character of Kara Strode. Her's is about the only character that is at all of interest. The plot while stupid is probably the best they could have come up with given the mess the awful part 5 left behind. The gore while a bit excessive adds some interest and the film itself is more exciting than parts 4&5. The plot may seem confusing if you've not seen part 5 but it does not matter that much as this and the other sequels after part 2 were ignored with the best film in the enitre series Halloween H20   "},{"Title":"John Carpenter would NOT be pleased...","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Normally I wouldn't go to the trouble of commenting on a horror movie sequel, because it's usually assumed that they're BAD, and if you watch them with a healthy disrespect, they can be very fun and enjoyable to taunt/laugh at. However, this chapter of the ongoing Halloween saga came close to gumbing up everything the original stood for. In the very first movie, Dr. Loomis said (very pointedly I might add), that Michael Myers was evil, and this tries to explain why (doing a bad job of it I might add). In my opinion, he was much scarier when he was just a blood hungry freak. The whole goth/cult thing was unnecessary and a desperate attempt to throw a new curve into the Halloween equation. The result was a boring, predictable movie that was not scary and not bad enough to be funny.  "},{"Title":"The Curse has been there...watch Halloween and Halloween 5 once again to see what The Hawk's sayin'...","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Confusing...if you've never paid as much attention to the series that you should have before bashing this movie. Surely not the best, but it does do one thing...it shows how close the 4th and 5th ones are to part 6.(If you notice in H20 that this part of the series and parts 4 and 5's events are not acknowledged in H20. So it pretty much makes you think that H20 is the third Halloween rather then the 7th. A big mistake IMHO.)  As you see in the 4th Halloween as Michael is hit by the truck and his niece Jamie touches his hand a telepathic link is formed and at the end of the movie you see that Jamie replicates what Michael did 25 years earlier and that was the fact that she was taken over by the curse as well. Now going into the fifth installment you see a mark on Michael's right wrist that shows the thorn on his hand, it shows the curse has taken over Michael from the very first installment. You see that Dr. Wynn is in the first one in the scene where after Michael escapes from the institution and takes the station wagon. You could easily assume that Wynn set that up for Michael to start his reign of terror after viewing parts 4, 5 and 6 in their entirety. A case in point at the end of Halloween 5 you see the man in black come to Michael's aid and in part 6 you see that the man in black was all along Dr. Wynn. In all it was very interesting to see that Dr. Wynn was a vital part of this series all along. So before you can just say this movie sucks just read between the lines.  "},{"Title":"My wonderful viewing experience(spoilers).","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Myers sits around in a looney bin for six years and eats hot dogs until he becomes the Goodyear blimp so the evil demon cult can let him out of his cage and send him off to kill his niece who has somehow gotten herself pregnant and has givin birth just in time for Halloween.  She escapes with the help of a cult  member who has just decided to turn nice for some reason and pays the price for it.  Meanwhile, some bad actors who just so happen to be relatives of Laurie Strode have moved into the Myers house and didn't like how it looked in Halloween 5 so they had it changed for the third time in the series.  Michael is after Steven(the baby) now, which means he has to hunt down and kill everyone BUT baby Steven.  While Mike is killing Gradma, the cult leader gets tired of Michael screwing around and decides to do something himself for once and kidnaps Steven.  Dr. Loomis finally gets something to do in this movie as he drives Tommy to the asylum in the Loomis mobile where Mike kills a bunch of cult members for no reason and chases Tommy and Kara around through corridoors.  Tommy ends up beating Michael up with a lead pipe until green goo oozes out of his head.  Later outside, Loomis says he has something to do.  He goes into the building and screams. THE END .............I don't get it. "}{"Title":"The worst Halloween movie ever...","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  By far this is the worst Halloween movie ever made. The acting is bad, except for Paul Rudd, and Donald Pleasence. The girl who played Kara (forgot her name) was ok, but overall this movie was basically a big letdown. Nothing moved the story forward, it lacked substance, and the scares that made Halloween and H20 so good. All and all, skip this movie, it's not worth the price of rental.  "},{"Title":"Michael Myers is back with a hunchback!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Oh my god! this is without a doubt the worst Halloween movie ever! The whole idea is just pathetic,trying to make us believe that Michael Myers killed all these years because it was written in the stars,how silly.I was hardly ever scared during this movie,I didn't really care for any of the characters and in this one Michael Myers looks like an overweight old man with a hunchback!Truly awful.Avoid! "},{"Title":"Ignorance is not a virtue","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe the amount of hate messages in response to this sequel. The fact is that the plot to this film, HAS ALWAYS been there. Obviously you people have been to ignorant to see it. Did any of you notice that Dr Wynn was in the original Halloween? That the name Wynn is derived from a celtic rune that survived the christian influence on the early alphabet? and that the other rune which survived was the Thorn? Wynn actually happens to look like a 'P' and Thorn is exactly the same with an extra line added to the top. Another thing you 'experts' should be awakened to, is that the lesson of Thorn is to learn that you must suffer, in a literal sense and a biblical sense. One of the negative aspects of Thorn is demonic influence, and one of the positive aspects is self-meditation. Notice how Michael is always in control of himself? Also a side effect of being cursed is an increase in size, weight, and a near 50% gain in strength. Is this all falling together now?  It's an obvious fact that part 6 was not as good as the others, although I did like the sound effects, but its storyline has always been present. I hope this enlightens your sense of awareness in future! =) "},{"Title":"Mike's back with a hunchback-Truly awful!!","Date":"24 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far the worst of the Halloween movies, the whole idea of Halloween 6 is stupid and not at all scary It's trying to tell us that Michael was meant to kill because it was written in the stars-utter rubbish. Also in this installment Michael looks like an overweight old man with a hunchback.Avoid,avoid, avoid! "},{"Title":"Hmmmm, I'm confused...","Date":"19 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, just what the HELL is all this supposed to mean???  Halloween 6 (let's just call it that, OK?) is, without a doubt, the most CONFUSING film in the series (and from what I've heard, seeing the original producers cut doesn't sound like it makes things any less bewildering than the official release).  What a mess.This isn't a really bad film, as some have said.  It has its scary scenes and some rather intense moments - it just DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENSE!  Don't tell me that Michael was engineered from the beginning to be evil and kill and destroy, and blah blah blah.  It was bad enough when they turned Michael into Jamie Lee Curtis' brother (just so they had an excuse to keep her in the second film) - this is too much.It would seem this is another case of the creators of the film trying to be too smart by coming up with a new premise that will shock and impress us all.  Bad move, guys.  We're not looking for an explanation of why Michael kills, so please don't try and feed us this crap.  Show me Michael looking menacing and killing a bunch of people.  Show me Dr. Loomis trying to track him down and, as always, coming up just short.  Don't waste (what turned out to be) the last performance of Donald Pleasance by telling me (in the most confusing way possible) that Michael was created by some cult from hell and that his seed will be passed on to another and...  oh, brother.Halloween 6 has its moments, don't get me wrong, and we all know there have been FAR worse sequels than this (Hellraiser, anyone?) so get what you can out of it (the scene toward the end of the film with Michael charging down a deep red corridor is particularly effective) and try to ignore the screwball plot.  Hopefully one day we can all see the producer's cut and maybe get the chance to make (a bit) more sense out of all of this.  Till then, this will have to do...-FTM "},{"Title":"the worst halloween yet","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Halloween series has reached rock bottom with this edition. The writer must have said Let me make the most idiotic movie as possible. The part where this is a suggestion that Michael Myers' violence relates back to an old Pagan curse is probably the low point. It seems like so long ago that Michael was stalking Laurie Strode and her friends in the original, because this is such garbage and that was a classic. If you were to compare this to a also horrible Friday the 13th, Friday the 13th would win an Oscar. That's how bad Halloween 6 is. "},{"Title":"THIS is why sequels shouldn't be made!","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If there was a contest for worst movie sequel of 1995, this one would be in the top three. What were they thinking? Up until now, the Halloween series has been primarily non-supernatural. But in this one, we've got everything from Satanic rituals to possible incest. But let's be fair and discuss the other aspects of the movie.Plot? There is none. Cast? Some are better than others. Paul Rudd does a good job, but I don't think he'll be putting this turkey on his resume. Connections to earlier and later movies in the series? None. This movie has absolutely no point at all, except to invent characters that shouldn't exist, and to make all viewers hate the entire series (like Halloween 3 wasn't bad enough).Would I recommend this movie? No. This movie should be buried in the deepest, darkest hole you can find, and never resurrected. Unfortunately, like Jason, Freddy, and Michael Myers, this movie will never truly be put to rest. "},{"Title":"Oh, no, not again","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Myers, the deranged, not-so-young-anymore psycho, who seems to get beefier with every appearance, is resurrected by his druid brothers to wreck more menace upon his family members, and any one else who gets in the way.  Gaps in logic seem to be ignored in favor of a healthy body count.  Michael, who originally preferred strangulations and kitchen knives, learns to swing an axe and use whatever means necessary to off his victims, and the result is an awful, patchwork, dollar store film virtually unhelped by a few genuinely creepy sequences.  Donald Pleasance, who died shortly after production, seems to have been injected into this story simply so *somebody* could be billed as the star.  You won't want to cover your eyes during this one, but you will shake your head at the downward slide of John Carpenter's classic creation. "},{"Title":"You need to judge this movie for yourself! Halloween 6 The Curse of Michael Myers is so freaking amazing and I loved this movie to death. But not one of my favorites though.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS (also known as HALLOWEEN 6, for those who keep count) is a 1995 American horror film and the sixth picture in the HALLOWEEN franchise.The film is directed by Joe Chappelle from a screenplay written by Daniel Farrands and the cast includes Paul Rudd (in his first film) as Tommy Doyle, a returning character from the original 1978 film, J.C. Bundy, Marianne Hagen, Mitchell Ryan, George P. Wilbur once again as the title character and Donald Pleasence in his final film appearance as Dr. Sam Loomis.The plot involves The Curse of Thorn, a mystical symbol first shown in HALOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS and revealed in the film to be the source of Michael Myers' immortality and Jamie Lloyd's appearance in the beginning of this film tied up loose ends to the previous film.The story is amazing and it is the best written story from a scriptwriter, and it shows throughout this film.This installment is known for it's controversial behind-the-scenes history, with the production phase of the film suffering from re-shoots in production and numerous cuts and arrangements made in the editing room; the workprint of this film with 43 minutes of alternate footage including a different ending, was eventually discovered by the fans of this series.This version, titled The Producer's Cut (as it was originally intnended version of the film) developed a strong cult following with bootleg DVD copies sold on eBay and online petitions targeting for an official release for the producer's cut version.Some of the film's violent sequences were also edited out for fear of an NC-17 rating. This included several extra seconds of Jamie being impaled on the drills, with more pouring from her mouth and extra closeups of the drills going through her body and some of the violence is restored in the Director's Cut.The music by Alan Howarth, OH MY GOD, IS JUST SO FREAKING SCARY and incredible and makes up for the poor music of the fifth film and the Halloween theme is amazing this time around.The acting is much better this time around with Donald Pleasence giving a good and final performance as Dr. Loomis, while Paul Rudd gives an amazing performance as Tommy Doyle and the rest of the cast is also amazing, at least in my opinion, this goes to Marianne Hagen and George P. Wilbur as Michael Myers. So, overall, HALLOWEEN 6 is not a perfect film, but it is a hell of a lot better than the crapfest that was HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS, I will not say HALLOWEEN 5 was crap because I liked it.Don't listen to all of the negative reviews because the movie critics don't know what they're talking about, you need to judge this for yourself. It is so good, watch it, you will not regret it. There are some dumb parts, but I still loved this movie.10/10. "},{"Title":"Good and fantastic","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS (also known as HALLOWEEN 6, for those who keep count) is a 1995 American horror film and the sixth picture in the HALLOWEEN franchise.The film is directed by Joe Chappelle from a screenplay written by Daniel Farrands and the cast includes Paul Rudd (in his first film) as Tommy Doyle, a returning character from the original 1978 film, J.C. Bundy, Marianne Hagen, Mitchell Ryan, George P. Wilbur once again as the title character and Donald Pleasence in his final film appearance as Dr. Sam Loomis.The plot involves The Curse of Thorn, a mystical symbol first shown in HALOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS and revealed in the film to be the source of Michael Myers' immortality and Jamie Lloyd's appearance in the beginning of this film tied up loose ends to the previous film.The story is amazing and it is the best written story from a scriptwriter, and it shows throughout this film.This installment is known for it's controversial behind-the-scenes history, with the production phase of the film suffering from re-shoots in production and numerous cuts and arrangements made in the editing room; the workprint of this film with 43 minutes of alternate footage including a different ending, was eventually discovered by the fans of this series.This version, titled The Producer's Cut (as it was originally intnended version of the film) developed a strong cult following with bootleg DVD copies sold on eBay and online petitions targeting for an official release for the producer's cut version.Some of the film's violent sequences were also edited out for fear of an NC-17 rating. This included several extra seconds of Jamie being impaled on the drills, with more pouring from her mouth and extra closeups of the drills going through her body and some of the violence is restored in the Director's Cut.The music by Alan Howarth, OH MY GOD, IS JUST SO FREAKING SCARY and incredible and makes up for the poor music of the fifth film and the Halloween theme is amazing this time around.The acting is much better this time around with Donald Pleasence giving a good and final performance as Dr. Loomis, while Paul Rudd gives an amazing performance as Tommy Doyle and the rest of the cast is also amazing, at least in my opinion, this goes to Marianne Hagen and George P. Wilbur as Michael Myers. So, overall, HALLOWEEN 6 is not a perfect film, but it is a hell of a lot better than the crapfest that was HALLOWEEN 4 THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS, I will not say HALLOWEEN 5 was crap because I liked it.8/10. "}{"Title":"Probably one of the worst Halloween films...but still worth seeing","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Here's why.Through 4 movies leading up to Curse of Michael Myers, we see him get stabbed, shot, run over, set on fire, blown up, etc. He always comes back stronger than ever though! This film explains that Michael was given special powers by the Cult of Thorn on Halloween night when he was a boy (the opening scene in the original Halloween). Aside from that, it's just another chance to see Michael Myers in action. Pretty weak reasons, I know, but if you love the Halloween franchise, you can't not see this movie...if for anything for the last appearance of Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance).This film could have been better if it worked on the plot a little better, however. Of course Halloween, like Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street was just about squeezing out the dollars...much like the modern Saw films or Paranormal Activity; the idea is to do as many sequels as possible before the franchise completely dries up.Still, this film at least has some connection to the original film unlike Halloween Resurrection or Halloween III. Not that I don't like Halloween III... "},{"Title":"It's a shame that this doesn't have the original's charm","Date":"20 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After watching the 5 Halloween films, I heard that there was another film in the franchise and watched it to see if it would satisfy me. Then, I became a bit disappointed, but I don't think this film is as bad as the critics suggested that it was. It's flaws in it's own ways, but it does have some redeeming aspects that save this from getting a lower rating.While some of the actors fell flat, it's great to see Donald Pleasance again as Dr. Loomis (it's sad that he died since this was his last film role) and the new actors including Paul Rudd did fine with their roles. Michael Myers is spooky and scary once again and his make-up never fails to amuse me. The death scenes are both gory and very satisfying especially the part where Jamie Lloyd from Halloweens 4 & 5 died which gave me some chills here and there. The scenery is breathtaking and the directing is above-average. The music is pretty good captures the same suspenseful tone of the previous films very well along with some haunting moments.Now for the flaws. The story is pretty predictable. I liked the concept about the Thorn which was the reason why Michael Myers killed his sister in the original and is well explained, but it suffers from too many plot holes like one scene for example, how the heck did Michael move from one place to another so fast? The script is pretty messy with an abrupt ending that leaves sometime to be desired and the dialog is unbelievably terrible with some unfunny moments. The main protagonists are interesting enough, but most of the characters are flat and are only used at victims to Michael Myers. Even the pacing is a bit sluggish.Overall, Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers would've been a much better sequel, but it's not as bad as some say it is. Recommended to those who haven't seen it, but for others, I'd stick to the previous films. "},{"Title":"Ok, But Could've Been Better!","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Donald Pleasence, Paul Rudd, Marianne Hagan and Mitch Ryan star in this 1995 horror sequel. After 6 years, Dr. Loomis tries to stop Michael Myers from making his final sacrifice. This sequel takes place 6 years later and Jamie Lloyd (J.C. Brandy) has given birth to a baby while being held prisoner by a Thorn cult led by the mysterious Man in Black who protects Michael Myers (George Wilbur). She escapes and heads to Haddonfield where she hides her baby and is soon killed by Michael. Tommy Doyle (Rudd) whose character is from the original film, finds her baby, seeks help from retired doctor, Sam Loomis (Pleasence) and tries to protect the Strode family who have just moved into Michael's old house. Hagan plays Kara Strode and Devin Gardner plays her young son, Danny who become stalked by Michael. Loomis and Tommy not only discover that Jamie's baby is Michael's, but his curse of Thorn and the Man in Black's identity are also revealed. Ryan plays Dr. Terence Wynn, whose character is also from the original. This sequel is OK, but I think it could've been better and recommend the producer's cut because it explains more, shows more of Pleasence, has a better score and better finale. It's the version we should've officially got, but I still recommend this for your Halloween collection. "},{"Title":"Lacks that something special","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The plot = A few years after the events of Part 5, we now see an older Jamie Lloyd whose now being held prisoner in an asylum and has just given birth to a newborn baby, so she manages to escape with the baby in tow, but Michael is soon on her trail, she manages to hide the baby in a nearby bus station, before she gets killed. Luckily the baby gets found by Tommy Doyle.This was the first Halloween movie of the 90's and by this point you can already see the quality has gone downhill, after the poor reception part 5 was met with, It seems that the film crew were running out of ideas and so they decided to add a pagen/cult roots to this film with mixed results. This entry is also infamous as it had so many re-shoots and cut out scenes that there are so many different versions of this movie out there. Which is probably why this movie doesn't really flow that well throughout. But underneath it all it's still a pretty decent slasher movie along with some decent characters and some good kills.However though this being the sixth entry in the series does complicate things by attempting to give Michael an origin and by introducing the Thorn Cult. As I've said in other reviews, I prefer for Michael to be a mysterious character, as he works better as an enigmatic boogeyman; however, I will give this film credit for at least trying something different in this respect. But way too much is thrown in towards the end and leaves me wondering what exactly is the point of all this.The cast are at least on fine form, we still get Donald Pleasance playing Dr Loomis one last time and, even better, Dr. Loomis actually acts like himself again. Instead of being a completely deranged old man who terrifies children (as was the case in the previous film), he's back to being a compassionate and likable character again. Paul Rudd played Tommy Doyle really well and really likable, while Kara Strode and her son are characters that you care about. My only complaint is that I'm still undecided about JC Brandy playing Jamie instead of Danielle Harris, she just doesn't feel to me like she's playing Jamie it feels as if she's playing someone else completely.All in all Halloween 6 is a bit of a hit and miss for me, it does shine in some moments but completely falls apart in others, not the worst entry but lacks that something special that the early Halloween movies had. "},{"Title":"What a Mess...","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Good grief. Where do I begin? Halloween 5 was bad enough, but wow, go-round #6 for ol' Mikey Myers holds the title as the worst Halloween sequel in my book. This flick is so all-over-the-place that it's near impossible to describe its story in a capsule review, but I'll try It's been eight years since the last movie, and it seems that Myers and his niece Jamie Lloyd vanished without a trace after the police-station massacre that ended the 5th film. When we join the action, Jamie has just given birth in a Temple of Doom set surrounded by black suited Druids. When she escapes with her child, Uncle Mike naturally follows, and eventually knocks off his niece in a particularly nasty fashion. The baby is safe, however, having been stashed away in a bus station bathroom (?) by Jamie before her demise. (Was this baby supposed to be Michael's child? It's never made quite clear whether it is or not. If so... niece rape as a plot device? Ugh.) Said baby is discovered later on by Tommy Doyle (yea, the kid Laurie Strode babysat for in H1), all grown up now and obsessed with Michael Myers. He happens to live across from the Myers House, which is now occupied by a new dysfunctional family of unlikable characters including Kara and her annoying son Danny, who has visions of the Man in Black. Tommy seems to think that Michael's rampages are tied in with the appearance of a constellation in the sky that's tied into Druid legend, and that he is destined to kill the last remaining member of his bloodline... the baby.Meanwhile, Haddonfield has banned Halloween since the events of the 4th and 5th movie, which doesn't sit well with the students of Haddonfield Junior College, who have decided to host a Halloween fair/rally, attended by a local Howard Stern shock-jock wanna-be (rumor has it Stern himself was offered the part, but he declined), to bring the holiday back to town. This gives Michael a whole new set of teenage cannon fodder to hack to pieces.Eventually Kara, Tommy, Danny and the baby are imprisoned by the Cult of Thorn (don't ask) in the bowels of Smiths Grove Sanitarium, where Dr. Loomis' supervisor Dr. Wynn is revealed as the mysterious Man in Black and he aims to help Michael achieve his ancient destiny... or some such nonsense. Seriously, this movie is so jumbled that I just wanted Michael to kill everybody so it would end quicker.The only good things I can say about this movie is that the violence is brutal and bloody, and quite frankly the nastiness of the kill scenes were the only things keeping me awake.I am quite honestly mystified at the amount of good reviews that this film has on this site. Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers was the final nail in the coffin of this once-proud terror series, and was such an incomprehensible, jumbled mess that the studio had no choice after its failure but to reboot the franchise with the next film (H20 20 Years Later), which wisely ignored the events of Curse and its two predecessors.Supposedly the film was subject to much post-production tampering/rewriting/re-shooting before its release, which may explain why it flows about as well as a wedding video shot by a drunken cameraman. Much of Donald Pleasance's role ended up on the cutting room floor, which is a shame because as usual, he's the best thing in the movie.If you love the Halloween films as much as I do, please ignore this one because it does absolutely nothing but crap on John Carpenter's masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Yikes","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am a big fan of the Halloween movies, but this one was a little off. First of all, how could any of the Strodes NOT know that was Michael's house? Had they been living under a rock until then? Everyone knows where Michael's house is. Secondly, it was a great idea to have little Tommmy all grown up and in this movie, but his part was too strange. And the actor was terrible. He was way too drama queen with every line he said. It would have been better if Jamie had been allowed to stay around a little longer. The Strode father was very good, or rather bad! Overall the movie was pretty good. Especially the uncovering of the boot man in the cloak. A lot of good gore. And Michael was exceptional, of course. "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Over the years, the Halloween series has had sequel after sequel, and it seems that each sequel gets worse (As one would expect) and this is no exception. The plot is dull and uninteresting as are the characters. There is nothing really all to good to say about it except how bland and boring it is. Tommy Doyle returns from the original and Jamie is killed off within the first 20 minutes. This movie has no entertainment value to offer. It's just another dull sequel that is nothing more then an atrocious trainwreck and should be avoided. Fans of the Halloween franchise are sure to find it to be nothing more then a disappointment and you should expect nothing less. "},{"Title":"Not too bad.","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers is a film I didn't really like when I first saw it, but after having given it a second chance several years later it was not quite as bad as I had remembered it. It's still better than most horror movies out there.Paul Rudd plays Tommy Doyle, one of the children Laurie Strode babysat in the original Halloween. After his encounter with Michael in the first film, Tommy has become obsessed with unlocking the mystery of Michael Myers.Donald Pleasence returns as Dr. Sam Loomis, and very sadly for the last time in the franchise. He joins forces with Tommy in trying to put a stop to Michael once and for all.This film builds on the continuity set forth in the fourth and fifth Halloween films, Halloween 4 The Return of Michael Myers and Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers respectively. In all honesty, for the sixth entry in a film's franchise, it's pretty good. Overall, I'd say check it out. In order to enjoy this movie at its fullest, I'd recommend seeing parts four and five first. "},{"Title":"At least it's better than Halloween 5","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween is the best in the series. Halloween H20 is the 2nd best. Halloween 2 is the 3rd best. Halloween 4 the Return of Michael Myers is the 4th best. And Halloween the Curse of Michael Myers is the 4th worst. This movie is very underrated. The acting is good in this movie. Donald Pleasance gives a much better performance than the one he gave in Halloween 5. But it wasn't as good as the performance he gave in Halloween 1, 2, or 4. And I think Brian Andrews would've been great if he had reprised his role as Tommy Doyle. But Paul Rudd was good too. And I think J.C. Brandy was a better Jamie Lloyd than Danielle Harris. The deaths were good too. Except Barry Simm's death. It was too similar to Annie's death in the original. Debra's death scene was the best. She was hit in the face with an axe. Anyway, don't listen to people who say this movie sux. Trust me, it doesn't. "},{"Title":"The Best There Is","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I cannot believe that this movie got such a low rating. Obviously,some people don't understand horror. I mean,come on,the fact that he kills the little girl all grown up in the beginning in one of the most scary horror beginnings ever brings all down to this promising as hell.Plus,the mask and the atmosphere are far better in this movie than any other,and we've got the good old daylight in front of the house scenes that make your skin crawl,knowing that there is gonna be carnage.This movie is great,and i really hope that Rob Zombie is gonna do a good job about the last one, or so i hope.Because,the 8th part really ruined it all. Many fans spit on H20,but seriously,i think it is 3rd best. For me it goes like this Halloween 6,Halloween 2,H20 Halloween 4,Halloween 1,Halloween 5,Halloween 8 That's the way i feel,the 4th was surprisingly good... Anyway,Michael Myers rules,nothing left to say... "}{"Title":"Should've quit after Halloween 2","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You may see reviews on here claiming better than the other sequels, well that's because the other sequels are just as stupid and lame.I remember when I watched Halloween 1 & 2 back to back and I really liked how it didn't have some deep sinister plot, Myers just wanted to kill his sister, plain and simple.So I decided to watch 4,5 and six. Well it comes down to, Michael is connected to some occult Norse mythology involving the sign of Thorn and he must kill his bloodline to put balance back in the world.Hold the phone.So hes not really a psycho, but a hero? Thats ridiculous. This is on par with Jason Voorhees really being some hell spawn demon that can body hop, just leave it alone.I seriously enjoyed how Myers was just a crazy guy and he just wanted to kill his sister. In this one hes even got a local cult following, he can teleport apparently to kill people for no reason(Goes from his house to a county fair in about 3 minutes to slit a dudes throat in a van then hang him up in a tree with Christmas lights or something then he goes back home, it had NO BEARING ON THE STORY.) He likes doing elaborate deaths all of a sudden as opposed to the quick knife to the neck. You got someone impaled on some industrial power box to make his head explode, impaled on really Gothic looking farming equipment and some other over done kills(which all have the sound of someone crushing a bag of potato chips every time a knife is thrust into the body).I'm glad H20 totally neglects 4,5 and this movie and goes back to Myers just being crazy and leaving it at that. The Thorn idea really was just stupid, crazy psycho killer is really the worlds savior but he killed a lot of people he didn't even have to...that doesn't make sense.Don't waste your time, this movie was just horribly stupid. "},{"Title":"Genuinely chilling","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Halloween 6The Curse of Michael Myers' is, without a doubt, the scariest of the current sequels. Maybe it's the combination of so much anticipation for another sequel and the seriously creepy look that Michael has in this one. I don't know. Albeit this is not a well-acted film, it still manages to pack a punch with the chill-factor. Every time Myers is on screen in this installment it gives me chills down my spine. For reals. He seems somewhat crueler in this one...Anyways, after Michael and his niece Jamie Lloyd vanished at the end of the previous film, we find out at the beginning of this film that the man in black(from part five)kidnapped the two of them and hid them away. Then it all begins again with Jamie giving birth to baby Stephen, and, believing Michael will come and kill them, she flees the premises with the help of one of the nurses. Eventually, and unfortunately, Michael catches up with her at a barn somewhere close to Haddonfield(which is a very tense scene)and proceeds to kill Jamie(very violently), and then goes to the truck to get the baby. However, Jamie has once again outsmarted him, and has left baby Stephen at a bus station. Thankfully the baby is discovered the following day by none other than Tommy Doyle(Paul Rudd), who was one of the kids being babysat by Laurie Strode in the original 'Halloween'. Tommy has some interesting theories towards Michael's madness, boasting that it is the curse of the thorn which prompts Michael to kill on Halloween, only if a certain star constellation appears. Uh, okay. Whatever. Seems pretty interesting, although I think that this idea should have been introduced earlier, like, for instance, in part three. But oh well.Basically, Halloween 6 is just another slaughter-fest, with some hinting towards Michael's motives. I am happy to say, however, that it is nice and gory, and definitely scary. It also stars one of the biggest jerks in horror movie history-John Strode(English), who plays such a rotten human being that you just know that his death is not going to be pretty. And let me tell you...it isn't. This outing also stands out as the very last film for 'Halloween' maestro Donald Pleasance, who has played Doctor Sam Loomis since the original. Rest in peace. Where would the Halloween franchise be without him? It certainly is starting to go down hill, that's for sure. But I do recommend this sequel, as I do all of them. The series is actually pretty good, as far as story is concerned, and I think that future 'Halloween'-makers have a lot to build on since most of the stories in this franchise are not concluded, like, for example, this title. Hope to see Paul Rudd back soon because he really kicked Michael's ass. 6/10 is my rating. I don't recommend watching this before you go to sleep, though. "},{"Title":"Most of these series lines got old and boring as time went on.","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I couldn't bear watching anything beyond Friday the 13th, Part 3. Prom Night 1 was enough for me and Nightmare on Elm Street was played out for me by episode 3 (until much later, after A New Nightmare). Leprechaun in Space was enough of THAT franchise for me and after Hellraiser 4, I lost interest in those too...for a while. I must admit, that after Halloween 3 Season of the Witch, I lost interest in the Halloween line until H20 was released. THAT was a kick @ss Halloween movie. It inspired me to catch up with the rest of the series I had missed over the years. Now, I own the whole set. This franchise is not yet tired. It is not yet trite. There are still elements and plot lines which can be followed, and Hall6ween the Curse of Michael Myers is a worthy installment to this franchise and far superior to H5.SPOILERSThe story attempts to further explain the actions and behavior of Michael Myers. In this installment, we discover that there is a black cult behind Michael; fostering him, helping him magickally heal, and driving him to kill and kill again.Donald Pleasence is a sheer delight delivering nothing less than the poignant and dramatic performance you expect of him. Alas! This was to be his last Halloween. RIP, Mr. Pleasence. We will miss you. The direction this time around carries the movie through with an even flow, decent portrayals, and a strong climactic ending to a suspenseful edge of your seat horror movie. I found it was one of the superior films of the line. Some critics have discredited this particular installment for trying too hard to be intelligent, aspiring to be more than what is possible for a movie of this sort, and taking itself too seriously. I find all these statements to be untrue. It does not try to be intelligent, it does have intelligence in the story. One has but to possess the intelligence to understand the plot. I think Wes Craven demonstrated all too well what is possible for the slasher genre, as he redefined this genre with his latest trilogy. It also does not take itself too seriously. This is one of those horror movies which knows it's a horror movie and does its best to convey that feeling and atmosphere with keen precision.There were a few things I would have done differently, were I the director, however. The first and foremost being making Michael at least as tall as he was in the first few movies. I mean, he's not short, by any means, but he's not nearly as tall as he was. He seems to have lost about 6 inches this time around. Platform shoes would have made the difference, but apparently they thought no one would mind or notice?The chase down the red corridor scene. As Michael is chasing the doctor down the hallway, and ends up squishing his face between the bars, it occurred to me that Michael is slower than usual. To make up for the attempt to bestow him with Mummy's Walk, the director also had the doctor fall down five times to compensate. That was an obvious contrivance and it lessened the value of that scene. The hair on Michael's mask appeared to have been sucked on by a thousand dead rats and the face was whiter. I realize at some point they changed out the Shatner mask, but (as in 4 & 5) they could have at least made the attempt to keep them similar in final appearance.Back to the positive, this is one of the less splatter-oriented and more psychological chapters in the Michael Book. Instead, the cheap Hollywood gore was replaced with intelligence and story, but not all together, as this was billed as one of the more violent of this line.It rates just below the original at a 7.7/10.the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Better then most say (SPOILERS)","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now I would like to say that this is a very interesting sequel, and it's pretty good only one thing that really bothers me.  I was very sad to see Jamie Lloyd come back casted as someone else, I mean how so what just give Danielle Harris the $5,000.00 to come back, and what a discrace the way that they killed her.  I think that it would have been more appropriate to have been killed the way Jamie Lee Curtis was, then by some farm equipment. Other then that I have to say that I really enjoyed this movie alot.  It was very scary, the story is a little bumpy, but highly enjoyable and interesting.  I really can't believe people say that this is the worse one, when in reality the truly pathetic Halloween was Halloween Resurrection I mean seriously any Halloween fan that thought that was better then this one should watch this movie one more time.  The true Halloween fans willl like it 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Least favourite sequel but still very scary","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Gore levels have reached there highest yet in this installment of Halloween. This is my least favourite Michael Myers film but i still enjoyed to watch it and it still scared me all the way through.SPOILERS FOLLOWThe coolest killing has to be Michael sticking that women on the spike on the wall and then just standing there looking at it.SPOILERS ENDHalloween 6 is good for its gore and it still kept me entertained. Out of 10 I'd say a 7.  "},{"Title":"THIS MOVIE IS THE GREATEST HALLOWEEN EVER","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is awesome. It was kind of confusing at the end but i think they will tell you in H20 what is happening . If you liked halloween 2 you will like halloween 6. It was action packed and didnt have those corny lines that the other halloween's had with the teenagers. I gave it 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"The best Halloween sequel out there!!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Before I wrote this I read the other reviews for this film and was disgusted! How can so many people not like this film? It was much better than the other sequels because it gave a method to Michaels madness. I know, for some people the reason for his killings was a little hard to swallow and that's what ruined it for them. However, I thought the idea of Michael being cursed made sense and only raised my appreciation for the first Halloween.I give credit to the director for setting such a great mood with this movie. The lighting was the best of any other Halloween film and I loved the work he did with shadow effects. Without a doubt the most stylish of the series it gave Michael a real boogeyman flare and spunk never before conceived.I have to admit, it's not the easiest Halloween film to follow but after you see it you'll get the basic concept. However, from what I hear there is a rare producers cut which supposedly explains everything the released version doesn't. Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers also had great servings of blood and gore, including some of my favorite deaths of the series. There is an especially spectacular massacre later on in the film which I particularly enjoyed.Either you'll love this film or you'll hate it, depending on how you conceive Michael to be evil. I seem to be in a minority here, but I loved it. There were plenty of scares, suspense, blood, and original story line in this film to satisfy me so I give it a 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the better sequels,but....","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ....the Producers Cut of this movie is the best sequel.The version that was released was not a bad sequel,it just made no sense because of what was edited and re-shot.There are 45 min. of different footage,different beginning and ending,different soundtrack,and great storyline that makes sense. This is the best acting in any of the sequels yet.Next to the original Halloween i prefer the producers cut of Curse.So get your hands on that cut if you can and watch both versions and you decide.Theatre Version- 3 5,Producers Cut-4 5.     "},{"Title":"Most confusing entry in the series.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Right off the bat I'd like to state that I like all of the Halloween movies that have to do with Michael Myers.  He is by far my favourite slasher serial killer due to the fact that he is the most vulnerable.  He can be hurt and possibly even killed.  When hurt bad enough he goes into a coma so his body can heal itself.  While he does possess super human qualities the viewer gets the impression that he can be killed.  Sadly Halloween 6 The Curse of Michael Myers (H6) takes the story of Michael Myers, that was developing nicely through parts 2,4 & 5 and tries to do too much with it.  The revelation of the Man in Black is disappointing and the movie tends to ask more questions then it answers.  This entry tries to put to bed some of the story lines started in parts 4 and 5 but in doing so the conclusions it gives cause even more questions to be asked.  This is due in part to the conclusions not being very clearly presented. Overall the movie is okay.  The director keeps Michaels presence felt by having Michael continuously shown to be present in many scenes by appearing for a moment in the background.  It's nice touches like that that make the movie more interesting to watch. Story wise the movie seems rushed.  The director and writer capture a bit of the magic that made the original Halloween so much fun to watch but the story is far too convoluted to make much sense.  Overall I give Halloween 6 a 5 out of 10.  Halloween H20 is much better and makes for a nicely trilogy with parts 1 & 2.  Apparently Halloween The Homecoming is due for release this year (2002) and follows H20.  Why can't they just leave well enough alone?  H20 ended the story very nicely.  I would however like to see someone clean up the plot holes that H6 made. "},{"Title":"!!It Was A Great Sequel!!","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"     I Loved This Movie. The only Disappointment I Ever Had was That There Were no Special Features on The DVD Version. Other Than That, I Think that this is A PERFECT Movie. Not Only Does it Explain The Origin of Michael Myers and How he Survived so Many Years, it is Scary. Another Reason That I Like It, Sadly, Is That This was Pleasence's Last Halloween Film. He is and Will Always be Remembered and Looked upon as A Great Man by All of us True Halloween Fans.   Another Great Part of The Movie that i just loved was the Hospital Scene. I Don't Think that any one can say that wasn't absolute terror at it's finest. Reccommened For Any Halloween of Horror Movie Fan. Grade--A+ "}{"Title":"Ive Seen Worse","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This 6th entry in the film is probably the 4th best film in the series behind the original, part 2 and H20. Unfortunately that is not saying much. Michael Myers and the thorn cult killer plot was ok although it got tedious at the end. The movie was not fun or enjoyable to watch, it looked like it wanted to have a really dark, stoic atmosphere but the director just can't pull it off. Donald Pleasance seems to have lost the appeal he had in the other films and overall it is a forgettable horror movie. "},{"Title":"This movie isn't as bad as everybody says.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  People say that this film is bad.  WHy?  Maybe it is because of the confusion of the plot and the cliches but hey its a sequel and a good one at that.  If you liked part 1 2 4 and 5 then you will like this.  It is the best since the original in my opinion.  Some revelations are revealed in this part that tell why Michael just will not die and why he kills every Halloween. "},{"Title":"Okay but it could have been better","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie but I thought it left more to be desired. Some of the good points included another outstanding performance by Donald Pleasence (in his final role I'm afraid) as Dr. Sam Loomis, Tommy Doyle, and an interesting plot about Micheal's origins. They also fix all the things messed up in Halloween 5; Micheal's mask is back and the Myers house is back to normal.However, the plot is filled with holes that could have been avoided. One, who is the father of Jamie's baby? Two, the whole cult thing and why Micheal tries to kill off his family isn't explained very well. Three, what is with this 'unfinished business' Loomis talks about at the end. And the screaming at the end? Another thing is the very unneeded gore. And another thing, how is it the Strodes don't know they are living in the Myers' house? It's not like it's a big secret. It was either a really big mistake or the characters were intended to be very stupid.The movie tries very hard to explain why Micheal kills and why he can't die or be injured. The answer they give us is acceptable but like I said, not very well explained. Overall, it's an okay Halloween film.As for the producer's cut, I read a long summary of the plot from start to finish and everything seems better except for the ending. I won't spoil it for you but it does explain the scream you hear at the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Extremelly Underated......Deserves ALOT more!","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I Dont get it...??Why was Halloween 6 SO underated...What were you people thinking??This film SHOULD HAVE BEEN PART 3....H20 is extremelly over-rated...H20 was alot worse than this... Halloween 6 had alot of great gruesome killings...Good acting and a better plot than most Halloween movies.This had alot of suspense,and deserves so much more..The intro is great,theres no 60 minute waiting for gore (like H20)This starts off right,and ends even better...Look at Michaels mask...Dark,scary and mystic..Look at the mask in H20,his eyes are so visible,the mast looks terrible...This film was third best...it was EXCELLENT! 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Is it really that bad?!?!?","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this movie. What's the problem. I found it to be an enjoyable sequel actually. Sure it wasn't as good as the first. Sure it wasn't as good as the second, but hey, give this movie a break. It's got a lot more gore than the original and it gets kind of strange there for second but it offers some cool shock sequences. I really jumped Michael came after the old lady behind the sheets. It's also got some suspenseful parts that make you grab the arm of your friend whose watching with you. Check it out at least. You might like it or you might not, but watch it. FOR MICHAELS SAKE. Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers B-  "},{"Title":"The 3rd best in the series!","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was good. I watched it back around Halloween in 1996. I think it's the 3rd best in the series behind the first one, and the second one. This movie is scary, and entertaining. The plot is kind of dumb, but I was able to look past the plot. H2O was a bit overrated. This movie is very underrated. It's better than H20. I give this movie *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"The Best Sequel Since The Original HALLOWEEN","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HalloweenThe Curse Of Michael Myers is probably the best sequel out of all of the Halloween flicks.  Jamie, serial killer Michael Myers' niece, bears a baby who is then taken by the Man In Black from the conclusion of Halloween 5.  A kind nurse helps Jamie escapes but Myers quickly tracks her down and kills her.  Jamie's baby is found and rescued by Tommy Doyle, one of the kids Jamie Lee babysat in the original film, and Myers arrives in Haddonfield and begins to kill off the Strode clan living in his old house. The film concludes with scenes revealing clues to Michael's evil, the identity of the Man In Black, and a close to the whole Dr. Loomis/Michael Myers storyline.  I highly recommend this brilliant horror masterpiece.HalloweenThe Curse Of Michael Myers is Rated R for strong graphic violence, extreme gore, brief sexuality, language, and brief nudity.  "},{"Title":"A fair Halloween sequel","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, this was a pretty good Halloween flick, that is under rated. Although it didn't make much sense, and was overly gory (which I like), it was still good. The story has Michael returning to Haddonfield to kill the people who live in his house. Well the old Myers house, someone has bought it and is living in it. This movie has some of the best killing scenes and very bloody results.My fav When the guy's head explodes, that was awesome. Now in the opening sequence, Michaels niece, who escapes from the mental institution, has a baby, and is trying to hide it from Michael. She does, he kills her, and he can't find his nephew. The boy from the first, Tommy the boy who Laurie Strode babysitted, find the kid, and takes him in. Inevitably Michael goes after him, tries to kill him. Some of the sequences are a letdown, as is the ending, but over-all it's a good Halloween installment. 6 out of 10. Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, some language, brief sexuality and nudity. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Scanning through the comments, there doesn't appear to be a lot of love for this movie, and it's not very hard to see why, it's rubbish.Now, I will start by saying that the finished product was hurt, in any number of ways, by the death of Donald Pleasance (Dr Loomis) in post production. This required a re-jigging of the film's conclusion with Loomis buying the farm and took away what was supposed to be a double twist at the end with Micheal swapping places with mysterious Man in black and I do not mean Johnny Cash.Now to the story. The fifth movie ended rather unsatisfactorily with Micheal Myers escaping from jail with the mysterious man in black. It turns out (aggh) that this man knows the origin of Micheal's evil and is also a colleague of Dr Loomis named Dr Wynn. They also kidnapped Jamie Lloyd (played by Danielle Harris in parts 4 and 5 but here played by JC Brandy). Jamie, pregnant, escapes from Dr Wynn's lair and so Micheal follows her and kills her. But she'd had the kid so now he needs to track the baby down so he can kill his great nephew.We hear some ludicrous explanation to Micheal's evil involving Gaelic curses down bloodlines and mysterious symbols. A radio show is broadcast from Micheal's home town for some reason, which gives Micheal some more hapless victims.In the end the movie, just like this review is vague, confusing and directionless with a very anticlimactic ending.Some sex scenes and nudity. Poor plot, passable effects, with some good run of the mill slasher kills, but severely lacking in motivation. For what was supposed to explain everything, this only stirred up some new questions, made parts 4 and 5 pointless and was a poor way for a great actor in Pleasance to end his life and career. "},{"Title":"And so the series finally hits rock bottom.","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There was a time when Michael Myers killed because he was just simply the bogeyman. It was the reason why we all watched the first Halloween over and over. Six sequels later and someone came up with the bright idea that there should be a reason as to why he kills. Now, this not only ruins what Michael has become, but by taking him out of the realm of what he is and giving him a purpose destroys any mystery about him.To make things worse, the film company decided to allow a fan to write the script for this movie(which ended up being re written itself.What we get is a whole mess of ideas, cheesy dialogue and movie so clichéd, its flabbergasting that it was ever sanctioned. The acting is horrible and dull, the suspense can be seen a mile away, and plot twists ruin what is already a bad movie to begin with. Everything about this movie feels rushed, from the script to the acting. This movie lacks everything set by the previous movies that you just want to keep hitting the fast forward button until ends. With and ending that is so confusing it might actually make you watch the movie again just to decipher it. Do yourself a favour, watch 1,2 and 4. But stay away from this crap. If you have access to the Producer's cut than at least its a far superior version than this. All those who participated in this garbage should be cursed a thousand times over. "}{"Title":"A Deeply Unsatisfying Explanation","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers has many flaws but none is greater then its story. For six years, Jaime and Michael Myers have been in the care of a druid cult. Jaime escapes with her newborn baby, is pursued by Michael and killed. But not before leaving her baby in a safe location. The baby is found by a now-adult Tommy Lloyd and a retired Dr. Loomis. Meanwhile, a branch of the Strode family, fathered by Laurie's previously unmentioned uncle, takes up residence in the Myers house. Michael returns to Haddonfield on the first Halloween to be celebrated since his absence and begins to kill the remaining Strodes. The cult attempts to abduct not just Jaime's baby but the son of the oldest daughter of the new Strode family. They succeed, grab her, the kids, Tommy, and Dr. Loomis, dragging them all to Smith's Grove for our conclusion. Considering this is a series that started out with crazy guy escapes hospital, kills babysitters, that's some needlessly complicated nonsense.I don't know if we needed an explanation for Michael's powers. Being pure evil was always enough for me. The titular Curse is the Curse of Thorn, a Celtic rite in which one member of a family is cursed to become a super-slasher and murder his family as a sacrifice to the god Samhain. (Which is actually pronounced Sah-wan and also not a god.) Myers annual appearances are tied to a corresponding constellation appearing in the sky. Instead of revealing this information gradually, this is dumped on us as raw exposition.Tying the Shape's origin in with the history of Halloween makes sense but this is a deeply unsatisfying explanation. Instead of being a naturally occurring evil, Myers was chosen by a cult. Instead of killing randomly, Myers is eliminating his family. Instead of being a normal boy who became a killer inexplicably, young Michael heard voices urging him to kill. Myers isn't a unique phenomena but instead one in a line of many ceremonial killers. This goes against what the original movie was about.The screenplay structure is all over the place. The extended Strode family was obviously introduced to up the body count. Older brother Tim and girlfriend Beth are attempting to bring Halloween back to Haddonfield as a political statement, which doesn't make sense. In order to do this, they invite obnoxious shock jock Barry Sims, a cross between Howard Stern and Art Bell, to town. Sims is murdered for no reason while Tim and Beth get naked before getting murdered. This subplot has little impact on the film. The Strode parents aren't much help either, existing only to die. This business is unrelated to the cult storyline.The direction is frequently questionable. Scenes are repeated in slow motion, color is inverted, and the editing haphazard. The sound design is atrocious. Punishingly musical stings pop up. Slashing sounds are randomly inserted. The music switches between the traditional Halloween theme, an awful techno remix, and heavy metal guitars. This is more frustrating since director John Chapelle is not without visual sense. The blinding white hallways of the sanitarium are striking.The film completely implodes in the last act. The identity of the Man in Black is underwhelmingly revealed. The cult is planning to perform a surgery. This is not elaborated on. There's a suggestion of genetic manipulation, which has no business in Halloween. Myers turns on the cult for no reasons, signaling the film's transformation into a chase-and-slash flick.The acting and characters are terrible too. Barry Simms, performed by a shouting Leo Geter, is incredibly obnoxious. Amazingly, he's not the most annoying character in this film. That dishonors falls to John Strode, the constantly ranting patriarch of the Strode family. Actor Bradford English plays it as exaggerated theater. Mom Debra is played by Kim Darby, who deserves so much better then this. Darby plays a bitty version of Velma from Scooby-Doo, even loosing her glasses at a pivotal moment. Marianne Hagan, as the final girl, is incredibly flat. Her screams of help during one moment are hilarious. Young Paul Rudd plays Tommy Doyle. He's obviously set up as the new Dr. Loomis, the well-meaning but possibly unhinged knower of evil. Rudd can't pull it off, acting like a socially awkward conspiracy theorist. All the acting is exaggerated, lending an air of unreality. Even the random old lady is a terrible actor! In the middle of this is dying Donald Pleasence. Donald is in high spirits, laughing and smiling in-between dialogue about evil and rage. A consummate professional up until the end.The only thing Curse gets right is Michael's look. Part 4's George Wilbur returns but skips the shoulder-pads. The mask is the best since part two's, even if the long hair throws me off. Michael, once again, is tearing people apart with his bare hands, using axes and machetes, teleporting all over the place, and playing possum on the floor. The gore is exaggerated, including an exploding head.Halloween Curse of Michael Myers was a troubled production, with daily rewrites, extensive reshoots and re-editing. Still, I can't imagine any movie hassled with the Curse of Thorn plot line being good. No wonder all future sequels ignore mess of a film. I known I still have other stinkers to work through but I'm prepared now to declare this my least favorite Halloween film. "},{"Title":"I knew what he was, but I never knew why.","Date":"1 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I haven't seen all of the Halloween films, but this one was definitely worth watching.Some people may complain that their favorite actor was missing, and that the director really must have hated the franchise, but I feel that Joe Chappelle did a good job of keeping the story moving. And, there was a story. It wasn't just slash, slash, slash. There was actually something going on and it made it more interesting.Paul Rudd did a very good job as Tommy Doyle and Marianne Hagan was a string Kara Strode. I like the fact that Donald Pleasence is still around.Looking forward to seeing the rest. "},{"Title":"The Night No One Noticed!","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Right?  So this is the WORST of the HALLOWEEN sequels is it?  That's real funny!HALLOWEEN H20 was an insult to the intelligence,  with the wimpiest Michael Myers yet. RESURRECTION is sooo bad as to defy logic, what am I saying?  illogic even. I LIKED this film...shame about Jamie though, I was beginning to like her! I think what got up the machetes of most people was the cerebral complexity of this one. HOWEVER guys, what you DID get was a thinking person's Michael Myers - like this guy LOOKED the real mccoy. Seriously uncomfortable killings and....last but not least...Sam Loomis. With the demise of Donald Pleasence, the series lost its way and its been a case of everyman for himself in the subsequent instalments!Less impactful than 4 but so far ahead of the last two cinematic embarrassments its not funny! Probably the least promoted and available chapter in the chronology it deserves considerably better than the outrageously inept and dubiously appropriate comments as appear here. If you consider yourself a serious student of the HALLOWEEN series ignore everything you might have read and watch it with an open mind. You may just be surprised. "},{"Title":"Very weak sequel!","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Six years after Michael was thought to be imprisoned and dead, he's still on the loose as Jamie Lloyd (J.C. Brandy) has grown up but was raped and impregnated by a druid cult. She gives birth to a baby boy whom Michael and the druids want to kill as she escapes, but she unfortunately gets killed with the baby being orphaned. The Strode family has moved into the Myers home, they think it's safe until Michael returns back to Haddonfield and so does Dr. Sam Loomis (Donald Pleasance). Tommy Doyle (Paul Rudd) whom was one of the child survivors of the original Halloween has an obsession with Michael Myers over the years as he learns the history of the Myers family as now he joins with Dr. Loomis and Kara Strode (Marianne Hagan) to stop the mysterious man-in-black and Michael Myers.A disappointing and disjointed sequel of the franchise that doesn't measure up to the original and most of the sequels especially the much maglined Halloween III Season of the Witch. The editing is kind of bad and some parts of the movie just doesn't make sense, although i hear there's a Producer's cut somewhere that helps improve the movie and even uses an alternate ending. The subplot behind Michael is very silly but interesting but still the movie is pretty bad but not as bad as Resurrection.This was Donald Pleasance's last film, R.I.P. Mr. Pleasance for you were such a great actor. "},{"Title":"Far from a masterpiece, but a well-made slasher film","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 6 doesn't contain any real scares and is a far cry from the magnificent original, but let's face facts  horror movies almost never spawn good sequels!  And considering how bad some sequels are, this is above average material.  The acting is good, the directing is good, the lighting is good and we still get to listen to that good ol' creepy Halloween theme.  And no matter how many times we've seen him pop up, Michael Myers is still quite creepy.  There are some really cool f/x, including one head explosion.  I did not place high expectations on this film, and that's why I just had fun with it.  But even though, it's still a notch above a guilty pleasure.  My score  6 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"The Producer's Cut","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Loomis gives a quick recap of Micheal Myers we flashback to 1989 where Jamie is kidnapped by the Man in Black before the burning police station explodes. Micheal returns to Haddonfeild once again to find Jamie and his baby. In this version the Loomis character gets more scenes and seems much more pro-active than he is in the final cut. The Score is much better, more in line with parts 4 and 5, none of the electric guitar BS. And the ending makes a tad more sense. For these reasons coupled with the fact that this cut has more characterization and suspense, and cuts back on the gore factor (Halloween, unlike say the Friday the 13th Franschise, was never about blatant gore) is why I prefer this bootleg Producer's cut. Not to say that the cut magically turns a turd into gold, it just polishes the turd a little bit and makes it more comprehensible. The whole cult plot is still very stupid, as is Micheal fathering a kid My Producer's Cut Grade C- My Theatrical Cut Grade D- "},{"Title":"Not the best in the franchise, but definately not the worst.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If your a fan of the Halloween franchise, then see this film! Pay no attention to the other negative comments on this site, 'Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers' is a great film and worth seeing. Personally, I think the poorest (excluding the obviously naff 'Halloween III Season of the Witch')film in the franchise is 'Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers'. I'd give it 7/10, not the best, but definately no the worst in the franchise. "},{"Title":"It's over! It's finally over. It's all over.","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The following review will contain spoilers.Halloween 6 The Curse of Michael Myers takes place six years after Halloween 5. The film was also released six years after Halloween 5. As most hardcore fans know, the production on Halloween 6 was one of the biggest disasters in the horror genre. Splitting opinions caused a mayhem on events that lead to the theatrical version being one of the worst pieces of film in the entire franchise. The only thing that saved it was the Producer's Cut, and even that version wasn't amazing. The following is my review of Halloween 6 The Curse of Michael Myers.Daniel Farrands wrote the film and is know more recently for his work on some fantastic documentaries His work on this film will always be a point of controversy. His original screenplay for the film was apparently a very good effort, but studio heads(The Weinstein Brothers) wanted a more slasher take to the film, and thus things got twisted and turned around. The basic story of this film is that we find out more about what drives Michael Myers to kill. Basically he was called upon as a young kid to kill for a group called Thorn. The idea is a giant step in the wrong directing in my opinion, but because Halloween 5 set this up, ending this story had to be done. The story itself is very strange as we find out at the start of the film that Jamie Lloyd has died following the events of Halloween 5 in the prison escape. However, the truth is she is actually alive, and she is seen for the early part of this film. We find out later in the theatrical version just in passing that the child Jamie is carrying in the early part of the film is actually Michael's child. Yeah, very strange stuff. However, in the Producer's Cut we get a much more stern hint that the child Jamie has is in fact Michael's Child. Either way you slice the cake, the story of this film is very odd. The Producer's Cut excels in other areas which I will be getting into soon. Overall, the story itself is very odd, and certainly one of the worst of the franchise(second worst in my opinion). Farrands apparently had a good idea for the story, but it got lost in the shuffle, so I cannot really blame him for the mess that is this film.The film was directed by Joe Chappelle. Chappelle will take a good bit of the blame on this production as he was the director, but he was young and wanted to please the studio heads. The Weinstein's are the real villains behind this awful mess called Halloween 6. The Theatrical version of this film actually underwent some re-shoots because the Weinstein's wanted more gore. The Theatrical Cut of the film seems to be a Friday the 13th type rip off, instead of being a nice thrilling horror film. The Producer's Cut of the film excels in the regard of letting you use your imagination instead of overloading on the gore factor. While there is still blood, and more than the original film, it certainly doesn't compare to the mess that was the Theatrical Cut of this film. The acting is pretty bland once again as the film stars a young Paul Rudd. Sadly, this was the final Halloween film for acting legend Donald Pleasence. He sadly passed away before the film was ever released in theaters. While this wasn't exactly the best movie for him to go out on, just seeing him one last time take a strong command of the Dr. Loomis role was such a great joy to see. Halloween fans will always remember the legacy he created for himself doing a total of five of these movies, never thinking twice about it. He loved the role as much as us fans love the entire franchise. Overall, Joe Chappelle was a young director trying to become famous and he got himself into a battle that no one was going to win. The end result was a sub par film.Alan Howarth also came back for this outing, this would be his last try at the Halloween score, as the later films went a different route. The score is this film, is once again dependent on which version of the film you are watching. The score on the Theatrical Cut is bizarre at times. There is some almost heavy metal added to it, and some 1990s grunge rock added as well. While Howarth is credited for some of the bad scoring of this film, during the re-shoots for some of the scenes, Paul Rabjohns actually came in to finish off the score for Howarth. The end result was a giant mess of a score for the Theatrical Cut. The Producer's Cut however has a much more classic John Carpenter feel to it, and it really makes that version of the film so much better. Howarth deserves some blame here, but not that much,In closing this film wasn't really the best effort to end on. The Thorn storyline frankly shouldn't have even been considered, and should have never moved along as far as it did in this film. While the Theatrical Cut is a giant mess, the Producer's Cut is much more watchable even though there are still some ludicrous story lines in it. Fans of the franchise like myself will not only watch the Theatrical Version, but also watch the Producer's Cut, and while the Producer's Cut has been on bootleg version for over a decade, it has finally been released on Blu-Ray in stunning quality for everyone to finally see. It might not be the version that should have been made, but the Producer's Cut is the best version of the film that was shot.Theatrical Cut 3/10 Producer's Cut 6/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic Sequel!!!","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Halloween series like many others had some ruff and questionable sequels. This is not one of them. In fact Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers attempts to fix 4 and 5's plot holes and stupidity, and triumphs valiantly. It even brings incorporates a peace of Halloween 3 into the story. Hand's down one of the much better sequels to the film.The opening scene features an adult version of Jamie (from 4 and 5) being hunted down my Michael Myers as she attempts to protect her newborn baby. Eventually she is able to break into a public transportation area where she makes a phone call to a radio station for help. To her dismay they do not believe her. Luckily for the baby, an all grown up version of Tommy Doyle does. Tommy (who is excellently well acted by Paul Rudd) saves the baby after Jamie's death. Then there is Dr. Sam Loomis still on the hunt for Michael, attempting to warn everyone, and everyone still looking at him like he's crazy. (got to love how in every movie people will never believe Loomis)The film has a very suspenseful Gory ending, that includes, but not limited to Doctor's being slashed to death, security guards being pushed through steal bared doors, then being stepped on, a bloody death by pipe to the brain box, and the implying death to everyone's favorite Halloween Character. This movie is a master peace in terms of sequels. If this film was the only Halloween to ever come out, I think people would show it the respect it truly deserves. "},{"Title":"Halloween Retrospective 6- Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers (1995)","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Welcome to the 6th 'Halloween' Retrospective review, where I am reviewing 'HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS.' I don't want to babble on about the film, so, without further a Scooby Dooby Doo, let's review! PROS The film certainly has a different feel to the very first film, as all film series' would take on a different turn as it progresses. The film is darker, gorier and dumber. But that's good, because I think it's fun! The whole thing about the Cult of Thorn choosing Michael to kill his family is great, and gives us a reason for why Michael is killing people. But, one bad thing about the Cult is that it looks too Lord of the Ring- ish, if you know what I mean? It just doesn't look like it fits in with the franchise. Let's talk about casting; Donald Pleasance, who gives us his BEST performance as Loomis in his send- off film (Both for the character, who is killed late in the film, and for the actor, who died shortly after the film was completed due to heart failure, which is why the film is dedicated to him). Pleasance plays a more fun side of Loomis, smiling on some occasions, looking like a cute old man. Which he was. Comedy actor, Paul Rudd was cool as Tommy Doyle (who we last saw in 1978), but he wouldn't have been MY initial choice as he didn't look like he belonged in a horror film, but he did a good job, besides the fact that it was his first film. Marianne Hagan was good too, as Kara Strode (This was also her first film). The deaths were disgusting and inventive, we don't just see Michael stabbing people, he does other things too, which shows how much creativity the writers AND the character has. The mask was better than the God- awful one in 'HALLOWEEN 5', but it's still not as good as it should have been.CONS Okay, now it's time for the negative parts, and most of this section involves the characters that I had a desire to hunt down and kill. Anyway, here we go. The character in this film I hate the most is Kara Strode's douche bag Dad, John (Played by Bradford English). He just had no reason at all to be that mean to his daughter, OR his wife! And when his wife, Debra (Kim Darby) tells him that someone is in the house, he acts like an A- hole and starts shouting at her! What the Hell? The second character I friggin' hated was John and Debra's son, Tim Strode (Keith Bogart, or as I like to call him, Keith Bogfart), he acted like a pretty cool character when he's first introduced, but then is suddenly transformed into a retard, and he acts as if he's from 'Beavis and Butt- Head). The last but not least is the idiot Radio host, Barry Simms (Leo Geter), he just seemed like an un-needed character, like the bumbling cops from 'HALLOWEEN 5', and when he hit on Beth (Played Beth- ily by Mariah O' Brien), it just seemed like Rob Zombie took over part of the script (No disrespect to you, Mr. Zombie, heh heh). There the character's I hated, and thus, the review is finished! It's much better than the last film, and I enjoyed it more, so see it! P.S Michael Myers was too fat.HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS Starring Donald Pleasance, Paul Rudd, Marianne Hagan and Mitch Ryan Directed by Joe Chappelle Rest in Peace, Donald Pleasance! Best actor in the World! "}{"Title":"The darkest of all the sequels. Very entertaining.","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Warning This review contains spoilers.This is another film in the Halloween franchise that is hated by most critics and fans. While I agree that all of the Halloween sequels suffer major flaws, they still are (I think) great attempts at making good quality sequels that are fun, entertaining and even scary. This film is another example.After Halloween 5 The Revenge Of Micheal Myers (1989) (which I also feel is underrated) bombed at the box office and was even released straight to video outside the United States, six years had passed and the future looked bleak for the series. In 1990, a year after Halloween 5, up and coming writer and long time horror fan Daniel Farrands began meeting with Moustapha Akkad and discussing new ideas for the next installment. He would eventually come up with the plot for this film and after many rumors had been floating around about Quentin Tarantino writing the next installment and John Carpenter returning as director, this was the film that came to be. Production began in late 1994 with Joe Chappelle as director and a new cast including Marianne Hegan and Paul Rudd, J.C. Brandy took on the role of Jamie after Danielle Harris was denied. Donald Pleasence returned to play Dr. Loomis for what was to be his final film performance, he passed away during post production. After the film received negative responses from the test screening audiences, the film was rushed back into production and a different ending was added, along with different edits and much more gore. Also, Jamie's death scene was changed (the version that I didn't care for).All of these changes really hurt the film badly but I still feel that this film is actually quite good, the atmosphere is all there and it includes some of the scariest scenes since Halloween 2 (1981). Of all the films in the series, this one truly captures the look and feel of Halloween. I actually like the Thorn idea, it brings new depth to the series, I loved the Man In Black idea in Halloween 5 and I was glad that it was brought back for this movie and that it was revealed who he really was.If I had to pick between the theatrical or producer's cut, I would pick the producer's cut but I still enjoy the theatrical version for what it is but it feels a bit out of place from Halloween's 4 and 5, while the producer's cut feels like a true sequel. All in all, this is a good movie, both versions work very well but I can only hope that the producer's cut will be released on DVD someday. "},{"Title":"Another Cool Sequel Directed By Joe Chappelle","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Finally Another Great Sequel It's Been A Few Years Since Halloween 5 And Now They Made Another One This Film In The Series Explains How Michael Myers Became Evil And You Won't Believe Who Is Behind It All It Is In fact Dr. Terence Wynn Who Is Dr. Sam Loomis Best Friend For A Very Long Time He Makes A Cameo Appearance In The First Halloween Which Him And Dr. Loomis Are Arguing About Michael's Escape He Is The Leader Of The Cult Of Thorn He Does Make An Appearance In Halloween 5 And Again This Film Stars The Late Donald Pleasence As Dr. Sam Loomis Who Actually Died For Real Shortly After The Movie Was Done Filming Which Is Sad By The Way Nobody Can Replace Donald Pleasence Introducing Paul Rudd As Tommy Doyle The Character Who Was In The First Film Who Laurie Strode Babysat As A Child J.C. Brandy As Jamie Lloyd Not The Same Actress Who Played Jamie Lloyd In Halloween 4 And Halloween 5 Danielle Harris Was Going To Play Jamie Lloyd And Get Paid Lots Of Money But Turned It Down Because Her Character Was Going To Die By Michael Myers And Also They Could Not Get An Agent To Get In Contact With Brian Andrews To Play Tommy Doyle But Love Ya From Brandon DeVore "},{"Title":"Very underrated","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was very surprised when I saw that this movie only ranked 4.4 out of 10 on IMDb. Before I even saw it, people told me that it was a bad movie and that it was the worst one they made in the series. I'm glad I still watched it anyway because to be honest I enjoyed this movie.There are two versions of this movie, A) The theater version and B) The producer's cut. The two versions certainly have their differences. The producer's cut gives a lot more detail to the curse of thorn. A curse in which drives Michael Myers madness. A lot of people that I talked to thought that the whole idea of there being a curse and cult behind Michael Myers madness was stupid. However, I have to disagree because it was never explained in the previous films as to why Michael Myers wants to kill his family. The makers of this movie finally addressed this and did very well. The curse was given to Michael Myers at a young age by Mrs. Blankenship a women that lives across the street from the Myers house. Thorn is the third rune in a group of 33. Thorn is also known as Thurisaz. This ruin appears every 1,000 years. It is a constellation in the stars which appears on October 31st, Halloween. It is also on Michael's wrist.To the ancient Druids, Thorn represented a demon. This demon spread sickness which killed thousands of people and killed crops. The Druids also believed that one child from each tribe was chosen to be inflicted with the curse of Thorn. This child had to kill their whole family to spare thousands more. -http//www.angelfire.com/ma/babybrownsplace/thorn.htmlThe curse of thorn is the answer as to why Michael Myers wanted to kill every person in his family. The curse also gives Michael Myers incredible strength and he it makes him immortal. That's why Michael always came back to life even after being burned alive, and shot.This movie also has creative kills with good suspense. I liked how the kills all had different methods (axe, knife, farm machinery, etc.) I disliked how Danielle Harris did not play Jamie Lloyd in this movie. I didn't mind J.C. Brandy doing it, but she looked nothing like Jamie Lloyd and I found it odd how Danielle Harris didn't play her considering that she did in the last two movies.There were two different endings to this movie. In the theater version it is unknown as to what happens. Dr. Loomis walks back into the clinic and you hear him screaming realizing that Michael Myers mask was left on the floor. I assume what happened was that Dr. Loomis saw Michael Myers face and was very freaked out. In the producer's cut Dr. Loomis in the end becomes apart of the curse of thorn and is destined to protect Michael.This movie is very underrated, I don't know why people hate it so much. If you haven't seen it, I would recommend it. I do think this is an out of the ordinary slasher film considering that I've never seen a killer in a slasher film be motivated to kill by an ancient curse. I would give this an 8 out of 10. It had good suspense, with a creative and unique idea. "},{"Title":"Not the worst Halloween","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I actually like this film but i only like it when i don't take notice of the curse of thorn. I did not like that idea especially as it can only been seen in one other film (Halloween 5) and it only shows up once or twice.I liked the acting in this film. I think George Wilbur portrayed him brilliant and Paul Rudd did a good job but my favourite was Donald Pleasence and he will be missed by every Halloween fan in the world no universe even aliens will miss him.But overall out of 10 i give this a 7 out 10 i would have been a 9 or even 10 if thorn wasn't in it. "},{"Title":"The second WORST in the series","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was just garbage, with the exception of a few good scares. The only one in the series that could possibly give me a bigger headache is 8 (Ressurection). There are several problems. Paul Rudd's acting. The Thorn storyline. Jamie Lloyd being killed off. Crappy, cheesy metal music that occasionally starts up during chases. The little boy having nightmares with Michael telling him to do bad things. Over the top, disgusting gore. And just sheer boredom. It's a travesty that this got the same rating as Halloween 5, which is vastly superior. Go watch 4, go watch 5, go watch 1, but for the love of God don't bother with 6 or 8 unless you're a die hard fan, and only then if you have a bottle of Excedrin on hand. "},{"Title":"It almost Killed Halloween...CURSE!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The story is scary, but not in the way that you think. It's scary cause this one movie could of wiped out Halloween movies all together.My Ranking7Yes I will say it THIS FILM IS WORSE THEN Resurrection! The mask looks like a kid make it with play dough! The actors are not bad, they are good But the script they were set up with was a curse all on its own! Bad! BAD BAD BAD! The only plus was mike had a son, which gave me a idea for a possibly good sequel... I don't know how else to word this and make it long enough to meet the approval. OK ill try. Naming off all the bad stuff. 1. They made this movie into a Slasher/Satan movie. The whole cult like thing is way out there, two elements of horror that should never be mixed. 2. Bringing back Tommy as some kind of loon. Come on, brains much? 3. The creepy old lady. Jeez, she was worse then Michael! FEARSOME! "},{"Title":"made for zombie-land","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" this is one of the most insulting excuses for a horror film that i have ever seen. technically tacky, it's lit like a higher-end porno film never skimping on over-lighting and blue gels, edited poorly, acted even worse. the story is completely incoherent, boring, and formulaic. there are absolutely no scares at all. it doesn't matter how big a Halloween fan one is, the story will not be understood, nor will it be liked (at least it shouldn't be-- some people, though, call it not the best slasher flick, but better than most) saying this, this film is not meant to be taken seriously by any intelligent and ambitious individual, clearly made for middle American zombie-land. it is, though accidentally, one of the greatest comedies of the 90's! Paul Rudd's passion was clearly making people laugh, even in his first serious role. definitely one of the worst films that i have ever seen in my life--it's really saddening to think that producers would invest so much money in such a film. there are so many ambitious student and independent filmmakers that should get the amount of money that this film got, and make actual films, not insulting wastes of celluloid. but, Uwe Boll somehow gets money, too, so it's no shock that this movie got funded. "},{"Title":"A Disaster Pretty Much","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Cheesy, unfocused sequel is the first of the bad sequels to start hampering this series. I guess this one went through a lot of script changes and re-shootings. The result is a stupid film that lacks the mood, tension and story-telling all five of the previous installments offered. The film has too many cut-away scenes, loose-ends and a story that really could have been good, but is told in such a rushed, awkward manner, that nothing seems to be able to register itself. Michael's killing spree is some-what out of sorts, and all the characters look so uninterested in what they are doing. The aimless story basically revolves around a depressing family that has moved into Michael's former home. He returns to murder them, but it's hard to care about them since they are so unlikable. The story does wisely to pick up after Part 5 with explaining The Man In Black, and that is done fairly well, but the end result with all that goes nowhere. And the story's sub-plot at explaining why Michael is evil is just mindless filler. It all could have been done better, but with the lifeless characters, wretched script, and stupid twists the film tries to pull off 50 minutes in, nothing works. And why did they kill the Jamie character so early in? And whats with that oh-so annoying Howard Stern wannabe? Ugh. I would love to see the producers version, I heard it's miles ahead of the theatrical version. Each sequel after this got progressively weaker and weaker. Stick with the first five. One Star. "},{"Title":"Haddonfield is the problem that gave them Michael Myers","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Hey, at least there are now some Blacks and Asians in 1995 Haddonfield. Progress..yay.Nature/nurture anxiety comes back to haunt Haddonfield, again. Will they never learn/Hall6ween reprises the Samhain/evil witch/pagan ritual/blood sacrifice theme from Number 3, and introduces another subtheme of Michael Myers hearing voices. For the rest of us who exist outside the Halloween 1 Death Cult, it helps explain coincidences and gaps in the series, as well as Michael's fixation on killing blood/natural family members.Only trouble it does so without irony and with zero humor, two elements of Halloween 1, which would be successfully re-appropriated in H20, much more so than Halloween 6.I'm convinced the reason people despise the Halloween series has little to do with the Halloween series, at all.People hate these films not because they're poorly acted, or don't have Michael or Jamie Lee, or weren't directed by Carpenter; no, those are all superficial ruses. People despise these films because they disrupt the concept of the ideal American natural, adequate/orphans-should-be-grateful foster, selfless adoptive or magical extended family, too many of which depend on secrets and lies to persist. Nobody fills out an application to be an orphan. To be called a bastard is the most disgraceful thing on earth. Yet, adoption fantasies among naturals is, well, a part of their self development. And foster kids and borrowed children, well, they should just be grateful to still be alive.In such a climate, all it takes is one screwup, one black sheep, one person who deviates from the socially conservative norm and hey kids, let's put on a show!Or a murderous, sociopathic boogieman with a contaminated soul, one.The Halloween series underscores these fears with a super thick Sharpie discovering one is adopted after everyone else on earth finds out (Laurie Strode, H2); being destroyed in the simulated sancitity of the nuclear home (H3); 2nd hand foster-sister love (H4), the imagined bloody horror of natural childbirth (H6), you get the idea.What's Michael have to be so angry about, at age 6? That the Halloween series never lets on and we're left to wonder in denial, is what perpetuates the series. In our top-down, instant answer society, people are not comfortable with i don't know. Not knowing is precisely what makes the Halloween series successful, despite all protests. Hall6ween just continues that cycle.Note to Haddonfield As long as you continue to subsume repressive little secrets behind tree-lined sidewalks, picket fences, and pre-fab clapboard houses, the curse of Michael Myers will continue to sell movies and sell movies and sell movies. Until then, the suburbs will continue to breed abusive, alcoholic patricarchs like John Strode and murderous psychotics like Michael Myers, in their studied ignorance and whispered scandals.RIP Moustapha Akkad...a true genius of our Marketing Age. Halloween Infinity, here we come. "},{"Title":"I, in contrast to most fans, like it","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I do like this part of the Halloween series because of its good camera technique, its good actors and its (for me still true) story about the origins of Michael A. Myers. Although H20 and Resurrection are somehow better I declare myself a fan of this movie. Furthermore, I think it is better than Halloween 1, although Doctor Sam Loomis is a bit too crazy in this one. After the old-camera-and-style-Halloween 5 this movie makes a fresh start. To bad it has been retconned like part 3, 4 and 5, which deserved that (except for number 4). I would like Halloween 9 to continue the storyline of the cult supporting and praying to Michael Myers, but it probably won't. "}{"Title":"Great Sequel!","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film, in my opinion, is one of the best sequels in the Halloween series. Its also very different from all of the other Michael Myers films, which I found to be a good thing. First off, I think that the quick-cuts in the opening sequence at the very beginning are really cool. Also, the soundtrack is great although I wish some of the themes in the theatrical release could've been used a little more often. The film also contains some pretty intense suspense in a few of the scenes and some great deaths. However, the plot is pretty weak, and the ending has little to do with the rest of the story. Therefore, the story makes very little sense in the end, but the ending is still pretty good. Its totally action-packed, and full of thrills. Here's what I make of the ending in terms of the plot standpoint It seems to me that Michael Myers simply used the cult members to get to Jamie and the rest of his family. Also, I think that the cult was experimenting and attempting to control pure evil all these years. And all those test tubes, DNA profiles, and charts laying around are all a possible reason for Michael's curse. I know this seems dumb, but this is really the only explanation I can obtain. The details are very sketchy.Although the plot is weak, we do get some answers. We find out who the mysterious man-in-black is; it turns out to be one of the main characters. We do find out a little bit of what happened on the night Jamie was abducted in Halloween 5.However, the plot raises many new questions that are never answered. Even though there are a few negative aspects in this movie, I still recommend it. I also recommend Halloween I, II, IV, and H2O. "},{"Title":"Oh Dear ! The whole town to miss Halloween ?","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  **SPOILERS BUT NO REAL GIVE AWAY**Hmmm, I watched it from start to finish and was entertained, but gee guys, how about that Michael Guy, he seems to be un-killable ! (I suppose he has to be around for the next movie ) The deaths come fast and furious and really are well done, it's all the same old recipe, even to the the young people in the cast and the strange friends and the obligatory underwear scenes. Not a complete waste of time just nothing special. "},{"Title":"Same old stuff, only worse","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After a very unsatisfying explanation for the previous movie's incoherent finale, this one settles down into the same old stuff, even more dull and obvious than its predecessors; sadly, this was Donald Pleasance's last movie.  Once again, the door is left open for another sequel, but who could have possibly predicted it would end up being one of the best horror movies of the decade?    "},{"Title":"Halloween 666- Origin Of Michael Myers (Producer's Cut Version)","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ************************CONTAINS SPOILERS**************************** I have already seen Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers, and I now have gotten to see the alternate version of the film- The Producer's Cut. This is a comment on the alternate Producer's Cut version of the film, not the original theatrical release, and since IMDB doesn't have a page for the producer's cut since it wasn't released, I'm leaving this comment for it. I have compared the producer's cut and the original cut together. There are things I liked about the producer's cut, like some of the dialogue and such, but there were some things I didn't like. The ending of the original version was very well done, but in the alternate cut they were in a big room and Kara was laid down with a crown on her, and they began to perform the ancient ceremony. I thought that it brought the subject of the overall film too far off the Michael Myers subject. It just brought you into this whole other side of the movie, which was strange and didn't even out the film. Also, I like the flashing montages Joe Chappelle added to the original cut, and also I liked the original soundtrack better. The producer's cut only had the classic Halloween theme, which was okay, but I think the other soundtrack added a little more spark to the film. All In all, I give Halloween 666- The Origin Of Michael Myers(The Alternate Producer's Cut) a 5 out of 10. I recommend that you see the original first, then the producer's cut, so that you can have your chance to compare. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The prologue of this movie shows that Jamie Lloyd, the daughter of (supposedly) Laurie Strode, kills by Michael Myers, her own uncle, meanwhile her baby is find by Tommy Doyle (Paul Rudd), the child that Laurie Strode sat for in the first film. Tommy has become obsessed with Michael Myers and has his eye on a family who's moved into the old Myers house. The family it self are a relatives of Laurie Strode, that's why Michael stalks each of every Strodes and trying to get the baby. Together with Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasance), Tommy tries to reveal the secret beneath the mask of Michael Myers's life.   Halloween Curse of Michael Myers is the end of the fake Halloween movies sequels. Curse of Michael Myers, came along as part 4th and 5th are something that uncounted to the Halloween saga. The real events that happened were in 1st, 2nd, H20 and Resurrection, although the fake series had Michael Myers on it, but we may dismiss it from the whole Halloween series, because it's nothing to do with Laurie Strode-Michael Myers conflict.Technically, this movie is standard, but has it own good scares and chills. Michael Myers is still looks so scary. The gore scene is good. Frankly, this is a decent sequel. Not good, but also not bad, even the plot is getting complicated, with a bit sci-fi touching on it (no wonder why the producer wants to end this fake sequels). Worth to watch.   7/10 "},{"Title":"The first Myers outing I didn't like.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked Halloween; I liked Halloween II.  We'll skip the third Halloween for obvious reasons.  Halloween 4 didn't have the same flavor as the original 2, but I still liked it.  Halloween 5 I actually liked more than 4.  I hate Halloween 6 both theatrical and producer's cut.Possible Spoilers of both cuts belowThe sixth Halloween films tries way too hard to be a good film.  It jam packs plot, mythology, and coincidences into it until the film is ready to burst.  Someone needs to tell Chappelle and Farrands that less is better. Wow!  We have have the brother of the father of Laurie living in the Myers house, and Michael is after his sister's daughter's son, but the little boy Laurie babysat 17 years ago is here to save the day.  You see where this is going?  It's like this film was written, shot, and edited in Arkansas--everyone is freakin' related to a previous film somehow. Halloween 6 has more plot dependant coincidences than the entire Friday the 13th series (and that is really freakin' impressive.)  Ooh, and let's not forget the cued lightning which reveals Michael outside the window at just the right moment.  Yeah right, I buy that . . .During the total 15 minutes where the film is not busy explaining something Michael or thorn or one of it's ungodly number of coincidences, you have stale Friday-the-13th-ish stalking sequences or (even worse) or the good guys doing something stupid.  Someone jumps out a window for the sole purpose of making the trailer look cool and intense.  But don't worry though, you'll probably be asleep by the time it happens . . . all the mythology crap which ruins the image of Myers is told, retold, and elaborated.  Loomis explained enough about Michael in Halloween 1 & 2; we did not need a 65 minute explanation.Oh yeah, and Halloween 6 also has an ending which has nothing to do with the film itself.  The only thing the rumored Producer's Cut has over the theatrical cut is the fact its ending actually goes with the film.  It's just as stupid as the theatrical ending, but it does tie in with the other 70 - 80 minutes of the film.  Oh yes, and Producer Cut's music is far superior to the theatrical cut.  I like hearing Halloween on guitar and drums, but it is -not- scary or haunting.  Producer's Cut has the -real- music.This film might be worth watching again if I found out director Joe Chappelle made a cameo to get killed by Myers.  But to my knowledge, he sits safely behind the camera throughout the whole film so oh well.  It's a shame that the actor more associated with Halloween than Curtis, Donald Pleasance, passed away after this film.  His screen presence helped exalt the original Halloweens above its competition, and no one will ever fill that void in the series.  Even Laurie's return in H20 still didn't feel right without Loomis. If any actor made Halloween, it was Donald Pleasance.On my closing note, it's funny that Halloween came first--Friday the 13th cheaply imitated Halloween.  And in Halloween 6, they actively imitated its own imitator.  What's wrong with this picture?  To be repeated with H20 . ..           "},{"Title":"Inferior Halloween sequel","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sixth installment has Michael Myers (George P. Wilbur) involved in a cult. He needs his niece's newborn as sacrificial lamb, so his search leads him back to his hometown in Haddonfield where he kills anyone in his way.  Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) springs back into action to save the baby and destroy Michael.This sequel is inferior in more ways than one.  First, the story line about Michael's involvement in a cult is unclear.  It's not scary, just plain dull and boring.  Second, are the unpleasant murders.  Nothing scary, just pointless and gory - and a higher body count to boot.  Finally, Pleasence's performance.  His role seems forced as the doctor, who moves really slow and looks physically ill. Sadly, he died shortly before this limp movie was completed.  My evaluation (no stars). "},{"Title":" Michael won't understand","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Paul Rudd is revolting as Thomas in this turdy horror farce. The remaining cast is dumb. The costumes are horrendous. One of the poor movies in the genre, Halloween 6 The Curse Of Michael Myers serves few chills. 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Grossly Underrated!!!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This ties with Halloween 5 as one of the best Horror sequels of all time in my opinion. The atmosphere is Scary as Hell, the acting is pretty good, and Paul Rudd gives an EXCELLENT performance as Tommy Doyle. The only thing I can say bad about this movie is that the theatrical cut of the film does leave many questions. Really to me that makes it even more scary, as you cant fully comprehend why Michael does what he does. If everything was fully explained, it would take away some of the suspense of the film. Most of these questions, however, are answered in the underground producers cut of the film which has become somewhat of a holy grail for hardcore series fans. Really, I think this movie is, without a doubt, the most underrated film in the history of the horror Genre. Dont let what critics say deter you from this movie. Watch this film if you havent seen it, and if you can, try to find the producers cut and watch that also. I think you will agree that its not nearly as bad as some people have said. "},{"Title":"major let down","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS ARE IN THIS REVIEW AND SPOILERS FROM HALLOWEEN 5to be honest i find Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers to be a major let down, it had so much potential but failed so bad.it's been 6yrs since the events of Halloween 5, the stranger in black shot up the Haddonfield police station freeing Michael at the end. Michael and Jamie are both presumed dead, but they are alive and well being kidnapped by a cult of druids.Dr. Loomis is now retired living far off from contact.Jamie gives birth to a baby, we never find out who the father is but from what i hear in the producers cut we find out it is Michael who is the father. sick i know.after Jamie gives birth she escapes with her baby, Michael catches up and kills her, but he can't find the baby. the baby is too be the final sacrifice for Michael.we also find out Michael has some curse of thorn that drives him too kill. funny that was never brought up before.Tommy Doyle(Paul Rudd) is all grown up and has an obsession with Michael, he knows Myers will be back to kill again.there is a new family living in the Myers place. Kara(Marianne Hagan) has a young son Danny who like Michael hears the voices to kill.Dr. Loomis, Tommy and Kara try to put an end to Michael once and for all.now i know this review may not make Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers sound good, but if you're a die hard fan you will probably enjoy it on some level. i hate the plot with a passion but i look past that and take the movie for what it is, and enjoy it.my major problem with Halloween 6, other then the plot is that Jamie Lloyd is no longer played by Danielle Harris, a new actress J.C. Brandy played her.too me Danielle Harris will alway be Jamie Lloyd.the script by Daniel Farrands was rather lousy, but from what i hear the director was a bit of a pain and kept having the writer change everything.and the directing by Joe Chappelle had it's moments but very few at that.this was also Donald Pleasence last Halloween film since he passed away after filming.i give Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers 6/10. being a huge Halloween fan i was able to find the good in this movie but it was pretty damn hard. "}{"Title":"A confusing mess","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now before I comment this, supposedly a director's cut of this movie exists, with an additional 45 minutes not seen in the original release. Maybe if this was the version I saw, I would understand the movie more. Anyhoo, here's my review... This movie is a mess. For us fans of the series, it is moronic at times. The movie opens up with Michael Myer's niece who for some reason is living in some underground facility. Was she kidnapped? Plus, she has a child...who is the father? Huh? Ok...then all of a sudden Michael shows up. Did he sneak in there, or was he there all along? None of this is explained. His niece escapes with her child, & hides it at a bus depot, with Michael on her tail. She doesn't live long, but of course, Mr. Myers heads back to Haddonfield. Now fastforward to 'Halloween' part 1...remember Tommy Doyle, the boy who Jaime Lee Curtis was babysitting? He's all grown up & is the main character in this movie. Tommy somehow hears the niece's 911 call & miracously realizes she was calling from a bus station & retrieves her child. Then he also realizes that Michael Myers is insane because he is part of a cult. Huh? In the 1st films, he was just a child who went nuts, & killed his sister. Now almost 20 years go by & they try to throw this in the storyline. I don't think this is what John Carpenter had in mind. The main focus in this movie is the late, great Donald Pleasence who makes his last appearance as Dr. Sam Loomis. He returns to the film to try & stop Michael. Now when you watch this movie, try & figure out what the last scene is about. I still don't understand. I feel this movie is hurt the most with horrible editing. Hopefully a director's cut will appear, & give this film a better chance. If you are a fan of the series, see this one. Just don't expect the greatest sequel to the series. "},{"Title":"Fantabulous! Absolutely SUBTASTIC!! Paul Rudd at his finest!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved it! Want another cookie?  Then watch this film! It is like a party in your mouth that will make you hunger for more. Cheerio!  "},{"Title":"A mess","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  possible spoilers  The sixth Halloween film is an utterly depressing affair, but unfortunately not in the manner envisioned by the filmmakers. By now, everyone knows the story of how it was butchered and released in such a sloppy, incoherent form. The second half, in particular, makes little to no sense, as plot elements are introduced and dropped, seemingly at random. The very ending left me scratching my head. What the hell happened? Is Dr. Loomis dead or what? This is what you get when you put a shameless hack in charge of a motion picture. It's not a pretty sight. On a related note, this is the most graphically violent entry in the series. I have no problem with gore if it's in the right place, but this movie takes it to absurd levels. The infamous exploding head must be a new low for the series. Michael himself even seems to be enjoying the act of murdering another human being, inconsistent with his efficient, methodical approach in the John Carpenter original. I'm not quite sure who was responsible; director Joe Chappelle or the producers, probably a combination of both. I'd be perfectly happy to grant a pardon to all concerned if only they'd release the legendary Producers' Cut, a more complete version of the film that is a vast improvement from every account. From what I understand, it's like a different movie altogether. I offer to pay full price to purchase the DVD if Miramax comes to its senses and releases it. There are a handful of good elements, however. The idea of Michael being controlled by the Druids is intriguing. Paul Rudd is solid as Tommy Doyle, whose appearance is a neat tie-in with the original. The slick visuals help make the proceedings a bit more watchable. But these meager offerings are overshadowed by the overload of drivel we have to put up with.Finally, The Curse of Michael Myers is noted for being Donald Pleasance's last film. Many of his scenes were excluded from the final cut, and when he does appear, he seems frail and unhappy. The movie is dedicated to his memory, a blatant (if unintentional insult) if there was ever one. The fact that a talented performer should end his career like this is too depressing to even think about. *1/2 (out of ****)Released by Dimension Films "},{"Title":"As good as a fifth sequel of a horror series could possibly be.","Date":"15 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween  The Curse of Michael Myers was a decent sequel.  There was nothing special to this chapter, but it was pretty good.  Although I kind of liked the film, I'm going to point out what was wrong with the film instead of praise it or defend it, because it doesn't deserve it.  First, get off the Strode family already!  No, I'm not saying that they don't deserve to get hacked up, but I don't care about those pricks.  Laurie was a trooper, but the rest of the family ticks me off.  Beside, Michael doesn't mind killing other people.  He'll gladly hack up another family.  Just ask him.Second, Tommy Doyle should have been played by someone else.  I'm not saying Paul Rudd is a bad actor, but he was the wrong man to play Tommy.  Tommy was just a goofy ten-year-old in the first Halloween.  What happened?  Paul Rudd's Tommy was a mix between Psycho's Norman Bates and Fox Mulder from The X-Files, only Tommy wasn't as entertaining.  Tommy should have been played by someone like Matthew Lillard.  Yes, Rudd is a better actor than Lillard, but the role of Tommy doesn't need a great actor behind it, just someone who could act kind of goofy.  Rudd did that, sort of, but Lillard could do it better.Third, they didn't need to bring Donald Pleasence back.  He was getting old and probably shouldn't have accepted the invitation to return, but they shouldn't have asked him back in the first place.  He lacked the energy he brought to the Sam Loomis character.  I don't like saying that, but its true.Finally, Michael just looked and felt different.  It looked like he packed on twenty pounds and his mask had changed some.  He was also speed-walking when he chased that doctor down the hall in the final sequence of the movie.  He doesn't speed-walk.  He slowly makes his way through each scene.There were some solid deaths in the film, but overall, Halloween 666 was a mild disappointment.  I still liked the movie, but there were a lot of flaws.Halloween 666 receives a score of *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Riiiight! (Spoken in Dr. Evil voice)","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While promising to tie-up loose ends, and actually explain the origins and rage behind Michael Myers, this film never, ever does this.  At least the version available to all...The theatrical version is junk...pure and simple.  For some reason, Dimension was not happy with the infamous Producer's Cut, and reshoot over 40 mins of footage, that never really worked.  Check out the Alternate Version info on Imdb for the real version we should have available to us.  Much better.This one gives a very fat Michael, stalks the Strode family that has moved into his house.  Alot of gore and violence, not story...So, now we have Michael linked to the druids?  why?  That was not what Carpenter intended back in 1978!  He was just an evil force driven to kill his family....This one gets too complicated, trying to tell a story that it doesn't even know....Michael is just evil...Plain and simple...Don't try to analysis this....just make him do what he does best...Kill....He is more human in this one that any of the others....5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Generation X Slasher","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Fun movie. Seemed a lot like a more upbeat, hip version of the previous films. The death scenes were the most violent and therefore the best of all the Halloween films in that aspect. Tommy Doyle was a cool character, a demented man haunted by Michael Myers. Sad to see this was Donald Plesance's last film, but I think that little scene at the end explains it all.Nice job. A good way of getting over the ultraviolence. "},{"Title":"this was the scariest one!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  All of the Halloween's were great but this was probably my favorite. This has enough thrills and chills to scare almost anyone. If you haven't seen any of the previous movies you will not get it. If you liked any of the Halloween's you will really  like this one.  "},{"Title":"Best from a bad bunch","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I normally don't like sequels, and Halloween's 2,3,4 & 5 verify my dislike, but I thought this was a very good film with a good story line, and some explanation of the last 5 films. However I think H20 is the best. "},{"Title":"Terrible sequel, bad as Halloween III","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sixth film in the series is an uneven, slasher sequel with Michael again returning to his hometown of Haddonfield, murdering the family that moved into his old home, and after his niece's newborn baby. It's very bloody, but does provide some new links to Myers' evil.  Pleasance died shortly after the filming. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Halloween Series","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What is all this crap about halloween 6curse of michael myers. Just for reading all the bad comments on this movie almost convinced me not to bother with this movie. But thank god to my friends and cousins, they told me that this movie was awesome. I watched it and i agreed with them this was awesome.In my own opinion i think this movie dosen't deserve any lower than a 9/10. "}{"Title":"What was the point of this?","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, after the mindless trash that was Halloween 5, I wasn't expecting too much from this film.  And my (very) low expectations were met.  What a waste of $5 million!!!  And a slur on the (reasonably) good name of the Halloween series.  I have to admit though, the mask was quite good, and definitely the best one the sequels have come up with.Why did they recast Jamie Lloyd?  She's supposed to be 15, and she looks 25!! And, if she's been held captive for the past 6 years, where the hell did she learn to drive a truck?!!!All in all, a distinctly uninspiring entry in the series, and as bad as any of the dreadful Friday the 13th movies - I was bored out of my skull!!!!! "},{"Title":"GOOD, EXCEPT FOR THE THORN THING!!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay a good movie, but then they had to add all this stuff about Michael being cursed by THORN, this I didn't like. But the movie was great. Michael was strong, big and his killings were great. Like at the start he slammed the women head in to the sharp point and broke the guy's neck with the flick of the wrist. The dark atmosphere was great and Michael was wicked. Overall this movie was cool, some new killings by michael, a freaky music score and some pretty good acting. But the THORN thing wasn't a good touch. "},{"Title":"Critically panned sequel deserves real recognition...","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Curse Of Michael Myers has been trashed since its release. Nobody has ever given it the credit it deserves. Sure, it doesn't live up to the original, but this is a sequel. What were you expecting? Out of all the sequels, though, this one would be the best. It attempts to explain the origin of Michael's evil(like Jason Goes To Hell). Not a great success, but it does explain why nobody has been able to kill him. Bothering to explain why he's killing isn't really important. A killer is scarier when he doesn't have a motive, right? Anyway, he's been killing off his family(and anyone else who happens by). The only survivor is a newborn baby. He spends the rest of the film chasing the baby as the rest of the cast is slowly eliminated. That's the story.What makes this film the best of the sequels isn't the story. I mean, let's face it, there never was one. It's the style. Director Joe Chappelle(Phantoms) brings with him some of the style of Carpenter's original. However, there are significant differences terror and violence.I can't say the original Halloween was all that terrifying. It had all the suspense of a Hitchcock film, but no terror. Chappelle takes the accent off suspense and puts a healthy dose of terror in its place. Why? Well, this was made for a 90's audience. Slasher films aren't suspenseful anymore, so all that's left is pure terror. Any director can create terror, but it takes one who understands a bit about fear to do it with style. Chappelle is such a director. Particular scenes to pay attention to are the barn and the disappearing axe. Then, of course, there's the finale. Just to tell you, there is one scene that qualifies as the most chilling moment in the entire Halloween series the conclusion to the family argument at the breakfast table.Over the course of the Halloween films, the depiction of violence has changed. The first was completely bloodless. They got a bit more violent, in order to keep gorehounds from falling asleep, but it was still very tame for the genre. No matter how violent they got, they never included any gore. This one, on the other hand, is a full-blown horror film. All the gore you didn't see in the previous installments is on display right here. We have, in addition to the obligatory axe murders, more creative deaths, like an electrocution, followed by an exploding head; impalement on farm equipment; a man being pushed through a steel grate. It should be noted that one murder is staged without gore, much like Carpenter would have done.As you can clearly see, this was meant to be the last of the films. All the terror and gore were meant to give the series a big slasher film sendoff. It worked perfectly. That is, until the overrated H20 hit theaters. "},{"Title":"yawn central","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Mom always said to be honest, so I gotta say I remember virtually nothing from this movie.  It tries to explain Myers origin (ala Jason Goes to Hell) but its so uninteresting and dull that it went over my head.  And theres barely any killings, cuz so much time is wasted explaining what this guys about.  This is a slasher film.  You are supposed to stick to slashing and not storytelling.  Otherwise you end up with crapola like this.  Nuff said.  And Donald Pleasance, you were one of the great ones, we'll miss you. "},{"Title":"Worse than an America's Funniest  Home Video's-style injury.","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie raised many questions I don't have the answers to Was it just terrible or was it the most vile piece of sludge ever coughed up by a hack director? What kind of mind-altering drug did the film-makers use when they were creating this piece of garbage? And why the heck did I sit through it all the way?There are also some questions I know the answer to Did Donald Pleasance deserve a better movie to end his long, rich career with? (yes). Can Paul Rudd, although very likable, carry a whole movie? (no). Was this the dumbest Halloween yet? (Yup.)The Halloween series is unique in that each film is much worse than the one that preceded it. Incredible. Don't see this movie. Please.The one good thing? Paul Rudd's character had a picture of Divine on his fridge. That's it.  Ugh. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Dimension picked up a very gruesome screenplay by Daniel Farrands, filmed it and changed their minds by chopping it up - now what we have is a confusing, incoherent mess. The plot involves Michael Myers chasing after a baby who is somewhat his niece's daughter (actually in the uncut version - HIS OWN DAUGHTER! EEEWW! Now you see why the producers changed their minds) They cut a lot of scenes out that they found disturbing. Several other stupid, unlikable characters are killed off before the big climax doesn't do much to convince us that H6 is the end. What Dimensions Films should have done was to completely redo the script - make it sensible, smarter, logical, etc. that way the fans can enjoy H6. Although this film may have a bunch of great, spooky scenes that fans would find excellent. This is the best since the first Halloween and the worst of the series. Confused? Don't ask cuz i'm confused too.  "},{"Title":"Good flick for the younger crowd","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You'll either love this, or hate it.  If it's your first Halloween movie, and you're fairly young (<25) you'll love it, and may not even realize what the big deal about Halloween I is. Its smart in a 90's sense.If you're a bit older, or have seen the previous movies, it will probably be a let down. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not particulary great either","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  At least its better than part 4 (I haven't seen 5 yet). It was ok, the gore made it good. 6 out of 10. Rated R for strong horror violence and gore, some language, brief sexuality and nudity. "},{"Title":"It's Horror Entertainment","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the 6th Halloween film and the 5th Halloween in the series to feature Michael Myers. Micheal's story starts getting worse by adding occult elements and having Michael to become more of a virtually indestructible being than before.I watch the movie more as a guilty-pleasure rather than for a good movie to view. It is quite entertaining but definitely a stereo-typical slasher film series by now. And the saga is starting to become campy but not loosing all of it's appeal.No Halloween 6 is not an outstanding film nor a great story but it does keep a fan of horror entertained. And does help give some more background on Michael Myers.6/10 "},{"Title":"Its behind-the-scenes problems are clearly evident","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" An unusually lame, almost nonexistent title scene opens this, the most over-plotted and confusing Halloween of them all.In this, the third film in this series which retroactively changes the previous film's ending, Myers is now part of some obscure Druid cult. They apparently never interact with each other, or communicate with him, however, and he still hasn't taken off that mouldy, rancid mask of his. Has he worn it ever since 1978? It is implied that he kidnapped his niece at the end of H5, held her captive for the next six years, and impregnated her, just so he can chase her and her newborn kid and try to kill them, as part of some curse put upon him and his family, by unknown individuals for unknown reasons. He then returns to his hometown, and goes after a family dwelling in his restored childhood home.The gimmick Man In Black from part 5 is explained by retroactively inserting a character into the storyline, as the leader of this Druid cult. His accomplices are never explained at all (What could they possibly have to gain by having anything to do with Michael Myers?) and are quickly and conveniently killed by Myers, and a strobe light, rather than have to explain any of this crap regarding them or their motives.Film seems like it was written by many different people who did not know what each other was writing, and then heavily edited down from a much longer film, with annoying flashes and noises to try to bridge the gaps left by the heavy editing. It is too bad they didn't edit out the character of the obnoxious radio broadcaster.Occasionally atmospheric, and with a few good visuals, that can't compensate for a mindbogglingly confusing screenplay, and yet another pointless, and anticlimactic, ending (which will doubtlessly be retroactively changed in the following sequel, as is usual for this series) "}{"Title":"Tired showing in a past-it franchise","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The HALLOWEEN series really stalled with the fifth entry, which I consider the worst of the bunch. It's a film entirely devoid of imagination, wit, originality and scares, content to rehash old scenes over and again. HALLOWEEN 6 is marginally better because it seeks to introduce a new element to the plot, involving a sinister religious cult that somehow controls Michael Myers. The film ends up as a failure, but it earns points for at least making the effort.The problem with the cult plot is that it doesn't have anything to do with the bread and butter of the series, which is the stalk 'n' slash sequences. The cult scenes could have been excised and the film wouldn't be any different, which goes to show how extraneous they are. There are plenty of stalking sequences in this movie, but none of them are particularly engaging and most of them feel tired. When the Carpenter theme tune is still the best thing in the movie, you know it isn't up to much. There are some mega cheesy gore effects to be endured/enjoyed depending on your partiality, but otherwise this is knifing-by-numbers.Of the cast, Donald Pleasence is the only recurring actor and it's pretty sad to see him in his final days, tottering and weak and with his voice long gone. Needless to say, he still gives the best performance, with the rest of the cast muddled with related characters and TV-level acting. It's not an entirely bad film, because the pacing is strong and the attempt was made to take things in a different direction, but the thing that really spoils it is the direction Joe Chappelle apparently found Pleasence boring and removed most of his scenes, and in favour of what? More slasher sequel mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Turns a scary horror icon into a unscary horror icon","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie was very disappointing. The acting was very bad. I've seen better acting in a porn movie. It was very boring. And the hole Thorn thing makes the first Halloween less interesting. The Boogie man should never be revealed. The boogie man should always be kept a mystery. Revealing why Michael Myers would not die was a huge mistake because it makes Myers less scary. It makes him less scary knowing that he could only kill his family members. So if your not a family member of his you don't have to worry cause Michael won't come after you! This didn't even feel like a Halloween movie! *Sigh* no wounder why they decided to ignore the events of Halloween 4-6 in H2O. The people who said on the DVD cover that 'The scariest Halloween of them all!' are either complete idiots or they didn't even watch this movie. And I'm a fan of the series and I still thought this was a horrible movie. It's better then the god awful Halloween 3 by only 1 percent. Joe Chappelle should of never directed this movie. Instantly the wrong choice as directer. He chose to delete most of legendary Donald Pleasence's scene's because he felt his character Doctor Sam Loomis was To boring. Joe you are a complete idiot. That's one thing that made the original movie work so well. Hearing his character tell us how evil Myers really is. That's what ruined this movie. Fred Walton would've been much better as directer. He was considered to direct this movie. He also directed the original 1979's 'When A Stranger Calls'. The replacement of Danielle Harris sucked. Looked nothing like her. The only positive thing about this movie is the song used at the end credits. Hearing the Halloween theme on the rock guitar does not sound as scary when it's played on the piano. The script was poorly written. The sound effects in this movie sounded very fake. The sound effect when someone got stabbed sounded fake. The ending was cheesy and didn't make any sense. Sadly this crap-tastic movie was legendary Donald Pleasence's last movie. He past away right after finishing this movie. The people who made this movie should be ashamed. They tried way to hard to make this movie scary. Well I guess they needed to try better. Even the producers cut was boring. This movie was very disappointing. Where is Debra Hill and John Carpenter when you need them the most? "},{"Title":"The Curse serves as the franchise's Hearse.","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There is a lot wrong with this movie. It can be said that doing a sequel to Halloween was a bad idea in the first place, and we should feel lucky that the previous entries, even at their lowest, were still watchable. But even still, Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers -- even today -- is so bad, it's shocking. Poor movie-making at it's worst, indeed. There is so much blame to go around. But where to begin? Whose shoulders does this blame rest on? Was it director Joe Chapelle's style-over-substance directing? Well, at the very least, the sixth installment is fresh on the visual front. And as far the visual effects go, you get to see Michael kill in some pretty gruesome ways, even if it doesn't quite fit in with the overall tone of the series.So, could Daniel Ferrands' troubled script be the culprit? Well, to be fair, he did the best he could. By the time you reach the sixth entry in any series, you're running out of places to go. Finding a rhyme to Michael's reason isn't a bad concept so much as it's an uninteresting one, especially the way it's handled here. And it really doesn't help that the movie was hacked to pieces and sewn back together so many times that the story got completely lost towards the end.Perhaps Dimension/Miramax could have botched the whole thing. Afterall, this was the first studio film in the Halloween series and we all know what happens when too many cooks get in the kitchen. Heck, look at the unbelievable lows they dragged Hellraiser to? I guess everyone is to blame, because aside from the actors and the visual effects guys, it seems nobody put in the effort to deliver a decent flick.The bottom line, though, is that no matter how you cut it, slice it, dice it or electrocute it until it's head explodes, Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers was never a good film. Marking an all-time low for the series that nearly killed off any credibility for Michael Myers, Curse is just that cursed. The thorn angle was never interesting, nor was it probably expanded upon. The needless gore is so out of place and replaces the tension that is the trademark of the Halloween name. Towards the end, the movie stops making sense, stops trying to push a plot and simply tries to find a way to kill the characters and end the film before anything else is lost. It's sad that Donald Pleasence's final performance is immortalized in this film, even if the man did the best he could under the worst possible conditions. And for the most part, there's other strong cast-members in this film. Paul Rudd plays the weird, anti-social adult Tommy Doyle rather naturally while Marianne Hagan does a fair job at portraying the sympathetic female lead. On the other side of the coin, the re-casting of Jamie Lloyd was a shame, and thank God Devin Gardner doesn't do movies anymore. As the child in the film being pursued by the Man in Black, Danny is the anti-Jamie in that he is annoying, whiny and absolutely unbelievable in his role. It's sad when you can't even feel sympathy for a child in a horror film. But I guess that's Halloween 6 in a nutshell. Essentially, this is the anti-Halloween, made by a director who didn't know what he was doing and a studio that had their own agenda. Hell, even the music is bad. Many will try to paint this as the edgy-Halloween because of it's sci-fi twist, but really, it's just stupid. Save for some good visuals and decent characters, The Curse Of Michael Myers is just about as bad as it gets. And this is coming from a fan! "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I personally LOVE this film amidst the Halloween series. I've found, after watching it with many friends, that you enjoy it completely, or find it absolutely unbearable. Personally, i've watched it dozens of times, and it never gets old. There is a great back story within the movie itself, and a lot of different things are finally explained. It's a rather short movie, at just shy of 90-minutes, but it's definitely a thrill ride.The shape seems to be pretty brutal in this film, but the acting is still there with the way he walks, stalks and kills. There are a lot of neat little screen shots with Micheal appearing in the background, which adds more of a spooky element to the movie. "},{"Title":"One of the series better entries!","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS is an highly enjoyable slasher sequel. The film tries to answer all the questions that were left unanswered in HALLOWEEN 5 THE REVENGE OF MICHAEL MYERS, by revealing what the Thorn cult symbolizes & just who the Man In Black was & what his connection was to Michael. GEORGE P. WILBUR (HALLOWEEN 4) plays the role of Michael well (one of two actors to don the role more than once) & the special effects by John Carl Buechller (also of HALLOWEEN 4) is also really good. Interestingly the film tends to try & bridge the gap that exists between the Michael Myers films & the seemingly unconnected third film, with the introduction of the druid cult & the pagan rituals of Halloween not to mention the re- introduction of the Samhain methos mentioned in II, played up to in III & was oddly jettisoned in 4 & 5. The film also introduces Mr. Blankenship an elderly lady who as it turns out is a member of the cult (interestingly enough HALLOWEEN III SEASON OF THE WITCH also makes mention of a character named Mrs. Blankenship & that film also dealt with a druidic cult). HALLOWEEN 6 also brings back the heavy breathing Michael of Part I & II & pays tribute to the original film in a scene where Danny (the kid hero of the film) trips & falls, smashing his pumpkin in front of Tommy Doyle, who also dropped a pumpkin smashing it in the first film. There's a tribute to John Carpenters THE FOG, wherein a kid asks for a stomach pounder, the character of Dr. Wynn returns from the original, played quiet well by MITCHELL RYAN, (interestingly enough, this character was originally written for Christopher Lee, who turned down the Dr. Loomis role in the first & later regretted it, before the studio jettisoned the idea). Debra & John Strode are named after HALLOWEEN 1-3 film-makers Debra Hill & John Carpenter. There's even a tribute to WHEN A STRANGER CALLS (1979) interestingly enough, director Fred Walton was originally set to take the helm, but had to beg off at the last minute.The film score by ALAN HOWARTH is more in line with John Carpenter score & thus fits the film better than the rock soundtrack the theatrical cut presented. That said the film exists in two forms THE THEATRICAL CUT, while pretty good in it's own right, attempts to substitute flashy editing & over the top gore scenes, often times instead of suspense, character & story structure & revels in weird imagery such as an creepy mental patient who has aborted her own baby before dying! plus the film seems to say that it's the cult that has Michael under it's control, when at the climax he just winds up killing them! Which makes you wonder what the point of this plot was? While the PRODUCERS CUT is more in line with the series, since it's plot is better orchestrated, the characters are better fleshed out & more suspense & tension added, a better score & more linear editing, with the kills not being over the top or super gory. It easily ranks up in the top five best of the Halloween franchise & is much more intelligent than Part 5 & discards any supernatural elements of the Theatrical Cut, in favour of revealing the cult as a group of doctors who try to genetically isolate Michael's evil. Another difference is the fact that Jamie Lloyd (played here by J.C. BRANDY) who is killed very gorily by Michael in a barn in the Theatrical Cut, is killed off by The Man In Black in the Producers Cut (who uses a silencer on his gun to dispatch her) almost a full hour into the film, in a hospital & helps move the Man In Black plot forward. While I missed the character of Jamie, I will admit this helps enrich the mystery surrounding the villainous character of HALLOWEEN 6's co-villain. The Producers Cut also reveals that the baby the cult & Michael are pursuing is indeed Michaels child! Kara, her son Danny & Tommy play a bigger role in the climax than they do in the theatrical cut & the climax is more in tone with the build up that the film was leading up to than what the theatrical cut was, with Tommy using the power of the runes he was talking about earlier in the film & that was connected with the Druids, to immobilize Michael & sets up the interesting notion that the curse of Thorn will pass from Michael, to Kara's son Danny, which will open the door to a new era of terror & blood shed & setting up Dr. Loomis as Michael's new caretaker instead of Dr. Wynn, with Michael breaking Dr. Wynn's control over him & switching clothes with him. Mrs. Blankenship telling Danny about the dark, pagan roots of the season of Halloween is super creepy & the fact that she mentions she was babysitting Michael the night he butchered his sister was interesting, in the sense that the opening shot in HALLOWEEN shows Michael walking from across the street (Mrs. Blankenships home) & over to his own home. The film also explores more of the Thorn symbol, what it means & the cult surrounding it. The only complaint I have is that the film never does feature a confrontation between Michael or Dr. Loomis which is a shame... In the end, HALLOWEEN THE CURSE OF MICHAEL MYERS while far from perfect, is still well worth a look for fans of the series. If you want to see the better version however, try & get a hold of the Producers Cut which is a far superior version in almost every way. Highly recommended to series fans. Followed by HALLOWEEN H20.Theatrical Cut *** stars Producers Cut ***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Atrocious","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was horrible.  This along with 3 are the worst Halloween movies I have ever seen.  The movie has the original Halloween survivor, Tommy Doyle, in it along with a few other 1-D characters.  You've got the Fred Flinstone, the pot-smoking son, an easily disposable girlfriend, and a few other victims.  You still continue with The Curse of Thorn, a curse put on people so that they kill all of their family members.  The only characters that worked for me was Sam Loomis and Debra Strode.  Sammie is hunting down Michael, still.  Sam, just leave it up to the army or something.  Debra Strode is there long enough to die but her character was the only one that had sense.  The only good thing this movie had was the pretty cool strobe-light effect. That's about it.The acting was OK but the screenplay was bad. VERY bad.  The deaths were gory and stupid.  Even Michael's ending was stupid.  Overall this movie should be roasted at a bonfire or something. Avoid this movie if it comes on TV and don't dare rent it.  Rating 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"worst Halloween","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well I've seen Halloween 1-3, this one, and h20 and this is probably the worst I didn't like the fact that Michael's story seemed to change a bit cause his birth was tampered with, but that's not spoiling anything. This is the worst one without a doubt but still not bad at all! I mean the killings were some of the most brutal I've ever seen you should still see this for maximum violence "},{"Title":"horrible!","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't agree more with Mykee-2. This may be not only the worst sequel ever, but the worst horror movie ever! Nowadays, certain filmmakers think by throwing a name or specific place ( e.c. Tommy Doyle, Haddonfield), into the movie they're creating an acceptable sequel. This movie took 90 minutes of my life away, and I demand them back! (I know I should have had the smarts to walk out of the theater!) "},{"Title":"Ugh!  Avoid!","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is the worst sequel, I have ever seen.  Ever.  Really. It's just brainless carnage.  It also throws in some confusing junk about Michael Myers being cursed.  Wow!  Funny how it was never mentioned in the other films.  The acting is bad, the plot is worse and the direction is rock bottom.  Avoid at all costs.  "},{"Title":"Form of explanation","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After the complete inanity that was the last film, producer Moustapha Akkad had an extremely damaged franchise, and this movie pretty much advertises itself as an explanation for everything that has preceded it. The first half of the film works overtime to bandage the damage done by the last movie, but unfortunately the audience is here for carnage and no one involved really has the energy. By the time the movie ends, we have some explanation but the film itself is still not really complete.Six years after Halloween 5, Jamie is raped and gives birth to a child by a cult that is somehow connected to Michael's strange ways (oh, and his somewhat supernatural ability to survive copious amounts of gun shots, explosions, beatings, and stabbings). She manages to escape and heads to (where else?) Haddonfield, where the local populace is trying to bring back the joy and fun of Halloween after their horrible experiences from previous films. Introduce a cast of characters including the Strodes, who have moved into Michael's house, line them up, and let the carnage begin.This movie does some pretty decent work backing up a bit and finally explaining some of the mysteries of Michael's ways. On the other hand, one of the best parts of Michael's character is simply the fact that we don't know who he is--we never see his face, he never talks, and there's little reason why he kills (the first was psychosexual in nature, from there it's been mostly typical random slasher flick stuff). Now we have to deal with cultists and the supernatural (probably the series' single tie to Halloween 3), and it all gets to be so much that by the time the film starts making sense, it abruptly ends... something like the abrupt end of the first one, but not as crafty.This movie is also kind of modernized, with a rock score and a lot more attention to making it cool for a new generation. This is unfortunate because it makes it needlessly flashy and loses a lot of Carpenter's original creepy score. But at least this is the last one with Dr. Loomis. Loomis way overstayed his welcome two movies ago.--PolarisDiB "}{"Title":"A terrible film in the series","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is great telling the origin of myers. Telling us why he kills, his immortality, and his rage.It's good Michael killed Jamie since J.C brandy sucked. Also Donald Pleasence reprise's his role Dr.Loomis and Ryan did a great job as the evil Dr.Wynn. there's one thing that sucks Michael kills Loomis. What the f*** is up with that also tommy beating myers that's retarded. Wynn got what he deserved when myers killed him. and Michael kills beth which also was terrible but as far as I'm concerned Loomis'S death screwed up the entire movie i don't know why i wasted 10 bucks on this piece of crap.Please don't watch the original version it sucks. Watch the producer's cut instead since it is better than Loomis getting killed by Myers. "},{"Title":"Final Executions Of Films Gone Wrong !","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I ended up watching Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers about ten years ago, and I remember it just being a mess, a terrible mess. But recently I gave it another chance and sat down with a bowl of popcorn and began watching it again and yep, its still terrible. Being a fan of the complete series, I had always felt that it was the weakest entry in the series from the bad jumbled plot to the disgusting rock-ish score. But finally after hearing of the long-discussed Producer's Cut...I want online and found a copy of it. And after watching it I found the differences between the two versions to be huge. I've read good reviews and heard positive things from fans about the Producer's Cut but never fully believed that it would help. Well it did. I thought the story was so out of left field and crammed that I thought nothing could save my view on the film..But it did. The Producer's Cut runs much more smoother, without the much hated score and with less gore. It works so much better, and is actually a worth entry in the Halloween Series. The finale of the film works so much better on different levels and still kept me on the edge of my seat unlike the boring take down of Michael in the theatrical version. I will admit this entry wasn't the easiest to plan out - story-wise. Halloween 5 kinda set things up without any plans or preparation in the direction of the series. Even if you watch the featurette on the Halloween 5...no one knew what was the deal with Thorn or the Man In Black. But Joe Chapelle took the challenge and set up a suspenseful film that had the energy, and aderaline that was needed in order to help the series but was brutally butchered into a gore-fest of worthlessness. "},{"Title":"Wait, what?","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Halloween-franchise has definitely had its ups and downs, but I don't think the campy fun of this bizarre sixth entry can ever be topped. It's the ultimate self parody of the slasher genre, it's an absolute masterpiece for all the wrong reasons. Every long-running horror series has that one part when things just get totally kooky (yes you, Jason Goes To Hell), but when Halloween totally loses its mind, it does so in a splendid fashion. Oh, Jason Voorhees can switch bodies right? Freddy Krueger has a daughter? Well eat our dust, Michael Myers is being mind-controlled by a bunch of Celtic druids! Of course, it all makes so much sense now. The film encounters one big problem though finding characters relevant to the original that aren't dead yet. By total lack of better, it has to center around I kid you not, the boy Laurie Strode babysat in the first one. Wow, was the dude with the boom-box from Halloween II busy? All for the better though, because at least Donald Pleasence can finally get all the attention now. He absolutely shines in this one. He's not even in it that much (allegedly because director Joe Chappelle found him boring), but every moment and every line he gets is just classic Pleasence. Everyone else in this movie has absolutely terrible dialogue (tonight's gonna be killer, hahahahahahahahahaha), but the makers seemed to have done special efforts for old Loomis. Curse is awful, but in the most entertaining of ways. I'd pick it over lackluster entries like Resurrection any day. "},{"Title":"Halloween 6 The Curse of Michael Myers","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I knew about this sequel in the franchise for one very good reason, it was the final film to have the great actor Donald Pleasence, who sadly died not long after filming, and that was one of the main reasons to watch. Basically it has been six years since both psycho killer Michael Myers (George P. Wilbur) and his niece, daughter of the supposedly dead Laurie Strode, Jamie were seen in the town of Haddonfield, but they are very much alive. Now teenage Jamie Lloyd Carruthers (J.C. Brandy) was raped by a cult and gives birth to her baby boy on Halloween Eve, she manages to hide the baby, and alerts Dr. Sam Loomis (Pleasence), but suffers Michael pushing her into a corn thresher. Back in Haddonfield, Halloween is apparently banned ever since the horrible incidents involving Myers, but some people are still getting the pumpkins and costumes out, and the Myers house has a new family living in it. They are the Strode family, the ones who adopted Laurie, mother Kara (Marianne Hagan) with her teenage brother Tim (Keith Bogart), her son Danny (Devin Gardner), and her parents, doting mother Debra (Kim Darby) and abusive father John (Bradford English). The baby is eventually found by Tommy Doyle (The 40 Year Old Virgin's Paul Rudd), the little boy Laurie babysat for in the first film, now grown up, and he gets the help of the seemingly retired Loomis to help look after it. Tommy believes that he has an explanation for why Michael is killing people, specifically on Halloween and from his own family bloodline, apparently he is cursed by what is called the Thorn (which he has the symbol of scarred on him), with voices telling him to kill. Soon enough Michael is back in Haddonfield on Halloween to kill the Strodes and anyone else who gets in his way, and Dr. Terence Wynn (Liar Liar's Mitchell 'Mitch' Ryan) reveals himself as the man who wants to almost help him in his quest, he's the guy that was in black from the previous film. In the end, after a few chases and deaths, Michael is eventually stopped (for a while) with tranquilisers of corrosive chemicals and a lead pipe beating to the head, and Loomis is the final (overheard) victim from the still living killer. Also starring Mariah O'Brien as Beth. It is such a shame that Pleasence's time on screen is so short (the director removed some stuff claiming he was boring!), and of course his being in a rubbish film is tragic. Michael Myers may have a better mask and still be creepy, I may have jumped once, and enjoyed the death with a guy's head exploding, but we don't want explanation in a stupid storyline, it is just predictable and silly, like most of the sequels before it, a terrible horror. Poor! "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie for true series fans","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Since I am a big horror film fanatic, I thought this movie was very good. The plot is basically simple Micheal Myers was cursed with a spell called Thorn, which is a curse that makes whoever has it kill people. Tommy from the oiginal movie is back and his main point is to find and kill Myers. However, the most memorable performance was from Donald Pleasance, who turned in a great act but then sadly died a few months after the making of the film. The movie was full or grueling deaths and the body count was high. So to a true Halloween fan, this movie was pobably good, but it was probably bad for a Halloween series hater. However, for me, I'd give it 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Well, it wasn't good, but they did try something different...","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was one of only two Halloween films I had not seen yet (Resurrection being the other) as it was one I kind of put off because I heard it was not that good. I had it on a horror movie collection so I decided to give it a shot as I felt like watching a horror film. Suffice to say, it was not that good of a film, but I thought it would be worse. I actually like this one more than H2O; however, that is not saying much as I absolutely hated that one. Here they were trying something different, but in the end thanks to last minute changes the third act is very much an incomprehensible mess. I have seen some of what was going to be the ending and it manages to explain things better as far as what the deal was with the cult and baby, but it too, was no masterpiece as it did some very strange things too. This was Donald Pleasence's last role, and seeing him in this one you can tell he was not going to be around much longer. He apparently liked what they were planning to do with this film, but apparently a lot of changes were made on the fly which resulted in a big train wreck at the end.The story tries to explain Michael's killing tendencies...which is probably mistake one. Never try to explain things in a horror film as you take away from the mystique of premise and at worse makes the killer seem less threatening. Well, the girl from the previous films has had a child and a strange cult is after said baby and they may or may not use Michael to get said child or he could be acting on his own as the ending I saw has him going into super kill mode killing everyone. Apparently, the boy from the first one is all grown up and sort of crazy now and he thinks he has figured out why Michael does what he does, while Loomis enjoying retirement comes out to hunt Michael again, while a family has arguments about the daughter coming to live with her parents and attending college and the mom is the same one from the film Better Off Dead. A lot of subplots going on here! So the film did have an alternate ending, which focused more on the cult than Michael at the end. I think Michael literally stops in that one using the thorn symbol. It may not have been the mess this ending was, but from what I have heard the character of Winn passed the responsibility to being Michael's keeper onto Dr. Loomis. This is insane as why would a man who is younger make the older and much more feeble man his successor? That was just insane! The ending we do get though just has Michael randomly begin killing all the cult and you do not even get an explanation as to what they were exactly doing and the ending looks incomplete, almost as if it were a deleted scene or something.So, this film was not good, but it held my interest. I liked that they tried something different and while bad as least it was not H2O suck. That film is an hour of hand falling on shoulder, music cue and then a Don't do that! as it is revealed said hand did not belong to Myers, but some dopey friend. There were some good kills in this one and this one had more of a Halloween feel to it than did the previous two films. Those two looked as if someone half halfheartedly draped a few Halloween decorations here and there. The cast is interesting featuring a very tired Donald Pleasence and a lot of people whose acting is like cardboard or over actors chewing the scenery. The lead girl was also one of the most unattractive girls I have ever seen in a film of this type. She looked anorexic and from what I read the producers thought as much too. She almost looked like she were on crack or heroin. So, another Halloween film down leaving only Resurrection as a Halloween I have not seen. Do not want to either as that is a continuation of the H2O time line and I fear that one may be the worst one to me in the series! "},{"Title":"Contact Agent Bill Lee, tell him you got the junk if he's got a place to put it","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There is a shop in the Interzone with a sign that reads  All Broke Things Fixed . If you are ever in the Interzone, go to this shop, take this movie with you, see if the shopkeeper can do anything with it. Tell them Dr. Benway sent you, should get you a discount. This movie is garbage, but beneath this movie a much better film is waiting. That better film exists now only in the ether of dream, but someday... This is a movie that takes itself extremely seriously- they are super serious about this plot, like it's their only plot and they can't afford better so they gotta make the most of it. Hey the good news is the world makes liquor and drugs so this movie is no problem. "},{"Title":"The Worst Halloween.","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the worst of the series. Much worse than 2002's Resurrection and both Rob Zombie remakes. At least those were fun. This has awful acting and a bad story which make the whole thing nearly unwatchable. Most death scenes are good and there are some cool filming elements, but that's not enough. The whole time I was praying for Michael to come in and start killing and would cheer whenever would come in and kill. A slasher is bad when you want a death scene to happen right away and you cheer for the killer. In all the other movies, the stakes are set high, the acting is good and you're cheering for the victim to somehow find a way out of Michael's clutches. But Dr. Loomis is an exception. He carried the series and was the only redeeming quality (aside from Michael). I like Paul Rudd, but he really wasn't good in this. Maybe it was because this was his first screen role. He plays a grown up Tommy from the first film who finds the answers surrounding Michael Myers' motives and invincibility. He also finds the baby of Michael's niece, whom he must protect. He teams up with Loomis to protect the baby and save Laurie Strode's adoptive family. I thought Michael's curse was a bit cheesy, but it did fit. Only watch this movie for the deaths and Loomis. "},{"Title":"Yep! That sucked","Date":"3 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I decided to give Halloween 4 - 6 a chance, purposely skipping them, after hearing just how bad they were. I rather liked 4. It was okay, but it had it's moments. 5 wasn't any better and a tad worse, but it still had it's moments and the whole sequence in the laundry chute I thought was the best part of the movie and even better than the climax of #4. But this movie, Curse of the Michael Myers. This is the real deal. This one.... sucks. This one is definitely bad. The whole point of this movie is to explain what Michael is and how he came to be. That's nice, but when the whole movie is filled with slap cuts, and gap cuts and awful awful acting (much worse than a slasher movie normally is) you have this piece of turd. It's all build up with a nothing going for it ending with some black-robed pagans mixed for... uh... nothing. They don't do anything. They are no menacing. Now they did beef up Michael a bit. He walks a lot faster in the movie and he kills a lot faster. In a lot of ways, he's not the same as he was in the first two and #4. The those Halloween movies, Michael seemed smarter. In this one, he's just a killing machine. The brains have been removed, but maybe that happens if you're shot as many times as he has been. I think the beginning where they are using a real baby during a rather disturbing ritual scene was about the most uncomfortable I got. The rest is pure garbage. "},{"Title":"Halloween The Curse of Seeing This Movie","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael's going to get you! Well, it wouldn't be such a bad thing. He'd save me from watching this movie again.The Curse of Michael Myers doesn't lie. Michael Myers is back a fourth time (remember, Halloween III had no Michael), and he's a curse to everyone in Haddonfield! This time Tommy is older, the Strodes live in Michael's house, and we are back in, of course, Haddonfield. I can say this much The kills are more brutal, the cinematography is surprisingly decent, and the film moves along at a fast pace. What's not so good? Everything else. Let's start with the characters. Kara Strode, the lead protagonist, is probably one of the weakest main characters I have ever run across. She does absolutely nothing to save her family, she clearly cannot defend herself to her husband, and she should win the worst mother award. Her husband? Typical self-absorbed scum that knows the family secrets, and the character that everyone hates. How about Tommy? Paul Rudd tried, but you can tell this was one of his first major television/film roles. With his emotionless expressions and his attempts at being this heroic character, the guy falls short. As for anyone else? Well I liked Debra. But maybe that's because she didn't have a lot to work with. You don't really come to these movies for the performances however.The story? I mean it's Michael Myers reeking havoc on Haddonfield, must I go on? Alright, alright, I will. Michael's niece Jamie has disappeared from Michael's original town, and she runs off with Michael's child. Flash forward six years and the Strodes adopt Laurie, Michael's niece, who still has the baby. But Michael's not too happy that he doesn't have his child, so how is he going to get it? What Michael Myers does best. Kill! So now the whole Strode family is in danger because they have Michael's baby.At least this film tried to do something different rather than Michael coming back another time, and just trying to kill everything he sees in plain sight. But I would've rather had that storyline to be perfectly honest. The birth, Michael's revenge- it just doesn't work. The most interesting part of the movie however was when the old lady told Danny about the origin of Halloween. I thought that, had the movie followed something along those lines, the direction this movie would be going in would be far more refreshing. Maybe that's just a Halloween III fan speaking here.And of course, the body count. Impalements, electrocutions, suffocation, there is no disappointment in any of these deaths. Especially a particular scene at the town's party in Haddonfield , without giving too much away. The film is also paced pretty well. I mean the ending sags a little, but Michael is always lurking around the house or in the town. Or, someone is talking about Michael. The movie never veers off of him which makes for a more entertaining movie. The look of the film like stated before was also nice. You have some nice blue hues and some of the scenes of Halloween make you feel like it's October 31st. The plethora of pumpkins, the orange-y leaves, the candy-corn lights. Whenever a movie makes me feel like I'm in Halloween, it's just that much more atmospheric.Overall, The Curse of Michael Myers was not an awful movie, despite my rather pessimistic review title and opening sentence. The story just wasn't strong enough to hold this movie for 80+ minutes, the characters were really nothing special, and the ending was nothing less than unsatisfying. I'd say if you are a big fan of body counts, Michael, or a film's particular visual style, give Curse a chance. You'll get plenty of those three. As for anyone else, for a good Halloween sequel, try Season of the Witch. It might not have Michael in it, but the story is one of the most original and entertaining of the series. And the atmosphere is certainly better in that movie than this movie. "}{"Title":"try to see the producer's cut","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Dimension was the new name in horror and they bought the rights of the Halloween franchise. So after half a decade Halloween was back on the map. Dimension asked to the producer Moustapha Akkad to bring Michael back to the screen. Not without a few problems. Halloween 5 was a big flop and ended with a mystery man, dressed in black. On the other hand 1995 wasn't a time were horror was popular. We had to wait one year before the horror hype restarted with 'Scream'. But there were other troubles too, the film's troubled production history didn't bode well, as Halloween 6 sort of set the precedent for Dimension Films to screw up sequels to horror franchises. Dimension asked to have a few audience tests to see their reaction but it failed which led to the decision to recut Halloween 6. By recutting it they brought the movie back from 96 minutes to 88 minutes. What was left was a mess of a flick and was brought out as The Curse Of Michael Myers. What's in a name, it became a curse and Halloween geeks cursed a way to see the producer's cut. Up to today the producer's cut hasn't been available on official release. But there are ways to find it, on many sites you can find the way to see the original flick edited by fans. By doing that you can easily see the difference because it's made with DVD and VHS (producer's cut)material. They brought back Donald Pleasence who was a sick man by then it became his last flick he made before he died. But Halloween 6 flopped even more in the franchise then 5 and 4. Even though I liked it more then 5 or 4. You are attached to the screen from the beginning until the end. Of course the story sucks a bit here and there especial in the part of the Druids. But the director Joe Chappelle didn't copy John Carpenter and he kept the mystery of Michael Myers. You could even hear him breath like in the original one. And George P Wilbur is doing his best here as Michael and it was a good effort he did. It's also a slasher made out of the slasher era and is really overlooked by many fans. If it would have been released one year later it would have been a blockbuster due 'Scream'. Sadly, it was released earlier with a story were nothing is revealed...or you must have seen the producer's cut.I did and by seeing that I thought that there would have been cuts in the gory part as it did, there's a lot more of Dr. Loomis in it and there's more into the Druids part which explains a lot. And that was a good thing, Part 5 left us with a few questions, who was the man in black, what happened to Jamie LLoyd and what did the tattoo mean on Michael's arm? The producer's cut explains it all, the theatrical didn't. If you see the theatrical cut then it's simple, the tattoo didn't man anything and Jamie dies quickly, okay Jamie's dead is more cruel in the T-cut. Nobody picked it as a fan of the genre and I said it before, the producer's cut explained it much more. The exploding head in the T-cut was left out of the P-cut, there are so many differences but you really need to see the P-cut. It goes deeper into the characters.I won't go too deep into the end scene but it explains a lot more then the T-cut ending.But at the end of the day, it's so strange that part 3, without Michael sold more and is more hyped then part 4 or 5 or even part 6. But I loved part 6 as I said before more then 4 and 5 so it's essential that you watch it. Go to the dark passages of the web and capture yourself a copy of the P-cut. All your questions will be revealed an you won't be cursed with the T-cut anymore. To say it in other words, nothing is explained in T-cut bit it's much gorier then the P-cut. Both have a completely different ending so you have to see both, but I prefer the P-cut. Maybe they should have left the gore in it then it would have been perfect. So with this flick you can see what can happen towards a flick. A director can make a good flick but if Dimension decides to cut out the story and put gore into it you have a complete different flick.Gore 1/5 (P-cut) 3/5 (T-cut) Nudity 1/5 Effects 2/5 (P-cut) 3/5 (P-cut) Story 3/5 (P-cut) 2/5 (T-cut) Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Unnecessary convoluted but worth seeing  for Pleasence last","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" After Jamie Lloyd daughter of Laurie Strode gives birth, Michael Myers sets out to find his niece's baby.From the elaborate opening of an older Jamie giving birth and her frantic escape, Curse's focus shifts from the menacing unstoppable killer slightly in place of a wider underground cult theme, hinted at in the previous instalment.Myers obsessed Tommy Doyle (child survivor from the first film) played by Paul Rudd is fine in a main role. Aged Donald Pleasence does his best with the material he's been given and plays the retired doctor Loomis superbly despite his age and weakened voice he still steals every scene. Actress Marianne Hagan's Kara Strode is slightly wasted, fleeting in and out like her son Danny and many of the other characters. George P. Wilbur (who played Michael in Revenge) returns once again as The Shape with good screen presence and movement.Anyone unfamiliar with the series may have a difficult time following the unnecessary convoluted story. The screenplay hints at a town moving on but doesn't build on the theme, nor expand on Michael coming home. It has some interesting character dynamics but its cluttered like its predecessor with many new elements that the audience has to buy into including more characters to accept and warm to. Alan Howarth and Paul Rabjohns' music is edgy enough especially when coupled with the original theme. Director Joe Chappelle delivers elaborate deaths and Curse is well filmed with sharp editing, flashing images and slick dialogue but it is far removed from the simplistic, primal original concept. Apparently it was a troubled shoot and many alternative scenes were shot, this may explain its unevenness. These issues spawned the notorious Producers Cut. Nevertheless, it's just as inconsistent as this version. Curse suffers like the fifth entry injecting the needless cultist sect sub-plot, mysterious symbols and a physic kid. That said, even taken with a pinch of salt it's still unsatisfying and you really feel the series has lost its way.Worth seeing if only for Pleasence's last performance. "},{"Title":"a fairly good sequel","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" well.. Halloween 4 was great but Halloween 5 was horrible, so how would Halloween 6 be? surprisingly okay, the story was interesting and good, the acting could have been better but also could have been worse, Donald Pleasence was great as always, and newcomer Paul Stephen Rudd didn't do to bad, the music was still good as always, all-in-all i enjoy this movie much more than the last Hallween movie, i've never seen the producers cut though i really want to, but i still like this movie, i recommend this movie to any fan of the first & fourth Halloween movies, this one is much more complex, and very well made, thus concludes my review of Halloween The curse of Michael Myers "},{"Title":"I'd be cursing too, if they kept crapping out sub-par sequels that I starred in","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'll start with saying that I have not watched the Work Print(which I understand is at least somewhat better), only the Theatrical Version. At the very beginning, I thought this showed real promise. The narration wasn't bad; when you can make the silliness that is the overall story-line up to this point sound decent, you've got skill. Then it dawned on me; this tries way too hard, it is over-stylized, and it uses flash cuts as if the editor just realized how to do them. Several sequences are chopped awkwardly together, apparently on account of last-minute changes. The music(apart from the original theme) goes all out in its attempts to hype up what's happening on-screen, and it winds up feeling phony(and it doesn't exactly help with the atmosphere). There is genuine creepiness in this, and the mask is great, but many things hold this back. Nearly everyone plays Captain Exposition, most of the characters are obnoxious(giving us few to care about, enough to hope they survive), and the credibility and consistency are lacking. Is that radio dude supposed to be a shock jock or not? Why didn't he play along with the phone call early on? Or how about that ridiculous teen who is somehow turning the Halloween celebration into a objection against authority? Naming two of them for the people responsible for the excellent first film makes it all the more awful that they are so irritating. This is overly confusing, and the plot is simply put a mess. Loomis is yelling yet again(for how little he is in this; Chappelle... Pleasence boring? Seriously, he is the one thing that made II, 4 and 5 anything less than completely intolerable; also, he can act, and it comes in handy to have at least one person who knows how to do that, when making a movie), and what happened to his burnt face? Maybe it heals, in the crazy world this takes place in, where things don't have to connect to one another in any sensible manner, and where newborns have plenty of hair right out of the womb. There is plenty of brutal, bloody, gory violence, brief gratuitous nudity, and a tiny bit of strong(as well as occasional moderate) language in this. I recommend this to fans of slashers who don't consider the actual quality(this does deliver, if you don't look deeper at it). 5/10 "},{"Title":"Now it;s babies","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" You really have to be a Michael Myers fan to have gotten this far in the series. And as we all know, the HALLOWEEN series, like the JASON franchise, seems to know no end. In this one, Jamie has a baby and Michael is after her an it. Before Michael catches up with Jamie, she has hidden the baby and, of all people, Tommy Doyle (from the first HALLOWEEN) finds it and protects it. Meanwhile, what's left of the Strode family has moved into the old Myers house, and Michael starts picking them off one by one. And the evil cult is back, basically directing Michael's movements. Busy busy busy. Bot not terribly scary. And Michael is as usual boring self. He is no Jason. Maybe Kane Hodder should put on the mask and play Michael one of these days. Strictly for the fans. A young, expressionless Paul Rudd plays Tommy Doyle, by the way. And Donald Pleasence makes his final appearance as Sam Loomis. "},{"Title":"One of the worst","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" First off, Michaels mask doesn't look a single bit threatening. It might be emotionless but I have to admit it looks like a mouse and it's kind of cute. I can't help think that Michael is always smiling beneath the mask and making it give it a goofy grin. The movie is not scary with Michael walking around with a goofy smile like DDDUUUHHHH.The acting is very unbelievable. The movie lacks a climax (or a big enough one anyway) and the acting doesn't help. The whole point of Michael being a part of a colt is ridiculous in so many ways. It wipes out the whole original idea of the movies. The evil grew inside him, Michael couldn't stop it, making it genuinely scary. But in this, it forces you to think Michael was pushed to start killing through the colt. It lacks suspense and is at every angle predictable. It is marred with old horror clichés and you spend your whole time through the movie thinking I wish I made this myself with a better storyline.Lastly, Haddonfield is huge. I didn't like this idea as I thought I liked it as a small town where a murder is anything but predictable. But no, in this you can feel free to think that these murders and things happen every day in towns like that. What's the point.Stay away from this movie 1/10 "},{"Title":"Not the right Halloween film to be hating","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I only have one question about this entry. Why do so many fans hate it? It leaves me to wonder what all the anti-Halloween sixers would have done if they were stuck with the task of explaining a raging psychopath's motives.Let me start off with the story. Surely not a bad one at that considering it had to pick up with the problematic status left on the table by Halloween 5. It starts six years after 5. Jamie and Michael are presumed dead after an explosion. In all reality, Jamie has been kidnapped by a cult lead by the mysterious man in black, and she is pregnant (we are never officially told who the guilty party is). She gives birth on Halloween eve. The man in black takes the baby but Jamie manages to get him back and escape the cult's dark, underground domain. The cult seemingly frees the shape and sends him after Jamie. After she escapes him at a bus station, Myers catches her and unfortunately completes her story. However, the baby is nowhere to be found. Michael stays in Haddonfield and wreaks havoc on a family living in his home, more Strodes, while searching for the infant. The man in black's identity is finally revealed and Dr. Loomis and Tommy Doyle prepare for the last act back in a familiar setting.Now, some of the acting here is really thin, but we must remember that this film is primarily story and atmosphere driven. Speaking of the atmosphere, it is amazingly strong here. The lighting and look of the night is purely excellent and the look of the day scenes are surprisingly great as well (gray and loomy, rather than bright and sunny as in H5). The Myers house also gets a nice makeover and we no longer have the ever-terrible mansion. The mask in this film is the best since H1, and the shape is acted very well.All in all, I actually like this film, and it is in my top 3 of the series. The only thing that weakens this film is some of the mystery surrounding the Cult, and Dr. Loomis' lack of lines and speeches....damn you Joe Chappelle.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Best Halloween so far!","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have to say,this Halloween film is the best one so far.Only one thing is missing,it needed more Donald Pleasance scenes.I've seen part of the producer's and and it looks a bit better than the original release.I just watched them both so the movie would be better.Check out the producer's cut at youtube.By the way,this was the most suspenseful Halloween of tham all.Also the goriest.I heard that there is an upcoming sequel to Rob Zombie's Halloween.I'll have to see it if it's more suspenseful than this.Halloween the curse of michael myers got me in it's scariest moments.The acting was great.The plot needs a little more spice,just a bit more.This movie should still receive a 10/10 because there is also a producer's cut. "},{"Title":"Another comedy, another waste of a budget","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If this, the sixth in the Halloween series has got anything going for it, its a classic scene where Paul Rudd as the Tommy Doyle character is trying to bang open a door with a fire extinguisher, then he notices Michael Myers sleepwalking towards him and the expression on his face and reaction with the extinguisher is worth the price of admission alone. The Halloween films continuing on from 1988's Return Of Michael Myers are watchable horror comedies, with the fan base knowing exactly what they will get for their money slashed teens, slaughtered bystanders and a parody of the original movie and its fantastic sequel.Special mention must go to Donald Pleasence for giving us the wonderful performance of Doctor Samuel Loomis. I always enjoyed how he was a calming and assuring influence to the frightening force of evil he was tracking in Halloween I and II. By Halloween 4 he was clearly doing it for the bread. "},{"Title":"My opinion of Halloween","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I love the series and am just really getting into it. Im 20 years old and can still remember as a younger kid being so scared of Halloween. I love watching the older movies. It just seems creepier with the 70's and 80's feel to it, the wardrobe, the town of Haddonfield... Not to mention the music by John Carpenter. I have seen all of the films in the series but do not remember the plot of each. To this day the films still creep me out. When I watch one, the next morning on the way out the door to go to work, I see him standing on my porch when I open the door. Even walking down the sidewalk to my truck I look over my shoulder. To me that is what a true horror movie should do to you. I am a fan of Rob Zombies new addition to Halloween. I thought the cast was great but seeing Michael as a young boy kind of made him less scary to me. You kind of feel sorry for him where in the original films you were more scared than anything. Not knowing adds to the fear of the character. I've read quite a few comments on this site and it seems like there are a lot of fans of the series. To me, Friday the 13th, Nightmare on Elm St, and Childs Play were scary to me when I was a kid but now I laugh when I see them. I hope to see another Zombie directed film but I would like to see an add on to the series instead of a re-telling. If I remember correctly, the last time we saw Michael was in the morgue when his eye popped open. I would love to see the series pick up from there. It would be better with Jamie Lee Curtis and Donald Pleasance but if Scout Taylor-Compton and Danielle Harris can hook up with Tommy Doyle and Lindsay Wallace to run from Michael again I'm sure they can make a great film. "}{"Title":"For true fans, this is one of the best.","Date":"23 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" So what is it with everyone hating Halloween 6? Yes, Michael Myers wasn't nearly as scary as he was in the first one this time around, because you know his face inside and out. Look at the fourth and fifth Halloween, look at the mask in those, listen to the horrible sound effects and stupid sounds when the cops come around, and tell me that is more entertaining than this one. The great thing about this Halloween was that it showed the true evil behind Michael Myers. At no moment did it stop to show you Michael with a tear in his eye like in 5, or giving his niece an obvious second chance at life through making stupid mistakes. This Michael is a monster filled with nothing but rage. From the gruesome death of his niece to the death of the entire Strode family, this gets you inside the house and mind of Michael myers more than ever before. Paul Rudd has an outstanding performance that makes you actually think that Michael Myers really screwed him up when he was a kid. (Hell it would screw me up), and and also great performances by the rest of the cast, most notably Maryanne Hagen. No tag line saying Michael lives, and this time their ready..., this tag line is honest and makes sense. It says the scariest Halloween of them all. Well, besides the original, this movie can give you some serious nightmares. Just go into this movie open minded and willing to learn more about Michael Myers, even if you don't believe the ancient ruins. My perfect recommendation would be to watch this movie on a Sunday evening before bed, because this is one of those movies that you will want to think more into during the long work week. A perfect, chilling, gruesome, and relentless movie to for a cold Autumn night. Whoever believes that this movie is bad isn't a true fan of Michael Myers, they just stick with the original, but if you are a die hard fan, even if you hate to admit it, you really do wish you knew what would happen if they followed into the 7th film with continuity from this one. This is also a movie that in about 20 years will still continue to scare you just like the original. "},{"Title":"Give it a fair trial","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK Halloween 6 wasn't the best of the sequels, However if the Infamous producer's cut had been released i think the series would of been given a new lease of life. The Thorn element and the return of Tommy Doyle seemed to take the series in a different direction and would of added more interest instead of the usual stalk and slash routine which the series had become. Maybe after Rob Zombies extremely poor remake the next instalment will be an official release of Halloween 666 The origin of Michael Myers. The fans deserve an official release and i believe it would probably become one of the highest grossing movies in the franchise purely because of it's cult status. "},{"Title":"Very innovative and highly underrated...","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I know that the cut of this film available to consumers is, well, worse than the infamous producers cut that one has to search high and low to find, but I believe it is still worth the time. It's not the best of the Halloween series by far, but it isn't the worst either. I think it continued from part 5 very well and was actually better than that movie. It's definitely dark like the original two and brings some needed character development to the series. The back story of Michael is very intriguing, and it's about time someone explained why he is the way he is. I say don't listen to negative reviews. Watch this movie, and decide for yourself how good or bad the movie is. Trust me. In the Halloween series, you can do no worse than the mess that was part 8. "},{"Title":"Sure! it's a curse for the ones who watch it.","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" What was the point of explaining the origins of Myers? The ending of part 5 is a joke. It was a non sense scene that only confused fans of the series for years! The explanation couldn't be worse.Thorn? 666? Astrology? That has nothing to do with the Myers we love. Come on, his butcher knife was more interesting that the sub-plots in this movie. Dr. Loomis' obsession with him was something interesting but having a sub plot about the occult was just pointless and absurd.Donald Pleasence is the best thing about the movie. He delivers a solid, creepy performance. Sadly, this was his last movie. One of the best characters in Horror cinema history.Anyways, there's minimal gore and no scares. This is the worst Halloween movie that was influenced by the Scream era. Myers is not the main character anymore, now he's just a stupid killing machine whose motives are really stupid.I recommend this movie only for die hard fans of the series. This is a perfect example of how sequels can destroy a historical and important Horror classic like Halloween.Skip this one if you have respect for Myers. "},{"Title":"This movie is just too weird.","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers, his niece Jamie who's now 16, and the Man in Black haven't been heard of for the last 6 years. They've been in hiding at Smith's Grove Mental Institution where we learn that Michael's origin involves a Celtic curse that keeps him immortal. Michael has impregnated Jamie, and she gives birth to a child. Jamie ends up escaping and the child falls into the hands of grown up Tommy Doyle (the little boy from the original Halloween). Michael tracks the baby down and goes on a murderous rampage. This Halloween entry just baffles me, and it probably baffled John Carpenter too. What happened to the Michael Myers that was a silent, mysterious killer? Why is he now a monster controlled by an evil cult? No one will ever know the answers to these questions.The plot of this film is horrible. I don't usually enjoy horror movies about cults and witchcraft, and this is no exception. I have to give it to the screenwriters...They really screwed up something good. I mean, they made an effort to explain Michael's origin and why he is the way he is and for that I compliment them, but did they have to use the stupidest and most unbelievable idea that popped into their heads?Michael having sex with his own niece to produce a child that he is meant to kill doesn't seem like something you'd see in a Halloween movie at all.The acting in this movie is okay, but not great. Donald Pleasance returned for his last film role before he died, and he gave a good performance...Better than Halloween 5 anyway. The twist ending on who the Man in Black was seemed pretty ill conceived to me, but that's just me. Overall, stay away from this movie. It's best to just watch Halloween II and then skip right over to H20. That's the way I like to watch it anyway.2/10 "},{"Title":"Another bad sequel","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Before Dimension got smart with their horror movies they tried to reive Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers an already dead horror franchise. The cast here is horrible and the deciison to kill off Jamie was stupid. The film does have some decent kills but once again no sex and too many plot points, different history on the Meyers legend etc. I say skip this one. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another unnecessary entry in this series attempts to expand on Mike Myers' characterization and his orgin & background, but comes off silly and dumb instead. This time Myers is linked to the Druids (?!?) and goes about trying to kill his niece's recently born baby. No chills, no thrills, and no humor to hold your interest. Avoid it. Rated R; Graphic Violence, Brief Nudity, and Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"Braindead horror","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween The Curse Of Michael Myers is the sixth chapter in the long-running Halloween-series, and as usual the movie is quite lame when compared to the original. I thought that this movie was good enough, but I wasn`t expecting much.  The way Michael Myers kills his victims is much more violent and bloody now than in H1 and H2, but that is the only point, where H6 scores higher than H1. The movie tries very hard to explain why Michael Myers is so evil and why he can`t die, but the movie isn`t very successful in this term. But I liked this more than Halloween H20(even when it starrs Jamie Lee Curtis of the original movie) which is partly because the characters aren`t as extremely poor and shallow as in HH20. It is rather good but the story and direction can many times seem stiff. 5,5/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely amazing entry without any real flaws","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Trying to move on with her life, a woman moves back to her hometown unaware of her connection to the Michael Myers bloodline and faces his wrath when he escapes from a sanitarium and resumes his blood-soaked rampage in town.This one here manages to be one of the more enjoyable entries in the series and might very well better than the original. One of the strongest elements for this one derives numerous positive attributes from is the fact that this is pretty creepy at times as it adds an extra layer to the film with a large quantity of quality suspenseful scenes, which this one has in spades. From the opening underground escape where the different tunnels coming out leads to several impressive and chilling confrontations while the candle-lit walkways and raging thunderstorm create and wonderfully chilling air, and the later bus station stalking during the storm is truly unnerving, while the other great stalking scenes here include the house stalking and a second time where a fellow one returns home to suspect something's wrong only to find nothing there. The best attack here comes from the sneak-attack on the couple in the house where the whole thing is watched from a telescope across the street only to learn her son has wandered over to check out the house and the later encounter in the house with the cult members also come off really well and are quite suspenseful. As well, there's plenty to love about the graphic kills and deaths here, which is one of the best angles here with just a ton of greatness provided with a wide variety of kills delivered with a generous dose of methods, from stabbing to impaling to thrusting into the body and bare-handed, among others, to provide a spectacular array of bloody deaths dished out rather nicely. Another fun part here is the really enjoyable action all throughout here, with the massacre of the family home alone delivering some solid fun here with the great kills pulling them all together, the grand encounter back in the house trying to get back her son and confronting Michael inside leading to a fantastic stalking scene through the house and out to the street to safety and the rampage through the hospital which has an utter ton of fun where the chase along the hallways to get her out and into the tunnels along with the highlight sequence of him absolutely massacring the operating room team leading to the escape back through the tunnels and out through the main room which is a thrilling series of scenes as it provides some really chilling moments that work well and give this an outstanding pace. The last part that works well here is the fact that, as a straight slasher movie, this delivers impeccably, which is important since these should feature an imposing killer. The creepy mask has never looked better, with the face seemingly rougher and even colder looking than ever before, the more hulking shape to his body is more credible for doling out the more strenuous physical action and the walk is genuinely creepy, a complete stalk and slash attitude, coming relentlessly with no remorse offered to his victims. These here give this one so much to like that even the film's lone flaw doesn't mean much. This one strains a lot of credibility here with the fact it's trying to ascertain the fact that Michael Myers was a druid and able to be protected by a strange cult of genetic scientists carrying on that legacy, has nothing remotely plausible and should've been rejected here for how little it connects to the series. While the story might be give-or-take depending on how you feel it connects to the rest of the series, it's really the only thing wrong here as this is an otherwise outstanding effort.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity, and a brief sex scene. "},{"Title":"The plots kills but kills in this movie were great!","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 6 (For the fist time in full and now I see all 8 movies in series.I have enjoyed most of the Halloween sequel from 1-5, i have enjoyed and H20 This is ones was little odd, I did not like the whole cult thing at all, it took a bit of slasher fun out of this movie. I really did like some of the deaths scene in this movie, which i didn't expect to as nasty as they were, but they fun gory scenes.I this movie as some of the best kills in the whole series! The acting in this was really good for sixth movie in the series but the showdown at the end was really disappointing and end scene was very predictable, 5 out of 10 only because of deaths scenes! "}{"Title":"An OK movie","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is both underrated and overrated.It's not as bad as most people think,but its also not as awesome as some people think.I actually found it to be a pretty enjoyable sequel,but not that enjoyable.The plot was OK,but some of the acting fell flat.I enjoyed the death scenes,since I love to see people get butchered(in movies,not in real life)One of the worst qualities of this movie is probably Michael Myers's mask.It doesn't look nearly as good as the one's in HalloweenH20 or the Rob Zombie remake.But Michael is Michael and thats what counts.Like I said,I thought this movie was OK,but the others had more potential.Except the third one. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A really awful and confusing start with a woman having a baby in a basement and Myers coming from no-where, a cute shot of a guy holding a phone in his right hand AND typing with the same hand. Super goof! The radio jock laughing at the idea of Micheal Myers in space. (pretty much the plot of Jason X).Once you discount how stupid the fact of Myers even being alive is you have to nod and know this film is just a slasher flick designed to scare as often as possible.Surely someone who had killed as many people as Myers would have been executed on reaching adulthood? He seems to get vehicles easily and often so had no-one ever considered dismembering him, cutting off an arm or a leg, or his head for that matter. Everyone seems to do stupid things, set him on fire, stab him, shot him.Surely dismemberment is something even he couldn't overcome (In the film Jason X this concept is addressed and put to rights). The women who had literally just given birth took her new born out in the cold. the fact that she's in any fit state to go running round partially clothed. Surely the baby would have died from exposure in the rain.Myers seems to have some magical power which allows him to find whoever he is after, no matter where they run. After making a statement like that crazy old lady wouldn't hear a truck go through her living room you pretty much know that exact thing is going to happen later in the film.Also when we're introduced to the basement/washing room in the Strode (Old Myers) House you know we're going there later as well, it's an establishing shot.The whole satanic thing at the start and marking the baby isn't a good idea and needs much more explanation. And despite the fact we are told several times Haddonfield is The Town that banned Halloween lots of house are decorated and we see lots of kids in costume.When Mr. Strode finally goes home (and goes to the basement like we predicted) he is in a black-out. The power is out but the washing machine is still working? Also Dad Strode is electrocuted from a fuse box in a house where the power is out. Super Goof!Myers gets from his house to the town center very quickly. (Too quick) I find it hard to believe the Strode's son didn't know anything about Myers living in his house (kids at school never told him?). Myers got from the town center back to his home very quickly again. Tim managed to have a hot shower in a house with no power (Another major goof!)And Mikey kills the couple who have had sex, major horror film mistake to do that. Despite being told NOT to go back in her house Kara does even though she's just seen Myers kill someone in there. Does Kara not know how to call 911? Myers is pushed down the stairs (this would cripple most people) and Danny appears next to Myer's body, you know he was going to grab Kara.Then finally the whole Satanic thing is explained in bits and pieces. The man in black is revealed and Micheal's former baby sitter is found to be part of the whole Satanic rite.The film is then taken back to where it started, the hospital (is it the asylum where Myers was sent after killing his sister? I think it must be!)Now an issue with Tommy. If he were 8 when Myers attacked the 1st time as an adult and must have been roughly 23-25 in this film, this would make Myers at least mid to 30's or even 40's. Far too old to be strolling around and getting hurt like he does in this.Myers kills all the Satanic people who are worshipping him in a very heavily cut scene with lots of strobe so you see hardly anything but the results of his work.I am amazed that Tommy and Kara don't pull shut all the lockable doors as they are running from Myers. Myers sees exceptionally well for someone in a mask, I think. Also you hear him breathe but there is no mouth hole or any nostril holes to breathe through on the mask he wears (A Captain Kirk mask painted white we're told!).I really don't know why after what Myers put him through Tommy doesn't beat him until he's a pile of liquid.The film has no actual ending. It's awful. Truly awful. "},{"Title":"The absolute nadir of the series...","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" On the basis of efforts like this, Halloween could rightfully be divided into John Carpenter's atmospheric original, and the worthless sequels. However, even those worthless sequels had a few selling points. All of them except for this one, which tries to wrap up a story arc with yet another lost relative we were never privy to before, and doesn't do a very good job of it.Part of the problem here is that we are told too much and shown too little. We are told that Michael Myers is some sort of avatar in a pagan cult circle, but shown nothing that would sell this illusion. In the real Halloween, we were simply told that Michael was an example of a mind gone so far that what was the modern psychiatry could do nothing. I know which explanation works better, especially given that Michael is fundamentally a human being. Maybe it is time that Hollywood stopped getting its ideas about Paganism and how it relates to today's world from the likes of Jack Chick. It would certainly make their films a lot more credible.Another problem comes in the shape of the cast. Take a good look through the listing in this IMDb entry and see if you can recognise one name other than Donald Pleasance. Now that you have that exercise out of the way, think of the impression this gives of their performances. That Pleasance died during production suggests to me that he saw the future of B-level actors and decided that he'd had a gutful of this world. I know that feeling all too well, myself.The next two sequels basically act as if Halloween four through six are not canonical, and this is the main reason why. Even hardcore fans, such as I was during the mid-1990s, were thrown off by the tacked-on elements of the central character. You can only add so many tangents to a story before it collapses under its own weight, and Michael Myers collapses here. Like A Nightmare On Elm Street 2, one could erase this entire entry from the canon and nobody would notice the difference.Danielle Harris, who has since gone onto such bright things as a cameo in Urban Legend or vocal work on Rugrats episodes, asked a mere five thousand dollars to reprise her role as Jamie Lloyd. That Dimension Films refused elegantly sums up the philosophy of this film. Everything is so cheap, so low-rent, that the thought of this turkey getting a theatrical release is flabbergasting. That skit in South Park involving Sidney Poitier's performance in a production at Straight To Video Studios is made accurate by films like this. Harris must be pleased to no end that Dimension Films turned her down over a mere few grand.I gave Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers a one out of ten. Nothing can save this entry from the abyss of irrelevance. It is a textbook study in how not to make a horror sequel. "},{"Title":"Recommended For Halloween Completists Only","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Halloween 6 is a very average film which I only watched back in 1995 because I was a fan of the series. This film seemed to have been made for the sake of it. Usually, sequels are made if there's a story to tell but this just seemed to have been made to milk more money out of the Michael Myers character.Myers may be back killing people but the film doesn't seem to be following on for anything. Halloween's 1 and 2 had the whole thing with Laurie Strode and Halloween's 4 and 5 involved Michael Myer's niece but as I said, this seemed to only have been made to make money.It's not totally bad but it is rather average and I guess not having Danielle Harris back made the film suffer. I feel that the ending of Halloween 5 left the door open for a sequel but Halloween 6 didn't have a connection to the events at the end of Halloween 5.I wouldn't say it is necessary to watch this. You could in theory jump straight from Halloween 5 to Halloween H20 and skip this film. "},{"Title":"Why Michael Does What He Does!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  HALLOWEEN, Episode VI The Curse of Michael Myers. Yes, Episode VI in the Halloween trilogy finds the real motive behind Myers' killings. It's a celtic, druid ritual, Michael belongs to something called The Thorn. Also, ever since all the cops were killed and the police station blew up in Halloween 5, someone has been hiding Michaeland Jamie. The Man in Black. Also, Jamie is now 15, and for some bizarrereason, she looks 21 and she's had a baby! Only the Man in Black wants the baby too, so he sends Michael Myers out to retrieve it. Michael finally kills Jamie, but the baby has disappeared.           Back in Haddonfield, a family has moved into the Myers house!The Strodes. There's mean father John, sensible mother Debra (They were named after original Halloween creators John Carpenter and Debra Hill), daughter Kara and her son Danny. Their neighbor across the street is Tommy Doyle! The little boy from Halloween 1!! He feels he hasdiscovered why Michael does what he does. This same plot was used in Friday the 13th Part VI Jason Lives! That's right A guy named Tommy encountered a mass murderer as a child, grew up isolated, and knows the killer's secret. Tommy has found the baby and hides it.Meanwhile, Dr. Wynn has met up with Dr. Loomis, Dr. Wynn is in fact the Man in Black.          Halloween night, an obnoxious and rude radio personality holds a live show from Haddonfield and of course is killed afterwards.Before long, the baby has been kidnapped and Tommy and Kara must findit. So along with Dr. Loomis, they venture to Smith's Grove, whereMichael is waiting. Tommy grabs a pipe and beats the living hell out of Michael. Also, when Myers attempts but fails to kill Kara, she tries to pull off his mask but doesn't. That makes me mad. Don't get too carried away with keeping Michael's face cryptic okay?!        And that about does it. This film isn't that great of a film.Worst in the trilogy since Halloween 5. Halloween H20 is better. Why not check it out.        Sadly, Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers was Donald Pleasence's last movie. He died in 1995. He was 76. He will always be remembered. Especially as the trench coated doctor who knows what Michael is, but doesn't know why. -------- "},{"Title":"updated Friday May 16.2008)a fairly low point in the series,but the producer's cut (8/10)is a whole new movie","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" to me,this was the worst Halloween movie up to this point.i found the storyline contrived and lame.not to mention,i don't see how it fit in with the Michael Myers mythology up to that point.there's a lot of gaps between the previous film and this one,and none of them are filled in or explained in any satisfying,or even credible way .i get the distinct impression this movie was just made as a cash cow,with not much thought put into it.plus,i feel they overdid some of the death scenes.i don't mean the violence,but more the sounds of the bones breaking and such.the sounds were just way to vivid and crisp,which didn't really fit the series up to that point.it just wasn't necessary.i think it was done for cheap shock value.this movie did nothing to distinguish itself from other slashers.in fact,that is really all this movie was-a run of the mill slasher.for me,Halloween 6The Curse of Michael Myers(the theatrical version) is a 4/10 at best.(Updated Friday May 16.2008)however,i recently found a copy of the producer's cut,which is,i think the version that was supposed to be released.it was originally entitled The origin of Michael Myers,and it actually explains the origin of his evil.it fills in almost of the gaps missing from the theatrical version,and is actually a much more coherent and better movie.i think the copy i have is a bootleg version,which is all that exists so far,so you can clearly notice the transitions to the additional scenes.the picture quality of theses scenes are usually darker and grainier,and a few look washed out,but it was worth the price for me.just the fact that it put things into context makes up for the lower quality of these scenes.besides,the quality isn't so bad to make it unwatchable.until this version is released commercially,this one is more than acceptable.if you can find,i would recommend it.it's a whole new movie,possibly the 2nd best entry in the series.based on content alone,Halloween 6The Origin of Michael Myers is a strong 8/10 "},{"Title":"A God-Awful Mess.","Date":"12 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Part VI takes place six years after the fifth film ends, with a young woman(said to be Jamie Lloyd, but played by a different actress) escaping the mysterious cult that held her prisoner, along with her baby, with Michael Myers once again in murderous, relentless pursuit. She leaves the baby behind in a bus depot for safety, only to be brutally dispatched by Michael... However, a now grown Tommy Doyle(one of the kids that Laurie Strode babysat from the original) tracks down Doctor Loomis(played for the last time by a sickly Donald Pleasance) to take the baby themselves, leading to a showdown where many shocking revelations will be uncovered...Though well intended by writer Daniel Farrands as a satisfying finale to the series, this entry proved to be an unmitigated disaster, sabotaged by atrocious & shameful rewriting, editing and directing, rendering the film a crass, incoherent mess. Sad to say, Donald Pleasance's last film(he died before it was released). "},{"Title":"Great for late night tomfoolery, but little else","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS The film starts with quick flashes of a woman in a hospital and Michael stalking his victims. A mysterious cult is holding Michael's niece hostage that they may also take her baby. Jamie, his niece, is eventually able to escape thanks to the help of a member of said cult. Michael and the cult hunt her down as she tries to escape through the corridors of her prison. Jamie is able to elude the cult and get out of the building with her baby. She is chased through town and eventually cornered in a barn where she is murdered by Michael, but not before hiding her baby in a bus stop. The paranoid survivor and Haddonfield resident Tommy Doyle is able to locate the baby. Tommy and Dr. Loomis are now both alerted to Michael's revival, thanks to Jamie's radio broadcast that helped Tommy find the newborn. Unable to locate the baby, Michael turns his attention to the current inhabitants of his old home, the Strodes. The Strodes live adjacent to Tommy and those two groups, along with Dr. Loomis are busy trying to stop Michael while learning more about the cult with which he is involved. Tommy, the baby, Kara, Steven, and Danny are ultimately able to elude Michael and the cult. This comes about when Michael turns on the cult, but it comes at the sacrifice of Loomis who, after several movies has a personal score to settle.All in all another poor installment in a series that started out well. I don't quite understand why Loomis went off at the end. I also don't particularly like the unrealistic powers of Michael. This is a film from the same time as Seven so movies can be better. If you're a fan of the series, it's pretty entertaining I suppose. I didn't feel much for the characters and the continuity in the whole series is too poor.But hey, if it's late at night and you're at a party... give it a go. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as 'Halloween 5'.  Or 4.  Or II.  Or H20.  Or Resurrection.","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" And so we arrive at the sixth instalment, by which time all ambiguity about Michael Myers has withered away thanks to this series' habit of pulling relatives out of nowhere and mucking about with its continuity. This one introduces the potty idea that Myers is controlled by runes that appear as a star constellation every Halloween and a cult is using them to... erm... well, this film is far from coherent and I kind of lost track of the plot after a while.Apparently there's a producer's cut that makes a lot more sense, but I haven't seen it so let's work with what we've got. In the plus column, Donald Pleasence, in his final film role (he deserved better), produces some wonderful little moments from the pile of dreadful dialogue he's given, and Marianne Hagan is credible as a single mother and the only real character in the middle of all the monotonous deaths. And Paul Rudd has his moments in an early role.That's it for the positive aspects. There are so many things this film bungles, so many ways in which it loses credibility that after half an hour I gave up on it and sighed a lot. Mangling John Carpenter's sinister theme music by turning it into an action cue isn't a good start, but the film is also rife with ineffective false scares and embarrasses itself by referencing 'Rear Window'. Myers again moves around with inhuman speed, but that's the least of the problems when it comes to his actions. How does he string that DJ up in a tree? Why does he put one victim's bloodied clothes in a washing machine? Why does he take the time to hide her body in a tree, and how does he time it so she dangles down at exactly the right time? More questions why does Hagan's father chop down a For Sale sign with an axe rather than pull it out of the ground? Why does a long, smooth corridor wall have a spike sticking out of it at just the right height to, say, impale a skull? Why does a nurse call security when faced with a desperate man claiming his baby needs medical attention? Why can't Kim Darby navigate through a garden full of obstacles no more dangerous than clothes on a washing line? How does Pleasence recognise the rune, which, if I'm not mistaken, was only previously seen at the end of the abysmal 'Halloween 5'? Does electrocution really make your head explode? And so on and so on and so on.'Halloween III' remains the best (or should that be least worst) follow up if only because it gave us a break from the Michael Myers stuff, but this is by default the best of the sequels that feature him. "},{"Title":"And the Series Crashes and Burns...","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not even going to dignify this film with a proper review, at least not right now. This is where everything right and good in the world of Halloween took a deuce on my chest.Mike Mayo calls the film putrid, repugnant, virtually plot less and predictable. That's all fair. It also fails to star Danielle Harris (allegedly due to a mere $5000 dispute) and introduces a cult aspect that never really makes complete sense. Paul Rudd's character is silly, though I'm glad they brought back old characters...The biggest problem at all is the fact the producer's cut is so drastically different from any other known version. I don't think anyone knew going into this film what they wanted, and it's clear that when they finished nobody knew what to do with what they had. "}{"Title":"Cursed is the Word","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** Going to bat for the sixth time in the bloody saga of the deranged Michael Myers Halloween VI or The Curse of Michael Myers has Michael now involved with this ancient Druid Cult that worships the Evil Demon Torn. The cult want's to keep Michael's bloodline going to have him in many future Halloween sequels.In what looks like a boiler room we see Jamie Llyod give birth and then take off with her new born son with the help of a nurse as Michael goes after her. The movie never explains what exactly Jamie or Jamie's child has to do with Michael Myers unless you saw Halloween V and even then it's a bit confusing. We get to see Michael Myers in action all throughout the movie murdering a number of people with what look like the local police being on strike. I can't remember seeing a single cop during the entire movie! It's also a bit confusing in just what the Druid angle in Michael Myers life is? Since he seems totally oblivious to their mumbo-jumbo about him being some kind of Durid cousin to the Demon Torn. Michael just goes through the motions killing people like he did in the previous five movies as if he could't care less if he's a Druid or not.The entire Druid connection to Michael Myers completely falls apart in the last ten minutes of the movie with Myers going nuts, as usual, and killing the Druid Cult that's supposed to be worshiping him! Which showed to me that he didn't fall for their BS about himself being one of them.Staking out the Strode House, where he was brought up, Michael goes to work killing both Debra and John Strode with Kara, Debra's daughter, taking off with her son Danny to next door neighbor Tommy Peeping Tom Doyle. A survivor of a previous massacre engineered by Michael Myers. Besides the slaughter of the Druid Cult at the end of the film Mayers not only killed the people, or their relatives, who he was somehow involved with in the previous five Halloween movies. Micael also ends up killing the obnoxious and annoying shock-jock Barry Simms who tried to do his Halloween Show at the former Myers, now Strode, house.It's hard to make sense of the movie since it never tried to make any sense at all with it having every few minutes in it a brutal and bloody murder, in care of Michael Myers, just to keep you from realizing how senseless it really is! The fact that it's star Donald Pleasence died while it was being filmed left a giant hole in it that the makers of Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers weren't able to fill.Donald Pleasence as Dr. Sam Loomis looked like he was dying in the few scenes that he was in the movie and it wasn't because he was told by the director that he was supposed to look that way, he just could't help it. The end has Myers, after taking about three dozens whacks to the head with an iron pole, disappear into the night leaving only his William Shatner mask behind. Were never told what happened to Jamie's baby that Michael seemed so found of, was he the baby's father? We can only guess that he'll be back again and as it happened Halloween VII did have Michael Myers return but it. That movie completely forgot in it's storyline what happened in Halloween VI as if it were never made! "},{"Title":"Better Than 5 But That's Not Saying Much","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Disjointed sequel that attempts to add some layers to the franchise's mythology. A lot of crap about druids and curses but ultimately it's still just a movie about a guy who kills people and can't seem to be killed himself. It's marginally better than part 5, with at attempt at creating some atmosphere here and there.The series continues its trend of having completely unlikeable new characters, presumably because the producers (and some fans) viewed Michael as the protagonist in some warped way. Paul Rudd makes his film debut and I'm surprised he ever worked again. The kill scenes are especially terrible and not very creative. An early death scene involves a woman being impaled on a spike in a wall. Why there is a spike in the middle of an otherwise ordinary wall is beyond me. Another gem is that Michael graffiti-tags his Celtic gang sign in this one. Brilliant.There were a lot of behind-the-scenes problems with this movie apparently and it shows. Some say the producer's cut that can be found online is better. But from what I've read it sounds like garbage as well. Avoid this mess. "},{"Title":"The curse of poor sequels","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Michael Myers (hulking George Wilbur) returns once more to Haddonfield, Illinois to resume his killing spree. It's up to troubled Tommy Doyle (well played by Paul Rudd) and Dr. Loomis (a game, but wasted Donald Pleasence, who's given precious little screen time) to stop Myers. Director Joe Chappelle not only crucially fails to develop any suspense or spooky atmosphere, but also goes way overboard with loads of ugly violence and cheap jump-out-at-you fake scares. Worse yet, the wrongheaded script by Daniel Farrands makes a grievous blunder by providing some kind of ridiculous Druid cult back story for Myers, thus completely undermining Myers' status as the embodiment of pure evil as established in the previous films in the series. Moreover, this picture further suffers from a foul mean-spirited tone that hangs heavy over everything like a putrid fog; placing a newborn baby in considerable jeopardy rates as an especially gross and offensive error on the part of the filmmakers. The plodding pace, clumsy use of flash cutting, and a blaring guitar riff during the murders don't help matters any. Ditto the brutal killing of the Jamie Lloyd character and Loomis' lame send-off. On the plus side, Marianne Hagan contributes an appealing turn as the sympathetic Kara Strode, Mitchell Ryan makes for a nice villain as the sinister Dr. Terence Wynn, and the fetching Mariah O'Brien as the brash Beth bares her sweet perky breasts prior to meeting a harsh untimely end. A real disappointment. "},{"Title":"Too bad that Donald Pleasance had to end like this.","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I know that at the end of his life, Donald Pleasance was pretty much only known for the Halloween movies, but did he really need to get involved in Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers for his final movie role? This entry in the series didn't add anything. It's just more of Michael going around butchering people. The reason that the next entry was so neat was because they brought back Jamie Lee Curtis. So skip this one; entries 1, 2 and 7 are the only ones that you need to see to get the feeling for the series.And Mr. Pleasance, wherever you are, we'll always remember you, if only as Sam Loomis. "},{"Title":"Okay horror flick,if you're bored.","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Here-in this installment-we learn that Michael Myers isn't just the Bogeyman,he's some sort of ancient Druidic avatar sacrificing members of his family to the pagan gods.The script doesn't make much sense and is full of meaningless plot developments,and horror veteran Donald Pleasance died during the production.I did find a couple of things to like-the cast is pretty good and John Carl Buechler's gore effects are suitably nasty(gotta love especially this cool head explosion!).Plenty of blood and violence to satisfy gore-hounds and there's also a fair amount of suspense as well.Overall,Halloween 6The Curse of Michael Myers remains worth watching and might even provide a few chills on a dark night.Check it out. "},{"Title":"Dumb horror film is chronology at it's worst","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (Possible spoilers)I remember first seeing this on cable and trying to figure it out (from after seeing parts 4 and 5).  So, Laurie Strode's daughter (as we learned was abandoned in part 4) grew up at the age of maybe 15 and (as the film opens) has a child.  No explanation as to this, but at least the whole film doesn't go on about Mike Myers (and no not SNL Myers) killing the daughter and the child, if you catch my drift.  But that's just the set up.  And the whole film follows Myers new mission to kill his great nephew!In maybe a couple of spots scary, but overall, a dissapointemnt that makes part III classic and redefines the un-needed horror film in more ways than one.  Biggest embarrasement- Donald Pleasance (of all the Halloween and THX 1138 fame) had his last film with this.  Sad.  D "},{"Title":"Utterly Forgettable Nonsense","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers was a pretty good horror pic with a TERRIBLE ending. It's that ending Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers was stuck with and it capsizes the already shaky film which was barely treading water to begin with. The premise is as follows; a druidic cult has cursed Michael to spread chaos and death by branding him with the mark of the thorn. Only by sacrificing a family member on the night of Samhain (Halloween) can the curse be lifted. Not even the great Donald Pleasence can sell this hogwash. Instead he died and was spared the shame of seeing how badly the film turned out. Subsequent films disregard the druidic nonsense entirely. There is a Producer's Cut available but it's not better or worse than this mess. One wishes the producer had cut his wrists in 1995 to spare the world this lousy sequel. "},{"Title":"Cursed, the audience is","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 'Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers' was absolutely, utterly, disgustingly bad. Suffice to say it's the worst of the 'Halloween' franchise. Easier for me to say it's on my list of worst movies ever. Incoherent, inconsistent, incomplete, unsupenseful, unforgiving and wretched this vile was. As a childhood (not so much anymore) fan of the series, I was dying to see the loose ends #5 left wide-open and had to wait 6 whole years in excited anticipation. (I guess I never learned my lesson about time apart from sequels make a better follow-up; I still had high expectations for 'Indy 4.') This garbage is what they came up with their time off? Plot holes (a dozen never fleshed out) the size of the Grand Canyon, unfinished script &#x96; see jaw-dropping finale (?), original story lines changed &#x96; I guess in #1, 6-year-old Michael was being babysat by a third-party never shown before and a case for CPS to sue Director Chappelle on how a baby, in character or not, was treated, abandoned (multiple times) and has a knife used on him. Paul Rudd, dear God, I know this was your first film; you probably needed a start and may have been a Myers fan as I was growing up, but really? Thank goodness, you did grow out of this and become a fine actor. Needless to say, I hated this movie. It's hard to give a plot breakdown, but I'll try some cult apparently kidnapped Jamie & Michael 6 years ago at the end of #5, but Jamie waited until about 9 months ago to conceive and the movie opens with her giving birth. Obviously, Michael, bent on being the last Myers is after the child. In Memory of Donald Pleasence it reads, though if alive, he'd just want to forget this ever happened. "},{"Title":"9 out of 10","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Six years ago, Michael Myers terrorized the town of Haddonfield, Illinois. He and his niece, Jamie Lloyd, have disappeared. Jamie was kidnapped by a bunch of evil druids who protect Michael Myers. And now, six years later, Jamie has escaped after giving birth to Michael's child. She runs to Haddonfield to get Dr. Loomis to help her again. Meanwhile, the family that adopted Laurie Strode is living in the Myers house and are being stalked by Myers. It's the curse of Thorn that Michael is possessed by that makes him kill his family. And it's up to Tommy Doyle, the boy from Halloween, and Dr. Loomis, to stop them all.Good sequel to Halloween 5 and a not bad script, but the more thrills and chills you would expect.Rated R for Graphic Violence, Brief Nudity and Sexual Situations. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the horrible ' 90's Michael Myers!","Date":"26 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Man, the '90's really were an horrible decade for movies. The movies are lacking in a good style and also the storytelling is often lacking.This 6th entry into the long running Halloween-series is certainly a bad one. You just never really get into the story because it isn't a very well constructed and build-up movie.It's simply a poorly done film, that also suffers from its imagine-less writing and non-compelling characters that are in it. Dr. Loomis seems to be in it just for the sake of being in it. It's a real shame that this had to be Donald Pleasence last film-role. It's nice and also sort of suiting that his last role is in an Halloween movie but he definitely deserved to be in a better one.There is never a sense of real danger in the movie and the character of Michael Myers just never comes across as threatening or scary. Perhaps it's because he's featured too prominently throughout the movie, from pretty early on already. He does his usual stuff again but without too much class or originality. Also the attempts to uncover Myer's past don't really work out, for the main reason that it just doesn't get explained very well. It's obvious that the script went through various re-writes before- and also very possibly during filming. Several scenes even got re-shot or added after the first cut turned out to be far from pleasing. The movie more often looks and feels like a made for TV one. This is also due to the lack of some real good gore. As an horror movie it really is lacking in basically everything to make this a good or even original one to watch.So far the worst out of the series!3/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Rubbishy sixth installment of a very tired franchise that was never that good to begin with.","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers starts as mass murderer Michael Myers (George P. Wilbur) last remaining blood relative Jamie Lloyd (J.C. Brandy) gives birth in the candle lit basement belonging to a group of dubious character's who worship Michael because he is some sort of druid incarnation of evil & these turkeys protect him & perform all sorts of dodgy rituals & you just know this film is going to be crap from this opening sequence. Anyway, a kind hearted druid nurse (Lee Ju Chew) gives Jamie her baby back & lets them escape but the main man himself Michael Myers is in hot pursuit, I have no idea where he came from or how he knew what was going on but hey I guess the screenwriters thought we wouldn't care (they were right). Michael ends up killing Jamie but discovering that she hid her baby somewhere en-route, since all Michael wants to do is kill all his relatives (don't laugh I feel like this all the time!) for various preposterous reasons he is determined to head back to Haddonfield to kill the folks in his old house including a cousin of Laurie Strode, Kara (Marianne Hagan) & hunt down Jamie's baby even though he couldn't have a clue where it is, as luck would have it Tommy Doyle (Paul Rudd) the guy across the street, who also has a tenuous link to the original as he was a babysitter or something, found Jamie's baby & has taken it back home where Michael is lurking not far away across the street...Directed by Joe Chappelle I thought Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers was a boring & confusing entry in the Halloween franchise that currently numbers 9 & should have stopped at Halloween III Season of the Witch (1982) which at least tried to be different & original. The script by Daniel Farrands is an absolute mess & when you consider the various production problems that took place it's no surprise, for instance the script apparently went through 11 drafts (& they still ended up with this?!), Donald Pleasence died before the film was released & many of his scene were edited out, the usual 'creative differences' between director, producer & studio & really bad test screenings prompted re-shoots & heavy re-editing. The whole sorry situation has mess written all over it, the stupid ideas about druid cults, star constellation's, Michaels origins & lots of unnecessary nonsense that I suppose was included to try & stretch the flimsy series out even more although ironically the next film in the series Halloween H20 20 Years Later (1998) totally ignored Holloween The Curse of Michael Myers & it's absurd ideas. The film moves along at a fair pace, there are a few decent scenes when taken individually but as a whole the film really is a mess & it looks like it was pieced together using outtakes. Oh & since when do Hospitals leave machetes lying around?Director Chappelle has a nice style going on here, cool neon blues as lightening flash, some good angles & camera moves means that it's a fine looking film. Unfortunately this means that the film looks very staged, one of the reasons why the original Halloween (1978) was effective was because of it's simplicity. There isn't much gore, someone is impaled on some farm machinery, an exploding head, a slit throat & a few spurts of blood. Most of the character's feel very secondary & things are never rounded off with any satisfaction.With a budget of about $5,000,000 it has that Hollywood polish & it looks good throughout. The acting isn't up to much but at least there are no rap 'stars' in it, Pleasence looks really old & disinterested (much like the audience by the time this thing finishes).Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers is not for me, maybe there are people out there who love it & that's fine but for me it's a definite miss. Not particularly recommended & for die-hard Halloween fans only. According to the IMDb's 'Trivia Section' many of the cast & crew were angry at all the changes, problems & re-shoots with them vowing never to make another Halloween film again (you know what I'm going to say), well we all have to be grateful for small mercies I suppose! "},{"Title":"They'll never get rid of ol' Mickey!!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In case anyone's still bothering to count here we have the SIXTH episode in the wacky adventures of mass murderer Michael Myers and the good people of Haddonfield; Illinois apparently STILL don't realize that the white-masked dude can't possibly be killed. The biggest trump of this mid-90's installment, however, is that Halloween goes occult! Nearly twenty years and four long feature films (Season of the Witch not included) later, this new script suddenly suggests that Myer's nature of pure evil might have been inflicted onto him and that there even exist cults that worship his persona. How about that? I wonder if John Carpenter had any thoughts in that direction when he initially thought up the simple premise of a maniac butchering babysitters! Guess not&#133; Anyway, this weirdo cult offers Michael to kill his last niece alive as well as her newborn baby so that his direct bloodline is finished off completely. The girl escapes and the baby ends up in home sweet home Haddonfield where many people will meet their deaths again. Maybe I just was in an extraordinary good mood when I saw this film, but I really didn't think it was that bad. It even qualifies as the series' second best entry, as the atmosphere is quite sinister and the murder-sequences are delightfully gory & sadistic. Unlike part five, which was a really awful film, The Curse of Michael Myers isn't overly talkative or irritatingly dull and Joe Chapelle's directing is surprisingly solid. Even Carpenter's legendary music received a techno update and &#150; believe it or not &#150; it actually works stimulating. The acting performances are more than adequate with Paul Rudd as the adult version of Tommy; the boy Jamie Lee Curtis was babysitting in the original. Donald Pleasance's share in the script has been reduced to a supportive role, but maybe it's better like that, since the poor man looks very fatigue and ill. Pleasance passed away before the film ever hit the theaters and therefore it's dedicated to his memory. An admirable effort. "},{"Title":"It was the rune wot made me do it.","Date":"11 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Remember that tattoo briefly glimpsed on Michael Myer's wrist in Halloween 5? Well, in Part 6, we learn its significance, and it's a real stinker of an explanation, one that takes the story in such a dreadful direction that it will have fans of John Carpenter's classic cringing with embarrassment and/or frothing with rage.The symbol, as it transpires, is a rune, put there by members of a pagan cult who have been controlling Michael for their own nefarious needs ever since he was a child. This unnecessary update to the Michael Myer's mythos robs the character of his mystery and ultimately exonerates him of any blame, turning him from the embodiment of pure evil into a figure almost worthy of our compassion. Way to spoil the entire series!Rather unsurprisingly, Part 6 in the series is utter trash, the script getting more and more preposterous as the plot develops, with the whole evil druid sect storyline making not a lick of sense and the only decent moment in the entire film being a pretty cool exploding head effect (an unofficial unrated version of the film apparently shows a touch more gore throughout but I doubt it would improve the film much).The whole stupid occult angle was wisely ignored for subsequent movies, the series' makers desperately trying to appease fans by bringing back Jamie Lee Curtis as Laurie Strode for Halloween H20 and Halloween Resurrection (they needn't have bothered&#x97;both films are only marginally better than this garbage). "},{"Title":"So tired, So very tired","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Taste is a subjective thing, the original Halloween is one of my favourite movies. I began to watch sequel after sequel knowing that they were sooner or later going to hurt me more and more. I enjoyed where this time-line was going with Halloween 4, the fifth one was bad but I'll admit that there were a few things that I liked. Then there's this - probably one of the most tired and clichéd horror sequels I have ever seen.Okay so the plot. After Jamie Lloyd gives birth with the help of a Satanic Cult (Already you lost me) The baby is given the mark to be sacrificed but she runs away with the baby to a Train Station when Michael Myers follows and kills her, which evidently she didn't use any of her psychic powers from the last movie to stop him. Loomis is now retired but as he hears her cries for help as she calls up a radio station he comes back looking for her.Then at the Strode/Myers House... (I'll come back to this) Kari Strode - a person who we have never seen or has ever been mentioned before and her family, also never seen or mentioned before is preparing for Halloween, which has FINALLY gotten some backlash in Haddonfield because... knife wielding serial killer attacks three times on Halloween and Tommy Doyle, the kid from the first movie is back with a plot to finally kill Michael Myers. He finds the baby and gives it to Loomis and their mission to protect the baby and the Strode family begins.Okay, the plot holes are legendary even within of itself - How come the Strode family never do anything to contact Jamie? Why does Jamie give birth at a Pagan ritual which we have never seen her be affiliated with this in any other movie? why does nearly the entire Strode family forget that they were living in the Myers home? Why would a cult worship Michael Myers? Why were they never established in Halloween 4 and 5? If Tommy Doyle's plan all along was to stop Michael, why is it that this is the only movie besides the first one that he is brought up or mentioned in again? That's just to name a few of the notable ones. I know it's a slasher movie - I shouldn't be so harsh on it but there's a difference between writing around things that happened in the previous movie to get more to work with (plot wise) and then there's insulting my intelligence.Not to mention the editing of these movies has just gotten worse. I know, I cited some of the editing in the last movie as some of the worst I have ever seen. Imagine the half-second cuts of that movie combined with white flashing between them. Not to mention that they use stuff that either you have already seen or will see. Was there something written down that the movie has to be a certain time long so the director decided to flash random sh#t at the audience in order to do so? If you told me that I would not be surprised.Here's another problem, this movie is every single horror cliché ever made. Now I am fine with using clichés if the people behind it breathe life into it and make it seem less like the stale stuff that seems about 20 years old. I'm not kidding here - EVERY single one of the clichés is in here. Couple f#ck in a bedroom only to get killed? Check. People in over their heads getting killed by the thing they saw little danger in? Check. People resorting to using a flashlight to go down into a dark basement to investigate a noise as opposed to trying to get an electrician or something only to get killed? Check. Obvious shots and camera stuff to indicate the killer is going to strike? Check. Now I wouldn't have minded if it was made in the early 80's or the late 70's but THIS WAS MADE IN 1995! A time when Wes Craven was starting to write a movie systematically mocking all the horror clichés.Not to mention Michael in this movie is just awful. I mean there are times when he seems intimidating but I think it's either the Curse of The Thorn bullshit or that he goes through about 10 minutes of screen time not killing anyone. The Curse Of The Thorn is also really unexplained. I think some more analysis into why they're worshiping a guy who is an uncontrollable killing machine is needed.So, out of the seven Halloween movies I have seen so far - this is the second worst one out of all of them (The worst being 3). I mean they nullify everything that made Michael intimidating in the last 5 movies intimidating and open up more holes than a Gofer infestation and Swiss Cheese. If there is anything to watch this movie for - It's either Donald Pleasence's acting or the occasional goofy moment. Anything else you would have known the routine because it's in at least one other slasher movie. "},{"Title":"Quality Will Depend on the Version You Watch","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween The Curse of Michael Myers (1995) * 1/2 (out of 4)Six years after the previous film and its mysterious ending, along came this movie, which promised to put an end to the Michael Myers myth but all it did was upset fans who were still steaming from the previous entry. Jamie Lloyd and her newborn child, fathered by Myers, escapes from the Druids who have been holding her captive and she tries to reach Dr. Loomis (Donald Pleasence) who has now retired. Back in Haddonfield a family has moved into the childhood home of Myers, which he objects to so the killer shows up to add a few more victims. This theatrical version of the sixth film in the series went through many different changes before getting released but this review is just for what we all saw on the big screen in 1995. It's funny but I think time has been kind to it because the previous film has pretty much been destroyed by time. I've always considered this the worst in the series but after these recent viewings I might have to put this one slightly better. What makes it so strange is that the story itself is just crazy and not all that interesting. I'm sure, the freakin' Druids? That's the best they could come up with? I really don't think the film puts a good explanation to the events from part five and even worse is how the Jamie Lloyd character is carried over here. Also on hand is Tommy Doyle, the kid from the first movie but this added attraction really doesn't lend much to the story. In this version it doesn't make too much sense as to what the Druids are up to or why they needed Myers but in all honesty do we really care? The film is quite ugly to look at and I think director Joe Chappelle has to take the blame. There's no suspense to be had here and even worse is that the picture doesn't even feel like a HALLOWEEN movie. Myers has been reduced to nothing and instead of atmosphere we just get some rather graphic killings. Even the performances are pretty bad here. The young Paul Rudd doesn't do much as Tommy, J.C. Brady is a disappointment as Jamie and the rest of the supporting players just don't have much spark. It was somewhat fun seeing Kim Darby (TRUE GRIT) but she's not around for long. Pleasence, who died before the film opened, sadly doesn't get too much to do as it's obvious he was going through some poor health here that affected his speech and walk. It was still great seeing the actor here still giving it his all though. Consider where the series went from here, this was the last of the original series and it certainly goes out on a very bad note. After what this and the previous film turned into there's no question that everyone made the right decision to just walk away and try something different. I mean, where to do you after the Druids? Thankfully outer space wasn't the answer.Halloween 666 The Producer's Cut (1996) If you're a fan of the HALLOWEEN series then you know that the sixth film was released in a very butchered form but since the original release the bootleg market has been flooded with alternate versions with The Producer's Cut considered the best of the bunch. So, is the producer's cut better? Slightly due to a few changes but let's be real here. No matter which cut you watch you're still going to have to put up with a silly story, poor performances, no scares and just an all around sloppy movie. If you haven't seen either version then you might want to stop here because I'm going to get into some heavy spoilers. What does work here is the fact that Jamie isn't killed right off the bat inside the barn. I think the entire series has had a bad thing in regards to how people are killed off and I think the entire Jamie killing was way too sudden in the theatrical cut. You could argue that how she dies here isn't fair to her character but it's better than what we have in the other version. Another major plus is the alternate ending. In the original film it's Loomis who we hear screaming as Michael's body is missing, which implies that the doctor has died. I must admit that I enjoy how Michael gets destroyed in the theatrical cut more but the actual ending with Loomis living is more satisfying. Another change that often gets overlooked happens after the father has slapped his daughter. There's a very quick bit of dialogue showing his anger at his daughter and it somewhat helps explain why he's such a jerk to her. Another noticeable change happens right at the start of the picture when we have Pleasance doing the voice-over narration instead of Paul Rudd. Yet another big sequence is a flashback to the end of part 5 when Jamie is shown being kidnapped. Again, all of these help the film but there are still a few moments that don't work. I think many of the extended dialogue sequences really don't add anything to the film and the murder of the father is shortened to the point where you really have to wonder why. In the theatrical version his body ends up exploding but that's completely missing here. Perhaps they wanted a less-graphic version but if so you have to wonder why they bothered filming it at all. "},{"Title":"Complete waste of time","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Halloween 6 was the only Halloween film I hadn't seen (before I watched it), which means that I've now completely wasted my time on no less than eight Halloween films. Given that each film has an approximate running time of ninety minutes, that means I have wasted 12 hours of my time on this rubbish, which of course, amounts to half a day. I feel sick. Quite why I worked my way through a series that I don't like is anyone's guess, but anyway...let's get on to reviewing this film. In fairness, at least Halloween 6 tries to do something a bit different than the usual slash-fest. It fails to create anything interesting, but the fact that it tried is admirable. We follow the birth of Michael's child by his niece(?!) Jamie Lloyd. The film harks back to the original by throwing in series stalwart Dr Loomis again, as well as some boy named Tommy, who was apparently the kid that was being babysat by Michael's sister in the first film. The film introduces the largely unoriginal idea of a cult worshipping Myers, but the real crux of the story follows the idea that maybe Michael isn't solely responsible for his actions.Michael Myers has always been a rampant and really rather dull man with a knife, but The Curse of Michael Myers attempts to give him a little backbone by way of the idea that maybe he was possessed by demons that made him kill his sister and all those other people. This is obviously just an attempt to inject some life into a very much dead series. It fails because there's barely any interest generated. Scriptwriter Daniel Farrands tries to create some mystery and intrigue, but personally I just didn't care. The main reason why many people find Michael Myers frightening is for the fact that he is cold, completely insane and relentless, so the idea of his actions not being his fault is as stupid and needless as a sixth instalment of the Halloween series. The acting is typically rubbish, with the only standout being Donald Pleasance, who chews the scenery once again in his (unfortunately) most famous role. Pleasance died before this film was released, and in my opinion it's a shame that he wasted so much of his time in the Dr Loomis role. After seeing his early performances in films like Cul-De-Sac and The Flesh and the Fiends, it's obvious that Pleasance was a talented actor who is better than films like this. I don't know what Halloween fans would make of this movie and I don't care. To be honest, I'm too upset about the fact that I've wasted half a day on these films. "}]