[{"Title":"A realistic and touching look at the life of a big guy.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is beautifully shot, and full of emotion. It is a character study. Very little action,of even the most basic kind. But you are drawn into the film, if you have even the slightest compassion, by the sheer loneliness and alienation of the characters.The lead character, Vincent, is a middle aged man, weighing 250lbs. Heavy.Our first introduction to Vincent plays upon our own bigoted perceptions of big guys that they're all perverts. But through the film, we get to know Vince, and find that he is motivated, or rather paralyzed, by a fear of change and a painful shyness. His also a highly moral person. Not in the Christian sense, which would tend to make him seem truly perverse, but in the Human sense. He believes in Dignity and, despite the seemingly futility of it, Hope. These are hard things to find in the small town in which he resides; especially considering he works in the family pub. I won't give away the ending, but HOPE sums it up.The film deals with the hardships of being an overweight man, without indicting anyone or blaming anyone; and without telling the audience that being a big boy is inherently evil. In fact, Director James Mangold has much affection for this lonely man. If you have ANY opportunity to watch this film on DVD with Mangold's commentary, please do, but only after you have watched the film once or twice.Pruitt Taylor Vince is perhaps in this film better than I have ever seen him. He is a beautiful man, whose eyes are filled with every emotion imaginable. I can tell, he has been through these painful experiences before in his own life.The rest of the cast is great too. You won't see glamorous people here. Shelly Winters plays the mother with a spareness that makes you think there's not much underneath, but as the film unfolds you find the exact opposite. Deborah Harry essentially revisits the Wise Guy character she played, but without the glamor. Lost and desperate, and too old to pretend she's not.Liv Tyler, in one of her first roles, is also lost and desperate, but without the cynicism of Harry. Great counterbalance. She is also beautiful, and compassionate.Mangold knows human nature. Here, he takes the brave step of challenging the audience to stop and think about it. The pauses in this movie are amazing, and say more than 30 minutes of a traditional narrative film do. This film is not just about a heavy guy...it is about all of us; how we react to those who are different, our own insecurities, our own sorrows, loneliness, and frail hearts. And yet, it defies becoming a chick flick, Perhaps because it does center around the man's experiences, or perhaps because it does not cop out at the end with Cinderella fantasies.WATCH THIS FILM. "},{"Title":"He's a man so shy, he doesn't even think he deserves love...","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Solemn, but terrific mood piece about a shy, chubby cook in a rivertown restaurant who fantasizes about getting to know the new waitress who just hired on, a perky young thing with long brunette hair and a big charming smile. Graceful film never goes the commercial route, neither injecting shady characters into the mix nor throwing in blatant jokes to give the film comedic uplift. The picture is all on one level, which may drive some viewers batty with impatience, but I found the whole thing quietly invigorating. The lead character, Victor (Pruitt Taylor Vince), daydreams, watches airplanes, has secret hopes; he's a loner, and the filmmakers are careful not to flood the screen with potential conquests. There's Debbie Harry as a loose waitress with weary eyes and Liv Tyler, the new hire, who brings fantasy into Victor's life, but, as with all fantasies, the advent of reality diffuses the passionate tension. Everyone is sad in this film, and I imagine some audiences won't get with it, but I admire director James Mangold for putting this story on film so eloquently. It's a new Marty. *** from **** "},{"Title":"A wonderful, sad, compelling film.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Heavy is a film about sad and desperate people, all of whom seem to have nothing to look forward to. At the center of the film is Victor, played magnificently by Pruitt Taylor Vince. He's the cook at his mother's restaurant. Victor goes about his job and life almost mechanically, he rarely say a word and his movement is limited. Until a couple of major event in his environment happens. One the hiring of a beautiful young waitress named Callie(Liv Tyler) which represent to Victor something wonderful and unattainable. Yet it gives him hope for his empty existence. The second major event is tragic, yet Victor hides it from everyone around him because he wants things to stay the same. He has no sense of what else is there for him. Yet this event might give him the opportunity to go out and see what's beyond the front door of his mom's restaurant. The final reel shows that whereas the other character's lives seem to be continuing the same pattern of sadness and despair. Victor might try to move on with his. Particularly his interaction with a convenience store female clerk with whom he's never spoken to before. It's not much but it's a start.  "},{"Title":"a movie as a tone poem.","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An overweight cook who lives with and works for his mother, develops a crush on a young waitress who comes to work for their diner. However, what do you say when you're 30, overweight, have never gone anywhere, never kissed a girl, and rarely speak more than three words a day? Not everyone will get this movie. Having said that, it's a work of beauty. A simple story line, with minimal drama, dealing with a situation that could happen to anyone, except that it happens with someone who is unable to express himself. The simple pulse of this movie beats and builds slowly, and doesn't sweep you away, but leaves you to contemplate life in someone else's shoes. Excellent cinematography, a haunting original score by Thurston Moore, and a story that's so fresh simply because of it's ordinary nature.We need more films like this. I was disappointed to find that James Mangold has since gone on to write and direct some movies, which are quite overblown. However, this one was pragmatic and elegant.  "},{"Title":"Watch this movie!","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As one of my boyfriends friends described this film This is one of those movies where you don't really feel any better after you watch it. Reguardless, this is a film everyone needs to see.This film is about Victor, who is brutally shy. Victor has had everything a certain way, for a long time, and wants it to stay that way. His dream is to go to culinary school and become a chef, so his mom and dad open a resturant, so that he has a place to cook - sort of a greasy spoon - nothing all that special. During the film, Victors mom gets sick, and he takes her to the hospital. He sits with her for days. He goes to the cafeteria for lunch, and while he's gone for lunch, his mom dies. He doesn't tell anyone - not even the people that work at the resurant, because, as he puts it later, he didn't want anything to change.I am unfamiliar with the man that played Victor in this film. However, I think he is one of the most amazing actors that I've seen in a long time. You feel all his emotions - his painful shyness, how alone he feels after his mom passes, how alone he is in the world. You actually FEEL all of that.Now, be forwarned - I cried for two days after watching this movie. This mans performance was just so heartbreaking, that I couldn't help it. Every time I thought about it, I teared up. If your wanting a feel-good movie, or a date movie, I wouldn't really recommend this. However, if your having one of those depressed, lay around in your pajamas, and eat a whole tub of ice cream sort of days, then I wouldn't miss this film at all. "},{"Title":"A movie that understands the importance of subtle moments.","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Heavy is not the type of movie I would watch when looking for action, thrills, horror, or adventure. It's not about a fat guy making goo-goo eyes at a pretty waitress where he makes pizzas, either... although that could be seen from an outsider's glance.The movie captures a period of time where our big hero, Victor, is experiencing a number of life-altering changes. From what we know, he has always led a sheltered life under the regime of his mother. When a new waitress, Callie (Liv Tyler), starts work at the bar, Victor's daily life is suddenly altered from a spark of curiosity. He's not a perverted horndog, but he is fascinated by this girl's kindness and beauty, watching her from afar and having visions of her as the drama grows. It's the quiet internal struggle Victor faces that really heightens the intensity of the movie. Those nervous eyes, the quiet voice, the big guy who won't fight back... he is a man trying to become a man. By the end of the film, we are at least given the hope that he is now on the right track.It's the subtle moments in Heavy that really make the film. From the airplanes soaring overhead, giving transition to new points in the lives of the characters, to the Boston Terrier noticing important details, this movie is one to sit back and ponder. The more I think about this movie, the more I like it. It's a lesson on how the quiet subtle moments in life can be the most important.  "},{"Title":"Pruitt Taylor Vince should have got an Academy Award nomination","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that I almost didn't watch because it was to be about a fat pizza cook. After watching for thirty minutes, it was obvious that the movie was about the very sensitive feelings of someone who is over weight. The performance by Pruitt Taylor Vince was very impressive, and I felt if not winning an Academy Award, should have at least been nominated. Few actors can express as much without saying a word, as he did in this very powerful and touching movie. "},{"Title":"A little drifting but Vince holds the attention well","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Victor works as a cook in his mother's diner along with waitresses Delores and Callie.  Callie is the new girl who arouses jealousy in Delores but feelings of longings in Victor.  With his mother in the hospital Victor realises that his life needs more to it &#150; but his size puts him off being forwardLike the lead character this is a slow film that requires patience as everything is understated rather than shouted out.  The story follows Victor as he tries to make progress from his shy, quiet life one step at a time.  The eerie electronic score adds to the feeling of pace and thoughtfulness and in many ways the film backs it up.  On the down side it does seem aimless at times and sometimes the plot feels like it isn't real.These are minor flaws and the director has set a good story for a good cast to carry through on.  Vince is especially good as Victor.  He fits the role like a glove and his moving eyes and shy gestures bring the character to life and make him totally believable.  Tyler is also very good &#150; what a shame that her most successful roles have been in MTV-type of stuff, but she is very bright here.  Both Winters and Harry put in good roles but less central than the former two.Overall this is a very patient piece of work looking at the character of Victor.  It may seem aimless and drifting at times but it is quite touching &#150; mainly due to an understated performance from Vince. "},{"Title":"Moody stuff","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mainly watched this because Liv Tyler is one of the most beautiful women on the planet and was pleasantly surprised how good it was. Poor Victor in the pizza shop is the kind of guy an awful lot of people can relate to I'm sure. Debbie Harry puts in a good performance too. The moodiness and dark settings make the film very compelling viewing indeed. Victor's outlook on life and his consciousness of his size and looks is so believable and his daydreaming is handled so well throughout. Any self conscious person should watch this as should people who pass judgment on others on looks alone. A film hard to forget. "},{"Title":"A title that has multiple meanings in this film.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I feel that this is an emotional, heavy hearted and well acted, film. The story centers around an overweight, maternally dependent short order and pizza cook, at a family run bar and eats, in a small town somewhere in America.  Learning about Victor as he deals with change in his reclusive, maternally dominated life, by the introduction of an outsider, portrayed by Liv Tyler, and the sudden death of his mother is what makes this film so good.  It is not a dark tale, but I feel, one of sadness that is presented through a group of people who in everyone's real lives would just be passed by.  The film makes you feel for this small group of people struggling to make their emotional ends meet in their everyday lives.  The film is well done enough that you feel a desire to know the history of the characters but feel as what you know is enough to emphasize with these characters. "}{"Title":"Delicate, subtle, real","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Strong performances and great restraint make Heavy a deftly handled, beautiful and subtly moving piece. Despite the apparent futility of Victor's interest in Callie, they're both changed in ways which are worth seeing. Aside from Evan Dando's slight awkwardness, the acting in this film is understated and very believable - Shelley Winters is warm and careworn, even Debbie Harry manages to blend in to the low-key scenery. Beautifully shot and directed, with a superb score from Thurston Moore, Heavy is a piece of cinema rather than a story shoe-horned into a screenplay. This won't satisfy anyone looking for simple plot and resolution, but for the rest of us there's a lot to admire. "},{"Title":"Pruitt Taylor Vince and Liv Tyler..the Romance that never was, but intimated could have been","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a pleasantly suprising movie that concentrates on the relationships that exist between for central characters that work at a Diner. Pruuitt Taylor Vince is excellent as Victor the simple son of Dolly (Shelley Winters).  One really feels for his character as the movie progresses, particulary with how he struggles to come to grips with his mother's death.  Liv Tyler (Callie)  is something special, she has a sweet innocence and beauty that makes her character so vulnerable and likeable.  The movie hints at the possibility of romance between Callie and Victor, but it never does eventuate.Debbie Harry is perfect for the role of Delores, the slutty waitress who despises just about everything, particularly Callie.  It's not a blockbuster by any stretch, but its pleasantly suprising without being to HEAVY.6/10 "},{"Title":"A Sad Film That Deals With A Shy Man Dealing With Lost Loves.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Victor works in up state New York at a small bar/diner. He is painfully shy, depending to a great extent, on his mother's care and direction. A new waitress, played by Liv Tyler, is hired. Victor is charmed by her kindness and looks.  Pruitt Taylor Vince gives a fine performance as Victor. Shelley Winters plays Dolly, his mother. Debbie Harry is great as Delores, a co-worker who seems to have a chip on her shoulder.  This movie tries to provide a meaningful character study and, for the most part, succeeds. I cared for the characters and felt that I knew them well. The problem is that Victor does not progress. He talks very little and I felt that the answers were very slow in coming. It was a frustration sometimes. Even so, Heavy provides us with a film that will stay with you. I gave it a 7 of 10. Good direction by and script by James Mangold. A memorable sound track that fits the film well.  "},{"Title":"extremely underrated and amazing","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this is one of those films that slipped right through the cracks. i rarely ever see it mentioned by friends and critics alike. a truly beautiful little movie, a sort of slice of life that is at times sad and funny. one of my favourite parts about it is the soundtrack, which really gives the film its ambiance and its moods - the Thurston Moore score coupled with the stellar music from Evan dando (singing gram parsons!) the plimsouls, eleni mandell etc. is what turned me to the film (i heard the soundtrack first). and i'm glad i saw the film. star pruitt taylor vince definitely gives a great performance in a truly subtly powerful role. not-one to be overlooked. "},{"Title":"Good representative of 90's cinema","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Heavy indeed the title to me explained the depth of symbolism this movie had commenced. This movie to my mind shown an example ironically of life's various infatuations. In how the duration of them bloom then wither naturally as time dissolves entirety. The character Victor which claimed to be fat as compared to his interest Callie which of prevailing allure if you will. Considering this at all time, Victor becomes timid quite often. Only wanting the slightest bit of attention as himself besotted by her essence. This film in my opinion illuminates a life of the working class who may never have there dreams come true. Maybe the way they might have wanted. Which apparently can become laceration for this individual. In opposition to this depressing technique for life's let downs. I reside in the words of Friedrich Nietzsche. Which he so ambrosially stated.. Love to one only is a barbarity, for it is exercised at the expense of all others. Love to God also! "},{"Title":"This film is still on my mind","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though I saw 'Heavy' in 1996, I still remember alot about it. I think it is one of the most moving films I have seen. I only saw it once but what has made me remember it so well is the James Mangold style that takes you inside a person's experience. I haven't missed a James Mangold film since. Pruitt Taylor Vince plays the lead character and is unforgettable.I think it is time for me to find this at my local and view it again. "},{"Title":"Sad, Sad, Sad..","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A brilliant, sad film with a beautiful performance by the lead actor, Pruitt Taylor Vince. He doesn't have many lines to say but the facial expressions are stunning. Also this man can express his emotions with his eyes!The story centers on 'Vic', an overweight diner cook and his feelings towards the waiter, 'Callie'. However he is physically disabled to express his emotions by his lack of confidence, shyness and his overbearing mother.This film is not just about a sad fat person because all the characters have problems. This a great film about love, sadness and the missed opportunities of life. "},{"Title":"Mangold has written and directed a wonderful movie","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pruitt's portrayal of the decent, loyal, guileless, sensitive Victor -- a man troubled with his shyness, inability to articulate his feelings, and weight -- is acting at its best. (His eyes talk.) The cinematography was beautiful, the pace was perfect, the casting was right on, the setting was perfect -- upstate NY has the haunting beauty and greyness that you could sense tied the characters to the place. Anybody with a heart will be touched by this movie. It captured the beauty of a place and the people who are part of it. The characters are real -- Mangold uses the medium so well you can feel their personal histories. Not much dialogue is needed and isn't offered. The story hints at what a different future for Victor could be like -- but, ultimately, it's about Victor's contentment, with his wanting things to stay the same, and with having to deal with a major loss and a major desire. He faces up to how unconnected he has become through the loss of his mother and infatuation.  The audience is asked to imagine his place in the world alone and how he might find some contentment/happiness with a simple life at home and tavern. This movie is about a lot things our commercial, sex-centered culture would rather us not think about. Victor shows goodness after disappointment. He doesn't give up, he doesn't run away. The movie leaves us with hope that two quiet people find happiness with each other.Tell your friends and family to watch this one. Tell them to shut up and listen. "},{"Title":"Mode and character drive this one along","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had a hypnotic effect on me with it's ambient, ponderous score, subtle character acting and peculiar imagery.  I watch it maybe once a month, just to let the feel of it sink into my skin.  It's full of ideas and images that won't go away--in fact there's very little of it I can't remember.  It's a small and unconventional masterpiece for a director who has since gone down a more conventional route (Copland, Girl Interrupted). Watch it if you can find it.  If you like it, get a copy because it may be forgotten one day.  This one is about something. "},{"Title":"Long live independent cinema","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a brilliant exploration into the mind of someone who is deeply depressed but, despite trying to reach out and get help, really cannot communicate to anyone effectively.  The protagonist Victor is overweight, overly shy, and for the entire film does not speak very often.  Instead, though, we learn about his sorrows through what he sees and dreams and through this I think we learn to relate to him on a deeper level.  The film allows us to see and from that feel what is going on inside Victor, and for this reason the film is a cinematic masterpiece.  Also, it goes against many Hollywood narrative conventions (i.e. shot/reverse shot pattern) and has some cool original shots involving glass.  It really is a beautiful and depressing but true film.   "}{"Title":"A slow and realistic slice of life","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An exquisite indie film directed by James Mangold. A very tiny story set in a typical small town diner but the direction, script and acting border on the sublime.This will not be to everyone's taste, extremely slow-moving but every frame gives us a little more information about the characters. From the empty life of Delores, the aging waitress played so well by Deborah Harry (AKA Blondie)to the achingly forlorn one of Victor in a riveting performance by Pruitt Taylor Vince, every character rings true.We have all met them along the way, some of us have shared the same experiences. To capture this so beautifully on film is to create a minor masterpiece.Liv Tyler shines in her first major role as does Shelley Winters in one of her last. Not to be missed by those who like their movies with more deeply drawn characters.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The BEST film ever made...","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alone in the silent dark, late at night.  That's how 'Heavy', and pretty much any good movie, should be viewed.  'Heavy' captures and translates emotion like nothing else.What drives an artist crazy is being misunderstood.  The artist feels something that he understands, but can't explain.  He can only relate his feeling through the manifestation of his own thoughts and emotions.  James Mangold's 'Heavy' successfully makes himself heard and understood.'Heavy' gives the intent viewer not a story, but an emotion.  We feel the overwhelming power of loneliness in these stagnating lives, and see tragedy arouse a glimpse of hope and progression.'Heavy' isn't something you see... it's something you feel.  'Heavy' is the goal film makers have tried to attain since the invention of motion pictures.  James Mangold has created the most extraordinary work of art to ever embrace the screen.Turn out the lights.  Shut out the noise.  All alone... enter the ethereal, quiet, and emotional world of 'Heavy'. "},{"Title":"Heavy indeed","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Life in small town America has been explored in many movies, but James Mangold's 'Heavy' has in its favour some distinctive characters, a subtle, low-key plot and fine acting from, among others, former glamour girl Debbie Harry who oddly seems to play only embittered old crones in the movies (see also 'My Life Without Me'). It's a pity, then, that the pace is so slow (the movie never really goes anywhere surprising from the original premise) and is laden down with heavy-handed symbolism, even when there's very little to symbolise. And for a film that is trying so hard to mean something, it's a bit disappointing that it makes some elementary errors (the bar, which never seems to contain more than one customer, is meant to be supporting the livelihoods of 4 people; while Liv Tyler's beautiful teenager is deep, enigmatic and troubled for reasons that are useful to the story but never otherwise explained). It's a shame, as there's a great short film somewhere in among the flabby tedium; but 'Heavy' is more the representation of an idea than a closely-observed vision of life, and at feature length feels self-important and overweight. The mere absence of flashiness does not itself make a film profound. "},{"Title":"Depressing and uplifting at the same time","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You might find yourself tapping your fingers with impatience with this slow motion character study, but if you stay with it you might find it indelible.Director and writer James Mangold is uncompromising in his determination that we live, breathe, feel and taste this man's loneliness, his isolation from others and his pitiful desire to find some beauty in his dreary life.Pruitt Taylor Vince stars as a fat thirty-something who still lives with his mother and is the fry cook at her cafe/bar. I think he over acts at times, but perhaps that's what makes him so effective. He is painful to watch. Deborah Harry is entirely believable as the trampy waitress who's seen better days, and Shelley Winters is her natural self as the mother. Liv Tyler, daughter of Aerosmith rocker Steve Tyler, and seen a few years back with Alicia Silverstone in the Crazy music video, proves there's more to her than a beautiful figure.The images, like still pieces from an art gallery, will stay with you the breakfast left on the table for two weeks, the orange juice turning brown; the ugly little black and white dog the Pete & Dolly's neon sign in red letters; the dirty dishes in the sink with the water dripping. They won't need subtitles for this one in foreign lands because not much is said. Mangold eschews dialogue for the camera.Memorable are the breathe mints at the end of the runway and the visit to the Culinary Institute of America. The best line is Deborah Harry's sarcastic question (when Vince rejects her blatant seduction attempt) Saving yourself for somebody special?(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Chubby short order cook checks out teen waitress","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not exactly a boring film but close. All the characters were just the most pathetic losers imaginable....especially the obese pizza slinger. Those jittery, wet eyes gave me the creeps; not to mention his mother dominated, go nowhere, do nothing, I have a need but don't know what it is and couldn't fulfill it if I did, screwball existence. Yes, he was a sad character, but mainly he aggravated the living hell out of me with his mopey, dragass, poor pitiful me attitude. I don't mind a way too slow movie but this one went nowhere having no apparent beginning, middle or end. Strange picture. "},{"Title":"quiet sad little indie","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Victor Modino (Pruitt Taylor Vince) is the overweight cook working at his mother Dolly (Shelley Winters)'s bar and restaurant. Callie (Liv Tyler) is the new hire joining Delores (Deborah Harry) as waitress. Callie is a beautiful college drop-out with possessive boyfriend Jeff. She catches the painfully shy Victor's attention. Dolly lovingly keeps Victor suppressed. Leo (Joe Grifasi) is the local barfly who has feelings for Delores.Victor is painfully passive. In many ways, the passivity infects a lot of the movie's tone. Its quiet and slow pace is endearing in some aspects and also frustrating in others. The acting is well-suited. This is an indie with characters pulled from a roadside café. There is a dark side to the movie but it's never really fully realized. It goes down a darker path but goes far enough with it. It's a very nice indie. "},{"Title":"Corpulent cook craves company","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" James Magnold directs Heavy, a slow-moving film about an obese cook who falls in love with an enchanting waitress, played by hyper-beautiful Liv Tyler.The film's plot is wholly derivative - see Chayefsky's Marty - but Magnold's likable cast help sell things. He has Pruitt Vince play Victor, our corpulent hero, and the legendary Shelly Winters play his ageing mother. As is typical of these films, Victor's painfully shy, doomed to worship Tyler from afar. Tyler, meanwhile, reprises her role from Bertolucci's Stealing Beauty, gliding through Magnold's film like an ethereal, unattainable object. Our chubby hero never gets close to her, but by the film's end has nevertheless learnt to act upon his secret hopes.7.5/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A different kind of film...","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yeah this movie *was* a bit wierd... I'm not quite sure I can adequately describe it but it was a times a little too 'quiet' for my liking - and often times very dark and sinister (not that that is neccessarily a bad thing.)I suppose if you're a Liv Tyler fan (which I am) I would reccomend this.I'd say it's deffinitely a 'made-for-TV' kinda film...I give it a 2 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"A rambling character study with heart.","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Heavy takes a self-conscious artsy approach to commenting on the noble premise that big people are actually very worthwhile, decent people.  The film's flaw is that it is so very careful that the point could elude casual viewers.  Pruitt Taylor Vince as Victor is perfect as a humble, kind, and thoughtful man.  He is a delight to watch in many ways.  Director Mangold, who recently featured Vince in Identity, avoids cliches regarding large people.  The people surrounding Victor are refreshingly free of fat slurs. You can't help but feel for this man.  And that's the strength of Heavy.  "},{"Title":"A calm, subdued story of love and sadness","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A movie that will make you think, that will bring you back to any time you haven't felt 'good enough' for someone you cared about.  Calm ambiance music mixed with realistic silences makes this movie seem so real.  We've all been in the place of the main character at some point in our little lives. "}{"Title":"About as true to life as you can get","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I watched this movie I was stunned in how realistic the characters were and how delicately the movie was filmed. It is the story of Victor, a lonesome overweight man that works for his domineering mother at her roadside cafe. Although the story centres around Victor, there are other characters we get involved with such as victors work colleague, played by Debbie Harry and Liv Tylers character who also works at the cafe and who Victor develops strong feelings for.All of the characters have personality problems and the film studies them as they inch there way through lives they all want to change. Victor is tied to his mother and also has problems with his obesity. Some of the scenes stick with you such as when his mother is taken ill and he immediately starts to comfort eat while breaking down, and Liv Tylers character having intercourse with her boyfriend but looking like she would rather be anywhere else but there.A beautiful, touching film with a brilliant score by Thurston Moore and superb acting performances throughout.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful portrayal of the absurdity of the human existence.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Poignantly real, the movie touches on the devastatingly silent aspects of human relationship.  The fact that more can be communicated through simple gesture than through actual speech/dialogue has ultimately been captured in this picture. Overall, a moving piece that captures the truly hopelessness feeling of loving and losing. Bravo! "},{"Title":"perceptive","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being acquainted with both central themes of the movie (weight/love) I feel that this movie has very deeply captured the interplay of the two, the sadness and the unique problems connected with them. The movie is 'kind' if you can use that word. "},{"Title":"Feel the isolated world of solitude without inner happiness and happy ends.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched really a lot of movies, but I have never ever seen a film so realistic, intimistic, warm, sad and depressing as James Mangold's `Heavy'. This is my favorite movie not just because it is so closely related to me, but because Mangold does not let go of the strains of modern verism for one single moment and creates situations so realistic that I don't think any other drama I've seen can measure up with `Heavy' in the aspect of plausibility.The more I think about it the more I'm sure that this story or at least some points of the basic plot are not fictious. I could swear that Mangold had lived through those same or similar situations he has written, or that he was so compelled to those kinds of human problems in life that he decided to minutely depict the life of someone else he knew and then create different profiles of his characters remaining the real story as the matrix.There were so many crossroads in front of Mangold where he could have chosen a more compromised or happier way to go, so it was just unbelievebly astonishing for me how he always picked the right street to continue his journey every single time. I haven't seen a movie yet that doesn't fail once in that aspect. Stories like the one in `Heavy' are the ones that are the hardest stories to build well because the realism of life dictates them, and one of those movies which could have gone in the wrong direction for two dozen times. `Heavy' is build up without a mistake and always chooses the right and, in the same time, logic and consistent resolvement.I have also never seen two greater and more touching, persuassive and realistic performances that moved me so much in any motion picture than the ones by Pruitt Taylor Vince and Liv Tyler, so terrific and emotionally hammering that I actually felt an unexplainable urge to come into their lives and help them in any way that I can, if I only could.`Heavy' is a master-piece which will be understood by any reasonable and grown-up person, and a movie that was so good for me that I needed to watch it only once because I remembered practicaly every shot of every scene. It is warm, sincere, candid, truly dramatic, touching, and intelligent and cruel in its integrity and utter reality. It is, I hold, the best picture of 1995, and one of the best motion pictures of the &#145;90's for me. "},{"Title":"I love Liv!","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  And Evan Dando, too! Also, Debbie Harry was fabulous! The story was great, and the cinematography was excellent. A must-see for any die-hard Liv fan like myself.   "},{"Title":"Weighed down heavily by it's own self-importance","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Liv Tyler puts on her best 'little girl lost' act in this dull tale of attraction between herself and a dopey, self-pitying chef.The film attempts, and fails dismally, to construct a realistic story from this thin set-up, and amongst it's few highlights - the chef subtly trying to woo Liv Tyler with a Trebor's Extra Strong; and Tyler inexplicably getting aroused at the sight of a Boeing 747. Strange indeed.As well as this, the dopey chef tries in vain to join the CIA (that's the Culinary Institute of America for anybody thinking otherwise) - there is also a brief mention of Ice Art which isn't built upon - relevance?, Tyler, again inexplicably, actually taking a camera to the slimy diner in which she works in order to have snaps of her collection of inbred workmates, while Pruitt Vince sees a ghost of Tyler at regular intervals along the way as well - which is obviously where Peter Jackson got the idea for her character in LoTR. Anyway, that's about as good as it get's folks. And I didn't even mention the all-singing, all-guitar-playing, captain of the 'ball team' boyfriend of Tyler's.On a brighter note, James Mangold's direction is satisfactory - and it has to be, given that Pruitt Vince only has about 3 words to say throughout the entire film making any character development a touch tricky.And in a pretty absurd conclusion, (spoiler warning - run, run for your life) Pruitt Vince seemingly becomes romantically involved with the shelf-stacker from the corner shop after their brief flirtations over a set of flying glass bottles - or something like that! "},{"Title":"Lives of quiet desperation","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like his follow-up film, COPLAND, this film shows James Mangold to be a master at capturing lives of quiet desperation.  These are people who are weighed down, either by experience or expectation, and have little to look forward to in life.  In fact, they have little time to look forward to anything.  The only character who gets to move on, or at least represents looking forward, is the character played by Liv Tyler.  The story may lag at times, but it's honest, and while I have slagged movies that have terrible dialogue, this movie shows you don't always need dialogue to work.  "},{"Title":"Undeniable Outside The Box Talent","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The most interesting thing about this first movie directed by the now know James Mangold, is that it's a window into what was to come. It has a lot of flaws. It plods along at a sluggish pace, the character of Pruitt Taylor Vince played by Victor Modino is so overly repressed that it's almost painful to watch, and it's all too obviously a low budget film...but there's this big BUT because in spite of the drawbacks it is still a movie that hits you hard emotionally. The loneliness these characters suffer is so real that it becomes the kind of film you remember long after you have watched it. I rented it on DVD when it was first released and then watched it again on cable last night, which only reinforced what I had already concluded. It's a movie worth a look. There's a very sympathetic role in here from a young unknown Liv Tyler. And the Shelly Winters character is in a class all by herself. She was perfectly cast as the dreadfully overbearing and controlling mother. It's a hopeful start from a director I assume will work for many years to come. He has an undeniable talent for bringing out the reality of human emotions. Bringing me to mind of his later masterful film 'Girl, Interrupted' (1999). This director has willingly tackled a wide range of material. After 'Heavy' came' Identity' (2003), a solid who-done-it, and 'Kate & Leopold' (2001),which in all fairness I can not judge because I watched it on an airplane. My take on James Mangold is this...I am looking forward ( to his next two movies which are currently in production) and to a continuing career from a director who exhibits a lot of promise, especially when he strays outside the box. "},{"Title":"Easy paced, small town, slice of Life tale","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Witha quirky cast of actors playing misfits Mangold succeeds in telling an honest  story about people in a small town who are having trouble escaping theemotional holes that they have dug for themselves.  All the characters have redeemable qualities despite their obvious short- comings. Liv Tyler has always fascinated me with her ability to be beauty,sensitive and truthful in spite of character's perdicament. Pruitt Vance is at his  best doing what he does best as the 'lovable loser' trapped between hisobligations to his mother and his job. Mom is played by Shelley Winters whose  talent is still sharp. Joe Grafasi is ablaze with drunken chivalry with the hopes of  connecting with Deborah Harry's character. Deborah Harry is excellent as thevemonous, sexy and fatigued waitress with a checkered past. Her conflict with  Winter's character is deep although mostly unspokened. Everyone is in need and they desperately try to be happy. They fall on theirfaces and get back up. In the end, things work out but not as expected.  "},{"Title":"Some good acting, but...","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is some first rate acting in this little picture, however there seems to be a lot of the Dell Griffith (Planes, Trains, and Automobiles factor here  You know, a story is SO much more interesting if it has a POINT. First of all, this guy is not so fat to begin with; if he were at MY family reunion, he'd be called Slim.  I kept waiting for something to happen, it never did. It reminded me of all those artsy things we had to read in creative writing classes and the teacher and her smooches would find all those hidden meanings, and alas, most of us REAL people sat there and thought, What a bore.  If I want hidden messages, I'll stick to Vanishing Point (1970) where there is something going on also. It was sad to see how humble Debbie Harry has become...well, there go all those late night fantasies!  BUT she can act, and that is more than one can say about the Tyler/(Rundgren?) girl.  You know, the whole movie would have made a LOT more sense, had they cast Shelly Winters in the title role.   "}{"Title":"I wanted more from this movie","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Static they entered the movie, and static they remained.  I wanted Victor to change, to learn, to metamorphose, to do something... to go to the Culinary Academy.Tensely quiet, this film lacked motion, although there were plenty of daring wordless pensive moments.  (Actor Vince uttered barely 100 words the entire movie).Tyler did a nice job...  "},{"Title":"A different kind of film...","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yeah this movie *was* a bit wierd... I'm not quite sure I can adequately describe it but it was a times a little too 'quiet' for my liking - and often times very dark and sinister (not that that is neccessarily a bad thing.)I suppose if you're a Liv Tyler fan (which I am) I would reccomend this.I'd say it's deffinitely a 'made-for-TV' kinda film...I give it a 2 out of 5 stars "},{"Title":"intimate majesty","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Framed with precision, quietly assured, flawlessly cut & cued, dense with nuance in such a way that for some time afterward you cannot help but wonder if it wasn't what was seen or heard that makes this film indelible.HEAVY is everything that cinema has the potential of being. "},{"Title":"A whole new viewpoint","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a quiet movie that has a calming effect.  It is a sad film and it gave me a very different outlook on how overweight people feel sometimes.  It was wonderful, and anyone who is a Liv Tyler fan will appreciate this small-time film.  A GREAT movie for kids, (limited bad language and sex scenes). "},{"Title":"One big yawn","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is without doubt the most boring I have ever seen.  I watched it in fast forward a lot of the time because watching paint drying is more interesting.  The only reason that I didn't switch off was because I wanted to see the hopefully, happy ending but, that was not to be.  This  was half expected because I couldn't believe that Cally could ever be remotely interested in someone like Vic.   His part must have been really easy to learn as all he did was look and not speak.  I found myself shouting 'Say something!' at the TV but all he did was look.   The parts where there was not supposed to be any dialogue were really dragged out as well.  I understand that the director(?) Mangold has also made 'Kate and Leopold'.  That WAS an enjoyable film so perhaps this is just a temporary blip.  I hope so.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, it couldn't possibly be the worst movie ever because I care enough to warn other people about it. I don't like tragic 'life sucks' types of movies. This movie has no plot points to reveal, just a very simple statement to make. It starts out with some middle America, white trash characters and why their lives suck. I couldn't care about a single one of them because they didn't care about themselves.  I know that life sucks, and that people are mean and timid by turns. I don't want to watch movies about it. I'm sure someone does, but its not me. "},{"Title":"I am fat ma!","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching Heavy only confirmed the idea that director James Mangold may be suffering from Attention Deficit Disorder. He needs medication or at least the ability to complete a thought before he tries to ramble us through another emotional sentence. Heavy could have been a very complete and emotional film using some raw talent that prior to this had never been explored. There could have been a very strong story developed behind Pruitt Taylor Vince's character of Victor instead of the inconsistent scenes that I witnessed. Liv Tyler could have honestly stepped up in the Hollywood atmosphere on this film alone, if she would have just attempted to take one small chance and go outside of herself. The same could be said for both Shelly Winters and Deborah Harry, who just never felt anything more creative than a walking cliché. Mangold had the power in his hands to really set the stage on fire, but instead we are forced to watch a very inconsistent, obscure, and emotionally voided film that tries to tackle too many issues, without solving any in the long run.I initially envisioned Heavy's story line to be about a man, concerned about his weight, being the outcast member of society. At first, and at brief intermittent moments of the film, that was the case, but something changed as the other characters were introduced. Liv Tyler became a disturbing obsession instead of a passionate, yet simple, love for Victor. There are scenes in which Vince thinks that he sees a dead Callie walking through his house or even floating in a puddle, but alas, they are only daydreams. Why were they daydreams? What was the overall relevance of these scenes? Was it to show a different side, a troubled side, to Victor, or was it merely used to confuse the audience? I thought that perhaps she was representing Victor's mother, but even that was stretching a bit. It was moments like this that really brought a speed bump into this film. There were other scenes similar to this one that really pulled us away from the central focus of the film, the growth of Victor. The encounters with Leo seemed forced, and the clichéd and random sexual advances of Delores seemed to come out of left field. The moments between Victor and his mother didn't even feel real. I felt as if Shelly Winters was speaking from a cue card instead of her heart. There was one emotional scene where it felt as stale as cardboard, yet it was supposed to evoke tears. Pathetic. I felt at times that Mangold had one of those Choose your own plot books and just randomly flipped through it during this film.Outside of random plot interjections coming at you from every angle (quite distractingly), there was some decent acting from our lead character Victor played by Pruitt Taylor Vince. Vince was able to bottle up the emotions of the situations around him very well, the twitching eyes was not something that I thought helped build his character (was that a acting trait or actually Vince's eyes), while the stress eating moments did seem very human. Vince is a strong actor. He is typically cast as the psycho in most films, but I thought in this film he did stretch his wings a bit. It wasn't far, but he brought compassion and emotion to a very forgettable character. He is the only one worth watching in this film, while the rest of the cast just hurt the film further. Liv Tyler has trouble acting. She talks about never taking an acting class before, and in this film you can tell. She brought nothing new to the screen. The connection between her and Vince was non-existent. There was no chemistry, no power, nothing that made me really see a love between the two. These two have a very silly match.Outside of the acting and the zigzag plot, there was not much else going for the film. The music was a tease. There were some scenes where you would have Vince walking along the road, powerful, emotional, and together, and the music would suddenly change. Either it was poor editing or just bad music placement, but it seemed to be jumping just as much as Vince's eyes. It made me cringe in my seat. I just get extremely worked up about films that claim to be an emotional powerhouse of an independent film, yet it feels like crayons were used instead of the power of the paintbrush. Again, Mangold had a great film under the surface of all this muck, but it just wasn't worth wading through to get to.Overall, I was not impressed with this film. If Mangold would have stayed the course, kept us glued to Vince's powerful character, and developed him using the other minor characters around him, than I think it would have been a winner. If Liv Tyler would have been a stronger central character and perhaps stepped outside of her lines, than we may have had a winner. If the point would have been to show a weak man overcome the boundaries of his life, than I think we would have had a winner. Instead, we are left with unattached moments that come from left field and walking cardboard characters that spit cliché lines into the sky instead of to the viewers. Heavy had so much potential, one can only blame Mangold for all these disasters. Skip it. Have yourself a big pizza and watch some Chris Farley films. Now, there was a big guy that was random, but could at least hold a script together! Grade ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"DULL!!!","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have no idea how come it has such a good rating!!! You can watch the movie if you have sleeping problems. It's about nothing. The guy is in love with this girl and for the whole movie he is thinking about her. "},{"Title":"The realism of 'Heavy'","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had to laugh reading the comments of matanovi (matanovi@yahoo.com), who said he was convinced that not all of this movie was fiction. 11 years after the fact I don't think I'm giving away the store, but, matanovi hit the nail right on the head. I went to high school with Jim Mangold in Washingtonville, New York, and I consider all of his other work to be genius level. 'Heavy', however, is far from fiction-it is the true life story of one Joseph Mecca, a mutual friend from high school. Vince, main character in the movie, is a verbatim duplicate of Joe Mecca, as are many other characters in the movie, including waitress Delores, who didn't even get a name change from the real life character she is modeled after. If one ever was a denizen of the former 'Mecca's' restaurant (now Loughran's) in Salisbury Mills, NY, one has all the insight necessary into the creation of 'Heavy'. With that said, the movie is still worth a look, even if you do know the true story it is 'heavily' based on. "},{"Title":"Should Have Known From The Recommendation","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The fact that Cosmopolitan magazine wrote this movie was terrific should have warned me to stay away but, like a sap, I gave it a look. What a waste of a trip to the rental store back in the late '90s. Horrible would have been a better one-word description of this profane-laden soap opera about a bunch of losers at a diner. Well, if you are a loser and like to watch people moping around like the main character in this movie - a fat momma's boy - watching a story that really has little plot or substance, this is your cup of tea. It does one thing, though it will depress you, and a lot of sickos out there like movies that depress them. Go figure. They can relate to this realistic story, sad to say.I would have more compassion, but the characters in here, almost all of them, are nothing but annoying. No wonder Cosmo loved it. "}]