[{"Title":"I was born to murder the world.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are two worlds of magic.  One is the glittering domain of the illusionist.  The other is a secret place, where magic is a terrifying reality.  Here, men have the power of demons.  And Death itself is an illusion.Clive Barker's Lord of Illusions is a terrifying glimpse into another world in which few have traveled.  Those who have been there, didn't like what Barker had to show them.  I wasn't even impressed with it upon my first viewing.  I simply forgot it, lumped it in with the other, countless horror films I've seen and will never see again.  However, I recently rediscovered it...and was completely awestruck.  The theatrical release did not do the film justice.  It dropped priceless minutes of film and much need footage. I strongly urge you to seek out the uncut director's version on DVD format. This is a very big horror movie, and a hidden treasure at that; hidden under a brilliant detective story and surrounded by film noir.  But I promise you there is a horror spectacle buried under there.  It may be a little slow going at times...but all that build-up makes whatever happens all the more effective.  Lord of Illusions is an unbelievably awesome, genre-twisting experience (and was never bastardized by a sequel).  Everyone needs to take this journey again.  Please Mr. Barker...make another film.Dorothea  What the f**k are you?Nix  A man who wanted to be a God...and changed his mind. "},{"Title":"Barkers Best","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Title Lord of Illusions (1995) Director Clive Barker Cast Scot Bakula, Franke Jensen, Kevin J. Oconnor Review Clive Barkers takes us in deep into the world of magic and horror with what in my opinion is his best film...Lord of Illusions.The story is about this religious cult whos leader Nix promises his followers eternal life. Swann, an ex member of the cult, gets cold feet and decides he wants out of the cult of freaky people and decides to eliminate the cult and its leader Nix. He manages to stop Nix and bury him....but is he dead? Many years later after these events Swann has become a David Copperfield type of magician winning big money. But suddenly some people are after him and there's rumors that Nix...the cult leader he laid to sleep might be returning for revenge on those who restrained him. Swann included.The good thing about this movie for me is that it takes us into this world of magic, demons and religion in a very credible way. Barker handles things properly in this film by taking us into fantastic territory but with a touch of realism. As if it all could in fact be true. Thats the feeling I got while watching this film. And ultimately thats what makes the film so effectively creepy.Nix is a great villain and I never for once felt I was watching some actor playing a by the numbers villain just for the kicks of it. Daniel Von Bergen as Nix delivers a great and evil performance. He uses anyone and everyone, he is selfish in his quest for ultimate knowledge and power over the supernatural and will do anything to have it. The guy is pure evil...and when he is about to be re awakened you almost feel sorry for the poor dopes who are doing it.Another one of the movies assets is that it is done in the fashion of an old detective flick, with Scott Bakulas character Harry D Amour as the grounded on reality Detective who is constantly being confronted with the fact that this world is filled with things that we know nothing about. We see the film through Harrys eyes as he plunges himself deeper into the world of magic and Illusion. This is a smart lead character and cool thing about it is that you don't feel like its a bunch of teenagers making mistake after mistake, this guy knows what he is doing, he is a detective taking a full plunge into the dark world of Nix's religious cult.But by far the coolest thing about this movie is its story. Barker carved up a fine spooky tale. Something to really scare you. The story is complex, and keeps you interested all through out, like a good mystery should. Not only that, but he directed the film with some real style. The movie just looks beautiful in everyway. A really good example of this is Swanns Illussion show in which he performs his Last Illusion. Great sets and music in those sequences. Speaking of the music, as is the case in most of Barkers films, the music elevates everything to another level of grandiosity. You get this feeling that you are watching something epic and forbidden.All in all, I would say that no doubt this is Barkers finest film to date. Its got a great involving story, good performances a great and memorable villain and a feeling of realism even though we are dealing with magic and Illusions. Barker is a master at weaving fantastic and dark fantasies, this my friends is his best one, go check it out! Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Director's Edition is the best (Spoilers)","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For those who haven't seen the original theatrical version of Lord of Illusions, you might want to check out the extended version. Harry D'Amour (Scott Bakula) is a private detective with a problem He has a dark side. It seems that a lot of cases turn ugly (One involving an exorcism). Offered an opportunity to get away from the insanity, he's offered a job tailing someone involved in insurance fraud. However, things REALLY turn ugly when he stumbles upon a guy being used as a pincushion. What's the reason behind this?Seems that years ago, a cult leader called Nix (Daniel Von Bargen) had very spooky powers and was just about nuts. After kidnapping a young girl, some of his followers including Mr. Pincushion and Swann (The very underrated Kevin J. O'Connor)put Nix out of his misery, binding him and burying him deep in the earth. Now most of those that killed him are winding up dead. Swann, who is now a popular illusionist, winds up dead in a horrific accident during one of his shows, with his wife Dorothea (Famke Janssen) in attendance. D'Amour is soon drawn into a mystery in which things are not what they appear and people may or may not be dead.In the Director's Cut of the film,You have a better understanding of D'amour's dark side, plus you get to see a little more into the cultists, how their devotion to Nix is without question (You actually see them headed to Nix's resurrection after they killed members of their family!). The deleted scenes are o.k. and you could sort of understand why they were deleted. Barker's commentary is a plus (Actually, I like when director's put their 2 cents on the makings of a movie.)The part when Nix returns STILL creeps me out. Not in the manner of his return, but the blind devotion that his followers show him.Anyway, rent this, or at least buy it. For Clive Barker fans, horror buffs, or just to have a good time on Saturday night. "},{"Title":"A morbid, violent and frightening film, Barker makes a film in Hellraiser style...","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you liked the first two films of the series Hellraiser and appraised Nightbreed,you will have a thankful surprise with 1995's The Lord of Illusions, the last film that Barker directed ( he is currently re-writing his story The Thief Of Always for the screen), and that carries his characteristics and basic ideas. The film is morbid, violent and very frightening as well as Hellraise was, back in the eighties.It explores delicate themes as mysticism, demons and sects. One of the great qualities of Barker's last project is to dare, telling a tense and complex story in an imaginative and bloody way. The homosexual context of the work is evident, Clive Barker once again tried to join the concepts of pain, fear, horror, pleasure and meat, but he didn't obtain an  excellent result as he achieved in Hellraiser . However, The Lord of Illusions is a more sophisticated film, with a tuned cast, formed by Scott Bakula and Famke Jansem,just to mention a few,and with an above-the-average production. The atmosphere, and the scenery, in this English movie-maker's filmography, is quite significant element, if in Hellraiser the atmosphere was dark and sordid, The Lord of Illusions is punctuated by clear, stunning and luminous sceneries, exalting the whole magic and madness' aspects. The story is very intricate, and it involves a rich and famous magician who sold his soul for the devil and who is now sorry, his temptress and reluctant wife and an ambitious detective who will find himself a prisoner in a tissue of murders, strange creatures and homosexuality.So, if you like Clive Barker's ideas, watch this film today!! The Lord of Illusions is rated R for strong violence, gore, language and sexuality and it runs 108 minutes. "},{"Title":"Barker is still one of the greats","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Alright, so maybe this wasn't a great adaption of his short story, the Last Illusion, but it was one hell of a ride.  The special effects aren't overdone, the acting was up to par, and the direction was marvelous.  This movie is so gritty, its tone is perfect.  Bakula may have been a bit too emotionless in a scene or two, but overall he was wonderful as the detective who gets caught up in the trickery, and the evil.  There is also one or two funny moments, very very well placed. Of course, to fully appreciate the movie, you must watch the directors cut, with a couple extra scenes, that actually add a lot to the plotline, and the surreality of it all. Great stuff Clive! "},{"Title":"Pretty good horror film, not Barker's best","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Private investigator Harry D'Amour must stop a supernatural cult from raising Nix, a man with god-like powers, who was killed 13 years before hand. Now he's back, and he must save illusionist Philip Swann and his wife, Dorothea. Clive Barker's Lord of Illusions may not be his ultimate masterpiece, but it sure is an entertaining horror film. Pretty good performances from most of the lead cast members, though Kevin J. O'Connor was a little wooden as Philip Swann. The make-up effects, courtesy of the boys at KNB FX, are really cool, and there's enough gore (My favorite being the messy sword accident scene) to satisfy horror fans. The visual effects were also very well-done for the most part.An enjoyable, well-done horror film overall. Not a masterpiece but gory, fun and often imaginative. Worth a viewing.6/10. "},{"Title":"If William Blake and Nietzsche Wrote a Horror-story Together","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Man is a rope, tied between beast and overman - a rope over an abyss... What is great in man is that he is a bridge and not an end what can be loved in man is that he is an overture and a going under... I say unto you one must still have chaos in oneself to be able to give birth to a dancing star. I say unto you you still have chaos in yourselves. Alas, the time is coming when man will no longer give birth to a star. Alas, the time of the most despicable man is coming, he that is no longer able to despise himself. Behold, I show you the last man.--Friedrich Nietzsche, Also Sprach Zarathustra5 Jesus said, Know what is in front of your face, and what is hidden from you will be disclosed to you. For there is nothing hidden that will not be revealed. And there is nothing buried that will not be raised.29 Jesus said, If the flesh came into being because of spirit, that is a marvel, but if spirit came into being because of the body, that is a marvel of marvels. Yet I marvel at how this great wealth has come to dwell in this poverty.--From the Gnostic Gospel of ThomasFlesh is a trap...and death is an illusion.You know when you're watching a film by Clive Barker, that you're in good-hands. I saw this in 1995, and was floored by an oddly-believable tale of magic, both ancient and modern. It's interesting to note that Mr. Barker is well-versed in occult-lore, and that when you view his films he's trying to mess with your head on several-levels at-once. Magic is real, we do it every day, but it's seldom-acknowledged. When we think-of-something--an action, or a wish--and we externalize-it into-reality, we have done something that is magical. Animals are also capable of this, but none-so-well as human-beings. Technology is also an externalization of the human-mind (and body), and stems from a scientific-tradition that began with alchemy. In the mystery-traditions, an initiate would be immersed in a symbolic-environment, just as advertising does today for darker-aims! We live illusion every-single-day. If-only it wasn't dead in pustulent-Hollywood.The battle-between the flesh and this world is eternal, and Clive Barker throws us into the midst of this battle. The film begins in-flashback to a cult-compound that looks a disturbingly-similar mix between the Branch Davidian one in Waco, and Spahn Ranch in Death Valley (once-populated by the Manson Family). This is the story of the birth of a religion, and where-else do they usually begin? The desert, of-course. But Barker takes-it-further, and we get what could be taken as an inversion of the Christian-myth of Jesus. Nix is the messianic-figure, who tells his disciples, Fire spoke to me and said--NIX, you are the chosen-one, the Puritan. Unlike Christ's meeting with Satan in the desert, Nix succumbs-to-temptation, and his hatred for the material-world. Has he met-with darkness, or fire-itself, an elemental-force? Barker let's US decide throughout what we are seeing-and-hearing--yes, he's playing-with us. Maybe this ISN'T an inversion of Christianity, after-all...But, Nix is betrayed in the opening-prologue by his chosen-one, Swann. 13-years pass, and Swann is an incredibly-successful stage-magician, using the skills taught him by Nix. He has a consort in Dorothea, and in a direct-reference to Gnosticism, a wizard's assistant in Valentin. Being our cinematic eyes-and-ears, we are introduced to the Detective Harry D'Amour, a gumshoe with a penchant for the unknown in the occult-underworld. We get-treated to some great film-noir moments thanks to Barker's genius-take on the P.I. character, and it blends with horror effectively. A lot of credit has to go to Scott Bakula for his performance as D'Amour, it's a tightrope-role that requires a subtle-approach, with a little humor and cynicism. He's our surrogate, and his disbelief is crucial to our accepting the realities of this story, a tall-order! I believe Barker and his collaborators succeeded in-spades.Interestingly, Clive makes a wonderful-homage to Orson Welles (himself an illusionist of high-caliber) in the early murder-scene of the fortune-teller. It's shot in the very-same Venice locations as Welles' Touch of Evil (1958), a noir-classic. In some-respects, this film also resembles Welles' Mr. Arkadian, with a detective searching a man's past as the central-narrative--this was also copied by Alan Parker and his writers on Angel Heart (1986), another classic of horror. Barker also references Mario Bava's Black Sunday (1960) with the tale of a resurrected-witch/wizard, and the mask that punctures Nix's face into a ghastly-visage.By the end of the film, it's clear that Nix has come to destroy the world (like Jesus), and we are shown realities we'd rather forget. In-a-sense, there are many criticisms of ALL world religions here, even esoteric-ones. Barker condemns the notion that it is the world that corrupts, and that material-reality is the only source-of-evil and destruction. Mankind can be that essential-ingredient (Fire spoke to me and said...) of chaos and destruction--we hold our fates in our own-hands, we are that hand-of-fate in occultism. We stare into-the-abyss, like Nix and Swann, and realize there is nothing, only ourselves. WE are the meaning in the universe, because we create that meaning. Nix, his followers, and Swann succumb to this, and decide non-existence is better. Harry D'Amour, and his allies in the story, do not. The battle, then, is between creation and destruction, not good-versus-evil. D'Amour and Dorothea are an erotic and productive-dyad, whereas Swann and Nix are not. The Apocalypse is always in human-hands when individuals succumb to the forces of the universe that are destructive. They have given-up. "},{"Title":"Not my taste, but well done","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" While magician Nix entertains his young audience by holding fire and even juggling it, Philip Swann and others are rescuing young Dorothea, who has been kidnapped and is being held in the same building. In the process of getting the girl out, Nix is killed--or is he? 13 years later, New York private detective Harry D'Amour is hired to go to Los Angeles to work on an insurance fraud case. He visits a fortune teller and is shocked to see a man dying violently. There may be a connection between this death and Swann, who is now married to Dorothea.Valentin works for Swann and wants D'Amour to meet with Dorothea, who wants D'Amour to work for him (and also looks good in a swimsuit). D'Amour goes to one of Swann's shows, where one of the illusions doesn't go as planned. This gives Swann something to investigate. An interesting investigation follows.My primary motive for watching this movie was seeing Scott Bakula, who I liked in 'Quantum Leap'. D'Amour is intelligent and a smart-aleck, sometimes funny, with just the right mix of confidence and vulnerability; he did not disappoint. Had I judged the movie from just its first 10 minutes, to paraphrase a line spoken by one of Dorothea's rescuers, I would have said bury this thing deep where it can never again be found. The same applies to the horrifying, graphically violent ending. And there is plenty of blood and gore in between the opening and the final scenes. I'm pretty sure the language was cleaned up for UPN as well--who actually would say 'Forget you' in a theatrical film? Sometimes the audio didn't sound right in situations where profanity would be expected.The movie had redeeming qualities, though. Kevin O'Connor showed confidence onstage but often seemed afraid or nervous otherwise--I'll give him the benefit of the doubt and call that good acting. Vincent Schiavelli had a brief but effective scene as an illusionist in a meeting with others practicing the profession. Joel Swetow was good as Valentin.Although they were not what I would call entertaining, I would say the visual effects were quality work. Certainly the gore factor was quite high, but someone did an impressive job with what is called morphing.And Daniel von Bargen did an outstanding job as the very frightening Nix. I did not like the character at all, but one has to be impressed with the talent shown. "},{"Title":"A nicely entertaining tale from a horror master.","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Acclaimed author Clive Barker adapts his own story The Last Illusion for this not especially imaginative but still well realized terror tale. It does do a neat job of combining detective fiction with a more paranormal / mystical bent. Scott Bakula plays private detective Harry D'Amour, who travels from NYC to LA on a routine case, ends up caught in something far more sinister. Story threads include the apparent death of a performing illusionist, Philip Swann (Kevin J. O'Connor) and the resurrection of a diabolical cult leader, Nix (Daniel von Bargen). Harry meets assorted dubious types on his way to figuring out just what the Hell is going on, falling in love with the illusionists' wife Dorothea (Famke Janssen) as well. Nothing that happens here is terribly surprising, but Barker does make up for that with a consistently gloomy tone, overwhelming atmosphere, and effective visuals, and also by getting convincing performances out of his well chosen cast. Bakula is a likable enough lead, Famke looks fetching as always, von Bargen is a genuinely intimidating villain (it's easy enough to believe that his character is no phony, but the real thing); other vivid contributions are made by character players Joseph Latimore, Sheila Tousey, Susan Traylor, Wayne Grace, Barry Del Sherman, Joel Swetow, Vincent Schiavelli, and Barry Shabaka Henley. The movie has impressive gore & makeup effects, and in general does show off the same kind of theatricality as a good stage show, being careful to make the distinction between magic and illusions. As it begins, Barker is already layering on the tension and giving us a sense of doom and gloom to come. This is a good, meaty enough story that, even in its 122 minute long unrated director's cut, avoids any sort of filler and delivers enough twists and turns to keep it interesting. It's only too bad that Barker isn't inspired to direct his own stories more often, as the movies he turns out are a cut above most of what we see in the horror genre. Lord of Illusions is long but never boring. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"A film I like alot -- and dislike.","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I like a great deal of this film although some parts of it drag and are unnecessary. The casting is fine for everyone...those actors and actresses known and unknown at the time. I liked the constant good and evil conflicts of within for the Detective, Harry -- the Magician, Swann -- and the Girl, Dorthea. The film contains good effects, nice scenes with Swanns shows and of course..some gore. Best of all in Lord of Illusions, I love the character and story development of the magician Swann as a big time Celebrity, the inner workings of those in that industry, and his relationship (or lack there of) with the Girl, Dorthea. But there is something about Daniel von Bargen who plays Nix in this film that makes me cringe...and is seductive at the same time..all traits of Clive Barker and his work.Another trait seems to be Clive's problem with a superior being and what that entails, case in point, Nix's cultests and when Nix is finally restored, how he treats them for waiting for his return. A conflict that runs throughout all of Clive's work film, book, short story or otherwise.This is an 'all right' feature, again many slow/confusing moments, no real sexual chemistry between Dorthea and Harry or Dorthea and Swann...but the story has a strong presence. You do want to know what happens to a few characters and that makes you want to look at this film more than once beyond the special effects and gore.  Eventually you may become like me after viewing the film and become a couch editor thinking, Well, if that part was cut out and this part was here than there..then this film would rock!!  "}{"Title":"A well made, though flawed, magic horror","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A New York City private investigator (Scott Bakula) is brought to Los Angeles on a routine case, but, after witnessing the violent deaths of a fortune teller and Criss Angel (like you didn't think it?), he becomes tangled in the web of deceit and mystery in a cult of evil (and not-so-evil) illusionists and magicians. Can the investigator maintain his hold on our side without falling to the dark world of magic? Clive Barker is the master of stories. While not all of his films turn out fantastic, it's usually to blame on the execution because his stories are usually always extremely interesting and (no pun intended) magical. It would simply seem that his mind cannot work in our reality, or even in the reality of film-making. When it comes to Lord of Illusions, it's a great story (almost like a horror version of The Prestige), but it simply didn't translate all of the power and great ideas that Barker wanted to put into the story. The film suffers, in addition, from some poor acting and bad effects, even for '97. Also, though I think it needed the time, the runtime at two hours seemed to drag at parts. But, due to some good violence/gore, a fantastically strange story, some genuinely chilling scenes (like the demonic flashbacks), and some insanely well set tension, Lord of Illusions works very well as a supernatural suspense thriller in addition to a sometimes-brutal horror film. . . just try to ignore the blatantly obvious Christian (and other cults) undertones if that type of thing bothers you.Final verdict 6.5/10.-AP3- "},{"Title":"Good but it has cheesy moments and it's a little OTT!!!","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Illusionary SpoilersLORD OF ILLUSIONS is a good horror flick. Not great. Not scary. A little clumsy. Sometimes slow but interesting nonetheless. One problem with LOI is the unintentional camp elements, like the magic show's dancers. Is this SHOWGIRLS? The killer wearing gold spandex pants was more funny than scary. His partner, the one with the bad teeth, was really annoying. Talk about over-acting! And I thought that Barker cheesied up the movie with some of the incongruously gay elements that clashed with the rest of the story. I know Barker is gay and I don't mind watching movies with gay themes or subtext but I thought Barker was a little over-the-top (OTT) in this regard.But the real weakness of the film is the entire plot-line that deals with the group of demented worshipers (all bad actors). They added  absolutely nothing to the movie. Maybe this plot-line made more sense in the novel but in the film, they are a dead-end. Literally when the villain is revived, he automatically kills the psychotic followers, claiming they aren't worthy. I couldn't have agreed more with the bad guy. This plot-line was simply showy over-direction on Barker's part. As for other weaknesses, well, I thought the ending looked a little too much like a RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK action movie than a horror movie. Scenes of the villain falling though an endless pit made me laugh out loud more than anything. Where's Indy and his whip when you need him?But even with all these faults, the film is still interesting to watch and is more loyal to its horror roots than 90% of horror flicks out there. One clearly has a feeling that Barker has respect for the horror genre. He wanted to create something more elaborate than a slasher or SCREAM type flick. And there are some great moments here and there the swords falling on the magician is really good. And the scene when the mask is put back on the petrified villain. That whole scene is excellent. I can honestly say that even with the cheesy bits, the over-direction, the  pointless story-lines, and some bad acting, LORD OF ILLUSIONS is still worth watching mainly because it has some great moments amidst the whole uneven thing. "},{"Title":"The Worst Barker Film Ever Made","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" There are quite a few things going for this movie that attracted me to it and should have added up to a movie that I loved. First, I'm a big fan of Clive Barker. I love his aesthetic. I love the mythology that he creates in his works. I feel like his vision pulls the curtain back on Hell's fiery gates, just a bit, and creates these wonderful, demonic fairy tales full of infernal imagery. The subject matter also intrigues me. Like all geeks with a penchant for the fantastic, I enjoy magic and illusion, but even more I like movies and books that explore that thin line between illusion and magic and the possibility that perhaps there is real magic. Of course, it's not a far stretch from that sort of magic into occult territory, either. As a horror movie lover, I have a natural affinity for things dealing with dark magic, as well. The combination of all of these could have created something that I would have put up there as an instant classic, but sadly this movie is completely forgettable.This is probably the least Barker-ish of any Barker adaptation I have seen. What I mean by that is that it is mostly devoid of any of that aesthetic that I was speaking of earlier. Movies like HELLRAISER, NIGHTBREED or CANDYMAN all feel like part of a large mythos, like all of them could have existed in the same world. There are very similar visual strands in those movies, even though one of them wasn't even directed by Barker. This movie is largely lacking any of that imagery. Except for the prologue and climax, we rarely get anything diabolical. It feels like it could have been the work of any old horror writer. While some may praise for deviating from his norm, this isn't what I come to the House of Barker for.Even the actual magic in the movie is somewhat of a letdown. I really enjoyed the centerpiece scene where Swann is killed during his magic show. I wanted to see more of that sort of thing. They spend a lot of time talking about how these characters had crossed the line from illusion to real magic, but they seemed to know two tricks, levitation and fire. I'd at least expect enough effects to give me a true sense of power. Hell, even Harry Potter had better tricks than this.Those were my expectations, though, so it's maybe not fair to judge this movie by how much it met those expectations. The real problem is that this movie just goes nowhere. It sets us up with a great opening scene, full of action and effects that seemed like this could turn into something memorable, but it dies quickly, mired down in a half-baked detective noir that is as predictable as it is uninteresting. Some part of that blame lies in Scott Bakula who's just not believable in this role, at all. He's supposed to be a hardened PI with one foot in the world of the occult, almost a John Constantine (comic books) type figure. Instead, Bakula just can't shake his wholesome image. Even when he swears it feels like elementary school kids trying out a word for the first time. Then, they inject a phony romance angle that just feels crammed in an insincere.There are some great effects shots that still work very well and then there are some real doozys, like the CGI polygons that look so very dated 20 years later. What I saw is the Director's cut, which was probably more of a mistake because it was just too long and in need of editing.If you've never seen anything by Barker before, do yourself a favor and go watch HELLRAISER. If you want a great movie about pushing magic to its' edge, watch Christopher Nolan's THE PRESTIGE. "},{"Title":"Underrated Film. Clive Barker is a true visionary in the field of horror","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Now I've been a Clive Barker fan for years. Whether its his writing, directing, or painting I think he is quite brilliant.Lord Of Illusions is an example of his brilliance. Great enriched storytelling about the ideologies within the story about death and the difference between magic and illusion.Bakula surprisingly is able to carry this film on his back but its the cult favorite Kevin J O Connor that pulled me in most of the time.Famke jansen of xmen fame is stunning to look at has a real film noir quality. Very erotic.Clive Barker is a true visionary in the field of horror, perhaps too much so for his own good. Studios meddling may have compromised his theatrical films, but thankfully all the necessary footage to restore his visions have beem saved. Lord of Illusions may be the most flawed of the three pictures he made, but it's still an unconventional film. It holds up very well upon repeat viewings. "},{"Title":"Not Barker's Best, But Not A Bad Film","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" During a routine case in Los Angeles, New York private investigator Harry D'Amour (Scott Bakula) stumbles over members of a fanatic cult, who are waiting for the resurrection of their leader Nix.Even with popular films like this and Nightbreed, Clive barker will always be known as the creator of Hellraiser. I am sure that does not bother him much, especially so long as the checks keep coming in. But this movie shows he is more than just a guy who writes about torture and Hell.Is it magic? Illusion? Or something more? It seems like the perfect subject for a movie and to have a cult devoted to such things. While we know that magic is all a trick, what if it was more than that? What if it was a direct channel to the supernatural, something divine or evil? "},{"Title":"I was born to murder the world.","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Earlier this year, 2015, actor Daniel von Bargen died. He was only 64. While I had seen many of his movies and some TV roles, I had never seen this movie, Lord of Illusions. An IMDb member recommended that I see it. So I found a nice used DVD of the movie and now own it.The title and references in the movie distinguish between magic that is performed with illusions and magic that is real, perhaps black magic of the evil spirits or the devil. It centers on a cult in the desert and the movie opens with scenes representing 1982. The cult leader is Daniel von Bargen as Dix, and it is clear that the magic he performs are not illusions. He is shot and killed by a young girl.Forward to 13 years later, 1995 which is the release year of this movie, and a detective stumbles upon some old evidence and a magician who was part of that cult 13 years earlier. The girl has grown up into a beautiful woman, being hunted by evil members of the old cult. My only reason for getting this movie was to see von Bargen's performance, and it is a very good one. In fact now it would be hard to imagine anyone else in that role. I knew him in college, we were students at Purdue, and we were in a 4-week, 28-performance student musical in 1969. It is both extremely fun and extremely sad to see him on screen, knowing that he is already gone.SPOILERS In 1995 they found someone who could tell where Dix had been buried, and dug him up. He became re-animated, of course still evil and uttering the words I was born to murder the world. But in a series of events he was propelled down a deep shaft into what looks like molten lava and apparently destroyed. But who really knows? As the director comments in the DVD's selectable director's commentary. Good horror movie. "},{"Title":"typical Clive Barker","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Finally it's out there the full uncut or director's cut of Clive Barker's Lord Of Illusion. I remember have seen the theatrical cut years ago but now that it finally has it's Blu Ray release (so far only US region) I picked it up again to see the 121 minute version, the longest release, it even includes 3 minutes of deleted scene's so this release shows it all.Of course made in an era where horror was not done and horror was almost death this flick was overlooked and hated by a lot of geeks out there but have seen it in full glory I liked it somehow. You can easily spot that it was made by Barker just see the way men were dressed on stage, clearly a gay dressing. But what people made to turn their face away was the use of CGI. Back then when horror was outdated the effects used were laughable. And they still are if you look to this flick but luckily their are also on-camera tricks and effects. It never bored me and I did like the performances. Naturally, Nix (Daniel von Bargen) will remind you somehow to pinhead from the Hellraiser saga. The way he spoke and stands will ring a bell but hey, it's Clive Barker what do you expect?For the Kleenex boys there's also something to catch here and there but Famke Janssen who became famous shortly after as Jean Grey in the X-men franchise do go naked here and for so far i know it's her only flick you can spot her walking bear breasted. Worth picking up if you are a Clive Barker geek only watch out that the Blu Ray is coded to Region A as they did with Nightbreed (1990) which makes it even more collectible.Gore 1/5 Nudity 1/5 Effects 3/5 Story 3/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"Worth a watch just for its interesting take on the subject matter","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" For someone who claims to be an atheist, Clive Barker sure does delve into the afterlife and spiritual realm a whole lot. From Nightbreed to Hellraiser, the author / director seems to have an obsession with what's to come once we shuffle off this mortal coil. Private Detective Harry D'Amour (Scott Bakula) is caught up investigating the deaths of several reformed cult members. As he digs deeper for one of the victims' widows (Famke Janssen), he is exposed to the dangerous worlds of illusions and magic. D'Amour soon learns that illusions are trickery, but magic is very real and very deadly.The Director's Cut is unrated and with good reason. There's loads of violence and gore, nudity, language, sexuality, and adult situations. Not only are we exposed to female nudity, we get full frontal male nudity as well. Some of it is shrouded in shadows, but still visible. Lord of Illusions reminds us all of what a great blend of noir and horror Clive Barker's film is. It does an excellent job of showing us what can happen if we become obsessed with attaining power and forbidden knowledge through the occult. Even though he might not fully believe in it, Barker teaches us that playing with magic and supernatural forces can only do harm. You might not want to own it, but it's worth a watch just for its interesting take on the subject matter. "},{"Title":"Really enjoyable thriller","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I first saw the VHS for this movie at a thrift store, i decided to get it because it looked cool. I loved the title because I do like illusions and i was sort of right on that it was about illusions, but i was really into it after the first few minutes. The opening scene was pretty entertaining to watch and it has some great use of violence going on. There's even a part with mandrill (a species of monkey) attacks a girl. Another part that I enjoyed at the beginning was a scene where someone's hand got cut. By far my favorite part probably had to be when the sword illusion went wrong because it so brutal. All in all I really recommend this movie if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"A Review of Lord of Illusions (The Blu-ray)","Date":"29 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Liverpool born Clive Barker is a well-known name in fiction, and especially in horror. His novels have sold millions of copies all over the World and many of his stories have been adapted to the screen over the last three decades, one of those films was Lord of Illusions, based on the short story The Last Illusion from Barker's Books of Blood Vol. 6, a compilation of stories from 1985.Directed by Clive himself, Lord of Illusions is a fantasy horror starring Scott Bakula (Quantum Leap), Kevin J. O'Connor and Famke Janssen (X-Men). This was the last film that Barker directed after previously stepping behind the camera for Nightbreed and Hellraiser. The director's cut of Lord&#x85; is, in Barker's words, the definitive version of the film while the theatrical cut does not represent his true vision. This release from 101 Films features the theatrical cut on Blu- ray as well as the director's cut, complete with director commentary, on DVD. This alone makes it worth picking up this version.The plot is very Barker-eqsue. It tells the story of Private Detective Harry D'Amour (Bakula) who happens upon a cult that is awaiting the resurrection of their leader Nix. Nix trained Philip Swann (O'Connor) in the art of magic and illusion, and Swann went on to become a success much-like a David Copperfield. Philips wife, Dorothea (Janssen), hires D'Amour to protect her husband from the impending rise of his former master, Nix, and his demented cult members. An accident with Swann leads to D'Amour investigating and discovering a world of magic he didn't know existed. A twisting and turning story of magic, deception and evil, Lord of Illusions is an intriguing and unusual film that plays in the fields of horror, fantasy and sci-fi.There are few films that deal with magic and illusionists, and even fewer that deal with it in the way that Lord of Illusions does. The director's cut is much better viewing than the theatrical version, the version I had always been familiar with until seeing this release. An absorbing premise, the film offers something very different and while it isn't flawless, it is still a very palatable and enjoyable experience that I will return to once again in the futureThe acting is hit and miss. They often feel trite and border on lethargic at times, but Bakula is charming as D'Amour, and Janssen, though much improved since her work here, offers a polite performance that doesn't really offend. I found O'Connor to be a little puerile at times and it made for some scenes that bordered on cringe worthy, but it wasn't enough to put me off watching.The story isn't Barker's best, and as a reader of plenty of his novels and short tales, I am surprised that he didn't adapt something better to the screen than this. The Damnation Game, Pig Blood Blues and The Body Politic all come to mind and were released before or around the same time as The Last Illusion. Still, Barker saw fit to make this, and it isn't a bad movie, just not on the same level as Nightbreed and Hellraiser. Barker was a fine director too and it would be nice to see him try his hand at it once more, perhaps adapting a newer novel such as Mister B. Gone to film.101 Films have done a commendable job with this release. It looks the part, and the picture quality and sound on the Blu-ray is of a high quality for a film of this type. The extra DVD featuring the director's cut of the film as well as a directors commentary is a lovely addition and should be a big reason to buy this release.It's not brilliant, and it doesn't feature an iconic antagonist like Pinhead, but Lord of Illusions is still worth a watch, and the director's cut is just dandy. "}{"Title":"This is not TheLast Illusion","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What the &@#% is this @$&%!?!? First off, I have always loved Clive Barker films more perhaps than any other author in the genre because the books are primarily kept in line with the stories and maintain a strong visual representation to his original vision. Hellraiser, Nightbreed, Dread, and Books of Blood all while suffering changes, maintained the vision.This movie... this movie does not in any shape of the imagination. The first problem I have is with the way characters are portrayed. Butterfield is transformed form a high powered attorney to a homosexual sadomasochist looking thing, Swann is portrayed as this young 90s hipster looking thing rather than a man that that woman he's seducing at the beginning of the novella comments that she prefers men 20 years younger than, Dorotheia is a child who was saved from cult activities rather than a prostitute, and there are just so many things wrong with Valentine (like the lack of him being a demon) that I don't want to start.Then we have the problem with the movie itself. The idea of cremate Swann before the Gulfs can tear his soul apart story of the novella was very good and very compelling. It was a fascinating read that I didn't want to let go of until it done. This travesty with Nix, and cults, and scenes taken from Sins of the Father was a jumbled mess that stomped all over the plot points which made the original story so good.My belief? Read the novella and watch this merely as a companion piece. Because quite honestly it comes down to this Stephen King had the ABC miniseries It that debased the work it came from... well Clive Barker has this movie to his credit. "},{"Title":"An underrated Barker's movie","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I think Clive Barker deserve more credits than is usually given to him. Take, for example, this movie, Lord of Illusions. Many people and critics disliked the film... And after viewing it, I must say that I disagree with most of them. Lord of Illusions might not be another Hellraiser, but it is far from a stinker, eh! (We should add that Hellraiser is, anyway, a tough act to follow and, sadly for Barker, most people compare the rest of his oeuvre with this masterpiece rather than analyzing the movies for what they actually are.) Less darker than the aforementioned Hellraiser or the underrated Nightbreed, it have enough atmosphere and suspense in it to maintain interest up to the end credits. The movie begins in a typical Barker fashion a cabin in the Mojave desert, its walls full of satanic grafitis, a so-called magician preaching the End of the world to an audience that clearly drink its words... and a series of instruments of torture (to bind the said-magician) that could easily been stolen from a bunch of Cenobites!!!!!!! What might distract and somehow leave some viewer hungry is the fact that right after such a killer opening, Barker set the story in a very shining Los Angeles and very few fantastic elements until the climax. It makes Lors of Illusions clearly one of his less dark movies.But like his other flicks (including the very excellent Candyman which he wrote and produced), Barker have created a very original movie... It may not be perfect, far from it, but anyone that like to see some freshness in their horror movies can pick up any Barker's film, including Lord of Illusions. And Barker did a good job as a director...Oh! And there is a very beautiful Famke Jennsen in her pre-X-men era... As usual, she's superb... "},{"Title":"Sick movie which seems lost in obscurity","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is an intelligent, plot-driven horror/thriller, like most of Barkers work (bar Rawhead Rex). Barkers Harry D'Amore character gets involved with a Houdini and the world in which death is an illusion. Basically, a man named Swann is given Nix's potent magic, a god who changed his mind and wants to murder the world. It's no David Blaine rubbish folks, Nix's evil magic really works! This isn't the kind of guy you'd want doing your cooking because this guy means it. However, Swann and his buddies murder Nix because he traps little kids in his basement. After binding a mask to his face and asphyxiating him, the rest of the movie documents the pursuit of Swann from Nix's groupies.The story can actually be confusing at some points as it throws lots of different questions at the viewer. However, for the most part it makes sense, and the gore and violence distracts you from concluding the story can easily be considered nonsense. As is traditional, Clive has buckets of blood, death and self-harm prepared for you. And Lord Of Illusions does not disappoint. However, Clive's elaborate storytelling feels out of place in such a massacre, and that's probably why this genius is widely misunderstood as his films are way above the scale. "},{"Title":"A must see for Barker fans!","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" CLIVE BARKER slips back into the directors chair for this fascinating horror thriller which involves a detective who is thrust into the worlds of illusions & magic following the death of an illusionist on stage. HARRY D'AMOUR (the detective) discovers that the illusionist was part of a vicious, evil cult led by the evil, but now dead NIX, who is planning on making a comeback from hell after 13 long years in the ground & who's former followers are now heading back to the spot where they practiced their occult ways, while others are either hiding in fear or making away with themselves. With the help of the illusionists wife, Harry discovers that the illusionist may not be dead after all & seeks to find a way to stop an impending evil that is about to make a come back in an attempt to take over our world. Like his previous pictures, NIGHT BREED & HELLRAISER, director CLIVE BARKER once again thrusts us into a fascinating world of magic & fine story telling, although there are no colorful creatures to be found here, Barker has created a very interesting horror movie character in the form of cult leader Nix. As always, Barker's storytelling hooks you in from the get go, with well established characters, good actors & superb directing, the film although over long (I saw the director's cut) is never boring & always has something new up it's sleeve to keep you watching. This is definitely one of Barker's best & one his fans will want to make sure to see. Definitely recommended! **** stars "},{"Title":"Two story lines, two levels of performance","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What propels 'Lord of Illusions' to the upper ranks of my favorites (enough so that I own the DVD) is the beginning and the end. The scenes shot in the cult's desert dwelling, in the beginning where Nix has kidnapped a girl and Swann leads ex-cult members in saving her, paired with the ending, where Nix is released from the grave, are prime horror. The effects are mediocre now but still of sufficient quality that one stays with the story, but as I recall in 1995 I was impressed. Daniel van Bargen and Famke Janssen carry this movie's horror edge. Bakula looks and sounds more like he's making a TV Movie of the Week, acting 'small screen' and detracting from the film (O'Connor varies between schtick and somewhat intriguing). The plot requirement of the visit to the illusionist's club is what ties these together, and it's uneven, a little like the film. I would consider this worth renting, and keeping its age in mind. Daniel van Bargen is worth the price. "},{"Title":"Fascinating!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Clive Barker, the   writer and director, has not made one regrettable step in his career. Lord of Illusions is a phenominal film unlike anything ever seen. Barker is, without fail, the only truely original and visionary man working in an otherwise lackluster industry. His films are bold, original, breathtaking and oddly quite beautiful. Lord of Illusions does not disappoint. The slithering plot is engaging, dramatic, frightening and indeed morbid spinning a tale of a detective who has a lingering tie to the darkside. This is an adult nightmare and is not intended for younger audiances at all. It is intelligent, opulant, impressive and twisted. Georgeous and repulsive at the same time. Though Hellraiser and Nightbreed are wonderful in and of themselves, it is Lord of Illusions that is Clive's masterwork... that is until Tortured Souls comes out. "},{"Title":"Are we too desensitized?","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a new member and this is my first ever comment.I decided to give my opinion because quite frankly,one of my two favorite artists/writers/directors(The other is David Lynch)has just been receiving too much negative criticism these past few years. After the success of the extremely frightening Hellraiser,fans of the horror-genre immediately tagged Clive Barker as the next Stephen King, which to me is so predictable of this fast-food culture that makes or breaks aspiring,creative talent reducing them to what they think is their best work and judging all that is released afterwards to that work. When Lord Of Illusions finally hit the screen,I was so anxious to watch this artistic visionary's latest masterpiece.I was pleased to see that Clive went on a somewhat different direction than his past work.It combined elements of film-noir and horror.While many film-goers were expecting a son-of-Pinhead,I found the Nix character very interesting in that he was more realistic than the leather-clad Cenobites.He was scary in the fact that he had this mental hold on his followers resembling David Koresh in a way.Hell,they knelt down on shards of glass! Anyway,while I was viewing,I wasn't really that scared.Not even mildly repulsed,well except for the guy missing a lip!And I think Clive knew that the same audience of Hellraiser were going to be slightly desensitized so he probably did not even try to simply throw slabs of bloody gore on the screen and try to devise a plot out of the mess. Instead,Clive Barker opted for a more cerebral story while also having it's share of gory moments.The result is a movie experience unlike any other.Although Scott Bakula's performance leaves much to be desired,his portrayal of Harry D'Amour is acceptable and we also get to see Famke Janssen just before she reached stardom.Although the ending should have been a little better,this was definitely a step forward in Clive Barker's career.Three and a half out of four. "},{"Title":"weak special effects","Date":"3 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In the Mojave Desert, practitioner of the dark arts Nix (Daniel von Bargen) leads a cult and has kidnapped a girl named Dorothea. His apprentice Swann (Kevin J. O'Connor) leads former cult members to rescue the girl. Nix can't be killed but Swann binds him and buries him. Thirteen years later, Harry D'Amour (Scott Bakula) is a NY private eye specializing in the occult. He travels to L.A. on a case where he stumbles onto Swann, and his now wife Dorothea (Famke Janssen) as followers of Nix try to find the burial site and free Nix.This is a fine Clive Barker story. It has a compelling plot. Scott Bakula is good as the lead. The major drawback is the weak special effects and some weak directing from Barker. The CGI is pretty bad and some get really cheesy. The Nix apparition looks horrible. The final battle has some good parts and some bad parts. The makeup is mostly good. I like the henchman character Butterfield but I wish that he be played by the same actor in both time frame. I don't understand why there are two actors playing that character. "},{"Title":"Magic?","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This was a pretty decent film. The story line was good but went way over the top by the end and it almost ruined the whole thing. The cast is class A. Scott Bakula is great and funny in the film. Kevin J. O'Connor is good and comes off kind of creepy. Famke Janssen is a good female lead. Daniel Von Bargen is really crazy in this film and was a good evil lead. There are many good side characters as well, but my favorite is played by Barry Del as Sherman. Talk about one messed up creepy character. The film has some decent special effects for its time and it may not make you jump out of your seat, but you will still mentally feel scared. It really does have that creepy feeling. Clive Barker really did a decent job on this film. "},{"Title":"Pretty damn good.","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Being a bit behind on Clive's books (I just bought Coldheart Canyon yesterday) I've managed well to keep up on his films. Not that there have been a large number as of late. This one is no Hellraiser, but it is more than adequate to appreciate. Since Weaveworld, Barker's vision has become pretty much unfilmable. It's too surreal, too vaguely associated with what actually works on screen. Not that a fantastic animated version of his Thief of Always could not be made. I just hope that there is a film about his Books of Blood coming like the rumors pertain to. This tale is about the last filmable thing that Clive's written, and it's a fine movie-if a bit uneven at times. The scope of the actual story would have been impossible to put into two three-hour films, similar to the much-desecrated Nightbreed which I thought was really well-made.  "}{"Title":"An overlooked gem from Clive Barker!","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" New York detective Harry D'Amour ( Scott Bakula) has an interests in dark magic heads for L.A. for a special job. He gets involved with the beatiful widow ( Famme Janssen from X-men) of a deceased magician Philip Swan ( Kevin J. O'Connor) and finds terrifying secrets including a cult that wants to resurrect a warlock.Way much overlooked but great supernatural horror thriller from famed horror novelist Clive Barker ( creator of  Hellraiser and  Candyman), Bakula does a fine performance as the dective who tracks down the cult. Great special effects also help the movie including the gore effects by Steve Johnson, it's worth watching but only in the unrated Director's cut.Also recommended  End of Days,  Freddy Vs. Jason,  Hellraiser,  Candyman,  Making Contact ( a.k.a. Joey),  From Hell,  Evil Dead II,  From Dusk Till Dawn,  Urotsukidoji Legend of the Overfiend,  Indiana Jones and The Temple of Doom,  House By The Cemetery,  A Nightmare on Elm Street,  Re-Animator,  Burial Ground,  Vampire Hunter D,  Ninja Scroll,  Silence of the Lambs,  Suspiria,  Phenomena.6/10. "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As I Was Expecting.......","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  OK, so this film wasn't exactly Shakespearean in it's quality, but neither was it as bad as some reviews on here had me believing..  I only watched it as I found it languishing at the bottom of my brother's DVD collection, and as I'm a Star Trek fan, I thought I'd check out some of Scott Bakula's post 'Quantum Leap' and pre 'Enterprise' work.This wasn't really that horrible to watch, in fact, the production values looked quite high.  I agree that the plotting was painfully routine, but it didn't really hold it back too much.This film only has some curiosity value for me, because (I don't know if anyone else noticed this) a lot of the locations in the shooting of this film were also used during 'V' (1983), 'VThe Final Battle' (1984), and 'VThe Series' (1984-85).  The Swann house was used as the Visitor Embassy in the second mini-series and as the Visitor Legation in the follow on weekly series, and the location where D'Amour (Bakula) chases the supposedly dead Swann after his funeral was used as the outside location for the resistance headquarters in the first 'V' mini-series and for part of 'VThe Final Battle' "},{"Title":"Where was the punchline?","Date":"12 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  What I mean to say is, a film is like a joke (no, not the film IS a joke).  You have buildup, buildup, buildup, than a follow-through, a punchline, a climax.  Everything rewarding about this film is the buildup -- the audience, espically the horror audience will be entertained as the film moves on, with a noir-like mystery that is, for all intents and purposes, fun to watch.  Engaging even.  It even includes perhaps one of the greates filmed sequences in the horror genre, a sword-trick performed by a magician named Swann, but unfortunately the swords...miss.  But that was just the buildup.What ruins the film is the ending -- a gore-fest that just doesn't know when to stop.  You can take nothing out of it, and the villain, Nix, is completely cheesy.  All he has is enough bad lines to fill an action movie. Other than the ending (the last fifteen or so minutes), it's not a bad movie -- it's quite good.  Rent it. "},{"Title":"Strange Clive Barker movie involving a rarity, a cult leader that actually has powers.","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This films starts out with a group of people infiltrating a cult leaders place and placing a mask on said cult leader. Very painful process and you may wonder why they felt the need to do this, it is because this man has powers and they are very deadly. Flash years later and the man who was pretty much in charge of stopping the cult leader and was once under his tutelage is now an illusionist. Well one of his tricks goes array and his wife knows that something is not quite right so she hires an investigator to find out what is going on. Enter Harry D'mour, an investigator played by Scott Bakula who I always have to wonder how did this guy not get more roles in more mainstream fare as he is a rather good actor. Well the cult leaders former cult is trying to revive him and this is something that must be stopped, because this guy is like evil. You will get to find out how evil during a scene where he gives the gift of rain to his followers that is really quite freaky. Had some good qualities in this one, but so much more could of been done. The kills though are good, the story is pretty good too, I just find the ending a bit underdone, I was expecting more. However, all in all a rather good offering from writer Clive Barker. "},{"Title":"looking back on it","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Knowing that Lord of Illusions is directed by the same man who brought us Hellraiser, you would probably expect two hours of torture scenes. But Clive Barker has a real treat in store for you. This movie is not a series of torture scenes, but a descent into the unknown. And a cool one at that.The movie begins several years earlier when a cult leader named Nix (Daniel Von Bargen - aka Commandant Spengler on Malcolm in the Middle) was killed by follower Philip Swann (Kevin J. O'Connor). In the present, New York detective Harry D'Amour (Scott Bakula) comes out to LA and gets to know Swann and his wife Dorothea (Famke Janssen - of Goldeneye and X-Men fame). But D'Amour has no idea what's about to happen, because some of the cult members want to resurrect the cult. And this will require certain accidents to happen.I can't really do justice to this movie by trying to explain it. Barker makes such an interesting use of mind-bendingness that you have to see it to understand it. Just see if you don't come away with your mind blown. You may never believe your eyes again after you see this. And I also would like to say that Famke Janssen is kinda hot in this movie. "},{"Title":"Revolting tripe...and that's its good side","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Let's see badly directed, badly plotted, badly acted (because that's all you can do with the material at hand), what's left?It has the pacing and narrative structure of a breathless retelling of a night spent at the wrestling matches, told by a sleep-deprived twelve-year-old.  It's always been evident that Clive Barker can't write...now we find out he can't direct, either.  Maybe next we'll find he can't produce no pun intended. (Wonder why he was directing?  Because no reputable director would touch the project.)How cheesy is it?  Well, the villain, our Devil of the piece, is named Nix.  Puh-leeze.  Is that clever?  NO.Obviously Barker has some psychological problems to work out, but I can't for the life of me figure out why WE have to be part of the therapy. Stop reading the books, stop watching the movies, and maybe--just maybe--he'll go away.One can only hope. "},{"Title":"Passable horror.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 104 minStarts well but fails to follow thru with a story of substance. Bakula does a decent job as the P.I. with some sort of third eye powers that are never really explained.There are a few gruesome scenes blade to eyeball type and a couple of interesting special effects that will please fans of the horror genre but in the end it doesn't add up to a good drama.5/10 decent for a late night horror. "},{"Title":"The Only Optical Trick Played Is On The Viewer Watching This","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Lord of Illusions simply does not come close to reaching the goal of a horror movie.  Its two hours of running time is an illusion as well, since the film seems to drag much longer than that.The movie attempts to be a hybrid of a horror/detective film, perhaps trying to mimic the success of the X-Files formula.  It fails miserably, and present neither a satisfyingly complex detective thriller, nor a chilling and grotesque horror tale.Ultimately, the only thing worth watching in this forgettable flick is a few good special effects, all of which are done on a grander scale and much more effectively in better films.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Like watching a train wreck without the suspense.","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Some experienced actors in this one that should return their paychecks. The writing seemed to come from a couple of preteens, and the director was phoning it in between tee shots. The effects were prehistoric by the standards of the day, and it never seemed to end. There were three story lines going on there and 2 weren't resolved in any manner. I kept waiting for the closing credits, but I couldn't stop watching it because I was fascinated with how BAD it was. I gave it a 2 only because I didn't stop watching it until it ended. If you have insomnia an it's on at 3AM, go ahead and watch it (Like me). Maybe you'll get lucky and it will put you to sleep. Don't rent it. Don't record it. If you see it in the bargain bin, leave it there. Other than that it was OK. "},{"Title":"Please answer my question!  E-mail address supplied!","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Long story Years ago, mid-Nineties, I saw bits of a movie at a friend's house after opting not to videotape it back home. It turned out to be better than I expected, and now, years later, I'm trying to find it. Problem is, I don't know the name of the movie. Or the actors.So why bother the fans of LORD OF ILLUSIONS? It clearly isn't this movie as I downloaded the trailer last night. But what I do remember of the target I'm searching for is (1) character name Swann (2) bad guy had a mandrill in a cage, a young girl in a cage, he intimated that he was going to put the girl in the cage with this horny creature (3) mind-bending powers of bad guy...You're all screaming this is LORD OF ILLUSIONS. I insist that it is not. I saw your movie trailer last night, and Scott Bakula doesn't ring a bell, and I'm RavenGlamDVDCollector, Famke GOLDENEYE Janssen would have rung a bell.The movie I saw was on South African pay-channel M-Net during the mid-Nineties, which places it in the same era as your movie. MAJOR POINT HERE TV Trope & Idioms site refers to the movie's maniac monkey as a mandrill. From the flash of it seen in the downloaded trailer, THAT IS NOT A MANDRILL. Movie I'm talking about featured a big, hulking male mandrill with that 'war-painted horrible face', not the little fun thing from FRIENDS and CALIFORNICATION gone momentarily berserk.Identifying it hinges on the mentioned key scene Does your LORD OF ILLUSIONS feature a despicable guy threatening to put a captive girl in a cage with an adult male mandrill (with for all practical purposes is a rainbow-faced baboon, very intimidating)And if I have just been wasting your time, kindly note that SOMEWHERE OUT THERE IS A MOVIE VERY SIMILAR IN KEY STRUCTURE, perhaps inspired by Clive Barker's work. Or am I 'barking' up the wrong tree? RavenGlamDVDCollector@gmail.com eagerly awaits your response. Please enlighten me with any comments and clues. "}{"Title":"Severely disjointed and a huge missed opportunity","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hired to protect a widow, a private detective learns of her husband's work in the supernatural when his instructor, the leader of a black-magic cult awakens and seeks his vengeance upon them for their past work against him.This turned out to be a massive disappointment due to the fact that there's just not a whole lot here to like. One of the few good elements is the traditional use of an obscure atmosphere and occult imaginings that are just really creepy and chilling as they tamper with themes they have no business doing so with. As well, the search for the leader's writings and hiding place make for some pretty interesting times and the finale in the decrepit halls of his sanctuary and the full use of the black magic is a lot of fun. The main problem here with the film is the fact that it's just far too long and really takes far too much to get going as there's just so many useless scenes that add unnecessary time to the proceedings that there's no real use in featuring them, which include the scenes of them in the magic club, the following home from the funeral and the numerous failed attempts on his life that make the cult seem wholly incompetent to risk that kind of exposure that often with so many failed attempts. As well, the special effects are wholly terrible with primitive CGI that looks laughable and totally unconvincing, a villain with a changing conquest plan that makes no sense and a really thin story that's never fleshed out. These here drag it down quite a bit.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language and Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"Barker conjures up some magic moments.","Date":"17 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Scott Bakula plays tough New York private eye Harry D'Amour who is hired to catch an insurance fraudster in L.A. and becomes entangled in a dangerous web of murder, mystery, and magic, both real and illusion.Clive Barker is best known among movie fans for the Hellraiser series, adaptations of his other books receiving far less attention than those featuring Pinhead and his pals. It's a shame, because those who haven't yet delved into the other dark recesses of the author's twisted mind are doing themselves a great disservice, missing out on some really freaky fare.Lord of lllusions, for example, rarely seems to get a mention, and yet it offers enough exquisitely strange and thoroughly warped delights to keep even the most picky of Hellraiser fans happy. Barker once again proves that he just as good at realising fantastical horror on film as on paper, displaying visual acuity, an impressive knack for atmosphere, and an uncanny ability to depict the stuff of nightmares. "},{"Title":"Flesh is a trap and magic sets us free...","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First there was Hellraiser, then Nightbreed&#133;now Lord Of Illusions.Having just seen this film earlier this year, I was surprised at how underrated it is since the two previous films Barker made overshadowed it. I truly think this was a brilliant film that had such a compelling plot it might of very well been one of the greatest horror/thrillers of the 1990's.The movie opens with four teenagers traveling through the desert to save a young girl who has been kidnapped by a group of cult followers. Here we meet Nix, the leader of the cult who has terrifying powers of magic. One of the teenagers who come to stop him is nineteen year old Philip Swann. Nix's ex- trainee. After defeating Nix, the teenagers all go their separate ways after burying Nix deep in the desert.Cut thirteen years later and we learn that Swann has become one of the most famous illusionist in the world (Via David Copperfield) and the young girl he saved many years ago has brown into a beautiful young woman who he is now married to. Around this time private directive Harry D'Amour is sent from New York to work a job in LA. Here he stumbles upon Swann and his wife who fear that Nix's cult members are coming back to kill anyone who crossed them. Here D'Amour has to walk the line between good and evil and make sure Nix never finds a way to come back from the dead.Five stars all the way. I would tell anyone to check this movie out. Truly a haunting tale about the living dead, love, and magic. Kevin O'Connor and Famke Janssen shine in this movie along with the amazing special effects and flashy slick scenes.One of my all time favorites, check it out...trust me you'll love it. "},{"Title":"An Awesome Movie","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Lord of Illusion is one of the movies which have impressed me the most in my life. It's a horror movie, but the horror is intelligent, typically for Clive Barker, petrifying with its realism. The movie has scenes that you will remember all your life. Kevin J. O'Connor, who is the awesome Philip Swann - Lord of Illusion, shows a brilliant performance. It's a great movie, representing a touching story. It's beautiful in a shocking way. I think Swann is the most interesting character in the movie - he's an eccentric, a really strange, but (or, more correct - therefore) fascinating. He became one of my all-time most favorite fictional characters. "},{"Title":"Where's the plot?","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The only thing that redeems this film and makes it the least bit watchable is SCOTT BAKULA - though, he takes off to LA to do a job and never follows up on that job? But he won't leave once hired by Dorthea? What kind of pissy PI is he? This is another directionless plot from Clive Barker - and there really isn't enough eye candy to keep you occupied for the lengthy movie. It's way too long and has way too many plot flaws. The good sensible parts are too short and the transitional parts are too long. SEcondary characters who could have been entertaining and kept your attention are too soon removed from the screen. The gore really isn't all that interesting or new and just a touch unrealistic. The special effects were seriously lacking. The entire opening to the Illusionists show was more interesting than the entire rest of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Misunderstood and underrated classic Barker flick","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  If you like perverted, sick and gory movies go rent this, but make sure you get the unrrated director's cut.  Lord of Illusions has some very awesome special effects and a few images that might not be something you want your girlfriend to see with you... or soon to be ex girlfriend when she realizes how sick you truly are.  This movie has its flaws but how many movies are flawless?  It moves a little slow and doesn't keep you on edge like classics such as Psycho, Halloween or even the new Dog Soldiers.  However, it keeps you interested and also is almost as good as Hellraiser.  I particularly like how it starts off in New York and moves to LA.  It's a nice transition and it's fun to have such a contrast of atmosphere.  I'd give it a 7 or 8...  But this also has that Bond chick who is really hot.   "},{"Title":"Awesome! Barker, Bakula, Horror and Suspense!","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the original movie version, but it is even better to watch the DVD director's cut. Granted, it's not for everyone, but if you like the type of horror Clive Barker dishes out, as well as film noir detective stories (like I do), this movie is for you!  "},{"Title":"From the chilling imagination of Clive Barker","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  LORD OF ILLUSIONS is rather chilling, it's the idea of Nix's existence that darkened the atmosphere in the movie. The movie does contain some blood and gore (The Swann dive!!!!) and some eerie scenery. The one and most baleful scenery is Nix's hiding place(?), it serves both thrills and chills (The markings on the wall, the people that live in that kinda place.....scary). Even though the movie's highlight events are quite far from each other and happen after a long time interval, somehow, the events in between still brings scares. Every once in a while, the movie just won't keep you relaxed, it finds ways to stick in an event and keep you attached to the story (e.g. D'Amour's dream, the appearance of Butterfield and the bald guy etc). What I'm most satisfied with, is that it is a supernatural horror, and it does provide a great example for a modern day horror movie.12/10    +2 for Nix's appearance, quotes, and the nightmare he gave me after viewing this movie! "},{"Title":"Good SFX, bad concept...","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The art of illusion is incredible to the human eye, but what happens when the fine line between illusion and reality is crossed?Harry D'Amour (Scott Bakula) is a hardened detective in New York, who is assigned to protect a famous illusionist, Philip Swann (Kevin J. O'Connor), and his wife, Dorthea (Famke Jannsen).  He arrives in Los Angeles, California, and has a run-in with strange cult members, one of which has knives in his throat and body.  The man begins to wrestle with Harry, and Harry subdues him, after having the crap kicked out of him.  He then meets his clients.  When Swann's illusion goes horribly wrong, causing his death, Harry must protect his wife, protect himself, and solve Swann's murder. Along, the way, all sorts of crazy things happen, including some amazing trickery and illusion, and discover the secret of Nix, a powerful illusionist.While this film has the incentive of some great special effects, it is a mess.  The plot tends to drag at times, and, when viewed on any one of the cable channels (I saw it on Sci-Fi), it runs for 2 and a 1/2 hours.  The illusions are amazing (I'm a sucker for special effects), but that's about it.  This movie isn't fun, despite the perks.  Scott Bakula is a terrific actor, but his talent doesn't shine through this dark film.  The rest of the cast fails to shine as well, and we, the audience, are left with a messy special-effects laden, plot twisted film.I have to admit though, I was actually intrigued by one scene, where members of a Charles Manson-esque cult cut off locks of their hair and chanting He will come to us (as in Nix will come to them).  And, the scene where Harry was fighting off Nix, and he was lifted into the air, was very cool. Otherwise, this film lacked any real interest.I don't recommend this film unless you like bizarre horror films.  As much as I love and praise Scott Bakula, he couldn't even convince me to give this film a chance.   "},{"Title":"clive barker does it again!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Clive Barker is not only a great writer and artist but he is a great director also...so its a wonder he doesn't do more films..i can't believe this is really his follow up to Hellraiser. Lord Of Illusions is a mixture of horror,fantasy,and film noir. I recomend this film for just those reasons..its combines all those elements to a suprising winning combination..Clive please direct more..watch and enjoy. "}{"Title":"The Pit of Hell","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Barker creates a supernatural detective, D'Amour, and allows the viewer to trail along as Bakula's character does his everyday job; it's established that this movie did not create D'Amour, that D'Amour has existed and lived a surreal lifestyle as a private detective who finds himself often in the Beyond a detective with a primal magnetism to things bizarre. D'Amour seems cool and detached because, well, when you fight demon-possessed children and cannibals for a living, you aren't going to be surprised by much.That's what this movie's about. The detective's journey. D'Amourencounters rabid cultists seeking to ressurect their messiah, while following the back-story of his client Swan, the showman magician and his wife, played by knock-out Famke Janssen. Everything D'Amour sees, and the lure of Janssen, fuses with D'Amour's obssessive desire to KNOW, to witness, what he is drawn to witness pure evil, and the forms it takes. By the time the movie's showdown in the desert begins, D'Amour has learned of the rebirth of a god of evil, once dead and now returned after years of burial. And this Dark God wants vengeance on those who imprisoned him, including the lovely Janssen and frightened Swan. D'Amour's loyalty to his client and the woman he's fallen for, implicit or not, keeps him in there slugging it out with forces he cannot overcome. This isn't your ordinary movie hero here. The fact is, D'Amour knows that someday he will be swallowed by the evil things he meets--it is a biological destiny that D'Amour will be destroyed eventually, and this knowledge makes him fearless.Barker never got a chance to explore more with this character. And that's a shame. A cool concept, so simple, and elevated by Barker's twist on genre, and Scott Bakula's delivery, a man haunted by what he's seen and has yet to witness, from the dark. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Not very frightening","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was at a small party when someone asked if anyone with cold nerves wanted to see a really scary movie that was banned in 17 american states or whatever, but I got fairly disappointed. The movie was hardly scary at all, the only reason i jumped a few times was due to the fact that i was in a small room and the sound was turned up to high..The characters in the movie are rather unrelateable and badly cast. When you see the most evil man in the movie saying he was born to murder the world after you've seen him as George's boss Kruger in the Seinfeld show, you feel more like laughing and shaking your head than beeing scared.Dont expect much excitement from this unfrightening and boring movie, even though its directed by the master behind Hellraiser, Clive Barker. "},{"Title":"Solid Barker Film","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Like Stephen King, it seems to me Clive Barker does not seem to have much luck with movies. Rawhead Rex and Transmutations (also known as Underground) turned out wretched. Even when Barker directs his own films the results can be mixed--Night Breed is only a mediocre movie at best, although much of this is to be blamed on poor editing. Lord of Illusions was then a pleasant surprise for me. Here is an entertaining movie that captures the spirit of Clive Barker's literary works on film. There is violence, gore, depravity, and the mounting terror that one usually finds in Barker's works. My only complaint with the film is that some of the characters, other than Harry D'Amour, are not fully developed. Dorothea in particular seems rather 2 dimensional--she is there simply as the standard film noir heroine. Anyhow, except for the first two Hellraiser films, Lord of Illusions is Barker at his best. "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Mostly TV movie quality, but somewhat watchable. Not because it was scary, but for other elements. The fastening and unfastening of the metal contraption onto Nix's head was pretty neat. I'm always surprised at the above-averageness of Famke Jannsen. Perhaps because she's usually in crappy movies, and gives more than most actors would with bush-league material. This movie has the sodomitical stamp It's directed by Clive Barker, stars Scott Bakula, Barry Del Sherman, and the cadaveresque (Hey look at me, I have an unusual career and I'm an unusual guy and I didn't even bother to change my name to something more catchy so that I could have a below the radar appeal!) Kevin J. O'Connor. The writing was above-average in some spots, particularly the humorously heated exchange between Bakula and Vinovich (Vincent Schiavelli). I zipped through the ending, so uninvolved was I with the fate of the characters. "},{"Title":"Hokum, but enjoyable hokum.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I would be annoyed if I'd paid to see it, but I watched it on TV.  Scott Bakula's hard-bitten detective was no different from any other character he's ever had to play.  The scene-setting was very 80's horror, the investigative bit veered into Heart-to-Heart/Murder She Wrote territory (although I think it was aiming for Se7en), Famke Janssen was wooden but gorgeous - Scooby-Doo standard acting all round, and a pretty usual Clive Barker finish (cheap-looking but probably expensive effects).  I was in the mood for hokum, and I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"This will not be easy...","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I love Clive Barker, the man, his fiction, his first two films. He is an important figure for me. That's why it's going to be hard for me to write this review. Clive, don't take this personally, but Lord of Illusions is truly one of the worst motion pictures I have seen in quite some time. What in the world happened? Lord of Illusions has very little to do with the short story (The Last Illusion) that it is based on. It's basic premise is expanded upon in order to make the film run feature length. That would be no problem if the film were any good, but sadly it's not.There is so much wrong with this movie. First of all, most of the cast is a walking disaster. Why Scott Bakula? This man whines his way through the whole film like a big baby. This is supposed to be a hard boiled, film noir detective? The man is a whiner. How on Earth did Quantum Leap last as long as it did with this reedy voiced non actor in the lead role? Famke Janssen should go back to modeling. She has the emotional range of a piece of ply wood. For that matter, ply wood could have done a better job and brought more sensuality to the role! And who in the world is the little weeny who plays Swann? The casting director does not earn his money with this film. The special effects are anything but special. The much hyped Origami Man effect is poorly integrated into the action and looks too much like a computer effect, which it is. But when it is all said and done, the vast majority of the blame lies on Clive Barker's shoulders. He was the visionary, the writer/director and he failed in his job. The screen play is a botched mess, the pace is plodding, the film is simply a failure on nearly every level. Clive, you can't blame studio interference this time. It's your fault. Plain and simple.Even though I was let down by this film (to put it mildly), I still wish that Barker had not given up on making movies. Hellraiser and Nightbreed are wonderful, two out of three isn't bad, so give it another shot Clive. Just next time cast better people and work harder on the little details.  "},{"Title":"don't waste your time or money","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know anything about clive barker, except  that he has the reputation to be a good horror writer.When I bought the movie, I expected it to be some kind of clever atmospheric movie making advantage of a lot of illusion, plot twists etc. I got quite the opposite. Thismovie is boring, has a dull conventional plot, is badly directed and photographed and features a lot of strange, bad actors. The plot seems to function only as excuse to present the usual splatter fx mixed with some really bad digital fx like the folded fire figure in the chapel. A good director might have gotten out something of the plot, but Barker seems to be as bad in directing as in scriptwriting, so the movie is made like one of these tv-junk movies like Buffy. Avoid it.   "},{"Title":"Decent movie, but could have been better","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie first as the directors' cut of it, and also when I was in ninth grade, I think about three years ago.  I did not like it then. I thought it was too long and complicated.  I saw it again, and I liked it this time, but I again thought it was a little slow for its length. Forgive me for saying so, but this story has only the framework of The Last Illusion and it claims to only be inspired by that story.  That story is in Cabal for those who do not know.I think that the story was changed not for the worse and certainly not for the better.  I liked the idea of chasing after the body and using illusions for deception.  I also liked this movie because it makes you think. However, this movie is not at all original, and it takes influences (plot-wise) from other movies and stories.  Put together it isn't much more than the sum of its parts.This movie is cheesy, and it is almost pretentious.  The only saving grace for that second admonishment is that it is two entirely different movies at two entirely different times, and very rarely do the styles meet.  One side is a hard-boiled detective story.  The other is a cultish horror movie that belongs in the great moments of horror section.  The only meetings are during the transfers from one moment to the other, and the moment when the car is floating above Harry's head.I enjoyed myself while watching this movie.  There were some good performances, and I, although I'm probably alone, liked Swann, but did not care about him.  The sex scene was different, and the nightmares were actually strange, instead of looking like it was trying too hard to be strange.  I think that the effects were a little cheesy but they were pretty good.  I generally don't like computer-generated stuff though.  I thoroughly enjoyed the cult people.  One influence I noticed is The Wall and Butterfield looked like Pink.I would recommend this movie, but don't feel bad about missing it.  This is a good movie on a sultry summer night when it is too hot to do anything but swim in a pool that you don't have or sit in the A/C.  That is its style. --------6 "},{"Title":"The terror of ... stuff we don't know about.","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Horror movies that audiences connect with are usually about some familiar threat, like vampires, werewolves, zombies, monsters, killer animals, or just serial killers with or without masks on. Clive Barker's work has more in common with H.P. Lovecraft, in that it attempts to describe mythologies and threats that are either obscure or totally unknown to the viewer.The risk is always that the audience might not get it. It's hard to be scared about something unless you know what it is. It's even harder to stay interested in a movie unless you have a good idea of what's going on. Lord of Illusions leaves the viewer in the dark for so long that it becomes tedious, giving us bizarre manifestations that don't really mean anything until the movie's almost over. By that point, it's too late.I found it reminiscent of Hellraiser, darkly fascinating but ultimately ridiculous in the way it inserts bizarre characters doing bizarre things with motivations that we don't understand. I did like the way he made it reminiscent of film noir. His special effects are ambitious, even if they usually look silly. His gruesome trademark of violating human bodies in hideous ways is represented here, so if you're into that, you definitely won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Dr Strange has Left the Building","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.What a great idea a combination of magical war and detection! But there isn't any supernatural warfare, just regular old levitation, pushing around and stuff. The crucial magical showdown in the beginning relies on guess what -- guns! Then the bad guy is `bound' with iron fixtures bolted to his face, despite the fact that no magical tradition supposes magic comes from the face.Real evil, real magic would be quite a different thing. Don't any of these guys study Crowley -- especially with so many scientologists in Hollywood? And even worse, there is no use, none whatsoever of intellect driving will. What a waste of a good idea. What vapid imagery. "}{"Title":"I was born to murder the world. - Nix (Daniel Von Bargen)","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 'Lord of Illusions' is a very creepy and disturbing film but it also is cheesy and has some plot holes in it. The movie's premise is very intriguing but it isn't executed anywhere near as well as it could be. Scott Bakula really hams it up in this with a corny performance, while Famke Janssen is actually pretty solid. You may recognize Daniel Von Bargen who plays Kruger in the television hit comedy Malcolm in the Middle as the head bad guy/demon/monster who is always fun if not repulsive to watch (he's pretty gross looking towards the end.) In the end, 'Lord of Illusions' packs in some weirdness, gore and chills, but it lacks a lot too. It's definitely not one of Clive Barker's best films (for that rent either 'Hellraiser' or the ultra-scary 'Candyman'.) I can't recommend renting this, but if you come across it one night on TV when nothing else is on, I'd maybe give it a shot. Grade C "},{"Title":"Illusional script","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A far cry away from the classic The Warlock.Decent horror flick with some under-written script issues. Generally fine with some eerie moments, but the plot is all around the place with no real focus on the who, what and where. Nonetheless a blast from the past from the 90s is a welcome breather for the gorno crapfest we are dished out nowadays.Nix (Daniel von Bargen) is the leader of a cult. Due to dark dealings he has amassed incredible power, which he hopes to share with Philip Swann (Kevin J. O'Connor). Disgusted with the evil and destruction that Nix represents Swann with a group of friends decide to end his terrible reign and save the young Dorothea. They manage to capture the magician and bury him deep underground.13 years later Philip Swann is a world renowned illusionist and is married to the grown up Dorothea (Famke Jannsen). The cult following of Nix has never revoked their beliefs and are still intent on freeing their master. Dorothea hires a PI with a knack for the occult, Harry D'Amour (Scott Bakula) to look after her husband. Swann however mysteriously dies during his latest illusion...There is a lot to like about this movie together with its retro feel from the great days of the 80s/90s horrors. Plus Clive Barker always supplies eerie occult atmosphere even if he is a bit iffy on the plot side of things. A couple of great and relatively scary scenes make this a worthwhile watch, even if the lack of direction to the story is frustrating.The Scott Bakula character feels superfluous and unnecessary, albeit Bakula does a good acting job and is a standout character. Nonetheless the movie seems to introduce characters and situations just so that we get gore and occult magic here and there, but there really is no purpose to the plot.Could be better, but still a decent 5. "},{"Title":"Clive, how could you?","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Probably my favorite of Barker's works, and yet Barker inexplicably twists  'The Last Illusion' 180 degrees to come up with this wretched screenplay.  The idea of a supernatural film noir detective is stripped of almost anything, and Scott Bakula, an otherwise fine performer, is woefully miscast.  You don't care about anyone in this, even D'Amour, the hero.  Probably the worse of Barker's screen efforts.  Read the story, skip the movie.  Maybe the short story would not have made a good movie no matter what...but that just means some things you shouldn't even try to adapt.  "},{"Title":"Hocus-Pocus horror!","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"16 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Clive Barker comes with an extremely morbid and sinister tale that almost entirely takes place in the mysterious world of magicians, illusionists and sorcerers. Indeed a very unique setting that just awaits an exquisite horror film! One thing you have to hand to Barker.like none other author, he has the talent to portray nightmarish worlds and macabre surroundings. The three major chapters in his career as a filmmaker all are tales of pure darkness. And - unlike Nightbreed - Lord of illusions can depend on a solid script and original story aspects. Clive combines the mysteries of magic with the dangers of a satanic cult in order to create one of the most frightening horror villains ever. Nix - a diabolical personification of evil who has complete control over elements like fire, gravity and even the human will and soul! Daniel Von Bargen (one of the most underrated actors alive) plays Nix amazingly and the hairs in the back of your neck will stand up as he says, `I was born.to murder the world' in his most vicious tone of voice. Scott Bakula is the private detective, hired by the ravishing Famke Janssen, to keep an eye on her husband who once buried Nix but now fears his resurrection from the grave. All in one, Lord of Illusion is a successful mixture of horror and detective, with gruesome make-up effects and more than enough tension to keep you focused. Barker controls the supernatural elements real well and he also injects multiple personal interests of his in his film. Like his disturbing obsession with masochism, for example, and the constant undertones of homosexuality and sexual perversion. The wholesome is served with a constant atmosphere of morbidity and very little humor. Therefore, Lord of Illusions is a very mature horror film that'll certainly frighten (or even shock) inexperienced viewers. Possible negative aspects about Lord of Illusions are the overall predictable twists the grotesque finale.  "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Handsome looking, visually stunning production full of interesting special effects is about a private eye (Scott Bakula) who stumbles upon a cult who is intent on bringing back to life their leader (Daniel Von Bargen). A local magician (Kevin J. O'Connor) who suddenly dead during an illusion is somehow linked to the cult and the Bakula finds himself thrown into relationship with the man's wife (Famke Janssen). Fun, but Janssen is throughly wasted.Unrated; Extreme Violence, Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Some good scenes but...","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The first Hellraiser-movie is one of my all-time favorite movies so it breaks my heart to have to say that Clive has not succeeded this time around. I think one mistake was to move the locationfrom New York. Sunny LA doesnt deliver the gloomy atmosphere and sense of dread that was present in the short story. And the opening sequence gives too much of the mystery away too soon. I also think Simon Boswell's music is quite boring. But some good characters (Butterfield and his sidekick), some nice FX- sequences and a few effective scenes, still manages to make this more worthwile than a lot of other recent horror movies. "},{"Title":"Grandiose and highly entertaining dark fantasy horror","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Way back in the when, Lord of Illusions was the last film that my parents ever made me turn off when I started watching it on television. They were unamused by a scene with a tied up young girl and a mandrill, and so I ended up not seeing the film until some years later. I've seen it a few times now, and though perhaps the least of Clive Barkers great forays into direction, lacking the immense gruesome brilliance of Hellraiser or the thrilling monster laden madness of Nightbreed, it is more coherent than Nightbreed and acres ahead of most horror fare of the mid 90's. The plot sees a private investigator, Harry D'Amour becoming embroiled in the dangerous world of magic, through dealing with a great illusionist named Swann with a dark past involving an evildoer named Nix. The opening to this film is superb, a flashback to a cult compound led by the malign Nix, with an incredibly chilling atmosphere and some disturbing moments. As the film moves to the modern day and centers around D'Amour things slow down and go more into a sort of fantasy noir territory, though not without splashes of grue and a good deal of foreboding, as things heat up again in building to coming excitement. Acting wise Kevin J. O'Connor is great as Swann, twitchy, nervous and pretty weird, wholly convincing as a man of great powers but beset by fears. As his beautiful wife, Famke Jansenn is a tad underused but is good on the eye and carries her role nicely. Scott Bakula is vaguely bland as D'Amour, but I thought this relatively weak pairing worked well as a counterpoint to the spiralling madness around them. Most interesting are Barry del Sherman as gay hit-man Butterfield, with a kinky, sinister edge and a performance of ferocious physicality, especially in a couple of fights and Daniel von Bargen as Nix, playing the role with a booming malevolence that is less scary horror villain and more fantastical demon. The film is generally well written, with some great lines, especially for the bad characters and von Bargen gives all of his evil dialogue maximum power. As well as the dialogue working nicely, there is also a lot of thematic interest, with some gay themes relating to Butterfield and his partner, the relationship between Swann and Nix and also tied into the whole business of magic and its practitioners or those involved with it in the film. The film takes a freaky look at cult obsession and magic too. The only real problems I had with this film relate to some of the special effects work and the ending. There are some instances where animation effects are used that really date the film and don't look terribly good. Normally I wouldn't criticise effects in a film but better ones were used in Hellraiser and Nightbreed and in the case of Hellraiser some were of a similar type to ones in Lord of Illusions but done much better. Also, the finale is a tad unsatisfying in some respects, definitely less grisly than it should have been and a bit cheesy. Its fun, but definitely doesn't match the opening or some other moments in the film. More nastiness splashed over the course of the film might have been nice too, but things stay interesting anyway so I can't complain to much. Altogether, this is a rich, potent and sometimes pretty scary horror film, Barker does a fine job directing for the most part, handling tension and nastiness with great skill and maintaining a sinister bubbling brew of potent horror throughout. He has done better, but I still recommend this highly indeed, one of the best horror films of the 90's. "},{"Title":"Has nothing on Hellraiser, and not even as good as Nightbreed.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Clive Barker may well be one of the best horror writers that modern literature has to offer - but his feature debut aside, he really should stop adapting his books to the screen. Hellraiser is a brilliant horror film; forsaking all that makes most horror successful, Hellraiser is an endearing masterpiece, and one of the best films ever made. Barker showed promise as a director then, but Nightbreed was seriously lacking; and this film, Lord of Illusions, does nothing to get his credibility back on track. We kick off with a very trashy sequence that sees an illusionist get murdered, and I feared the worse; but after that, the film picks up into a sort of mystery plot, and things were looking up. This feeling of euphoria doesn't last long, however, because as soon as you realise that the mystery is one of the most poorly plotted ever; it becomes all too easy to get bored. The uneven plot has something to do with an illusionist who gives some power to someone called Swan and then gets killed by a young girl. Thirteen years later, a private detective is hired for some reason and we then stumble into a story about a rather odd cult.Basically, this movie is seriously flawed. Aside from the extremely messy plot, Lord of Illusions is also overlong, poorly acted and hard to follow. However, I cant give this a real low mark simply because I love the style that Barker has injected into the piece. We are constantly treated to a morbid atmosphere, which plays well with the plot - even if it is messy. The world of magic and illusionists hasn't been shown on screen too many times, and the film also gains credibility on the originality front for that. Nods towards Hellraiser, including the skin pealing from a man's bone, are well done and the film does actually feature quite a few memorable scenes. The special effects offer much in the way of good imagery, too. It's just a shame that the writer-director couldn't implement more of the good and less of the bad, as then this would really be a movie worth seeing. Casting Scott Bakula in the lead was a terrible idea as he has zero personality, and this makes the messy plot even harder to follow as sympathy for the main character is seriously repressed. Overall, Barker fans might find something to like here; but I have to say that this is one mundane flick. "},{"Title":"I was born to murder the World. Average & overlong horror.","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Lord of Illusions starts with a paragraph of text that reads 'There are two worlds of magic. One is the glittering domain of the illusionist. The other is a secret place, where magic is a terrifying reality. Here, men have the power of demons. And death itself is an illusion.' The film then cuts to the 'Mojave Desert 1982' where at an isolated house an evil magician named Nix (Daniel von Bargen) & his brainwashed cult of followers have sex, walk around naked, write messages in blood on the walls & generally behave in an anti-social way. Phillip Swann (Kevin J. O'Connor), Casper Quaid (Joseph Latimore), Jennifer Desiderio (Sheila Tousey) & Maureen Pimm (Susan Taylor) pull up outside, they enter the house fully armed with the intention of putting an end to Nix's evil ways & rescuing a young girl (Ashley Cafagna-Tesoro as Ashley Lyn Cafagna) whom he has taken hostage. They all think they put an end to Nix when Swann screws a metal mask onto his face, they then bury him deep in the desert. A rainy 'New York 13 Years Later' where private detective Harry D'Amour (Scott Bakula) is given a insurance fraud job by a friend named Loomis (Wayne Grace) which involves tracking a man named Tapert (Johnny Venocur as Johnny Venokur) down in Los Angeles. While following Tapert D'Amour discovers Casper Quaid dying having been cut up by one of Nix's cult members Butterfeild (Barry Del Sherman), D'Amour quickly becomes involved in his death & is hired by Dorothea Swann (Famke Janssen) the wife of Phillip who is now apparently the best illusionist in the world. Dorothea knew that Phillip & Quaid have connections & fears that Phillip may be next on the killers hit-list. What D'Amour finds is a trail of lies, deceit, murder & the possible resurrection of the evil Nix...Written, co-produced & directed Clive Barker I thought Lord of Illusions was an OK film, nothing more. I should point out at this time that the version I am reviewing is the longer 'director's cut' released on DVD so bear that in mind, there are also some extra 'deleted scenes' on the DVD which are short & offer nothing in the way of additional story development. The script by Barker based on his novel 'The Last Illusion' tries to mix horror, mystery & the private detective genre with little success. Put quite simply there wasn't enough of a mystery element for me, I found the story extremely uninvolving & dull to watch. In fact Lord of Illusions totally ditches the detective story well before the end & goes into straight horror mode as Nix comes back from the grave for a standard 'hero kills bad guy & gets the pretty girl' ending, very disappointing as there is no twist or anything that I really didn't see coming. I never really cared for any of the characters & the silly plot devices Barker employs to further the already ridiculous premise stretch Lord of Illusions credibility to breaking point as Barker treats the material with deadly seriousness. On a positive side Lord of Illusions looks great with it's cinematography & use of colour showing how Barker has developed since his debut, the infinitely superior Hellraiser (1987). Tecnically Lord of Illusions is great apart from a couple of the optical effects which don't impress. Barker also continues his love affair with religious symbolism & bondage imagery, I mean just check that metal spiked mask out. There are one or two decent gore scenes but don't expect another Hellraiser, someone is impaled with swords, gunshot wounds splattering blood everywhere, nails being screwed into peoples heads, dead animals, stabbings with scalpels & peoples skin coming off their faces. The acting is OK but I thought Bakula was miscast & didn't feel right for the role, Janssen is still a babe & easy on the eyes. Overall I thought Lord of Illusions was an OK horror film which for the most part unsuccessfully tries to blend various genres, it's a bit different if not exactly gripping in the way I'm sure Barker had intended & it has it's moments but at the end of the day it provides little entertainment, nothing in the way of surprises & you will have forgotten about it within a week. Average at best, but still worth watching if your desperate. "},{"Title":"LORD OF ILLUSIONS Theatrical Version (Clive Barker, 1995) **","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'd been underwhelmed by Barker's signature film HELLRAISER (1987); however, since this was rated *** on the Cult Filmz website, I decided to check it out given that it was often shown on local Cable TV. As it happened, the film is available in two versions (the original theatrical release at 109 minutes and the Director's Cut, running 122) and it's the former which I ended up watching; incidentally, I had planned to include this in my Halloween horror schedule back in October &#150; but I only managed to get to it now! Anyway, the film is a mix of noir and diabolism (other similar examples are ANGEL HEART 1987, which I still haven't caught up with but may be able to do so soon enough, and FALLEN 1998) it's fairly intriguing during the first hour &#150; but, as I said in relation to other recent horror outings (see my review of RE-ANIMATOR 1985 below), the intricacies of the plot get lost eventually in a wave of special effects and mindless gore! The narrative concerns private eye Scott Bakula (just off a case dealing with exorcism) who's asked to investigate a series of deaths occurring within the individual circles of a couple of rival magicians &#150; the elder of whom seems to have gone too far and the other, a former student, is intent on putting a stop to his activity. The film opens with a prologue in which he does just that (by way of a BLACK Sunday 1960-type iron mask) &#150; but, then, it transpires that a creepy acolyte who has escaped the initial onslaught is waiting for the opportune moment in which to revive him.In the interim, the younger magician has acquired prestige but the endeavor has also unbalanced his mind somewhat &#150; while the girl he saved from the hands of his nemesis, and who had subsequently brought about the latter's come-uppance, has become his wife (played by Famke Jannsen). Unsurprisingly, however, their relationship isn't genuine and she gradually becomes involved with Bakula.The young magician fakes his own death (via a stage act gone wrong involving a number of falling swords) and, in the end, turns up for a final showdown with his old mentor (the latter having himself disposed of the remaining members of his cult because he deemed them unworthy of his exalted state). Of course, Jannsen and Bakula get mixed-up in the fracas and narrowly escape with their lives.As I said earlier, this had the makings of a good occult thriller &#150; but, ultimately, is defeated by its own excesses. "}]