[{"Title":"Funny, resonant and worth checking out","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is simply the best Big Chill movie since, well, The Big Chill. The cast is terrific; the writing is even better.  I've seen Josh Hamilton in several other films, but somehow he never has caught my eye except in this role (interestingly monnikered Grover, by the by).  What makes this film work above the usual rabble of 20-something angst films is that you genuinely understand, can relate to, and feel for the characters.  And the bits of business that have nothing to do with the main storyline, Grover's, are every bit as amusing and resonant.  Highlights Eric Stoltz and Carlos Jacott's book club.  Chris Eigeman ducking the cookie guy. Carlos Jacott trying to remember the last Friday the 13th film.  Any scene involving Parker Posey.  I think I've watched this film about 10 times in completion.  The ending, I've watched about 30 times.  It's that good.  I don't think I've ever seen a more tender, memorable, perfect scene than the parting one between Hamilton and Olivia D'Abo, where she takes out her retainer, smiles shyly at him and then there's a fabulous music cue that leads us into...the unknown.  Of course, we know the ending, because Jane and Grover's fate has basically been the subject of the whole film, but the way Baumbach ties all of this together is truly inspired.  Grover's speech at the airline ticket counter may be the best monologue in the history of cinema.  Am I gushing irrationally here?  Perhaps a little.  But this film needs to be seen and recognized as the little gem (that's often better than anything else in the same genre done by a major studio/director) that it is. "},{"Title":"rare film","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Noah Baumbach's Kicking and Screaming is one of those rare films that actually gets it right when it comes to understanding the angst of being a young adult right out of college. Baumbach's dialogue matches each of the feelings that newly graduated students go through, but doesn't stoop to the level of condescending. We all identify with the characters of Kicking and Screaming whether it is Skippy and his wanting to further his education because there might be something he missed out on or if Skippy doesn't subconsciously want to become his friends Max, Grover, or Otis. We might identify with Max who blatantly doesn't know what to do now. Max's only hellbent on not looking back on his college years, I'm nostalgic for conversations I had yesterday. I've begun reminiscing events before they even occur. I'm reminiscing this right now. I can't go to the bar because I've already looked back on it in my memory... and I didn't have a good time. Kicking and Screaming is a film deserving to be recognize as a journey through the minds of graduates and self-discovery of oneself. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, fantastic portrayal of disaffected college grads","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I had to pick one movie that I was forced to watch again and again, it may be this one.  Not that this is Citizen Kane or The Godfather, it's just that it speaks to me.  Never has anyone dealt with disaffection in such a witty manner.  Every character has something to say on the subject, and  it's hysterical.  I really GET all of the characters, even if I can't identify with some of them.  None of the actors appear to be TRYING, which  most seem to do in films of this genre.  Josh Hamilton's portrayal of Grover is subtle but outstanding.  Olivia d'Abo is radiant, and (retainer and all), I can't take my eyes off of her.  Chris Eigeman steals every scene he's in, as usual, and missed his calling as a stand-up comedian - he's that funny.  Baumbach's use of flashbacks is one of the most effective I've ever seen, and the transitions to flashbacks look amazing.  And finally, this movie is infinitely quotable.  Cookie Man, go away, I gotta go - I gotta sleep with a freshman, Jane 2 Electric Boogaloo?, and Oh, I've been to Prague still crack me up after 20 or 30 viewings of this film (need the DVD to come out before my tape wears out).So I can't say enough about this film.  If you haven't seen it, go buy it.P.S.  What happened to Noah Baumbach?  Sophomore and Junior jinxes with his two follow-ups.  Bad movies.  Oh well, Kicking and Screaming more than makes up for them. "},{"Title":"The best of its kind","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kicking and Screaming is easily my favorite film.  It is a funny and intelligent look at the identity crisis that follows graduation.  A brilliant script lifts the film out of gen-x romantic comedy hell.  First time director Noah Baumbach does the impossible by keeping such a talky film constantly moving.  With more insight and heart than most movies, Baumbach has created something timeless.  A must see for all who are scared about taking that next big step. "},{"Title":"A self-conscious film that almost manages to be profound","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kicking and Screaming shows a considerable degree of self-awareness for a film about college graduation directed by a 25-year-old, but it is still an awkward, self-conscious film that is no more confident than its insecure characters. It was fortunate that in 1995, there were producers out there who believed a movie about depressed upper-middle class white boys had commercial potential, because those producers launched the career of Noah Baumbach, who would go on to make superior films in the next decade. As in his later films, Baumbach seems to take pity on pretentious and tremendously insecure characters while simultaneously taking delight in exposing their weaknesses to the world. But in Kicking and Screaming, unlike, say, The Squid and the Whale, Baumbach seems to identify just a little too closely with his young characters and seems to believe that they are less obnoxious than they are. Kicking and Screaming's greatest strength and weakness is how well it captures an aspect of growing up not often captured on film the resistance to change. Many films deal with characters who gradually change as they come of age, but Kicking and Screaming deals with characters who desire on some level to move on past their current selves but are hesitant to do anything about that desire. This also hurts the film, however, since very little changes from beginning to end, and when characters do change at all, they change less than they (or the film) believe. The stagnation would not be a problem if the film were a comedy, but, while the film is full of quirky characters and occasionally funny jokes, it deals with the dullness and depression too honestly to really work as a comedy. When wealthy Max, perhaps the most stagnant of all the characters, puts a broken glass sign over a pile of shattered glass rather than cleaning it up, it is good for a laugh, but as the film goes on, we get to know Max well enough that it almost stops being funny. Kicking and Screaming is certainly worth seeing for any fans of college-related movies and should probably be required viewing for anyone in their junior or senior years, since it could work as an effective warning against the perils that await graduates without plans. But the film, like its characters, has both too much self-consciousness and too little self-awareness to achieve the levels of comedic or dramatic potential that it hints at. "},{"Title":"esoterica","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an all-time favorite.  Not just for the nuanced performances and witty banter, but because my particular group of friends my senior year of college bore striking resemblances to the hawks (or cougars or whatever the hell Skippy wants to call the group).  One of our girlfriends actually made the comment, you guys all talk the same.So I can understand why some may pass this film over, but since the action and dialogue hit so close to home, I have to love this movie.  It gets better with repeated viewings and the writing, acting, and chemistry are spotless. At times I felt like this movie was made just for me.  And that's a comforting feeling.  I can tell that Baumbach felt a lot of the same things I did in college - Max's speech at the Hole comes to mind, as well as the writing class scene, and especially, I'm Max Belmont, I do nothing.Fortunately, it's SUCH a well-made film.  So much goes on in the corners - the renaissance festival guys, the conversations on top of conversations, Grover's dad on the phone talking about Riley's marriage.It's a great movie that deserves to be seen. Even if you're not a hopeless postgrad loser.  "},{"Title":"Talk-heavy indie is fresh and witty but boring","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Apparently, I watched Kicking and Screaming at the perfect time -- not even a month after graduating college. Still, I don't find myself identifying with its characters or empathizing with their struggles other than the basic I wish I didn't have to leave. Granted graduating college is different now than it was in the 1990s, but if this film were truly very good, it would resonate with college graduates of all generations. The problem is that as sharp, witty and original as the dialogue is, it's unnatural and it pushes us toward nothing.Fans of dialogue in film, particularly the avant garde approach, will probably be quick to love this film debut from writer/director Noah Baumbach. He manages to write a lot of dialogue that we all think but never actually speak aloud (admirable), it's all quite clever (funny or at least amusing) but his characters like to talk a lot about what they do, which in this movie is nothing (boring). College graduates and friends Grover, Max, Skippy and Otis, all played by no-name actors basically decide to spend their first year post-graduation back at school because they are to afraid to leave. Skippy's girlfriend Miami is still a student so he stays, Otis is scared of moving to Milwaukee, Grover's girlfriend went to Prague, thus dumping him and backing out of their plans to live in Brooklyn together, etc. It's a very indie take on a coming of age story.If it hasn't been made apparent, there's a lot of talking. You'll like a lot of what you hear and you'll be bored by a lot of it. People just generally don't talk this way, which helps the movie avoid cliché, making it fresh and funny, but also alienates the audience at times. At times I told myself I kind of liked it, at others I wondered what the point was. There is some definite intention behind everything Baumbach does, but he communicates this intention in ways most people won't grasp and it all comes across pointless. Plus, either Baumbach never communicates the reason for the title or I missed it because I wasn't totally paying attention. With so much dialogue, everything Baumbach really wants the audience to understand he must have spoken aloud and so rather than discovering meaning, it comes in the form of explanation.Kicking and Screaming is an experiment, an artsy film that some will love just for being artsy and others will find boring for being exactly that way. Baumbach's writing shows promise, but it also has the potential to fail miserably. "},{"Title":"totally disappointing","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i rented this movie because it was in the criterion collection section of the video rental store, and i was very disappointed. my boyfriend and i literally got up and walked around and did other stuff while it was on. to me it seemed like total undergraduate pseudo-intellectual masturbation on baumbach's part. we watched the special features to see what these guys had to say for themselves, there it was revealed that they went to VASSAR (where apparently everyone wears sport coats ALL THE TIME). maybe i just had a totally different college experience, but this movie was completely unrelatable except for the fact that everyone in college seems to think they're smarter than they actually are. in that sense, it was nostalgic in a bad way. i guess maybe the movie didn't appeal to me because i watched it in a vacuum (it's not 1995 anymore, i'm not 22 anymore, and i'd never heard of it). i'd say most of us would probably think the flaming lips' first album sucked if we didn't know about everything they'd done since then. so, all i can say is, renter beware. for me, this movie just never quite clicked. (also, we all know parker posey is hilarious, but totally diluted in this film.) "},{"Title":"STAY AWAY!","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking for an interesting, involving movie that uses dialogue thoughtfully (and efficiently), step aside, or you're liable to be swept up when this dust storm of 20's angst and supposedly witty banter comes barrelin' through town. It's a gloomy episode of Friends stretched over an hour and a half, where wit is created through pop culture references, cheap cynicism, and nifty little one-liners.I'm still not sure what the point of the whole thing was; I've a feeling the only people who get anything from this movie are the ones who watch films for the experience of relating to the characters.  Maybe the point was simply to give me a slice of post-college life.  Yuck.Man, is it bad.  Just stay away. "},{"Title":"Save yourself...it's too late for me.","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let me begin by stating that I am a big fan of Whit Stillman and his ensemble movies, especially The Last Days of Disco, which in my opinion was one of the most perfectly realized movies of the nostalgic '90s. To put it bluntly, Kicking and Screaming, despite its excellent cast and decent premise (the fate of a somewhat inbred group of friends after graduation from college) is so badly executed that it is almost incoherent. This one needed to stay in the can. No - it needed to stay AWAY FROM the can. They could at least have hired a cinematographer...the photography in this flick is the worst I've seen since Elvira went off-air. What is truly unfortunate is that there are some very funny lines buried in all the drek...it may have been possible to make a good movie out of this crap, but as it stands, its just a heap o' nothing. Oh well.Try Swingers, Henry Fool, Pecker, Metropolitan, The Last Days of Disco, Chasing Amy, Porky's 2, or absolutely anything else instead. Not even worth a free rental. "}{"Title":"a hidden treat","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  KICKING AND SCREAMING is one of the few indie talkathon pictures worth seeing.  It is extremely funny, well-written, and perfectly executed by its cast.  It also displays the magical talent of a man who goes by the name of Stoltz.  Yes, all the perfect ingredients.  And only one way to see it--after graduation.Ted's Grade A-  "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Armond White was right! Noah Baumbach's mother should have had him aborted! Nah, that's more than a little too harsh, but his debut film isn't very good. It shows a bit of promise, since some of the dialogue is okay here, but, overall, this is a talky, indie bore. A bunch of college students graduate but don't know where to go from there. Most of them just hang around campus, drinking and smoking and trying to bed students. The main story surrounds Josh Hamilton and his girlfriend, Olivia d'Abo, who doesn't even tell Hamilton she's going to Prague after graduation. This story is never at all compelling because Hamilton is such an unlikeable little douchebag. D'Abo probably isn't much better, but she's so attractive you can't want her to hang around Hamilton. Eric Stolz and Parker Posey are the most famous actors in the cast. Chris Eigeman has little to do but remind us how much better a director Whit Stillman is. Baumbach made a couple of other indie failures before hitting upon The Squid and the Whale. That and his subsequent two films, Margot at the Wedding and Greenberg, have been very good, so he did finally find his footing. "},{"Title":"Cliché and Trite","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked The Noah Baumbach's The Squid and the Whale but Kicking and Screaming is so inferior to that. It's obvious that this film is his first effort.It is so cliché and slow moving that it is unbearable to watch. It is like the poor man's version of St. Elmo's Fire. I imagine Noah watched St. Elmo's Fire and tried to copy it scene by scene to create an updated version for the 1990's. For the most part, the acting is good and convincing.Although I only paid a few bucks to rent it on Comcast I felt totally ripped off. The only good thing I can say is that it encouraged me (and probably many others) that they too can easily sell their tired,uninspired scripts as well!! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" (I don't think I said anything that's considered a spoiler, but that warning scared me) I graduated from college and watched this movie just a couple of years after it came out, and I absolutely loved it then. In the 10 years since then, I re-watch it every now and then and its still my favorite movie.I can't think of another movie that captured in such a witty and creative way, the way people really converse and really feel about their lives and the decisions they make and situations they find themselves in.My favorite quotes Chet Know how to make God laugh? ... Make a plan. Max (talking to himself) Hi I'm Max Oh what do you do? Oh, I do nothing. Max This guy would rather be bow hunting. He'd ALREADY rather be bow hunting, and any additional aggravation... "},{"Title":"I'm reminiscing this right now...","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film when it first came out on VHS because it had Eric Stoltz on the cover and, I thought, anything with Eric Stoltz must be good. It was the mid-1990s, after all, and I had first become acquainted with the man through Pulp Fiction--he was so cool! He was also everywhere, even in some particularly banal films (Killing Zoe, anyone?), and, at the time, I grouped this flick with those. Having sat down and watched Kicking and Screaming (in the wake of absolutely adoring the Squid and the Whale), I am sorry I relegated this movie to a lesser Eric Stoltz film. It should be in the category of stellar post-collegiate ennui films. The wit and insightfulness, as well as an unwavering decision to present people as they really are and not idealized versions of themselves, are here, as they were in the Squid and the Whale. Kicking and Screaming is not quite so acerbic as the later film (rightly so, says I, the subject matter doesn't warrant it), nor is it as slick a production. Baumbach was clearly learning what it meant to be a director, so while his writing is, as always, top-notch, visually speaking, there's something lacking. I don't find that to be too much of a detriment to the film, though, because, sometimes, we go to the movies to listen to characters talk. Baumbach has a great ear for intricate, though slightly unrealistic, dialogue. The writing in this movie owes a lot to Whit Stillman's Metropolitan and Barcelona (and Chris Eigeman's presence only makes this connection more apparent), but rather than a drawing room comedy for the UHB crowd, Kicking and Screaming is determinedly middle-class (upper-middle class, probably). The narrative arc of this film is inessential. Basically, four guys refuse to move on after their college graduation. Nothing momentous happens in their lives; they simply live like, gulp, I have in the few years since finishing my bachelors. I mean, I don't work in a video store (thank you very much, I have a respectable office job), but the concept of dragging your feet into adulthood is a feeling I, and a lot of my friends, often feel. Watching a movie like this, then, as much as it makes you laugh, can also make you wince knowingly. It's that knowledge that I now have that I think made it possible for me to see the wonderful nature of this film. I have lived this life, so now I see the humor. "},{"Title":"If you don't identify with this film, you're too old or too young.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's a window in which you must view Kicking and Screaming. It's somewhere in between the age of 20-28, when you're still not sure what the next step is, when you're discovering that from here on out, you set all your goals and decide whether or not you've reached them. If you're not in that window, you're either too young to appreciate the film, or have been too riddled by the cancer or cynicism to remember what the post-college wasteland was like.Some spoilers may be inherent below.To put it simply, the film is about a group of college friends who are trying to move on. They're all tired of sitting around and being clever together; they're upset that they're tired of each other in the first place, they're losing old relationships and struggling to find new ones. And in the midst of all, they are trying to figure out just what the hell is supposed to come after the comfortable shell of college.At the center of this is Grover and his dissipating relationship with his girlfriend, who has moved to Prague. He refuses to admit that he wants to be with her, and she takes months to finally admit that she misses him. By the time he finally gets the impetus to join her in Prague, a simple practical matter keeps him from doing it, and in so doing, gives him the half-second epiphany he needs to realize that that chapter of his life has closed. The film closes, quite beautifully, I think, on a remembrance of their first meeting. Painful, but jeez...really really true as well.This leaves out, of course, all of the similar struggles that his friends engage in, although a lot more humourously than Grover. They provide the comedy, he provides the drama, and where they meet and overlap is the comedy/drama, full of immaturity, hope and fading idealism, and ultimately, growth and enlightenment.Suffice it to say, if you have ever tired of word games you play with your friends, gone back to college bars to relive your glory days, messed around with freshman because you could, deferred your graduate enrollment to work at a video store, started a book club so you could feel like you were still in school, feared that you would end up like your friend Chet the ten-year undergrad, were nostalgic for things that haven't even happened yet, worn a pajam top as a shirt, and most of all--if you lost someone you loved after college and it took a long, long time to realize it--then you will love this film.  "},{"Title":"Pseudo Intellectualism","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For an indy film it is good, but every scene is too long. I'm sure there are a lot of people that can get this film, but I'm glad I do not have friends like any of these characters. The characters are very boring and intellectual, or at least they think they are, intellectual that is. If you like to pretend you're smarter than everyone else, and enjoy Kaffka references you'll love it. There is one good joke in the movie, and I'm sure it is not original to the movie but it goes How do you make God laugh? Make a plan. By the end of the movie I was just glad it finally ended, if this was on TV I would have turned it off early. "},{"Title":"Effortlessly breathtaking.","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is amazing, in my humble opinion.When I first discovered it, it cost 2 quid in an ex rental knock off shop. I don't know what supreme being possessed me to purchase it, I'd never been aware of its existence before, but it really was lucky.I think that it is very subjective. This film was very suited to me, especially at that time of my life. It captures a moment in the characters' lives so well, so effortlessly, that it really is very familiar, you almost feel like they're your mates up on screen. It is one of the better and more original 'coming-of-age' flicks out there. I was blown away by it. Forget Dazed and Confused or American Graffiti (both of which I like), this one is more intelligent, more engaging and really interesting. The story is good, the script is good, the acting is good too, it's an all-rounder. However, there are major problems with it. The script is sometimes a little too....scripty? It's far too contrived and although the actors do their best, at times it does wonder into what we all know now as The Dawson's Creek Syndrome - writing a script with a Thessaurus in one hand, wearing a beret and looking at yourself in the mirror. But for the most part it's completely natural. It does also take a lot of concentration to recognise who's who and what's going on and keep up with the dialogue. However it is worth it. It's also not a film you can drift in and out of, it requires undivided attention to 'get it', and for a film where 'nothing happens', that is a lot to ask of most people.Despite all this it is one of the best character films (you know, those movies you watch just for the characters and their little interactions on screen) that I know of and well worth a viewing, even if you do have to pull out the phone, disconnect the doorbell, displace your housemates/loved ones and black out the windows.A very good, well made and very underrated/underexposed film. "},{"Title":"A waste of time for anyone who values their time and brainspace","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is not great. It is an accurate portrayal, nothing more. All the characters are the clichéd prototypes of college life, all those who are interesting for the first part of school but get gradually more and more annoying as semesters plug on. And eventually, you no longer really want to spend time with them, because they are going no where and doing nothing, and haven't their entire career as students. Its just a bunch of high schoolers without boundaries or parents, and it isn't art, or even interesting once the initial humor and novelty wears off and the realization comes this movie is the people I hate. Because they are pretentious posers unwilling to put forth the dedication necessary to become masters of any craft, much like the director at the time when he made this. Hopefully he will at some point, The Squid and the Whale is at least moving in the right direction. "},{"Title":"The best male bonding comedy since Diner","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  KICKING AND SCREAMING (1995) **** Josh Hamilton, Olivia d' Abo, Chris Eigeman, Parker Posey, Eric Stoltz, Jason Wiles, Carlos Jacott, Cara Buono. To label this the perfect Generation X film so far would do an injustice to this exceptionally brilliant and dead accurate depiction of twentysomethings embarking upon The Real World and grasping futilely to remain in their comfortable existence at college.  More like an update of Diner with five college pals griping, searching and dealing with their recent shift of reality with some truly biting dialogue and wholly believeable sequences. Written and directed by Noah Baumbach (who has a cameo in the cow f***er exchange).  Perfect. "}{"Title":"Smart and astute, but lacks emotion","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sophsitication, wit, and charm abound in Noah Baumbach's directorial debut, Kicking and Screaming. It's a movie about life. It's a movie about love. It's a movie about growing up. It's not about growing up in the childhood sense, but growing up as in maturing into true adulthood, post schooling. Kicking and Screaming is an ensemble film about a group of friends who have just graduated college and are now forced to take the next steps in their lives as they emerge into the real world. Some of them cope better than others, but they all struggle to find meaning in a post scholastic existence where they aren't quite sure what will become of them. The film is a sort of stream of consciousness, almost rambling foray into adult life in which we must make something of ourselves. It is a smart film, it is a sophisticated film, but it's almost too smart for its own good.We learn a few key things from Kicking and Screaming. One. Noah Baumbach is a smart guy who knows how to write and has a keen sense of reality and what makes us human. Two. He may be too smart to make a coherent and entertaining story about human interaction and psychology. And three. Having so many things on one's plate is overwhelming and it causes a film to lose all sense of purpose. Baumbach tackles a lot of subjects with Kicking and Screaming, but they sort of all run into each other and get tangled up with one another that this film loses its direction starts to feel less and less like a film and more like an astute psychological study that lacks any real emotion.I feel like the characters in Kicking and Screaming aren't as much human as they are simply vehicles for Baumbach to exemplify offbeat quirks and complex relationships. He's created very diverse and very smart characters, but they don't connect on the emotional level that is necessary for this film to work. Baumbach obviously knows what he is doing with this film but he barely misses the mark, only by throwing in too many quirks and too many off kilter personality traits that turn these characters into test subjects instead of humans. That being said, I enjoyed this film for its intelligence and integrity, but the flaws are there and they hold back the film from being really great. Kicking and Screaming would make a great psychological research paper that detailed hypothetical situations and closely examined the human interaction in these situations but, as a film, it lacks the extra step that makes the art of cinema something more than a research paper can accomplish.You can't diss anybody in this film for what they accomplish. I have lots of respect for the keen awareness Noah Baumbach displays about life in this film. It is certainly a good film and it is smarter than the average dribble we see today, but it's far from perfect. It isn't something I would watch again, but I don't regret checking it out for its fascinating sophisticated qualities. "},{"Title":"A Promising Beginning for Baumbach","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This wasn't a bad movie. There's some great dialogue, very fine young actors, and watching this I could see the talent that would mature ten years later in THE SQUID AND THE WHALE.Unfortunately, the characters are more irritating than involving. After a while I wanted to slap them and tell them, to quote Cher's great line in MOONSTRUCK, Snap out of it! It seems as if the main reason Baumbach has so many of his characters smoke is the need to remind us that this isn't set at a preschool.Maybe college was a more enchanted place in 1995 than it was when my wife and I graduated in 1969. We, and everyone else we were in school with, wanted the school business to end- I started kindergarten in 1951, so I'd had a buttload of schooling- so we could get that magic piece of paper, get jobs, and move on with our lives.We graduated at 10 AM on a Saturday Labor Day weekend, got married in her parents' living room at 2 PM, and reported to our teaching jobs in a town we'd never even visited, 400 miles away, at 9 AM on Tuesday.Life is to be lived, not talked about and over-analyzed.The saddest thing is that so many of these very promising young actors haven't had the success the deserve in later years. Only Parker Posey has really done well in mainstream films, although the others have worked steadily in small films. "},{"Title":"The Best!","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a classic, the kind that makes you quote it endlessly to friends at parties for years to come. The plot, such as it is, and this isn't giving anything away, is about young men trying but unable to leave their comfortable collegiate lives behind. These young men are played by Josh Hamilton, Carlos Jacott, Jason Wyles, and Chris Eigeman. They all give exemplary performances, particularly Chris Eigeman, whom in my opinion is one of the best performers working today, as unsung as he is. They are greatly helped by Olivia D'Abo as the girl, and Eric Stoltz as Chet the bartender. Olivia D'Abo has never been as attractive and appealing as she is here, and the same could be said for Eric Stoltz.But the film belongs to Chris Eigeman and Josh Hamilton, as two sides of the same coin, both stuck in a place that we've all been stuck in and hopefully will not be stuck in again.It's not a beautiful film, it's shot kind of dim and unappealing, but I thought that was on purpose, especially after seeing Noah Baumbachs THE SQUID AND THE WHALE, which again looks like a college production. The music is questionable too, but the performances make this something special.As I said on the boards, I went to the 'LIncoln Center Anniversary Screening in New York City, and heard the entire cast speak. I was thrilled to know that they remain friends, and learned some interesting trivia such as the fact that Tri-Mark almost canceled the whole film and gave Noah Baumbach an ultimatum to get a star or we won't make the film! And then Noah Baumbach faxed Eric Stolz who was making Rob Roy in Scotland, and Eric Stolz agreed to do the role even though the role hadn't been written yet.Overall the film is hopeful and funny and smart, and I loved it and can't wait for the new DVD to come out.I give it a 9 out of 10. *update* I now own the DVD and am disappointed with the lack of extras on it and by the fact that none of the fascinating stories told at the screening I went to made it on the disc, they don't even interview STolz, there were so many extras and stories they couldv'e put on it but we all lose out. "},{"Title":"Watch it twice, laugh twice as hard.","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Upon writing, deleting, and re-writing comments, one thing has become clear to me.  The movie is funny.  It twist sharp wit with comical character mannerisms.  The first time, watch it to appreciate a well written and acted film.  The second time, watch it to catch all the subtle passing background humor.From the last days of college to whatever waits ahead, anyone who has had anxiety about getting older and finding a... job, career, wife, anything. I disagree with the previous poster, who said its only for the graduating and recently graduated.  I first saw this movie when I was 16, and loved it. I'm 20, and I still love it, my friends love it, even the ones that said indy-film?  no thanks.  If you like wit, cleverly developed characters, and well written scripts, you can't go wrong. "},{"Title":"For anyone who has faced the real world, and promptly ran away from it.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kicking and Screaming is hilarious and depressing all at once, as it follows the lives of recent college graduates who simply cannot move on with their lives. Sharing a house near campus, they eventually get sucked back into their old routines hitting on freshman girls, drinking at the same bar, and even re-enrolling in courses. This lifestyle can't continue forever, though, and soon each character must make some choices that allow them to go forward, however reluctantly that may be. While the plot revolves around the romance between Grover and Jane, the most enjoyable and funny moments come from scenes where the housemates are just hanging out together, expounding on their somewhat pitiful lives.Great performances by all, including Chris Eigeman (who you might recognize from various Whit Stilman films or TV's It's like, you know...), Parker Posey (always crazy and hilarious), and Eric Stoltz, as the bartender who has been attending college for over a decade...a frightening glimpse of things to come. "},{"Title":"preppie angst fest","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's a lot of angsting and whining in this movie that I didn't relate to when I was an optimistic college student, but now that I too am joining the ranks of the confused and unemployed post-graduate, I look upon its memory more fondly.Eric Stoltz is very amusing as the eternal student/bartender. A friend of mine is particularly fond of the Otis character, the clown of the film and a master of deflated monosyllabic responses (check the same actor out in Mr. Jealousy - he has wonderful mastery of the trapped upperclass dork).  Josh Hamilton does a great job expressing idealized romantic yearning, especially in the last scene of the film, which I won't give away but which is familiarly and achingly bittersweet.If you're a stickler for realism you might say to yourself, Yeah right, like these people just graduated from college, they're all in their 30s. If you're the type that can look past the fact that Olivia D'Abo played an 18 year old 10 years ago on The Wonder Years then you'll be OK.(And if you like Josh Hamilton and Parker Posey, check out House of Yes)  "},{"Title":"A must see for recent college grads!","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Definitely my favorite movie of all time.  A very funny, intelligent and  sarcastic film.  Well acted especially by Chris Eigeman and Josh Hamilton.   Makes me, as a twenty something not sure of what to do, feel like someone  knows how I feel! "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was recommended to me, and I now question that person's taste in just about everything, let alone movies.  Let's put it this way, I almost always leave a movie with a sense of satisfaction.  Even when my friends detest them, I usually find something that enjoyed about a film.  However, this movie was horrid.  Almost every single character was annoying and pathetic.  The relationships between these shallow twenty-somethings are underdeveloped and the script is the complete opposite of witty.  The box said, Two Thumbs Up!  Yet, I don't understand how any respectable critic could give this movie even one thumbs-up.  If anything it deserves a Two Middle Fingers-up.  Eric Stoltz and Parker Posey are about the only thing good in this film and they've both had dozens of better roles prior and since. "},{"Title":"Good for young college grads, but not for others!!","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I could hardly stand this movie at all, because I saw it when I was too old - 33. I think if I had seen it between 22-25, I would have loved it.If you can relate to the 'still idealistic', 'hopes fading', 'aimless direction to where you want your life to be' problems of young adulthood, then see this. If you're so over those feelings (like I am) and would just think Just grow up! about people like that, then AVOID this movie. "},{"Title":"Kick and Scream","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Feeling unprepared for the 'real world', four recent college graduates spend their time philosophising and avoiding taking action in this feature film debut from Noah Baumbach. The film features witty, memorable dialogue left, right and centre as one friend reckons I've begun reminiscing events before they even occur, while another comments I feel like I'm being poisoned if a bartender at a bar does not drink with him, and the list goes on. There is also some quite pointed in how unprepared the foursome are for the real world despite their extensive education, unleashed into the world like a baby not wanting to be born, as the title suggests. None of the characters are, however, particularly likable for all of their witticisms and at times thought-provoking conversations. The foursome actually come across as more lazy than scared or ill-prepared for post-college life, and none of them have especially vibrant personalities either. The brightest moments in the film are, in fact, had by Elliott Gould as the far too open father of the foursome, sharing his experiences with using condoms at his age and finding love post-marriage separation, much to the disgust of his son. The film does tap into something interesting though as the foursome come to realise that they feel pressure ... to remain friends post-graduation. This more than anything else captures how microcosmic college life is often considered to be and how different the actual world is. It's a different, inevitable phase of life involving a big transition indeed comparable to birth. "}{"Title":"A film that speaks to millennials by talking their language","Date":"19 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Noah Baumbach does a similar thing with Kicking and Screaming that Amy Heckerling did with her film Clueless of the same year, and that provide the people from high school/college that we loathed seeing every day with some semblance of identification and humanity to make them into people. The people in Kicking and Screaming may indeed be satirized and heavily romanticized versions of people you'd encounter on a liberal arts campus on any given day - and for me, currently attending a liberal arts school, this one hit a bit too close to home - but their commonalities with their real life counterparts that you can't deny the satirical dial isn't turned up all the way past human recognition.The people in Kicking and Screaming are the type of people to put a sign on a pile of broken glass in their apartment identifying it as such rather than sweeping it up. They are the type of people who fear that their whole schedule will be thrown off irreparably when they move to Milwaukee, which poses a one hour time difference from their current location. They are the type of people to play impromptu games involving how many films involving monkeys they can name on the dime, as well as being the person to name all the Friday the 13th films the fastest with no assistance. Finally, they are the kind of people who think they're the only people going through the kind of quarter-life/millennial identity crisis they are currently experiencing, and as such, feel better holding long conversations about living at home, getting drunk, masturbating, and repeating said events day-in and day-out until an opportunity's knocks are deafening or ambition hits them like a good buzz.We focus on four college pals Grover (Josh Hamilton), who breaks up with his girlfriend in the opening scene of the film when she reveals that she'll be bound for Prague in a few days, Max (Chris Eigeman), who often insights the ridiculous, aforementioned games, Otis (Carlos Jacott), who proclaims to only have two emotions, antsy and testy, and Skippy (Jason Wiles), who finds himself in that awkward stage with Miami (Parker Posey) between hooking up and going steady. After graduating, instead of moving on to bigger and better things, as many college graduates do, the four comrades remain on campus, happily indulging in the same food they condemned having to eat for the past four years and slumming around campus through endless nights of drinking and conversing about everything and nothing.The rapid-fire wit in Kicking and Screaming is probably the film's most laudable feature. Noah Baumbach has predicated a film, not so much on realistic conversation being that characters can often expunge a paragraph worth of ideas and ramblings without even breaking a sweat or stammering over their words, but on humorous and eminently quotable film that releases the confusing and often unorthodox mind of a young adult. Misery loves company and the reason Kicking and Screaming seems to resonate is its ability to speak the language most millennials understand and speak themselves - it's the language of anti-jokes and endless quirkiness in a manner that, initially seems condescending to outsiders, but is part of the broader comedy/joke culture instilled in the youth of today.While we can reflect on the time when many of us didn't know where or what the hell we'd be, despite everyone, from friends to family, asking us that same question and our parents asking us when all that hard-earned money they spent was going to pay off, Kicking and Screaming plays it largely for laughs and the situational absurdity it deservedly earns. Despite this momentary bout of disillusionment and listlessness on part of a few wealthy, privileged white kids - who have spent their entire lives learning how to take and pass tests and quizzes and filling in bubbles on a Scantron - who are realizing their real world skills are crippled by a lack of know-how and ambition. As a result, when every option you can conjure seems either frighteningly far out of your comfort zone, irrational, or downright implausible, what else is there to do besides sit, drink, and contemplate.Kicking and Screaming is a film that pretty much showcases everything wrong, right, obtuse, and special about millennials in a way that uses all the devices they respond to - patronizing humor, sarcasm, and long conversations about absolutely nothing. While it can satirize them, it is not derogatory or mean-spirited towards them. The concluding monologue by Grover in front of an airport customs official has our main character stating how he wanted to do something daring with his life when he was young, while he still could and not be bound to family, finances, and immediate commitments. Those same words were probably coming out of the mouth of Noah Baumbach, who was twenty-five at the time of directing and co-writing (with Oliver Berkman) Kicking and Screaming. The encompassing moral is to leave them with doubt and keep surprising them - or, at the very least, keep talking.Starring John Hamilton, Chris Eigeman, Carlos Jacott, Jason Wiles, and Parker Posey. Directed by Noah Baumbach. "},{"Title":"Such a great movie","Date":"3 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This came out on DVD finally as my college life was winding down, and I still love it. Having seen it many times, I have a Ferris Club theory about it, so indulge me if you're bored.The film's main character is ostensibly Grover, but it all revolves around Otis. Portrayed as the most comic and least serious of the characters, he is in fact a graduate in Engineering and is kept in the group's orbit out of a fear of flying. While Grover struggles with Jane's departure and Max devolves to the point of dating a high school girl and going to the prom (while being portrayed as the actual brain of the group) it is Otis who doesn't change or advance, even though he has the best job prospects thanks to his degree.Grover is infantalized by traits like wearing pajama tops as shirt and (huh?) eyeliner, but it's clear that he's the smartest among them. The only time his braininess is given short shrift is when he partakes in the book club with Chet but neglects to actually read the Cormac McCarthy novel agreed upon. Max mocks the book club, Grover ignores it and Skippy is the classic faux intellectual, but Chet's draw to Max and vice-versa indicates an attraction of the minds, one grounded by Chet's unapologetic love of being a student and Otis's fear of being anything else.This isn't intended as revisionism, simply a different way to look at the film. If you view it through the eyes of Otis, you see that of the core group - Skippy, Max, Otis, Grover - Max and Grover are meant to be the smart ones, but it's Otis who's clearly the brain of the bunch, conflicted and confused by social interaction, basic fashion and a desire to fit in. When you see it through the eyes of Otis, you see how utterly normal and bland the other three are.I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Not great, but entertaining","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found out about this movie while reading one of Bill Simmons' articles on ESPN Page 2, so I decided to check it out.What I didn't like about the film had to do with the flashback scenes involving Jane and Grover. They weren't too interesting to me at all. I liked the scenes where everyone was hanging out at Max's house or the bar. Those were more interesting and entertaining.I also felt that I could relate to the characters in this movie in some way, especially Skippy, who wasn't ready to leave school after four years(I ended up staying for seven, although that was because of a change to a teaching-oriented major after my first year. I didn't graduate after four years and then re-enroll like Skippy did).People who went to college will probably find it more entertaining, but it's not a bad flick for anyone to see. I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Good fun dialog","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A group of college friends graduate. Jane (Olivia d'Abo) tells her boyfriend Grover (Josh Hamilton) that she moving to Prague to study rather than joining him in Brooklyn. Chet (Eric Stoltz) has been in school for 10 years. Three months later, Otis (Carlos Jacott)'s worst fear comes true and he moving to Milwaukee. Grover is staying with Max (Chris Eigeman) who is just as aimless but then Otis returns having changed his mind. Clueless Skippy (Jason Wiles) is moving in with Miami (Parker Posey).These people are a little too aimless to be completely compelling. There are some fun dialog. The friendships are interesting. They just need something bigger to deal with. Even artificially, it needs something central to hold these characters together. I keep wondering why these guys don't go off on their own. They need to deal with something or anything. For so many character being so aimless but being aimless together, it would make more sense that this is one night or a few days instead of months and months. Let them be aimless after the graduation party but they have to leave sometimes. Apparently not. "},{"Title":"So far that I've seen, this is one of the very best of it's kind...","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know what it is about this film, and this genre is not by any means even my favourite type of movie (I usually incline much more toward Horror, Science Fiction, and FILM NOIR) BUT... There is just something very magical about this film that completely involves me at many levels. It is obviously very clever, but it does not have the overbearing cynicism of most films of this type. The CHARACTERS are extremely cynical to a fault, but the film isn't. As a matter of fact, the director playing off this fact creates a lot of great and amusing scenes.I sure don't know what Lizreed was smok'n when she wrote her review, but 'Totally disappointing'...??? Seriously...? And 7/10 found THAT useful...? Perhaps they were all smok'n together...Anyway, this is one of the few films where I laugh almost constantly; not in a 'NAKED GUN' kind of way, but just at the throwaway lines and little visuals at the peripherals and in the background. It's rare to find a movie of this type that is scathingly clever but isn't mean spirited, as many scathingly clever people can be. I was amazed at how the film quite genuinely evoked so many different emotions. I could feel the complete ennui and crushing boredom that this group of 'friends' felt. I could very much feel the many different facets of humour presented. I felt the joy at the most cynical and annoying character finding the person he found and the type of person she was. And lastly, without giving too much away, I felt the powerful emotions that the lead, Grover, was feeling at different points in the film.Eric Stoltz is a VASTLY underrated actor; I really like the guy. And, it has been a while since I have seen it, but I remember that I REALLY like Noah's other film starring Eric Stoltz called 'MR. JEALOUSY'. I hadn't realized until looking up the director of this film just now that he also directed that one. I am not at all surprised since it has a similar quality as this one, but if I remember correctly, it is a little lighter in tone.And, the way that the director structured the story with the flashbacks throughout and at the end REALLY pack quite a punch and make the primary point of the film very well.It's funny, I do NOT give out '10's very often and ESPECIALLY not at all for these types of films. Normally I reserve those for Classics like '2001', 'THE SHINING', 'BLADE RUNNER' or 'ISHTAR' (heh, just kidding... ) But, there is just some special quality to this film that works perfectly and to me anyway completely engages you at every level in a very powerful way, but without being a total downer. It could be that this movie just resonates with me in a way that it may not with others. I come across many films here where some say it is their absolute favourite film and it does nothing for me. I think this one could be highly subjective since it deals mostly with this group of college people. "},{"Title":"A Wry Gen-X Word Painting","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Like the subsequent work of Noah Baumbach, there's ample wittiness on the face of this debut, but the grief of lethargy prevails, piercing and lucid. Having spent six years at a stunningly insulated school, I could and still can see ample grounds to relate to the four despairing rapscallions of this brittle slice of life, who graduate from college then go on to spend the next several months on or around campus, doing things as trivial as possible.Josh Hamilton, seen recently in Louis C.K.'s show playing an obnoxious stoner, here expecting to live in Brooklyn with girlfriend Olivia d'Abo, is so agape and livid when she takes a scholarship to Prague that he won't return any of her calls and can only wonder about their past in five deliberately placed scenes, each signaled by a black-and-white snap of her. Otis finds himself unable to fly to grad school in Milwaukee, just one time zone away, and returns to living with his mother. Max, who prefers marking broken glass as such on the floor over sweeping it up, finds nothing better to do than harass Otis, do crosswords and have sex with Parker Posey Any better suggestions? Didn't think so. And Skippy, Posey's actual boyfriend, actually returns to school but can't bring himself to do any of the work. As Miami and Kate, a 16-year-old to whom Max turns next, both highlight on individual occasions that this foursome talks and acts alike, making up dumb quizzes while drinking lots of scotch and beer and overall embracing something similar to a four-man frat house.The synchronicity of drollness and disturbance has grown even more obvious in Baumbach's work since this folksy film. The muttered witticisms that sound designed to restrain, suspend or else displace various cries and screams ultimately seizes the limelight in the great The Squid and the Whale, already unmistakably standing by in his first feature. The polished teasing and shattered nerves of teenagers and young adults appear too close to call, so that clamming up and sounding off, the two things that Baumbach's four male postgraduates do so nimbly, are little more than a traditionalist East Coast upper-class guise of kicking and screaming, meant to bottle up the discharge.The dangers of being refined beyond one's power to handle it are a persistent Baumbach predicament. In the first comprehensive interchange of this Generation X relic, Hamilton exemplifies this pattern by attempting to hold forth expertly about Prague when all he can do is make cursory, lighthearted references to Kundera and Kafka. And in the even more self-critical Squid and the Whale, Jesse Eisenberg's academic pretense is even more prominent, because, like one of these four, he frequently hasn't read the books he pontificates about.Stoltz appears in this filmed chain of thought as a long-standing philosophy major and bartender who's stayed on campus for a decade, by some means a more forward-looking instance of the trouble shaping the four principals but in other ways more practical and focused, since by now he's a father and gladly acknowledges the distinctiveness of being a career student as something more than an evasive standing. Stoltz brings to the movie a sort of slack, theoretical insight that's greatly needed by the foursome. All the women, including, apparently, Hamilton's unseen mother, and even the teenage Kate, seem more even-tempered than the guys, notwithstanding that d'Abo's in psychoanalysis and compulsively plays with her retainer.Baumbach is often footnoted by Wes Anderson. But if Anderson in his prime, as in 1998's Rushmore, has the high-brow egalitarian sharpness of an Ernst Lubitsch, Baumbach's most significant impact is the more lax and investigational Jean Renoir. His predilection for long takes, where he occasionally lets his camera meander while following his actors from a distance, is already remarkably palpable in the very first shot of this dry celluloid soliloquy. Even more pertinent, his strong suits as a director are associated with an ability to entice unforeseen and superb things from his actors, which is no less plain in the final shot. It's a catch-unawares kind of moment suggesting some impression of hopefulness, albeit Baumbach is amply restrained in keeping it in the past. "},{"Title":"Devastating look at disaffected college grads","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kicking and Screaming really depressed me. I'm not sure what I was expecting, having seen only The Life Aquatic as an example of notable writer-director Noah Baumbach's work (and of course that film was written with Wes Anderson, and directed by Anderson, so I wasn't sure how much of it was Baumbach's), but nothing I read specifically about Kicking and Screaming lead me to expect what I got one of the most devastating films ever made, and one which while not on par with stuff like The Graduate formally, remains one of the very best 'where-is-my-life-going-after-college' movies ever made. It also boasts perhaps the smartest use of flashbacks in a recent American film.I was thinking this would be sort of like a Wes Anderson film but it's really more what Kevin Smith would have written circa 1994-1997 if his parents were critical thinkers instead of lower-middle-class Catholics, and if he'd been writing about students and recent college grads instead of deadbeats lounging about convenience stores and malls and comics writers involved in bizarre love triangles. Perhaps that's selling this short because as much as I am drawn to some of Smith's work he could never come close to capturing the sort of melancholy Baumbach absolutely nails with this film.The film isn't really brilliant, mostly because it is really plot-less (which wouldn't be a problem usually but read on) and especially since outside of Eric Stoltz's philosophizing bartender I found nothing particularly interesting about any of the supporting cast. The main emotional pull for me was with Grover (Josh Hamilton) and Jane (Olivia d'Abo)'s story. Jane is pretty much the ideal realization of all the odd, quirky, lovely, bizarre, pretentious, disaffected, writers I had crushes on in university and even before and after that time, and the few I was fortunate enough to date. Ideal really because she's a deeply flawed character. Outside of this core story Kicking and Screaming relies primarily on Baumbach's witty banter. The trouble is that I found few of the characters to be all that interesting outside of Grover, Jane, and Chet.Baumbach's direction initially seems primitive but every so often he surprises with a genuinely sophisticated shot. I assume he got better as he went on and that stuff like The Squid and the Whale is entirely sophisticated but he already showed a lot of promise with this film. While again I didn't find the film perfect, I connected so much with Grover and with the place in their lives that all these people are that I found the film genuinely devastating at time. When focusing on Jane and Grover it is absolutely phenomenal, and the final scene, I admit, almost made me cry. "},{"Title":"A personal favorite, from the outside looking in.","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kicking and Screaming has suffered many setbacks on it's way to being considered somewhat of a cult film. The fact that another film exists with it's same title starring the well-liked Will Ferrel does it's own damage, but still many complain about the content of the film itself.Starting first with the characters that the film depicts. Many complain about them being boring and uninspired. Why couldn't Noah Baumbach pick a group of interesting people and have things happen to them? Mainly because this film is a realistic depiction of types of people you meet and may befriend despite their faults. Baumbach paints each person carefully onto the page from obvious personal experience in college life. Typically, events take place that could happen to any of us; a break up, a divorce, someone moves away, someone stays when they shouldn't, we all make bad decisions which effect our lives in ways we don't realize until it's too late.A good example of the type of slight an artist such as Baumbach faces in his own work is a flashback scene which takes place in Jane and Grover's writing class. Jane makes a comment regarding Grover's piece regarding the hollow nature of his subjects and how they never discuss anything important and tend to discuss the little things with more anxiety than anything else. This rings true to many things I have personally heard regarding Kicking and Screaming, that everyone could be interesting if they put all of the jokes and snide comments aside and talked about how they really felt. The problem with this is how often do those situations of pure honesty and intimacy arise in the common person's life? It is rare to be able to pull your deepest feelings out for all of your friends to see in every conversation you have, and it usually comes out in a fight or when a situation is deteriorating - such examples are Skippy and Miami/Max and Skippy, which are some of the most honest moments in the film combated with the development of the persons themselves throughout the film.Baumbach tends to overkill the stress on aspiring (as well as accomplished) writers in his best-drawn films, which are this and The Squid & The Whale. Where as the two parents on the edge of divorce in the latter film are writers, in Kicking and Screaming, the two young people in the outs of their love are aspiring writers and the main's parents are going through divorce. You can see many pieces of Baumbach's latter work in Kicking and Screaming, as he went back to the basics with The Squid & The Whale after suffering many disappointments in the 1990's.It is clear that Baumbach is a different type of film maker than his auteur counterparts such as Wes Anderson. His films feel and look realistic, rather than coming from another world inspired by the many worlds within our own. He has an interesting voice, and a knack for dialog. Kicking and Screaming is a piece of romantic comedy history, and more people should go out of their way to watch it with perspective and an open mind, rather than looking at the faults in the subjects which we all have ourselves. "},{"Title":"The Impending Doom of Adulthood","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Kicking and Screaming was Noah Baumach's first film. He wrote and directed it at age 25, which is a real accomplishment because the film's very compelling. Riding the wave of the independent cinema in US in the early 90s, Baumbach created a tragicomedy of a tightly-wound group of friends grappling with the reality of life after graduation. Basically, their anxiety is borne out of accepting the responsibility of, finally, you know, growing up and joining the adult-force. As actor Chris Egieman (the articulate Max in the film) has pointed out in a recent interview, these guys are forced to accept that they must now take their lives seriously. Decisions and choices are optional no longer. The question of 'what next?' would need to be answered now. Bummer, right? Of course these early-20 white kids bicker and groan; someone of them delay the inevitable and slack around on the college campus, and at least one of them returns to school and retakes the same classes just so that he can be a student again. The guys amuse themselves on dreary afternoons they ask each other if they beat off; they do each others' girlfriends; they crowd around the beer bottles and cigarettes to play trivia games (Name all 7 Jason Voorhees movies). Mostly, they just hang out. And they talk; a lot. They philosophise the little things, every little small inconsequential detail that makes up their special universe.Baumbach has confessed of his love for improv comedy, and he imbues the comedy of the film with some of that. Not all of it works (the Cookie Man scene is a little cringe-inducing) but it's cute at least. But the dialogue is pointed, always witty and full of incisive detail. Although Baumbach and regular collaborator Wes Andresen have been compared with the great JD Salinger, I think Richard Linklater could use some love too.Kicking and Screaming will appeal to a certain type of audience the pseudo-intellectuals who take, say, their hobbies a bit too seriously. These hobbies or interests could be movies or even crossword puzzles. But this is how the film's characters want to spend their days. They want the world, their parents and their lovers to understand that they are normal for thinking that life before jobs or marriage or kids is as good as it gets. It will make the viewer feel 'OK' about belonging to a certain tribe, a community of like-minded individuals that others accuse, you all speak the same way. This film implies that it's not lame even if the successful moneymaking pricks on the outside may snigger and chuckle. Kicking and Screaming is a wonderful, uplifting, funny, poignant film about the impending doom of adulthood. "},{"Title":"...as the title says...","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Now here's a movie I thought I could relate to.  Like the characters in this film, I graduated from college at the approximate time this was released (or is that foisted) to the public, I also had the great dilemma of Where do I go from here?.  But what an abomination this is.  The characterizations are so flat you could grow prairie wheat on them, the writing is abysmal, and this doesn't even feel like a movie at all-- and certainly not one featuring real people.  Everyone postures, overacts like they're doing theater, and bad theater at that.Man, I am so sick of pseudo-hip garbage like this passing itself off as Independent.  What is it independent from?  Creativity?  This is nothing more than another mid-90's Gen-X piece of whiny treacle released from a studio and shot on a low ASA, to get that grainy, rough... here it comes... independent look.  There is nothing independent in this at all.  It is another feeble attempt at making a quick buck.  To some people, all independent means is that a movie was made for less than 2 billion dollars.  Nonsense!  How can a movie which aspires to be a cash-in on an already aggravating trend (and I am a Gen-Ex'er by the way) proclaim itself independent?  This is a crystalline example of what is wrong with movies today-- these superficial bunch of posers who call themselves filmmakers don't have the moxey to be independent.  Take a reality check and go see a Rob Nilsson movie; he properly defines independent.  He makes challenging, invigorating films on pocket change, without any fanfare, and has been doing so for about a quarter of a century now, God bless him.    "}{"Title":"Brilliant ensemble piece","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kicking and Screaming is the best recent ensemble film about a bunch of young people.  It is -- and I never thought I'd say this -- better than anything by Whit Stillman, even Metropolitan.  It is certainly far superior to Stillman's film about people the same age, The Last Days of Disco.It's funny and unpredictable, like when one unlikely romance works out while another perfect romance falls apart.  I notice many other reviewers related to this film, and I did too, even though I had been out of college for 10 years when I saw it.I'm sorry to say I saw this on video, not the big screen, and feel doubly guilty that I didn't make it to Mr. Jealousy on time.  I hope these guys keep making movies.My favorite line I watch TV critically, and when I feel I'm being sucked in, I stop.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant cast, genius screenplay and subtle humor highlight freshman effort by Baumbach.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many twentysomethings will find much with which to identify in this witty film about college grads who are unsure of what to do with themselves in their post-college era. While some argue that the film's primary weakness is the lack of character development, upon a second or third viewing one may realize that the characters are, in fact, strongly developed. An explanation on why some viewers may disagree with this statement is because Baumbach's freshman script relies heavily on subtlety. The humor is often subtle (although there are plenty of scenes to laugh out loud about), as are the nuances of the direction. The fact that there is excellent acting by the dream cast certainly helps, and the film might not have worked without the cast.Although there are eight lead characters, after viewing, you leave feeling as though you know them on an individual basis, especially the male ones. This is because Baumbach does an excellent job of stereotyping and showcasing a character's habits.Actually, the film is really about habits and how those habits make up a person's persona. Baumbach, through these characters, presents the theory of how one's vices is a means of staying attached emotionally to another person or better time. He succeeds. The stereotyping of characters is not a weakness as one might think, and in fact, is an essential element for the success of character development. This is because there are certain universal truths in each character that allow one to both identify and attribute qualities to each character. There is the nice guy who loses his girlfriend to circumstance. There is the worrisome guy who is afraid to move on past his college years. There is the bitter sarcastic guy who has never loved. If you're a guy past the age of 24, you're bound to identify to or know at least one of those characters.Baumbach has nice scenes, as well. In addition to the dialogue that has one-liners that make it difficult to chuckle because you'll miss the next one-liner, the dialogue is so very honest. Baumbach capitalizes on the great cast by focusing on expressions and reactions to situations. The believabililty is strong.Note this movie does not make sense unless you see it to the end. Have patience, its pace may be a bit slow initially, since one may not be used to the subtle one-liners. It's unfair, as the cover suggests, to compare it to Seinfeld. This movie has some very touching moments, and lacks a laugh track.I'm not sure where this movie fits in my top 100 of all time, but it's in there. Four stars.(out of four) "},{"Title":"Not sure what to do after college?  You're not alone.","Date":"5 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After I rented this for the fourth time, I decided to save myself some trouble and just buy it.  K&S is a believable portrayal of four close friends, guys who just graduated and can't really understand why they just spent four years in college.  It also focuses on the relationship difficulties graduation can bring.  Eric Stoltz is fantastic as the Eternal College Student, tending bar while enrolled for his 10th year.  I especially enjoyed the party scene wherein five people sitting at one table seem to be having five different conversations.  Josh Hamilton and Olivia d'Abo's mid-day drunk scene is very enjoyable as well.  This is the type of film I like best--no big climax, no car chases or explosions, no teary farewells.  Just great acting and writing that leave you satisfied but wanting to rewind and watch again. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is fine if you're a college student who hasn't declared a major and enjoys sitting around stoned and discussing trivial ironies and popular culture.The writing is definitely a little more intelligent than Clerks, and the acting is certainly better. But it's a film that has very little to say about having very little to say.It seemed more like an ego trip for writer/director Baughman which is too bad because he really did assemble a great cast and then forgot to develop the characters.I wish I could recommend a film like this I like better. It's in the realm of Clerks/Dazed & Confused/Slackers, which are cult hits at best. But the whining of Generation X is getting old for this GenXer.If you're a Parker Posey fan like I am, rent Daytrippers instead.  "},{"Title":"a favorite","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie right after it came out...I was in high school and didn't get it, not the humor or dialog or tone or why it would one day become one of my favorite movies. while not much happens in the movie (relationships change, some people grow up and some regret past decisions), it's the individual scenes that make it so successful. there's so much going on in each conversation, and even in background conversations, that even after perhaps 10 viewings I still don't think I've caught it all. Someone wrote that they hated the characters in this movie because they were unmotivated and represented everything he despised in people...fair enough, I suppose, but for the rest of us who graduated from college without much of an idea about what we wanted to do, other than 'something, someday,' this movie's a real pleasure. So crack a 40, stop not working on that unfinished novel, and check out this film. "},{"Title":"depressing. . .","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" OK, granted, I thought it a well done film. I'm not going to dispute any of that. I'm sure there are a million reasons why. I especially liked the way the flashbacks were done. . .HOWEVER being a college student about to graduate, being as I am--sick of pseudo-intellectual BS and academia in f-ing general--I found it incredibly depressing. Towards the end it got better for me, when I was yelling just go to Prague you moron! Seriously though, interesting, yes. But I wouldn't say judge your friends based upon whether or not they like this film. Certainly it's good--but I'd say I'm glad I now own this movie, yet I doubt I'll ever want to watch it again. Perhaps it hit too home for me. Perhaps I just hate all the brown suits. Perhaps I just can't stand they way they all talk the same! Yeah, I know, this is supposed to be the critique or humor or whatever. . . STILL, just made me groan and groan and groan. . . "},{"Title":"Amazing movie","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie came along at just the right time for me. I too, like the protagonists, was just getting ready to leave college and hit the real world. Like them, I was also clueless and scared as to what the future would hold. This film was smartly written and well-acted. It has some of the funniest lines I've ever encountered in a movie that weren't completely juvenile in nature. My only complaint about this movie is that it's not available yet on DVD, which is killing me. I urge everyone to write to Lion's Gate Films (the distributor) to get this movie on DVD. Anyone who hasn't given this movie a fair chance to understand how good it really is should definitely watch it again. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i thought this movie was good. every time it's on television, i watch it. even if there isn't much of Jason Wiles on it as i would have liked seeing, it was still a funny and thoughtful movie. this is a movie you should watch with friends, because you might find a part of yourself in it. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is simply one of the best films I have ever seen.  This movie is true, which is so rare in movies today.  I recommend it to everyone I meet, and if they see it they usually like it.  I think the people who don't get it may be dead inside.  My favorite scene is when Ottis won't complain about something floating in his drink because he wants the waitress to like him I like it better this way as he gags on his beer.  "},{"Title":"witty movie","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very witty, very charming, and very suiting for college graduates or anyone struggling with taking the next big step in life, with great romantic line at the end. I first saw this movie in 1995, and fell in love with its characters and its setting. I recommend it to anyone! "}{"Title":"Fantastic and Hilarious!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kicking is one of the best movies that I have ever seen as far as the writing and story line go.  It is the best pure comedy of the Barcelona, Last days of Disco, mr. jealousy, High Ball movies.  It is one that you can put in any time that you are feeling bad and it just picks you up! Fantastic Job Noah!   "},{"Title":"Exceptional Film, I loved it, and its not just another college bitch fest movie.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. I hired it out expecting something humourous and light-hearted, probably worth the weekly hire ($1) that I hired it for. What I got was a lot better. The characters were extremely easy to relate to, the dialogue was perfect, and very, very funny, my life is almost exactly like Grover and the Cougar's (I think that what was it) lives. I don't know if that's something to boast, but its true. I was rolling around laughing at the scene where Grover and friend (its been a while since I've seen it so..) stay back just to see if the guy on the carpet cleaner infomercial cleans the stain out of the carpet. My friend and I had done that not two days ago....  I'm leaving before I incriminate myself more. Mad movie, see it. "},{"Title":"amazing dialogue, some actual nuggets of wisdom here","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a grossly underrated and underwatched little film that  succeeds at what it tries to do. many reviewers (probably the  same ones that fawned over Diner 20 years ago) dismissed this film as a gen-x talkfest or some close facsimile. but there is real pathos here and the film is obviously made with love and has so many great lines and scenes that you and your of friends will wear them out over pitchers of beer and crossword/remote control afternoons. no 'splosions or disease or crying/breakdown moments "},{"Title":"A cult classic for sure. A gem.","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very real and very funny film that hits close to home. Everyone has a Skippy, Otis, Max, Grover, Chet, or Miami in their life. Essentially the tale of a group of friends and how they struggle after graduation. A hysterically funny film that manages to be bittersweet as well.Good luck not quoting some of these lines after you have viewed the film. A little known gem that should have more recognition. "},{"Title":"This movie left me wondering just where the kicking and screaming was.","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Biting and sarcastic comments were not enough to hold my interest in this film.  The college characters appeared to be educated well beyond their intelligence, which might explain why they were still hanging around the campus and afraid to seek new responsibilities and the challenge of starting their careers. "},{"Title":"Funny film, especially for college students","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kicking and Screaming is the perfect film for those of us in college who are afraid of life after college. It shows that the future can be funny or not funny, boring or stimulating, etc. In all, it tells us that life will go on no matter what we do, and that we have to make the right decisions at the right time or else we won't get what we want. Great performances all around, especially from Josh Hamilton as Grover and Chris Eigeman as Max. Check out Grover's two big speechs at the end of the picture--they may make you think about your own life, too. And keep watching during the credits--Freedy Johnston's Bad Reputation is a perfect song to finish the film. "},{"Title":"Post-college Life Sucks!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While I graduated several years ago, I was able to identify with the characters in this movie. Going from college to the real world is a tough transition and few college students want to do so. This is probably the best movie I've seen in depicting the resistance to let go of college and move on. I have seen so many people struggle to move on after college, some, like Chet, never doing so and accepting their role as a student (those are some of the people who become college instructors). Kicking and Screaming could have been filmed with a hidden camera on almost any campus in America. That's what I liked. It felt real; the characters weren't overblown, the dialogue sounded real and the storyline was slice-of-life. This film, along with Edward Burns films, should be seen as a model for young film-makers on how to capture real life and make a movie that doesn't end up looking and sounding hokey. "},{"Title":"A depressing comedy?","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite its categorization as a comedy / drama, I find this movie is better described as a drama. Both grim and cheerful at times, it is the story of a few months in the life of a group of friends, each who experience the world after college in their own ways. Sure, this movie has its moments of comedic brilliance- and it is best when it is subtle- but at the end the true sadness of the characters shines through the angst and apathy. Great performances by Christopher Eigeman and Carlos Jacott coupled with confident directing by Noah Baumbach make this one of the better movies in existence. "},{"Title":"Great date movie!","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Essentially a 6-month story that features the lives of four characters, all recent college graduates; Grover, the troubled writer, whose parents have split up, has lost his girlfriend to a foreign exchange program and doesn't know what to do with his life. We see the developing relationship between he and Jane (the girlfriend) in a series of charming flashbacks (the 'date' part of the movie).  He is the serious character, surrounded by his friends Max (the depressing English major who finds he has no career prospects), Otis (the childlike and neurotic who lives with his mother), Skippy (the meathead that re-enrolls in school), and Chet (the bartender at their local bar who's been in college for 10 years).  Great dialogue--not necessarily inspired, but certainly quotable, ala Kevin Smith. "},{"Title":"Tremendous Uni-life movie","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very accurately portayed movie in which any twentysomething slacker will indentify with. The great cast makes the mundane existence of college life seem interesting! It definetely makes university life go by quicker 'cause now I know everyone is doing the same thing- not much!!   "}{"Title":"Self-centered college grads do nothing","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Kicking and Screaming' starts off at a college graduation party but ends nowhere. Noah Boambach is definitely trying to copy the style of Whit Stillman of `Barcelona' and `Metropolitan' fame. The dialogue has the intellectual snobbery that is present in Stillman's films. The main reason this movie falls short is because there is not one character in the movie that the viewer can sympathize with. All the characters are self-obsessed and spoiled. Perhaps that's the point but it doesn't make this one any easier to watch. Did I mention there's no plot? None. In fairness to Mr. Boambach, this film deserves some praise because it strays from the typical Hollywood college love story and Eric Stolz gets thumbs up as the guy who has been in school for 8 years.  "},{"Title":"Succeeds as a drama","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It took me quite a while to warm up to this movie, but once I finally did, I was sad to see it end.  I found that too much of the beginning of this film was mildly amusing but lacking in character development.  Once I got to know a little more about the people in this film, this film really took off.  The scenes with Grover and Jane really stand out as the best in the movie, and I would have to say that this film works MUCH better when the emphasis is not on the comedy.  The comedic moments were generally appealing, but were not nearly enough to make this film stand out, nor did they make me laugh very often.  This movie was best when it tried to be serious, and I must confess that the bittersweet ending is one of the best that I've ever seen.  As a comedy, I'd call this an average movie, but as a drama, I strongly recommend this film to one and all.  "},{"Title":"An example of bad male/female relationships","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is another take on this film If all you are concerned about in this film is if this can relate to your college experience, I believe you are missing the lesson of this film. If you can't relate to it, it has nothing to do with age, it has to do with life experiences. The movie shows good examples of bad male/female relationships and those flakes to have been best avoided in your youth and as you mature. It shows the group dynamic and how peer pressure to be part of a group, any group, even a useless one like this is more important than developing your own sense of worth. Those that simply comment how they can relate to this film because they are about to finish college, are perhaps too close to the action to see how abnormal the dialogue between men and women are here. With such a high divorce rate, these examples of bad male/female relationships are the seed to these problems. Entertaining, maybe, but certainly not an example of the college experience for everyone. Your mileage may vary. "},{"Title":"easily one of my favorite films","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my favorite films - bar-none. I first saw this film a few years ago before I got to college, and thought it was fairly good with good acting, direction, and a great script but couldn't quite relate. I saw it again when I was a freshman and it made a whole lot more sense. These characters weren't just well-written, they had turned into people I knew. I've seen it every year since then. Now, as I'm 22 and a week away from graduation, besides the graduate, it's probably one of the most relevant movies I've ever seen and best captures all the anxiety and ambivalence surrounding graduating college and the looming future. Highly Recommended to the current or recent college grad. To all others - you're too old or too young to get this, sorry. "},{"Title":"My Second Favourite Film of ALL Time","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie when it first came out, rented it when it hit video, and finally got it for my birthday one year. I love this film. I'll be the first to admit it's not a visual masterpeice, or an Oscar contender or anything, but it's really well written and plotted, the characters are a lot of fun, and the cast is excellent- especially Josh Hamilton and Olivia D'Abo in the lead roles. I'm not a big fan of romance or date movies, but this one is so genuine, so off-beat and so witty that I fell in love with it. Unlike so many films with couples at the centre, KICKING AND SCREAMING succeeded in making me like these people, and furthermore, it showed me why they belonged together- without even one on-screen kiss, I might add. I must admit, it's also nice to see a date movie about intelligent people, being intelligently written about and acted. Another star goes to the writer/director (and his principals actresses) for making a movie mostly about men, in which the women didn't come off as flat, functional or one-sided (like in SWINGERS, for example). It also nice that the men weren't just walking around having pissing contests and acting like frat boys (as in most movies about college kids). In general, an enjoyable film for anyone, I think. For me, a stand out in the genre.   "},{"Title":"Dialogue driven comedy about life after school...","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is much smarter than the average slacker film, about a group of friends still hanging around their college town even though they have graduated. Sharp dialogue and great chemistry, especially between Chris Eigeman (so great in _Metropolitan_ and _Barcelona_, and now the TV show It's like, you know...) and Carlos Jacott as Max and Otis. Intelligent but not overly smug, with a touching thread on the aftermath of a relationship that quite possibly should not have ended. Really one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"writing doesn't get much better than this","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  okay, so the characters in this movie aren't the most developed.  so what. this doesn't keep me from being amused more and more with each viewing as i hear yet another unnoticed witty phrase being uttered by one of the many fantastic cast members.  (yeah, i think i'm gonna switch back to briefs.)i've seen this movie too many times to count, and it gets better each time.  the writing is incredibly clever and accurate.  plus, the cast is incredible.  i had always been a fan of chris eigeman from films such as metropolitan, and now he shines even more.  definitely a movie that shouldn't be missed, whether you can relate to the college experience or not.  "},{"Title":"Great writing","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Kicking and Screaming is a FABULOUS movie.  The acting is great, the plot is poignant, but it is the writing that makes the movie as good as it is.  The conversations are so real and funny, it is easy to get swept up in the lives of the characters.  Noah should be applauded and never stop making movies. "},{"Title":"The best movie in the history of the world.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most brilliantly sarcastic, true-to-life movie for the overly-intelligent post-college set. Real dialogue!! I have seen this movie 11 times and have yet to find the broken glass scene any less amusing. Full of tiny metaphors... pay attention. Chris Eigeman steals the show. Not that Josh Hamilton doesn't deserve an award too. My favorite movie in the history of all things good.   "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so cleverly written, with special attention paid to great dialogue, that I quote this movie everyday. It's my favourite movie of all time and I watch tons of movies. I hope one day this comes out on DVD. I find that part of my personality identifies with every single on of the characters. Please make more movies, Noah! Are you wearing eyeliner? No...yes Who doesn't identify with feeling aimless in life, whether you are a college student or not. The truth about the Freshman fan might be true, but it goes across all stratus of life. And the movie starts out with a Pixies' song, for goodness sakes. Who doesn't like this? Anyway, I would recommend this along with bottle Rockets as examples of fine dialogue writing. "}]