[{"Title":"An Unusual, Sentimental Look at First Love","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that manages to please despite itself. A lot of the dialogue is flat, a lot of the direction is stilted, most of the supporting characters are inept, the plot goes nowhere as often as not, and the music is practically AWOL. But the sheer whimsy of the unusual tale of a pair of teenage girls falling in love and the sincere, skittish performances by the two young actresses playing them very nearly makes up for all of it. Evie is a wealthy, popular, intelligent girl pampered by her affectionate mother; Randy, a boyish, school-hating aspiring guitarist growing up in a all-lesbian household. Both will have to face certain aspects of themselves and others in their lives so that they may be together. It's very, very sweet, and I don't mean that in a bad sense. It glows with the innocence of first infatuation, and the awkward tenderness of nervous young lovers, only slightly tinted by the shadows of the real world. This movie was about two young lesbians, but it is really the universal story of anyone and everyone who sincerely fell in love at 17.  "},{"Title":"An unknown gem!","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies that if you catch on cable, you start watching and then are drawn into. I first caught it from the middle while flipping channels and then checked when it would be on again so I could see the whole thing. It is a very different movie. A tomboy named Randy, who lives with a lesbian mother and is taunted by everybody at school, also seems to be failing all her classes. One day a girl (Evie) from her school happens into her mother's gas station. On a whim, Randy decides to see what Evie needs. Apparently there is a problem with her tire. Randy is immediately attracted to Evie, who seems totally lost explaining her tire problem. Evie seems to notice how Randy is looking at her and after she leaves the station, they each start thinking about the other.Evie is the opposite of Randy. She is very attractive and hangs with the in crowd at school. Evie has an egotistical, pushy boyfriend and one day has a fight with him at school. She goes to the girls' room and happens upon Randy in the bathroom. She then pours her guts out to Randy who is totally sympathetic.Randy then starts telling her family clan that Evie is her girlfriend, though nothing has happened yet. Randy decides to get bold and writes Evie a note that she slips into Evie's locker at school. Evie finds the note and says nothing of it for several days, while thinking constantly about Randy. Evie is battling her feelings for Shawn, worried that her snobbish girlfriends would look down on her if she even associated with Randy.Evie can take it no longer and goes to the gas station where she first met Randy and strikes up a friendship. The friendship starts to slowly bloom over a period of time with the girls sharing caresses and kisses. When Evie's mother needs to go out of town for a weekend, the girls plan to take their relationship to the next step.I don't want to give the rest of the movie away but just to say that it is fun with a few laughs thrown in.The movie shows that just because someone is different, they can have the same feelings and desires as anyone else. This is well worth renting or setting your VCR, if it is again shown on cable. "},{"Title":"Very cute","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In terms of cuteness, this movie is equivivalent to a Tom Hanks/Meg Ryan romance, which isn't a bad thing at all. The two leads are sensitive and funny in their portrayals of Evie and Randy. Interesting that Laurel Holloman and Nicole Parker both wound up in the cast of Boogie Nights, no? I especially loved the character of Frank in this movie. A sweet date movie for couples of all orientations, in my opinion. )  "},{"Title":"Fresh, new perspective of young lesbians today","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one that I can watch over and over again. It is something fresh and new. The screenwriter/director does a great job of bringing many differentaspects of young lesbian existence. For example, by bringing together people of different races, social economic status, and different family make-ups; it opens one's eyes to different possibilities. It is quite opposite of what is usually thought of when one thinks of a gay or lesbian film. This movie does not stay in a box; it busts the box instead. Every time I see this movie, I am able to pick up onsomething that I hadn't seen before. Although this is a movie where you don't really have to think much; I tend to analyze regardles. I found that it is not the what actually happens on the surface that really keeps me coming back formore. It is the intricate underlying messages that the screenwriter/director is trying to get across that engages me.  "},{"Title":"Rough but charming","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ultimate charm of this movie is that though it is a lesbian movie, it truly is about two teenagers from very different backgrounds falling in love. This is the what the movie is actually about and the lesbian aspect of it is actually almost secondary. Think about it ... replace the girl falling in love with girl concept and replace it with some other socially challenging category (perhaps a cross-culture or cross-religion love story), and it would still work. In fact, ironically, the director/writer eventually married a guy, much to some people's chagrin! lolThe movie is rough as many an indie film is and the actors are young (this was Nicole Ari Parker's first film) or somewhat amateurish. Still, the basic relationships hold true. The girls and their mom/aunt, the other romances that don't quite work out, and their friends all are believable, though some match up better than others. How Randy and Evie connect through Leaves of Grass might be a bit trite, but I believed it -- imagine, a film that respected the power of poetry! And, I did accept them as a couple. Young love is pretty well portrayed, and in fact, how many films these days really portray it? Not too many really -- the films are often more concerned with stereotypical plot complications than the romance, and even those come far and long inbetween. This alone makes the film a pleasure, though the lesbian aspect supplies an additional layer. And as to that layer, this is probably one of the superior films of the genre. To compare, for instance, this is better than Better Than Chocolate. Again, it can very well be a matter of taste (lol). The ending is a bit silly though, but the scene before the final reel (the mom freaking out) is priceless. Still, the ending suggests that this is first love, not necessarily forever. A good thing too.-jPS It was suggested that this was eye candy for men or just for lesbians. I beg to differ in both respects. There is a quick love scene and mild kissing, but if men want to leer, there are better films in the genre than one that cares so much about character.  "},{"Title":"Funny and touching","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A nice romantic movie. The two leads are both women so the audience for the film is smaller than a big budget heterosexual romance would be, but after seeing previews for this movie, I had to see it because it looked hilarious, but then you also get a movie where one girl knows who she is and what she wants. The object of her affection is confused at the beginning and a little scared of her growing attraction to A GIRL! Very well done movie, and the subject matter shouldn't be so offputting since it is a well crafted story. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, tastefully done, unusual coming-of-age story.","Date":"18 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the few movies I have elected to see more than once. This coming-of-age story about two teen girls who discover their love for one another is both poignant and funny, yet always tasteful. The casting and direction gives us characters that look like ordinary people, as opposed to the usual pretty-boy/girl fare that prompts our eyes to love the characters even before we know what they're about. For instance, Randy has to grow on you during the movie--she is not a particularly adorable young lady in her actions and attitudes, neither does she have the looks of a classic beauty. The result is, when girlfriend Evie (Nicole Ari Parker) calls her beautiful when they are finally alone together, we know she means it on the deepest levels, we believe her immediately, and even see Randy through her eyes. This is a great movie for all ages. Personally, I will be watching for more of Nicole Ari Parker's work.  "},{"Title":"Cute but flawed . . .","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are few movies about lesbians. After seeing this movie and the dreadful 'Bar Girls' I am beginning to believe that there are even few good ones.'The Incredibly True Adventures of 2 Girls in Love' enters into the lives of Randy and Evie two teenage girls on the edge of self-discovery still toying with the notion of what homosexuality is all about. Randy is an honor roll student, always clean and proper but not a snob. Evie is from the other side of the tracks and lives in a big house with her gay aunt and her aunt's lovers past and present. They come from different worlds which naturally means that they are perfect for one another. I know that when adolescents are attracted to one another it can take a long time for them to get together. When they are gay, even longer. But Randy and Evie take so long to get together that when they did, I didn't think the movie had any time to let them get to know one another.Another problem half the time I couldn't hear what the characters were saying. This is especially illustrated in a scene in which Randy breaks the news to her friends at a fast food joint. They sit on the opposite side of the table from Randy and everyone mumbles in a monotone.The ending is all wrong, taking place at a motel with everyone running back and forth screaming and chattering like a bad Marx brothers routine.The only scene that does work When Randy and Evie finally have sex, it is done in a wonderfully touching way. The director takes time to allow them to explore one another without the scene seeming like exploitation.I liked Evie and Randy, I just wished that the director had had sense enough to fine tune the film. "},{"Title":"Laurel Holloman's humble beginning","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Such a great humble little movie! I LOLD when I realized this was Laurel Holloman from The L Word. So obvious, but so adorable. She was such a cute little dyke when she was young.Def not cutting edge, but the characters are realistic and cute, and it's good to see that same old story with a great gay-positive theme. The writers nailed character development. I don't know too many high school kids who are so confident in their self-identity, and this if nothing else, is extremely refreshing.I never thought Holloman was much of a great actor based on her appearance in The L Word, and in fact, the only thing I figured she did do well was have sex. Her dialogue has always been a bit empty and flat in my experience, and in this movie it's not much different, but at least she's consistent and while it's a little cheesy, it's tolerable.<3 LOGO, glad I got a chance to see this little gem. God Bless America. "},{"Title":"Great, great movie!!! A must-see","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't understand why is its IMDb mark so low! I mean it is a great film, definitely my favourite lesbian movies so far. The main Character Randy and Evie, are both so beautiful. Especially Laurel Holloman, she looks extremely cute in that short red haircut. Anyway, their acting was really good and they were really into the lesbian theme. I was grinning and feel so happy about them as I watched... (but turned out they are both married, to male.. yes, disappointing) Maybe my English is not that good I didn't feel the script was cheesy or what. And many of the scenes that just made me these shocks in hearts! The emotions were so strong that I actually felt my heart aching, cramping a bit! This is my first film that I said to myself that I will definitely watch this again! right after I finished it! Totally worth to see. Ahh gosh I dream about it at night and think about it during all day. They are so adorable. "}{"Title":"An absolutely adorable love story!","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be honest when the movie first started I wasn't sure how I felt about it, but once it got going my mind was made up fast! I absolutely loved this movie, it was one of the cutest, sweetest romance movies I've watched in a long time. The characters' relationship was adorable, it felt real and I was rooting for the girls the whole time. It was also really nice to see something a little different and more diverse than the girl + boy that you usually see in every movie that comes out. Anyone looking for a movie about teenage love needs to give this a watch, I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys romantic movies. I can easily give this a 10/10! "},{"Title":"A sign of what bravery is!","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found that this movie gave us a sense of what its like to be in Randy and Evie's shoes regarding their background. Evie is a pretty much like a rich-girl who lives in a big mansion and living with a crazy mum who wants her to be in a big college. Randy is like the kid from the street who works in a gas stations just because she ain't got a lot of money in which Evie has.When the two girls met, they had to give up their lives for each and it becomes even crazier when both of them were found in bed together by Evies mother and ran off leaving their families behind. Then there was that moment when they were found, they opened the door and kissed in front of their families that they were committed to each other. That was the most brave thing that anyone can do however some people mightn't find it easy like what Randy and Evie had to show to their families. It would be interesting to know what happened next / "},{"Title":"Adorable","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the first lesbian movies I've seen, and already, it's pretty hard to top. I knew Laurel Holloman from her character, Tina, on The L Word. It's refreshing to see Holloman play a butch lesbian. In this film, her quirky, spontaneous and head-strong character attracted me from the start. Randy (that's her name) and Nicole Parker's character, Evie, have great chemistry together. Somehow, their personalities clash, which proves that their love for one another is not superficial. In a way, their relationship is the perfect first love; impulsive, experimental yet passionate. I recommend this to all teenagers. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie so much. From the first time i saw it , i fell in love with it and went out to buy it right away! I think laurel Hollowman did a great job and is a very attractive woman. Nicole Ari Parker did an excellent job as well. I see her in more recent movies and i can still see some of the same techniques in her acting style. "},{"Title":"God, Evie, if you were going to turn gay you could've at least chosen someone pretty.","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you like romantic comedies, then you will love this one.It is a small budget indie, but don't let that keep you away.This is Laurel Holloman from The L Word's debut film. She plays Randy Dean, a girl who lives on the wrong side of the tracks, and is not particularly pretty. She smokes weed, fails her classes, and likes loud rock music.She runs into Evie (Nicole Ari Parker in her debut performance) and they slowly fall in love. Now, Evie takes trips to Paris with her mother, listens to opera, and is well-read and well educated.Two more opposite girls you cannot imagine.Yes, it is romantic, but it becomes so funny at the end that you forget that while you are laughing yourself silly. "},{"Title":"Cute movie despite poor acting","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Keeping in mind that this was the first movie either of these actresses did, it was a tolerable acting job, I suppose, but I watched this entire movie fully thinking that these were actresses, not characters, which definitely makes you enjoy a movie less (because of poor acting)Despite this, the message of the movie is clear, love conquers all, and it's a cute romance which makes some very good points about lesbianism, when dealing with parents, friends, and even other lesbians.It's a cute movie, as long as you're willing to watch an indy flick. "},{"Title":"Better than the reviews or ratings let on","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm surprised to find so many reviewers throwing invectives such as amateurish or boring or indy(though it is) at this film. From the interesting camera angles (opening sequence) to the lockers on-high, to the very tastefully done bedroom montage with the girl-on-girl action in nearly black and white with stunning shadows (more like a bijou pictorial strung artfully together on film), I credit the director with pulling together what could have been a huge mess of a movie...except it's well-thought out and only strays when delving into trite stereotypes (e.g., the vampy wife in the convertible; the too-gay high school geek friend, the mother who catches the two girls in her bed -- this is hopelessly unoriginal and predictable from the start). Otherwise, I didn't find the acting amateurish and found the girls' relationship believable and authentic. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable. Highly recommended.","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie a long time ago, when it first came out, and haven't seen it again, though I'd like to. When I was recently reminded of it, I was surprised at how strong an impression it made. It is one of the best film depictions of young love that I have ever seen. It's both charming and utterly convincing. This film has much in common with Lea Pool's Lost and Delirious, although where that film was intense and more serious this is a much sweeter and happier story. Where they are similar is in the way they take youthful romance seriously and portray it with sensitivity and honesty. In both films the fact that they are about lesbian relationships is almost incidental. It is a device used to accentuate the characters' innocence. Sex is important, but secondary, a product of the intensely romantic, even spiritual, nature of their relationship as opposed to mere physical attraction.On another note I must confess, I am completely baffled by IMDb's weighted average scoring. It seems to defy logic. Over half of voters gave this film an 8 or higher and 80% scored it at 6 or better. The mean (the un-weighted average) is 7.2. Yet the weighted average is only 5.8? Looking at the breakdown, it's clear that young people, especially males, gave disproportionately lower scores. So, despite the low overall score, it seems clear that adults in general, and especially women, recommend it pretty highly. In any case, I definitely recommend it. I would even suggest watching the pair of films discussed above, Lost and Delirious followed by The Incredibly True Adventure..., as an excellent date movie night for open-minded couples of any combination of genders. "},{"Title":"Cute and fun, perhaps, but certainly not incredible.","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It would be wrong for me to say I really disliked this movie. Yes, the acting was weak, and the characters seemed painfully flat at times(Evie's self-ascertaining speeches were terrible-it reminded me of teenage Shakespeare readings, only with worst dialogue), but the movie never really gave you anything to hate. It was a flick, and as a flick it did its job fine.Some parts of the film were just outrageous; Evie's friends were so stereotypical that, unfortunately, they weren't even believable as real people. Defining supportive characters as stereotypes can work really nicely sometimes, but I think the directors in this movie went a little overboard. Either that, or the weak acting failed to portray the characters effectively. It's a toss up, I guess.Now, don't get me wrong. Like I said above, it's a great 'flick'. I couldn't relate to the characters at all, and the relationship between the two girls seemed so unrealistic at times.If you're bored and curious, then please, go ahead and watch this film. It's cute and simple, and sometimes that's a nice escape from other more serious films. "},{"Title":"It was exciting and interesting but could have been better","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this was in interesting film for the fact that I would have never thought that these two people, Tina from the hit series The L Word and Nicole Parker from Soul Food Would come together and make a film like this. I thought it was an OK movie it could have been better but it was the 90's so for that I would give it 5 stars. Seeing Tina as a Butch I think I like her better that way, As for Nicole Parker Bravo. I wish the ending had expanded a little more, But as I said it was exciting to see two people at the beginning of there carer that I would have never thought would be put in the same film like this. I'd like to see them in something together again in kinda the same rolls but a little more mature as they are. "}{"Title":"Really love this movie!!!","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this movie for the first time on TV for a while, maybe five minutes, (the scene Evie wants to check a tire at the gas station), I thought - nothing special, than I saw it couple months later again from the same scene till the end. I think its may be one of the best movie I ever seen,don´t know why,may be because of the characters were played incredibly perfect, especially Randy - a girl with no friends (beside Frank), no parents, no  expectations shows you how to fight with your life. I will be watching for more of Laurel Holloman and Nicole Ari Parker's work.I´m looking forward to see Boogie Nights.I am only disappointed that I don´t know for whom that movie was dedicated to, even don´t remember that sentence at the end of that movie!!Anybody knows?!!!! I give it 10/10!! "},{"Title":"I love this film.  Girl meets girl and falls in love... perfect.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Recently, IFC (The Independent Film Channel) has been airing a lot of good films about lesbian relationships.  This one, although basically a comedy, is one of the best.  The love relationship between the young girls was right on the money... awkward, timid, scary, and full of young lust and true love.  The casting of Laurel Holloman and Nicole Ari Parker was perfect.  I can't help but wonder if there weren't some real sparks between those two? If I had the chance to recommend this film to anyone, I would do so gladly... as I give this film a 10. "},{"Title":"Fairly Good","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had glimpses of goodness in it. Sometimes the characters can be rather convincing, but other times you're like...um...I think they should of done a retake on that scene! Overall, the story line was clever and the soundtrack rocked! That is if you liked the angst ridden music of the 90's! I recommend this movie, but don't expect too much from it! "},{"Title":"A rare, well made lesbian themed film.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's rare to find a really well made film with a lesbian theme. Too often they are poorly acted and even more poorly written. This delightful comedy is a teen coming of age flick with a twist. Well acted and very funny, it's low budget but not cheap. The film really shines in the last 10 minutes after Mom returns home to find the young lovers. "},{"Title":"Fresh, new perspective of young lesbians today.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one that I can watch over and over again.  It is something fresh and new.  The screenwriter/director does a great job of bringing many different aspects of young lesbian existance.  For example, by bringing together people of different races, social economic status, and different family make-ups; it opens one's eyes to different possibilities.  It is quite opposite of what is usually thought of when one thinks of a gay or lesbian film.  This movie does not stay in a box; it busts the box instead. Every time I see this movie, I am able to pick up on something that I hadn't seen before.  Although this is a movie where you don't really have to think much; I tend to analyze regardles.  I found that it is not the what actually happens on the surface that really keeps me coming back for more.  It is the intricate underlying messages that the screenwriter/director is trying to get across that engages me.  "},{"Title":"A Great Idea, But Not a Great Movie","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was really excited about seeing this movie.  I'd seen it on the shelf at Blockbuster's for years, but finally gotten around to seeing it today.  I must say that I expected a lot more.  The dialogue was unrealistic and dry. The acting was not very good.  This movie wasn't horrible, but it could have definitely been made better.  The two main actresses were much better in Boogie Nights. "},{"Title":"Some highs and some lows","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've just seen this film on TV, and I think that the very same intelligent decision the filmmakers made becomes a burden at the end. In her earnestness, the writer-director decided not to make the clichéd our true love against society kind of thing, so typical in homosexual romance movies, and focused in the development of the two girls' friendship into romance. This way the film can also be interesting for straight people like me who wouldn't identify with the characters. The problem is, this left her without a solid conflict for third act, which is clearly the worst part of the movie. The good thing about this movie is all the setting of the characters and the process of friendship-flirting-romancing, so well acted by the two leads, especially Laurel Holloman. That this was both actresses' first film is just amazing. They are so natural, it's a pleasure to look at them as they overcome all their fears to live their love. I've recently seen them both again in Boogie Nights, though they don't have any scene together there, and Holloman in Tumbleweeds, where she shows she is someone to keep an eye on. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie for any teenage girl struggling to come to terms with her sexuality. It portrays Randy and Evie's relationship as healthy and completely natural. All movies with gay relationships in them should be like this one. "},{"Title":"A misstep to be missed","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Unfortunately, this freshman effort from writer/director Maria Maggenti and her two lead actresses reeks of amateurism.Littered with painful dialogue and clunky performances, Two Girls in Love is implausible and inauthentic to the point of embarrassment.For a more believable (as well as more intelligent and erotic) teen lesbian love story, check out the understated and off-beat BBC production, My Summer of Love (2004). A similarly themed film that's downright hilarious &#150; and with a killer score to boot -- But I'm A Cheerleader (1999) is a gem. From the same year, Better Than Chocolate has it all &#150; humor, originality, plot, dialogue, performances, and sensuality.The only incredible thing about Two Girls in Love is that it got released in the first place, as without its lesbian twist it's little more than a third-rate Romeo and Juliet tale. "},{"Title":"Awkward and flawed, yet sweet and intimate","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Randy (Laurel Holloman) is a lesbian teen living in a low-income lesbian household and working at a gas station. Evie is an overachiever living with her wealthy Ph.D. mom and driving an expensive car. They fall in love.There's not much to this one. The low budget shows in some very awkward places. The director tries to make it look artistic, framing the young lovers together, as if isolated from the world, to make up for the lack of extras&#151;the crowded high school is always empty, for example. Unfortunately, this very naturalistic film is harmed by the lack of reality; they seem to be floating above the idea of a real town with real people in it. Filming is often awkward, with the camera hanging around just where you wish it wasn't, because the dialogue is directing your eye elsewhere.The acting is uniformly mediocre. Holloman is actually better here than she was in her long run on Angel; whenever fan boards asked for worst villain or worst character I always voted for her. But most of the characters are stiff, the only ones I really liked were Randy's dyke household.What symbolism we have is very heavy-handed. Randy is horny and Eve is a new beginning. Duh. But the romance is tender and the girls connect at a real level and there's a very pleasant intimacy. "}{"Title":"you are so beautiful ..","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i adored this film, although my opinion may be biased as the film struck a chord with me personally. it struck a chord with me mainly because i first saw the movie around the time that i was becoming aware of my own sexuality/lesbianism. however, that's beside the point. all adoration aside, i do agree that the movie was not two-thumbs-up-worthy or academy award material. but, this was an independent movie, and as such i think it's important to appreciate that all the participants in the film worked for free. i think the film beautifully portrays the beauty of falling in love. perhaps the movie is, at times, awkward, but isn't falling in love sometimes awkward as well? in saying that, the film is real, engaging, sweet, and funny. my favourite lesbian movie!  "},{"Title":"For lesbians only","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Incredibly True Adventure of 2 Girls in Love is far from incredible, could be true, and is about two girls in love. The film attempts to take the audience through the evolution of a teen lesbian romance involving a butch white student who works at a gas station and a more affluent black chick who who goes to the same school. Fraught with all the usual indie problems and an awkward screenplay with limited production value, ...2 girls... is fodder for lesbians and little more. Nonetheless, this pic is earnest in its attempt to portray teen lesbian love mixed with the usual growing pains and received respectable marks from critical corners. Personally, as a straight male, I enjoyed Better Than Chocolate much more. (C) "},{"Title":"A very badly acted gay-indie film.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The Incredibly True Adventures Of Two Girls In Love. Multiple falsehoods in the title 1) there is very little that's true or realistic in the movie, 2) there is no adventure, 3) and even if we considered it an adventure it would be anything but incredible. The two main protagonists are kind of cute, and have terrific breasts, in this semi-pretentious, gay-indie low-budgie with phony dialog, stereotypical characters, a good amount of bad acting, and weak direction. It isn't a terribly boring film, but it's so damn 90s, and lacks realism. I am disappointed that a lesbian director was so shy about the nudity; there could have been more. Should have been called A Rather Crap Near-Adventure of Two Well-Endowed Lesbian Girls In Love. "},{"Title":"funny!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My first reaction while watching this movie was to laugh and then when I realized what the title was I knew this was going to be a hilarious movie, and I was right. Now,the movie was heartfelt and in some weird way interesting, and for it to be a comedy and a romance it was great. The work done by Nicole Ari Parker and Laurel Holloman was outright wonderful! For them to portray their characters as effectively and as easily on their own level and together you know these two will be doing much more in the future. Everyone must sit back and watch this movie don`t let the title knock you off.. there is more to the story. The ending could of been more expanded but I give it 2 thumbs up!  "},{"Title":"Just watched the movie","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 6 am and I wasn't in the mood for TV. I wanted to go back to sleep and the movie seemed like a good thing to help. After the first thirty minutes however; I realized that I was going to watch the movie until the end.The two lead girls had a great chemistry. I say that because I was also involved in an interracial lesbian relationship and they had the same nervous, intense and curious romance that I had. Those two really played out their roles well and the lackluster awkwardness of the story and the other characters didn't disturb their grove.I enjoyed it and recommend it for any young girls or boys that may have some doubts in their sexuality. "},{"Title":"Funny story... but was that sex scene really needed?!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie alot, I thought it was funny. I felt bad for the girl when her friends refused to stay friends with her because they found out she was lesbian. I think its good that there are decent lesbian films out there. Gay films get a bad rep when stuff like Trick comes around, basically upholding the straight person's stereotypical view of the gay male world (a never-ending 24/7/365 quest to get laid, and then when finding the guy, no privacy...etc etc etc)And then the sex scene. It nearly catapults the film into NC-17. Why did they do that? Why did they feel it was necessary? I mean, it's not just a mild sex scene... they basically show everything. It's wrong, though, a naked female body will get only an R rating, but a naked male gets NC-17. That's because the film industry is male-dominated, and they think that naked male scenes are pornographic, but naked female seens are tasteful. What kind of half-ass logic is that.Bottom line Good movie, would have been better without such a graphic sex scene. "}]