[{"Title":"Indescribable","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  God, what words to use when trying to describe this film!!! Exotic, erotic??? Those are obvious choices that pop right up.  Quite a bit of this film is spoken in Japanese, and I usually hate films with subtitles, yet I loved THE PILLOW BOOK. It is sensual, delicate and beautifully executed. The music is mysterious and sexy. The way it is filmed is pure art,  like the unfolding of the pages of the book it's about. Nagiko (Vivian Wu) is trying to publish a book written in caligraphy but is rejected. Looking for someone with perfect skin, she decides to use the method of writing her caligraphy onto human skin the way her father did when she was a girl. There is plenty of naked Ewan McGregor to behold, and he gives a fine...ahem...acting performance also!!! Of course this film won't appeal to just anyone,  but if you're in the mood for a visually striking, colorful, cultural piece of art film, try this one out. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Art","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"38 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Anything by Greenaway is bound to be cinematic Art, but this effort is particularly brilliant.It has full-frontal nudity, male and female -- not presented necessarily in sexual context, but you might want to pick your audience carefully. The nudity and homosexuality in the film are handled offhandedly and without prejudice, thus removing any hint of perversion or pornography. I know that sounds odd, but believe me, I'm a very conservative individual/artist.But that's not The Film -- the plot is intriguing, the Art is breathtaking, and the calligraphy, ahhhhhhh, is astoundingly beautiful, especially when transcribed on human form. The vessel and the content are one -- how sublime of author and director.My criticism?  Sometimes Greenaway seems to think that we can simultaneously process all five lanes of the highway that run in his head.  I, for one, am willing to watch his films twice.  (Well, maybe not The Falls).Greenaway offers food for my soul -- I kiss both his eyes. "},{"Title":"Words Made Flesh","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Pillow Book is a rare film that transcends limitations of film and text in a unique handling by auteur Peter Greenaway. Based loosely on the tenth century writings of the imperial court observer, Sei Shonagon, Greenaway brings to the screen a rich visual amalgam that relies on stunning settings, the physical beauty of actors Vivian Wu and Ewan McGregor, and the joy of ancient and modern systems of writing that are the calligraphic arts. Greenaway's penchant for incorporating art, numbers, books, and architecture in a filmic medium ensure those who enjoy his style will not be disappointed. As a young child, Wu's character has celebrated her birthday's by having her father write the story of creation on her face in a family ritual celebration. However, with adulthood and marriage, her spouse is neither interested nor willing to continue her tradition. Frustrated at her inability to find a lover who is a good calligrapher, or a calligrapher who is a good lover, Wu finally meets a bi-sexual translator, Jerome (McGregor) who offers himself to Wu as a living surface for her erotic creativity. Inspired by the opportunity to obtain revenge on the publisher who blackmailed her father and is Jerome's lover, Wu's character, Nagiko creates the ultimate love poem illuminated in red, gold and black characters and delivered to the publisher on the naked body of Jerome. The Pillow Book is adult eroticism at it's most sensuous and visual best. It is a story that revels in the binaries of the profane and grotesque, yet delights the eye with Greenaway's ability to translate a vision of love and horror into a singular statement of lush physical beauty and passionate sexuality. "},{"Title":"An erotic masterpiece.","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Pillow Book is an erotic masterpiece.  A story that unravels like a Japanese scroll. It teases and excites us with floating images. It's Greenaway's masterful technique, the same that he used so successfully in Prospero's Books. He captures our attention and plays with our emotions.  I don't understand one character in Japanese calligraphy but the idea of writing a poem or a prayer or a story on human skin is certainly an  original one.  Calligraphy is always charming to look at as the camera wanders about the human anatomy.  Even the Lord's prayer in English takes on a very personal meaning when it scrawls across the chest and arms and ends up somewhere below the navel.  The story itself is simple enough. Its about two people -a Japanese girl and a Westerner - falling in love. There's nothing new in that. But it's the progression of their romance  through their calligraphic foreplay that binds our attention. It's beautifully and delicately portrayed - somewhat dream-like in its presentation. There's a suicide scene which one might expect would draw this romantic drama to a close, but no! the story gathers pace and races on to unexpected heights.  Based on observations made by Sei Shonagon in the 10th century, the Pillow Book is a collection of 13 essays entitled Book of Youth, Book of the Seducer. Book of Secrets, Book of the Dead etc.  But essentially this is about The Book of the Lover.  Some audience will cringe with horror when they see how this book is prepared.  Ewan McGregor and Vivian Wu are to be congratulated on their exceptional performances( and backed by a competent cast in a most original and memorable production.  "},{"Title":"A feast for the eyes","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a beautiful movie visually, but you need to keep concentrating on what is happening. Don't ask why too much with this - the effect of actions is reason enough to take them. Vivan Wu is very good, as is Ewan McGregor, in a different role for him. It reminds you also of what are some of the best things about Japan, and what are some of the worst things about men. Well worth buying the DVD and watching over and over.  "},{"Title":"More bizarre than erotic","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoiler warning !!! Nude bodies are not necessarily erotic, not even in the act of having sex. May very well be, but not necessarily. Vivian Wu is exceedingly more erotic, fully clothed, in The Soong Sisters (1997), than in the numerous nude scenes in Pillow Book. I use `bizarre' here in a very neutral sense. Most interesting, if only just to myself, is that while watching Pillow Book, I was struck with its similarity with The Cook  the Thief, his Wife and her Lover (1989), without realising that they were both directed by the same man, Peter Greenaway. Both are about revenging a lover (and more in the case of Pillow Book) and in both, the dead body of the lover has an important part to play. Very noire, both.The unique thing about Pillow Book is not quite unique. Calligraphy on a human body was featured in Kaidan (1964), albeit under a set of entirely different circumstances. There, to avoid being abducted by a band of ghosts, a monk had magical calligraphy written all over his body to make himself invisible to the ghosts. But alas, through an oversight, his ears were left uncovered, and were eventually torn off and carried away by the ghosts. `The monk without ears' is the best of the four separate short stories in Kaidan, which is in turn among the best of its genre.Without getting into all the intricate details, the main plot of the Pillow Booke surrounds Kagiko's (Vivian Wu) endeavours to get her book published, by sending separate chapters to the publisher, in the form writings on nude male bodies. The book is an intimate record of her spiritual and sensual voyage. Of particular importance is the encounter with Jerome (Ewan MeGregor) whom she uses initially as a channel to reach the publisher who is also Jerome's gay lover. When a genuine love relationship develops between Kagiko and Jerome, she finds herself consumed in jealousy as his liaison with the publisher continues. Unable to obtain Kagiko's forgiveness, Jerome kills himself. Then comes the most bizarre part, when the publisher steals Jerome's body from the grave, removes the skin upon which a chapter of Kagiko's book has been written, and makes it into a volume that he keeps as a souvenir. The ensuing revenue, although markedly different in substance, is remarkably similar in spirit to the revenge in `The Cook&#133;.'. A lot has been said about the aesthetic quality of this film. What strikes me even more is the sound, particularly in two scenes. One is the long scene that traces the development of the relationship between Kagiko and Jerome, accompanied throughout by a jazzy, languid French song, with the lyrics wandering lazily across the bottom of the screen (not as superimposed sub-titles, but as an integral part of the frame). I thought this is very clever and goes a long way in eliciting the audience's empathy with the pair. The other is Jerome's suicide, accompanied by eccentric, truncated music in pulsating strings, which pinpoints his frustration with surgical precision. Not everything is flawless in this movie. The picture-in-picture technique is way over-used, to the point of being an irritating distraction. As well, the jumpy style in the beginning is too flashy, e.g. the abrupt cut from the stoic black-and-white Japanese domestic scene to the kaleidoscope-like Hong Kong fashion show, accomplishing nothing more than the director saying, `Hey, look here, I can do this!' Fortunately, he has the good sense of stopping when he should.Interesting to observe that the IMDB comments have been as polarised as ever possible. For me, Wu, and McGregor to a less extent (as he is really in a supporting role here), are worth the price of the ticket, or, to be exact, the DVD. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but too calculated to be truly erotic","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like many of Peter Greenaway's movies, Pillow Book features extensive nudity.  However, while the plot development is well worked out, the cast is competent, and Greenaway shows off a dazzling array of cinematic techniques, he always seems to approach his material too intellectually to really engage the viewer's emotions.  I cannot know his intentions, but my impression is that he regards his scripts as more akin to a complex mathematical puzzle to be worked out than a story about real people with human feelings, leaving the movie worth watching but curiously cool and clinical rather than passionately erotic. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Erotic, seductive, intellectual, visually stunning film. The painted calligraphy on skin was amazingly sensuous. I couldn't force myself to watch '8 1/2 Women' which was my first Greenway film, so I hoped against my better judgment that this movie would be different -- and it was. I've read reviews that say this movie moves slow, but I didn't feel that at all. I think the character introspection is very important - I felt I knew Nagito. I understood her desire, her confusion and her pain. The ending is beautifully done - Nagito is the perfect tragic heroine. This is a must see for anyone looking for a sensual erotic film; unlike most you have seen before. "},{"Title":"Strange, Surreal, Sensual and Intoxicating! A great film!","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pillowbook maybe one of Peter Greenaway's most amazing films next to The Cook, the Thief, his Wife and her Lover. If you want to see Ewan McGregor completely naked for extended periods of time, now's your chance. I'd probably walk around nude too, if I was as well endowed as him! The Pillowbook concerns the character Nagiko, played by the sexy Vivian Wu. (She made me say Woooh!) Growing up Nagiko has fond memories of her father who was an author. He would paint calligraphy on her face. She also enjoyed the pillow-book that her aunt had read to her with it's sensual stories. One memory that troubles her was her father being blackmailed for sexual favors by a gay publisher. He did this to get his stories published. All grown up Nagiko develops a fetish to be written on with ink. She goes through many men, but has no luck. She also has the desire to create her own pillow-book of lists and obsessions. Then she meets Jerome (Ewan Mcgregor) an English translator, it's a strange love at first sight. The only problem is that he has sloppy handwriting. So Jerome offer's himself to be written on like the pages of the book. Little does she know that Jerome is bisexual and having relations with the same publisher that had blackmailed her father growing up. When she realizes this she uses Jerome to seduce the publisher with his written body. She wants to get her book published. Nagiko narrates the film saying, If I couldn't seduce the publisher, I could at least seduce the publisher's lover. Talk about twisted! As the film moves along it becomes more strange and surreal, with frame within frame of words and images. The screen breaks down into boxes and into lists at points. It's easy to get confused during your first viewing, like Greenaway's other films. The Pillowbook is not your typical erotic film, it's also a story of betrayal and vengeance. One things for sure, Vivian Wu and Ewan McGregor have such great sexual chemistry together. This creates a hypnotic and beautiful effect on the viewer. "},{"Title":"Awe inspiring originality!","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Seems most, if not all, movies today are so formulaic (I can only watch so much Jane Austen Bridget Jones' Diary, Cold Comfort Farm, others?). A revenge/love story, this picture made me fall in love with Ewan McGregor! Such a skilled actor at such an early age and willing to go to such extremes! Because the acting, camera and editing were so fabulous, this movie could have easily been without words. Ewan's character was so innocent and gullible. The female lead's character was very strong and overpowering. Imagine being in the position of having to protect your father and then seek vengeance on his destroyer. And such a small delicate woman.While there were some awkward moments revealing the immaturity of the female lead and some disgusting circumstances propelling her toward revenge, in all, I have to rate this movie excellent for the editing, camera, story, and high impact acting. It was very moving. "}{"Title":"Sensual, erotic & languid","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At the beginning of the film we see a little girl being written upon by her father. The film then moves to the girl as an adult, and seeking lovers who will write on her body again. She meets a bisexual Englishman, who also likes to be written on, and she finds out he is also a former lover of a man who has previously betrayed her father.Greenaway uses some of the techniques from Prospero's Books, in the way the film is shown, with small rectangular boxes containing other images. The film is beautiful to look at, as per usual with Greenaway's films. There is also a seductive French song that plays at times during the film, a sensuous lady performs this tune, and it is very appropriate to the film. The film is erotic, with plenty of nudity on view. I do think the film is a bit languid at times though, and this hurts it, but it's still an impressive piece of cinema.  "},{"Title":"Stop Making Sense","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think Greenaway makes very smart films, and I'm really glad he's around. His intellect is always tuned to ideas about the visual, so we get a double measure his images and his commentary on those same images. You should see this film if you think about communicating by image -- you won't find more beauty and recursive visual depth anywhere else.There are a few flaws in my mind, notable only because the film is so remarkable and because Greenaway shoots so high. A central dance here is the art of the writing (its appearance) and how that relates to the art the writing points to (its semantic meaning). So much elaboration of this works so well that I wonder why Greenaway went to such trouble to make the storyline so comprehensible. It is almost as if he is pandering to critics of his less accessible work. This greatly dilutes the impact for me, takes away from the point that the immediacy and fluidity and directness of the presentation by sense at least trumps the recoil by the mind. Perhaps is wholly substitutes. So why make so much sense? So that people will watch who wouldn't otherwise get it?I wish Greenaway played more with contrasting ritual with spontaneity, especially since the Japan/Hong Kong cultural contrast, the publishing versus modeling contrast (permanent versus faddish), and the promiscuous lovers versus the honored parents all set things up so well. In particular, the soluble temporary nature of the writing turned into permanent tattoos at the end. What of that? It looked decorative only. Her breasts her new pillowbook?If you liked this film, you'll like the book `Life a User's Manual' (Perec) which works the same territory but has a better sense of how to come to an end. The hero spends a decade traveling to paint watercolors. These are turned into jigsaw puzzles which he spends a decade reassembling, rebinding the paper, and bleaching out the image. Each puzzle reflects on a story associated with a room or person in the Paris apartment building he has maintained and populated with unwitting tenants. "},{"Title":"Intriguing if one likes Film Art...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all, let me make one thing clearThis is not a movie, not in the normal sense of the word.  This is FILM ART.  There is a massive difference between the two, and it effects the review of this film.If viewed as a movie, this film is pretentious, over-visualized, non-plotted...and VERY slow and boring.  Nagiko is not a character to be sympathized with (at least not until the very, very, VERY last moments in the film), and all the other characters have no history or background to make them indentifyable by the viewer.  Jerome is eye-catching, but not extremely interesting, despite the fine acting of Ewan MacGregor.  The fault is not in the actors--it is the script.  The viewer is given no reasons to feel anything besides erotisism for the two characters and their plotting together.  One is merely thrown into their story, and who can really care for a nit-wit of a girl with a fettish for body art, or a man who is overly vain, sells himself for what he wants, and basically plays games with the people he loves?  Alright, there is some sort of interest in the morbid or perverse sense, but beyond that base type of curiousity, there is nothing more involving.  In terms of storywritting, this film is absolutely terrible.  In many moments, one feels like one is watching glorified porn.HOWEVER...As film art, The Pillow Book was stunning.  The visuals are AMAZING. There is so much beauty in the making of this film, running from the sound of running water to the wonder of the human form.  The non-linear aspect of the film gives it a dreamy and surreal quality, as well as a suprising sense of wonder.There is a sheer erotisism to the film, but it is conveyed (for the most part) in a beautiful and clean sort of way.  It makes even the minute detail, such as a caligraphy brush or a button, a sensual work of art. Mere scribbling becomes astounding and moving--such as the Lord's Prayer written upon Nagiko's body.The film also includes a cold sense of revenge by way of the Publisher. One can't but feel gleefully satisfied that the man gets what he rightly deserves.  And one can almost touch the peace that Nagiko gains for herself in the end.Now, there are many other messages to be garnered from the film, such as the woman's liberation aspect portrayed, but in this I believe that such musings come almost totally from the mind of the viewer and the associations thereof...many could totally miss such messages in the overwhelming depth of sensuality displayed.  Sometimes, a film is just a film; don't give it credit for messages that don't exist.  It may be that the director had nothing of the sort in mind.  If anything, give it credit for evoking the thoughts from your own mind.All in all, visually stunning and emotionally evoking...as a work of art. As a story however...it is a dismal failure.But it is at least worth seeing.  Once.      "},{"Title":"Sacred book","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A movie-book. The lecture like gesture of a religion, the signs like guides in a world of every beginning. Art like sin and the human body or the paper -same material of same rite. The nudity is not relevant, The search of perfection, love like sacrifice and the gift of a new Cassandra. Tale of escape, soft Salo, Pillow Book is the mark of love's bones and the price of secret. Only character in this movie is only a instrument of art. Nagiko is himself a page, and the relation with Jerome is creation's act of the necessary book. So, freedom is utopia, hope- only mask, the letters- heats of seconds who wait the victim. A huge library is this movie in which lights, gestures and intentions are the bread of the mythical animal who lived in everyone. "},{"Title":"A Visual Celebration of Artists and Bodies. And Stereotypes.","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had to push through the crowds on the sidewalk coming in and out of Batman & Robin to get to be one of four people in the theater to see Pillow Book - and two left during the movie. This was my first Peter Greenaway movie and OK so I went to see ALL of Ewan Macgregor but it had other rewards.It's in three parts the first is the complicated set-up to the story line. The projectionist screwed up the first five minutes so it took awhile to figure out what was going on. Turns out Greenaway is primarily a visual artist; nice to see the cinematic techniques from the 1964/5 World's Fair finally being turned into an artistic purpose (other than the Woodstock movie). A theme is given at the end of the first third, roughly There are 2 pleasures in life those of the flesh and those of literature. And this combines them. However, as a visual artist he shrugs at the different definitions of writing - it's immaterial to him whether one means an author, a translator or a calligrapher, tho he scorns a scribbler. The second part is Plot Central and Ewen is more insouciant and spirited than any other character to give the story life (though I had to laugh at the idea that he was a Yiddish translator), certainly more than the other living canvases (including the lead actress who was chosen less for her one-note acting than her willingness to be frequently nude one suspects). Also the nude bodies were chosen to be good calligraphic canvases and not to be distractingly erotic or well-toned so do just become background (only a British director would do that).The third part is the gripper - turning the movie into Mythic Story and raising it several notches of visual images and themes. What was more disturbing, however, is Greenaway buying into the Mysterious Orient. I do think we're hundreds of years overdue to stop this stereotype already. Was Japanese then chosen for the beauty of the calligraphy - or just so that Western audiences wouldn't be distracted by reading the words instead of soaking in images? Therefore is the movie a different experience for someone who can actually read the lettering? Let alone a non-English, non-Japanese reading audience. There's some bias intrinsic there. Why not use Latin? Arabic? Not everything is subtitled as the subtitle experience is part of the visual theme, such as when the gorgeous French song done over the love scene is only subtitled in French (I couldn't catch the credits that whisked by at the end). A nice visual pun near the end compared so many gangster movies where we see the neatly dressed Mafioso etc. in expensive suits putting on a pinkie ring, etc., and here the danger is clearly when the Yakuza-type takes off his clothes.(originally written 6/20/1997) "},{"Title":"The Pillow Book is deeply personal -revenge is personal too","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pillow Book's direction by Peter Greenaway is brilliant. The storyhas a few English characters Jerome -Ewan McGregor -withmainly Japanese actors, who make up the basic reason for thestory about  -a daughter's revenge, Nagiko against a homosexualPublisher, who had been using his power -that of choosing certainworks to publish- not just on merit -but for sexual favours. He isseen by Nagiko, leaving their home after buggering her father. Theyoung daughter sees the shame on her father's face andpromises herself to 'get revenge'.She takes the daring step of offering her stories for print bysending her book in chapters to the publisher -written incalligraphy, on 12 naked men who are shown full-frontal nude.I feel the nudity is not gratuitous but beautiful & it's about timewomen got their own back for the blatant attempts at marketingmovies with topless nudity thrown into movies like Swordfish'sHalle Berry... the nude body is beautiful & should be seen whennecessary... this movie shows that nudity in Japan is not seen asshameful like it often is in anal western societies. The 12 naked men included her boy-friend Ewan McGregor,who it turned out was also the Publisher's lover there's a scenewith the 2 men in bed & so it evolves...as the publisher getsinfuriated at the intrigue... It is a movie that is well worth the time to watch ... with beautifulcinematography & I feel it's now a classic in its own. "},{"Title":"This is what an Art movie can do!","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Peter Grenaway has carried out a very interesting, controversial and original movie, in which he actually keeps the viewer wondering what'll happen to the movie's characters, especially Ewan Macgregor's who surely gave the most challenging performance of his career, since many privileged actors would be embarrassed or would turn down the part that Ewan had in this movie. Ewan Macgregor gives a very complex and interesting performance, he is not embarrassed to be totally naked and to have mild sex scenes with both a woman and a man, in this case Nagiko, and the editor! Ewan has showed the viewers he's not ashamed to do whatever the character requires him to do, in this case frontal nudes and as I mentioned earlier, love scenes with another man. I found Ewan Macgregor convincing for the part because he was really serious about what he was doing. He knew he wasn't simply acting for a rude movie, but an artistic one. With `The Pillow Book' he has demonstrated great range!.  The way this film shows Japanese culture is outstanding; it makes us learn more about other cultures. I found this film very informative about the people in Japan and what their culture is like. The plot of The Pillow Book is very original; it shows a lot of nudes, written bodies and flashy ways to write on skin. Those are some of the reasons why Peter Grenaway should be acclaimed. This is not a film you see everyday. I'm sure Peter Grenaway worked hard to carry out this artistic film. It's not easy to find lead actors who want to do frontal nudes or have sex scenes with other men. Neither is it easy to write a screenplay for this complex movie.I must stress that the musical score was not well chosen. At the beginning of the movie we listened to a somewhat terrifying music, but over the course of the movie there were happy melodies that were not supposed to be there, especially at the end, a ridiculous happy music is played. Was it a comedy movie? A comical music has nothing to do with this movie, since it's a drama and artistic movie, which makes people think.This is a very original movie, I'd have never thought of a story like The Pillow Book. Some people may find this movie rude because of the sexual and nudity content, but I found just what it is, artistic!The movie was good overall, but there were some unbelievably ridiculous scenes. For instance when Jerome is dead, the old man cuts his skin, and begins kissing it, which I consider farfetched and unbelievably pointless.I'd recommend this movie because of its interpretability and originality, nevertheless if you consider frontal nudity and some sex scenes rude or offensive, do not watch it, because you'll be extremely disturbed, otherwise try to know what an Art movie can do! 7/10  "},{"Title":"Just exotic image of Orient!","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I expected too much about this Greenaway's film though I like some beautiful scenes. I don't know why he entitled this The pillow book. Actually it is the name of one of the most famous Japanese classics in 8th century, which vividly describes the beauty of changing seasons and nature in a royal palace. Especially the affection to every small things are expressed. There's nothing about romance and painting on a naked man in it! When I first saw the film, I felt strange and funny rather than feeling it art,  because of this and because the whole story is happening in Hong Kong. ( Actually it doesn't look Hong Kong too........) I think the director just picked up something exotic and oriental' from the image of the pillow book from the western point of view. What I like about this film is, his original way of filming and some vivid colours. But there are some scenes that seems to be too experimental, and it makes the whole story complex to understand.I recommend you to see this film, if you want to enjoy Ewan MacGregor's good acting, and exciting filmwork! "},{"Title":"They didn't let him complete his masterpiece!","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An other P.Greenaway masterpiece; with excellent colours,brilliant aesthetic and great performances. But,they didn't let him to show us the 15 poems of Nagashiro; and these poems are really fine poetry,and their translation to English in the script book of the movie is excellent also! A must take for ALL P.Greenaway admirers,and for everyone who just loves fine love-poetry. "},{"Title":"Arty movie doesn't makes a lot of sense but is sort of watchable","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ewan McGregor, playing an English translator in Hong Kong, has a love affair with a Japanese woman with a very curious fetish writing in fine Japanese calligraphy the body of her lovers. Sex and literature can be a good combination, but not if the chef is Peter Greenaway (The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover). The movie is very silly, but is sort of watchable (the obvious beauty of Vivian Wu, who plays the Japanese lover and appears naked several times - as does McGregor - certainly helps). This was the last film of Greenaway to have some sort of commercial impact. After that, he made the awful 8 1/2 Women and then retreated to the art world (where he probably feels more comfortable). "}{"Title":"The most visually stunning movie - possibly ever !","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just the most amazing movie.  So utterly original, and a work of complete genius.From the first seconds of the film right to the very end, the abstruse subject matter, the non-linear plot weaving, and the sumptuous graphics make this one of the all time great films. Just totally stunning ! "},{"Title":"*Pillow Book* definitely had a point and a resolution","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie in the theater extremely drunk with friends and had no idea what was going on.  Images everywhere, several languages untranslated, lots of naked men and women.  When it went to video, I rented it one lonely night because I was horny and I could at least remember the movie had a lot of nudity and sex.  On a somewhat more sober viewing of *Pillow Book* at home, I became committed to the movie for a month or so. I wrote a rather long paper on it for a feminism class.  Writing and thinking about it sent me into euphorias not unlike the ones portrayed in the film.(For those who haven't seen the movie, the following paragraph is not a synopsis, though not a spoiler either.)Put in a rather windy, but as brief a way as possible, I believed Greenaway to be expressing a complex message through the movie. On the one hand, today's Western society, as opposed to, say, traditional Japanese society, offers the woman freedom to be the pen and not just the paper (Ewan McGregor's character, Jerome, offers this express possibility to Vivian Wu's character, Nagiko, that she write on him rather than the opposite). In this way, woman breaks free of her assigned roles, often submissive (an assignment evident when the father gives the young Nagiko her identity by writing on her at the beginning of the film).  But at the same time, this same Western society fosters, more negatively, a commercialistic environment which has lost the rich meaning that tradition and ritual provides.  But, I think Greenaway means to persuade us, the good elements of both sorts of society can co-exist, judging by what I take to be a happy ending for Nagiko (sorry, shouldn't give it away).  In the end, she is both empowered and able to lead a meaningful, traditional lifestyle.  In this blending of cultures, there is also no loss of natural female eroticism, like that found in the original Pillow Book.I think there are many other points made by the film, and I don't mean to anaesthetically boil down the movie to any of them.  I mention these to show (whether you like the background theory or not) that there definitely are at least a few major points in the film and that, also, the film definitely can be seen as having a resolution.  Many other reviewers had trouble believing either were true, even those who liked the movie.  Also, even if I read the above analysis into the movie and, say, Greenaway wouldn't do so, the film has point and shows great depth of consciousness and self-consciousness on Greenaway's part in simply being amenable to such challenging interpretation.This was the first of Greenaway's movies I'd seen, so when I discovered there were others by him, I tried to see at least a few.  Earlier movies, *The Cook, the Thief...* and *Prospero's Books* seemed to me early attempts to convey the themes to be better mastered in *Pillow Book* writing vs. body, vulgarity vs. sensuality, etc.  I was pleased to see that his great concern, in these two movies, with incorporating stagelike qualities into cinematography dissolves, in the *Pillow Book*, into intense and omnipresent image frame play, a technique which more greatly utilizes what is peculiar to the medium of cinema.  I also rushed to see Greenaway's more recent *8 1/2 Women*, but thought it a step down from the *Pillow Book* epiphany. But maybe that's the, or a, point made by the movie.  Anyway, I only saw *8 1/2 Women* once, and ... I was a little drunk. "},{"Title":"fake art","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just because a movie looks good, it does not mean it is good. Just because it is filled with erudition, it does not mean it has any cultural or artistic value. It must have something to say, and say it in a consistent manner. That is what distinguishes great art from phony art. The pillow book is not great art, it is not art at all. Its main subject is  about writing on people's bodies. It insists on having a plot, although it seems to constantly remind us that it is not a conventional melodrama, but a pictorial essay. In fact it does not work either as a melodrama or as an abstract construction. Its meretricious efforts are a sad evidence of a certain anything goes quality that pervades much of the noncommercial post-60s cinema that bloomed amidst the disillusionment with the increasing infantilization of the Hollywood mainstream films. Madness, it is known, begets madness.  "},{"Title":"Terrible.","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Visually cluttered, plot less, incredibly mind-numbing rubbish. Not even close to Greenaway's better work. Avoid at all costs!The overlapping 'split screen' effects do nothing more than confuse, the film is very dark for a lot of the time and the 'artistic' composing of images is pretentious in the extreme.There is absolutely nothing to recommend about this film; even the nudity is incredibly unerotic, which seeing it fills a large part of the film soon gets very boring.Plus, how anyone can say that the acting of Ewen MacGregor is brilliant is beyond me. He showed more ability in the Star Wars series, and that's saying something.I've not been so unimpressed with a film since I saw 'Darby O'Gill and the Little People'! "},{"Title":"Ewan McGregor's Wang","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As a young girl in Japan, Nagiko's father paints characters on her face, and her aunt reads to her from The Pillow Book, the diary of a 10th-century lady-in-waiting. Nagiko grows up, obsessed with books, papers, and writing on bodies, and her sexual odyssey (and the creation of her own Pillow Book) is a parfait mélange of classical Japanese, modern Chinese, and Western film images.I had no idea what to expect from this film, as it does not seem to be fairly well known, and a title like Pillow Book does not give a clear indication. What we have is pure art, captured on film. The calligraphy is gorgeous, even if I am unable to read it. And just the way the film is shot.What will stand out for many people is the large amount of male nudity. Ewan McGregor is naked for quite a bit of the film, and he is not alone (though he is the only name actor). This was a brave, bold decision, although it likely caused the film to be released in fewer theaters than it should have been. "},{"Title":"Mindbogglingly Sumptuous","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm in the middle of revisiting the films that laid the foundation for my love for cinema. That includes lots of Kurosawa, basically, and Greenaway. My interest in the latter has waned dramatically in the last six or seven years, so it's a bit like time travel then, to see an old friend with whom you haven't been in contact in years but who was always close to you and you got along with splendidly.I'm starting this personal revival with the film that I have always loved best, the extravagance that is The Pillow Book. In some ways it's also appropriate as a starting point since it's the last Greenaway film that I've thoroughly enjoyed.Indeed, what the later Greenaeay films have in abundance in visual mastery they lack in the wonderful humour that seeps through his work in the 70s and 80s. That certain playfulness is still here. This wonderful sense of humour Greenaway has he's able to show visually, and that might just be his greatest strength. And he's a list maker, of course. What better match then than to film one of the most beautiful personally poetic lists there is, Sei Shōnagon's Pillow Book? The result is mindbogglingly sumptuous, and after 17 years since its release we are still to discover all its riches.What makes this a watershed of sorts is also Sacha Vierny. He did do  8 1/2 Women (1999) with Greenaway, but this film is the last exploration of the visual nesting of images through complex editing, and the apex of that art. Greenaway would return to it in The Tulse Luper Suitcases (2003-4), but it achieves its full force here.Did I already say Ewan McGregor is amazing? In some ways this is the perfect film to see with Moulin Rouge! (2001), where McGregor's character is similarly drunk on a culture foreign to him, embodied in a woman he desires. "},{"Title":"Inside out","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The thing about cinema in general, a Western invention and as such shaped by Western thinking, is that it is often too specific, about physical action revealing a moral understanding. The insight is shortsighted. To abstract as all the great filmmakers known to us have done, is to transplant that specific experience into the center from where all creative energy emanates. The Japanese (tracing it back to China) had mastered this centuries ago. It's a culture that revolves around form rather than narrative. Whereas our drama is often hysterical, theirs is subdued and sublimated into abstraction.Their abstraction is in the best possible way about a perfect centeredness. Flowing from and returning to a center. Flowing outwards into form and once replenished there, returning with wisdom about the emptiness of form (and joy that the form is only a mask). Their compositions (painted, written, or later filmed) are clean and sparse, signifying the vitally empty as a dynamic process. Thus every utterance in form, say by the calligrapher's brush, perfectly radiates with that transcendence of opposites - the vital and the empty are one. There is no confusion or agitation that comes from attachment, that's the idea at least.The thing about Greenaway is that he's aiming for a similar transcendence, but through an effort of loading forms until they break to reveal. When he fills his films with lists and lists about books, our constricted knowledge of the world and how it limits, it is always with the intent of transcending them. It is always about the creative process as a means of reaching beyond the list. Prospero's Books reaches there, arguably however the work was already laid out for him by Shakespeare.Here he tackles a subject that is completely alien to Greenaway logic. It is about a young Japanese woman doggedly looking to find a man who is both a lover and a calligrapher. Who can write beautifully on her naked body. The film specific idea chimes with the heart of the abstraction; inner expression expressed in visible form, with in our case the naked body as a perfect blank paper. And that expression in form brought by its author literally to life.There is not much to say on the subject outside the depiction. The very act communicates all. So that leaves the rest of the film a series of beautiful tableaux about bodies, naked or not, painted or not, and calligraphic backdrops of various kinds. Eventually it is again about books, human books each with its own message, where thought is exorcised so that it can be replenished again. Having emptied herself of all the accumulations of her past, by the end she is free to write her own 'pillow book'. She can sign her own name. As usually with Greenaway, everything is also about him creating his own film.Maybe because he's done this kind of thing for so long that it has lost its novelty, maybe because his style to overload is in stark contrast with the vital emptiness the subject demands, the film seems to be missing something. Prospero's Books was closer to his sensibility and as such a more rewarding film (if also more oblique and difficult). "},{"Title":"Obsession 101","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Miller Analogy Test Occasionally cold is to Antarctica as Occasionally obsessional is to Peter Greenaway. This film goes way beyond being a study in art form and the blending of body and calligraphy -- the detour into Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder-land morphs into a permanent trip to the insane asylum. Let's consider the repetitive elements Body calligraphy starting from the first scene that reoccurs year by year, and later in more modern life, day-by-day; the picture-in-picture techniques; the subtitled translations; the various books that appear in many guises. This is fractal film making where the larger image is actually repeated copies in ever smaller form without boundaries, without any consideration outside of art, form, and the pure expression of sensuality (in all senses, but particularly vision and touch). // I suspect I'm one of the few people giving this movie a mid-rating. Except to observe a tour-de-force of a singular obsession, I can't imagine why one would voluntarily see the whole movie. "},{"Title":"A beautifully erotic yet stunningly dark and deep tale of passionate love and revenge","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm not even completely sure how I came across this film - it was either on the internet somewhere, or by sheer coincidence. But I definitely do not regret putting my two hours into it.I gave The Pillow Book a 9 out 10, simply because the director tried a little too hard with the picture-in-picture thing. Sometimes simultaneously watching two different, sometimes three different scenes at once, got a little chaotic and tiring. But more than that, it eventually just became annoying, and slightly irritated me a bit by the end. It definitely wasn't enough to take away from the film itself, though, it especially did not alter the plot in any way, shape, or form. A minor annoyance, that was meant to be artistic, but was eventually a little over-done in my own, personal opinion, while watching the film.I won't go into much detail of the plot, as countless other comments have already done so, but I will say this I was a little lost at certain parts of this movie, and I'm not usually one to say that often. One of the parts was a very important scene in the film, that has a whole lot to do with everything, in the end. The scene I'm talking about is when the main character's father is being forced to have homosexual relations with his publisher in order to get his things published. When this was shown, it was just a little peek into the room, and I, for whatever reason, did not pick up on what was going on. Soon enough, the scene ended, another began, and I continued on my merry little way throughout the film, completely oblivious to the importance of that scene. There were a couple other, maybe 1 or 2, parts where I stopped and thought, Wait, what?, but continued on, but they were so few, and much less important than that first one. So, do not be afraid of stopping the movie for a second, or rewinding it, if you are a little confused. At some points you're supposed to be confused, but others, you're not.I will admit that while my first run through this film, had I not finished it yet and was only a little bit before halfway through it, I would have probably given it a 6/10, maybe 7/10. It, at times, although I hate to admit it now, became a little boring to me. Some parts just did not make sense, and the little picture-in-picture was beginning to get to me some. But, I urge you all to stick with it, as it DOES get better! And it is completely worth your time in the end.There's no way I would regret spending two hours of my time for this film now, and I would love to see it again, though in a reasonable space of time. It's not exactly a movie you'd see once, and then go see again one or two days later since you loved it. It's more like you loved it still, but you should watch it with big time intervals inbetween. You'll forget the little details, and then, once immersed to it again, it will seem all the more pleasantly erotic and interesting. The tale even has a darker side to things towards the end, which was a bit of a surprise for me.Bottom line, I recommend this film to anyone who is open minded, mature, and has an interest in seeing and learning about new cultural experiences. "},{"Title":"Great movie! Each scene looks like an Installation Piece!","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Definitely check this one out....a little slow and ponderous at times, but the visuals more than make up for it. Beautiful visuals reminded me a lot of artist Ann Hamilton and some of her installation pieces. There is also some really innovative cinematography like the use of screens within screens displaying different moments of the same scene in time or in different historical periods. The historical scenes are also lushly photographed and amazing costumes as well. If anything else, Ewan McGregor is full frontal naked for a majority of the second half....that alone makes it worth seeing this movie. WOO HOO! Talk about being well endowed! "}{"Title":"A young woman seeks love, creative freedom, and revenge, and gains all three.","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A difficult but beautiful film that treats of love, sex, betrayal, revenge, and a young woman's attempt to control her own creative process.  Best understood as a visual diary (the pillow book of the title), but it does have a plot, if one pays close attention.  Nagiko, the protagonist, struggles to become a writer through her relationships with three men who, in different ways, personify her muse her late father, a writer; her father's publisher, who coerced her father into sex as the price of publication; and Jerome, the attractive young English translator who is the publisher's current lover and her own.  This film will repay multiple viewings, however fractured its treatment of Japanese language and culture. "},{"Title":"Perfectly realized, disturbing, hopeful.","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Pillow Book gives a new and alarming spin to the old term skin flick.This is not an entertaining, enjoyable, or diverting movie. It wasn't meant to be. But it is brilliantly conceived and flawlessly executed in every detail -- not merely original, but an entire genre unto itself.It worked for me, but I doubt that it would work for every body. It demands undivided attention, and a willing suspension of prejudices and preconceptions, as well as of disbelief. Yet as strange as she is, it is impossible not to root for the heroine, in her quest to be her own late 20th century pillow book. "},{"Title":"One of the weirdest movies I've ever seen","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you want to see something totally different, watch this film.  Despite all the choppiness, both in the storyline and in the visual presentation, it all comes together rather nicely in the end.  Ewan McGregor is excellent, as is Vivian Wu.I recommend that you approach this film with an open mind and no expectations.  You will be rewarded with beautiful art, haunting music, and a true cinematic experience.It is long and slow at times but that should not deter you from finishing the video.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful but strange","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My idea of the romantic gesture has changed over the years but this film is in a class of its own.  I guess I'm not the impulsive type but I love watching people who are.  Most times I don't know what to think about this movie but it just pops up in my conscience from time to time.  I also believe the sound of running water is one of the great pleasures of living. "},{"Title":"Another original Greenaway movie","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm a really good fan of Peter Greenaway films. Since I've discover his art-work,like I named it, year by year is a pleasure seeing a new proposal of this director. In this vacuous times for new proposals in the cinema, the career of Greenaway is fill up with new cinematographical languages, with innovations, with new sensations, all this for attract the spectator interest in a new kind of expressions. Art, poetry, new techniques, books; an intelligent cinema for a non-conventional spectators. "},{"Title":"Unique and sensuous.","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unique and sensuous, a story that should appeal to all with a taste for the unusual. Generally a well put together film that captures both the rewards and prices of fantasy fulfilment.  It embodies the exotic eroticism of the east that all wish to explore but few westerners understand.  Watch this film and it will alter your perceptions of life and the erotic. "},{"Title":"Tattoos are the soul surfacing","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was one of the most visually stunning movies I have ever seen.  The picture within picture/ the colors and most of all the use of the human body as medium.  Vivian Wu is intriguing and Ewan McGregor her complement.   The story is original and the cinematography unique.   "},{"Title":"Full Noodle Frontity","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Confused, powerful, sensual, Glorious, Painful, and rewarding.  So much is there that one needs several goes to touch even the skin.  So many themes are wrapped into an already full trunk that beauty and majesty simply spill out on the street.Some things I liked  Skin, Skin, and more skin  -  A taste of the orient  -  Write your own Pillow book  -  The Maid  -  Fire  -  framing, flowing, interconnection so much.Some things I had difficulty with  Suicide as an alternative  -  The origin of our maidens wealth  -  Why Chapter 13, indeed all these men, are so willing to do what is necessary.   "},{"Title":"A brilliant work of art","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Greenaway's most accessible film to date, and yet one of his best. Heartbreakingly beautiful cinematography and brilliantly sensitive acting presents an original storyline.  Visually stunning, overwhelmingly sensual and emotionally challenging. "},{"Title":"Mostly an artistic film.  Will offend some.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (Spoilers??)Having seen this twice now.  Most recently in a film class.  This movie is more for those who like or are used to art house. Not really for those who enjoy your basic type film.More for those who love movies like Being John Malkovich, Chopper, Incubus (which will really screw you up...), hmmm  maybe Run Lola Run (Lola Rennt).It's also not for people who are offended by full frontal nudity of both sexes.  As it's rather obvious in this movie.  Which also has a rather interesting homosexual subtexture that leads all the way up to Ewan. Which still amazes me that he's Obi Wan now.I thought the movie was really well done.  It's similar to playing an adventure game like the Gabriel Knight trilogy or Myst.  You have to look at the entire scene to find the clue's.  Watching it more than once will help.Although one gripe is the storyline does get fuzzy from time to time.  At the end one thing seemed clear.  Vivian Wu had gotten revenge on the gay japanese dude who ruined her father and probably killed her lover.  If your really faint of heart, then you'll really appreciate them cutting Ewan's skin off.  Although no where near as graphic as say Silence Of The Lambs or The Crimson Rivers. ) (Rivières pourpres, Les)Hmmm speaking of art house films... where'd I put that copy of A Pure Formality????--  Pura formalità, Una (Great movie with Roman Polanski actually acting in it.)  That movie I love so much more than this one.  As far as Art House goes.10/10Quality 10/10 Entertainment 6/10 Replayable 8/10 "}{"Title":"Use of Calligraphy","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  These few words are not meant in judgment, but to point out what I found intriguing in `Pillow Book'--the use of calligraphy, passion, and a creation story. For the main character to understand the creation story transmitted to her by her father, like a Zen koan, she must let it possess her, repeatedly experience it under different circumstances, and over time learn to express it herself. She must embrace and endure the misunderstandings until the underlying wisdom can fully express its destructive truths. Having persisted in the process and having learned to express it herself, finally she can wield it as a weapon and slay its perversion.Calligraphy is one of the most subtle and expressive forms of art we have. Black ink brushed on to white paper is as visually explosive as cannon fire in a cathedral. It is the essence of the creative moment captured in time, innate wisdom brought to life as throbbing symbolism. For those who explore visual contemplation, brushed ink sows the seeds of insight, a microscope illuminating both one's state of mind and its relation to the world. Mark a human body with a series of brush strokes made into symbols, and you have a fascinating mix of passion and intellect--almost anything can happen. You can magnify the body's sensuality or muddy it with conceptual overlays, turn it into flesh paper or replace it with a completely new field of perception. What's foreground and what's background. Is there meaning or only decoration?The excessive contrast of the calligraphy contains both the forces of destruction and creation. Like any creation story, it both pulls on one's emotional responses and sparks new insights. The sense of mystery lies in the ink; the possibilities lie in the paper. The brush is the weapon that will bring ink, paper, and the present moment to yield up new understanding. But before it can express its truth, the `dream-like' habitual way of experiencing the world must first be penetrated. The harshness of the ink and the nakedness of the stroke rips back the curtain of illusion. In our movie, flesh becomes paper. What was once complete and desirable is now broken up and consumed in the creative process. Tenuous at first, the insight can only expresses itself in the vocabulary of uncertainty. Only after it establishes itself through its relation to its surroundings and recognizes what it itself seeks to express can it fully unleash its power of immediacy.In our movie, the body was only the medium; the passion, only the creative energy; the intimacy, only the present moment giving birth; and the calligraphy's meaning, only a technique.  "},{"Title":"so many naked men...","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  rarely do films embrace the male form.  this movie to me seems like a sort of shrine to naked men.  it's intensely beautiful and mesmerizing.  as is the style of this director, there's always something to look at on the screen.  incredible cinematography.  the story is not bad either.  it's original.  true that it seems a little long at times, but other than that it's really exceptional. "},{"Title":"A Literature Lesson in Sensuality and Revenge","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies where the plot is basically relegated to playing second fiddle. It's all about the visuals. And they are *stunning.* The plot is basically the story of a young woman's search for the ultimate sexual/literary experience and her revenge on the man who ruined her father. Along the way, she falls in love with Jerome, played with cat-like sensuality and cunning by Ewan McGregor. Vivian Wu is occasionally shrill as Nagiko, but is very effective overall. This is a film that melts over you, by turns macabre and sexy, entrancingly warm and chillingly cold. Gorgeous and intoxicating, it's a movie that overwhelms your senses and leaves you breathless. Love is a delicious dish; revenge one best served cold. "},{"Title":"Girls It's Ewan McGregor, enough said","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are many reasons to see The Pillow Book. Perhaps you want to see the examination of the lost art of calligraphy, juxtaposed against state-of-the-art editing of images with the best use of Picture-in-Picture that I've ever seen in a movie. Perhaps you want to hear all about this Chinese woman's troubles with her father, and how she wrote it all down. YEAH RIGHT. I'm sorry. There is one reason to see this movie, really. Every woman who's seen this movie is blushing right now, and kinda squirming in her seat. She knows. It's for Ewan, baby. We get the full monty view of Ewan, and it's more than worth the price of admission, believe me. And it's no prosthesis, like another movie from this year that I can think of (Boogie Nights). Now that I think about it...what was this movie about? All I keep thinking about is Ewan's debut. Swoon.  "},{"Title":"Greenaway gives us a masterpiece.","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Value of Aesthetic CompromiseThe Pillow Book Directed by Peter GreenawayPeter Greenaway is a relentlessly interesting person and filmmaker. Over the past three decades, no director has blurred the line between purely commercial film and purely experimental film with anything close to his regularity, aplomb, or success. By his own account, he has a tendency to go back and forth between his A films-these being purely experimental, like Stairs 1 Geneva-and his B films-these, like The Cook, the Thief, His Wife, and Her Lover, being much more commercial.But interesting doesn't always translate as good, and even the most ardent Greenaway fan would find it hard to like all of his films. Greenaway refuses to condescend to his audiences; he has said that he always assumes the audience knows everything he knows. A good example of this is Prospero's Books, one of the greatest unwatchable works of film art ever created. In that film, Greenaway assumes we are intimate with The Tempest (not just aware of, or familiar with, but intimate with) and hangs his fantasias on that assumption. While the film is unarguably brilliant, one seems forced to admit that a film that is unwatchable in a single sitting has something of a fatal flaw.So here we have a director with, if not contempt for, certainly disinterest in the audience. It is a noble artistic stance the work is all that is important. But Greenaway tends to get so wrapped up in his art for its own sake that sometimes his works-like Stairs-are downright dull. In that film, Greenaway takes his deep love of catalog form to an outrageous extreme, subjecting the audience to 120 timed, 60-second multiple views of staircases in Geneva. In this case, one wished Greenaway would have considered the audience.In Prospero's Books, Greenaway really seemed to try to straddle the line. But the catalog sequences are a bit long, the layering a little intense, and the storytelling so fragmented, that the movie has a mind-numbing effect despite having many, many elements that are attractive to an audience. It is the quintessential flawed masterpiece.In The Pillow Book, Greenaway is clearly making compromises to his aesthetic for the sake of his audience. Early in the film, the main character's voice-over narration tells us, That was the first fire. There was to be another. This is very much an un-Greenaway-like moment. Giving the audience a road map to understand the story's structure? It seems like aesthetic heresy. And the multiple view scenes are intelligible, at times used as a simple and effective device to convey simultaneous action. Perhaps most blasphemous, Greenaway allows the film to be both beautiful and touching, two ideals he generally has no use for.On one level, the film is about an idealistic duality of art (literature and calligraphy) and sensuality. The film's main character, Nagiko (played by the fabulously beautiful and intriguing Vivian Wu), has grown up with a writer for a father. Each year on her birthday, he paints a birthday greeting in Japanese on her face, and signs her back, all the while telling the story of how God painted in the eyes, lips, and sex on the first clay models of humans. These experiences, combined with a disturbing discovery about her father, set Nagiko's pathology in motion.It seems a great irony that an artist who has professed disdain for narrative in art turns out to be such a good storyteller. He showed it to us in The Cook&#133;, and then takes it to a new height in The Pillow Book. We find ourselves caring deeply about Nagiko (Vivian Wu), wanting her to find a way to be happy, to overcome her strangely spoiled upbringing and life. This despite the fact that she is, on many levels, fairly reprehensible. This is not the more easily likable Wife played by Helen Mirren in The Cook&#133;, and yet we feel much more strongly for Nagiko.Another interesting twist in the film is that the male lead is presented as the dumb blond. We see Ewan MacGregor's Jerome-despite being a translator who knows first four, then somehow six languages-as something of a stupid pretty boy, a scribbler, as Nagiko says. While the biggest challenge of his role seems to be maintaining a flaccid profile (this is Greenaway, and we do see quite a bit of MacGregor's uncircumcised penis), you have to give him credit for taking the role; it's unusual and fairly brave.There is another interesting comparison with The Cook&#133; in that Greenaway reprises his recycled lover device. While the Lover's cooked body is pure shock and horror, Jerome's transformed body is both horrible and wonderful, almost religious (you'll have to see it to find out how he's transformed). It is simply arresting.Finally, The Pillow Book manages to end fairly hopefully, another shocker for a Greenaway film. What it all adds up to is Greenaway's most likable-and most watchable-film. He accomplished it without sacrificing depth or integrity, and whatever he did sacrifice, we don't miss. If Peter Greenaway intends to stay true to form and make an A film next, we can only hope that when he returns to the B form, he remembers the lessons of this film. It is a masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Greenaway's Masterpiece","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Greenaway means creation, poetry, music, risk, love, life, art... In The pillow book a story of love inside the words, inside the skin, touches everything in the viewer's senses. The art displayed in every scene, in every combination of sequences, images, feelings, makes this movie a masterpiece, a classic that must be seen.  "},{"Title":"Sex as Text and Language as Intimacy","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  _The Pillow Book_ isn't for everyone.  In visual terms, the adjective that comes to mind is busy.  For a significant proportion of the film, there is more than one screen to pay attention to, with almost constant use of various overlays, inserts and other optical effects, as well as black and white flashback sequences.  These effects add up to a rather dreamlike sensation as the film drifts from one image to the next.  However, over time they do become somewhat distracting.In terms of narrative, _The Pillow Book_ raises and explores many questions regarding the interrelations between sexuality and textuality; the pleasures of the flesh and the pleasures of literature,  which are described at one point as the two great pleasures, here become one.  Calligraphy becomes a means of intimacy, love and sexual pleasure, and the human body becomes the parchment for a literary work of art.  Intriguing material that will keep an engaged viewer thinking for hours.  "},{"Title":"Complete Rubbish","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Might this possibly be one of the worst movies of all time?  Indeed, I believe it may very well be.  It's definitely in my top 5.  Slow, ponderous, overly pretentious, trite, self-congratulatory, what more can I say?  Oh, the dialogue is complete rubbish and the delivery of it is even worse.  I was not impressed from the start of the movie but somehow forced myself through the full 2 hours just to see how truly low it could go.  The movie was utterly pointless.  You really couldn't care less about the characters. They are not appealing at all.  I would also add that you couldn't care less how the movie ends, but, since the movie has no real plot, that's kind of a moot point.  Don't think I didn't appreciate this b/c I'm not an artsy type, b/c I enjoy plenty of good artsy movies, but this movie takes itself WAY too seriously and I can't fathom why, because it's complete rubbish all around, from start to end.  And visually, it's OK at best, but again it takes itself way too seriously.  Avoid like the plague. "},{"Title":"Greenaway's use of music.","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After the completion of Prospero's Books in 1991, Greenaway was quoted in an article on IMDb as saying I'm pretty certain Michael and I will never ever work together again. After making a few films with various composers after his breakup with Nyman, Greenaway made a major attempt at creating a sound track from existing music, and the outstanding results are the music of The Pillow Book. Chosen with great care, the music is a document to his outstanding sense of taste, and reflects a very high level of musical awareness. In each scene, the music supports the drama to the fullest observe the corny pop song that recalls Nagiko's parents early years; or the silly socialist workers song, lacking in all things sophisticated; or the extremely beautiful French love song that is heard when the lovers are together; or the violent avant-garde string quartet music used first for the fire scene, and later when Jerome commits suicide. Greenway's choice of soundtrack here is every bit as outstanding as that of Stanly Kubrick, which reflects the finest taste of any 20th-century director. (Greenway's choice of music here is as keen as Kubrick's choice of music in Eyes Wide Shut, etc.). As such, The Pillow Book does not have the tight neo-classic aura that we find in Greenaways films with music by Nyman. It is actually quite different, and we miss the unique relationship the two presented in so many masterworks. Never-the-less, what Greenaway has come up with here is excellent in its own way, and although it has taken the director in a new direction, it is still of a very high quality. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10!","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Totally awesome!  Every scene a visual eye-scape.  Totally surprise ending that shocks all my friends when I make them watch it.  Vivian Wu is awesome as usual, and this is the only movie besides Trainspotting i can stand Ewan MacGregor in. Greenaway rocks!  Let's give this guy control of ALL of Hollywood! "}{"Title":"innovative, sensual, honest","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i was unfamiliar with anything about this movie before i stumbled on to it one night (it was showing on a movie channel).  the movie completely enthralled me.  the movie is innovative and creative.  it is a wonderful blending of history and culture with modern society and cinema.  i was enchanted by the story, yet it stayed honest - what the actual outcome might be if it were someone's life.  they did not rely on those unrealistic results of fairytales.  the use of multiple screens at one time was outstanding.  the music was well written/composed.  the melding of traditional song and new music with the presentation of the visual elements was very strong.  i thought the actors made the characters believable and showed their vulnerable to human errors.  all together...  i thought the movie was well worth the time spent to see it. "},{"Title":"My favourite movie","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Pillow Book is my favourite movie, from all the movies I've ever seen. I'm really into english cinema, and I love Peter Greenaway, but this particular movie just blew me away. Why? Because the argument is extraordinary (at least for me), and because it puts together some of my greatest passions, writing, love making, and the oriental atitude towards life. "},{"Title":"it looks like an east meet west by....?","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  we can see the erotic sensibility in many love scenes.showing how different meaning come in sexual form .all kind of relation in this film lead me to the question what is freedom..how the oriental women break the depressing rule of tradition. not even show how she feel but show whatever she wise..but  we compare this human being relation with the culture..what's result of merging culture...?Greenaway didn't answer yet..? "},{"Title":"Great Directing!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the first movie I've seen directed by Peter Greenaway, and I'll be interested in keeping an eye open for his other movies.  The visualization of the movie enchanted me until the very end.  And the plot is a welcome change from the predictable, mediocre Hollywood-produced movies.  For anyone who has an appreciation of artistic creativity, check this one out. "},{"Title":"If only you people could read!!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie......... What can I say.  This movie is not about the character development or the screenwriter or whatever.  This movie is totally visual.  It's for the eyes only.  Watch it..... I mean really watch it.  If you could only read Japanese you would know what I was talking about.  Then of course, there is the nude Mr. McGregor (always a treat to see him fully nude).  I don't know, maybe its my total love of Japanese men.  Any chance I can get to see them nude, I will run.......  I spent some time in Japan a few years ago and I assume you have to experience this culture up close and personal to really understand it.  The film was very moving (emotionally)- the love of the couple, the love of the man reading this book as it is presented to him on these beautiful naked men's bodies.  See it. "},{"Title":"Another stunner from Greenaway","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pillow Book takes me back to the first time I saw a Greenaway film and said to myself, this is a person who loves the media, wants to push the envelop. He has done it again and again. This film is a multimedia event, watching subtitled Japanese movies and reading the Pillow Book in translation all at the same time. The book was required reading in my Japanese literature course in university so many years ago...and never so mesmerizing as this twentieth century interpretation. Like course after course of a Japanese meal, the layers of a geisha's kimono, Greenaway builds the story in layers of time and space. While his other films feel linear, flowing across the screen; this one plies one image on top of another much like playing three dimensional chess or building a glass cake so that each layer is revealed through the last. And it recalled many of the Japanese films I have search out and sat through over the last 30 years. Another stunner from the master of time and space. "},{"Title":"Enigmatic!","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One thing that intrigues me most by the calligraphy of Chinese and Japanese is the underlying artwork behind the words. Words, the art of letters, are just simplifications of images, and a string of words can make you build an image, just as an image can make you build words. The two are interchangeable - they are in fact the same. And the intricate and beautiful use of story, calligraphy, images, and human flesh in this movie truly opened my eyes.   "},{"Title":"Skin as canvas for a woman's love story.","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Untied to anything concrete, The Pillow Book presents the interesting perspective of a young woman's sexuality.  Directed oddly; it expositions through screen in screen images, by swift changes in time, and repetitious cues of music.  The plot, Nagiko's retaliation against a lecherous book publisher for his abuse of her father, remains secondary to the stunning visual and emotional work.The cultural of practice of writing on the body is Nagiko's erotic challenge.  A ritual performed on childrens' birthdays, Nagiko carries this body art into her adulthood,  recreating it into her mode of sexual communication.  In a lover, she seeks both a man who will appreciate her sexuality and have proper calligraphic form to please her sense of art.  It is difficult (she tells us in voice over,) since the best calligraphers are shy and inhibited, and, the best lovers are easily distracted.  Her search presents amusing situations  she asks a man in an elevator to write his name under the soft flesh of her breasts, a sort of cold call for prospective lovers.  Ultimately, Jerome (Ewan McGregor,) a young English translator, presents the necessary credentials. Jerome challenges Nagiko to use him as her canvas, an idea that confuses her at first. She can not discern the pleasure of writing on someone other than herself.  Intrigued, she tries it. The transition from canvas to writer binds Nagiko to Jerome in a way in which lovers become more than lovers.  This is the best work of the film.  Their lust is conceived in a strange nudity marked with the figures of their poetry; in these scenes the cinematography overwhelms.  Brushed black, gold and red paint on their bodies swirls as they go from writing table to bed to bath.  The director can make black ink running down the drain of a bathtub look beautiful.  Their emotional development culminates in a test of betrayal. Jerome stands outside Nagiko's apartment screaming to be let in, while she sits on the other side, barren in a pale dress, crying. Spending most of the film undressed, it is jarring to see her the most naked she has ever been, in a floor length gown.The film is not for literal minded people.  Nagiko's lifestyle is vague and the constant camera work drifting by is not easy to follow.  Dialogue is sparse and many embellishments, such as French subtitles to a French song seem eye-rollingly arthouse.  The plot includes various uncomfortable turns. But the film has much to offer a female lead not only comfortable in her sexuality but driven to satisfy it, beautiful poetry, imagery, ideas to pick over days after seeing the film.  I won't forgot this one.  "},{"Title":"Great Concept w/Poor Execution","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had rushed to see this movie because the description of it had captured my interest. And my interest did not falter even if my ability to stay awake did. The Pillowbook introduces an absorbing concept that draws you in for the first hour but then tires you out with slow pacing and pointless camera visuals that only worked to extend the film's running time. (the scenes that repeated themselves over and over on split screens really was not necessary). Acting by both Vivian Wu and Ewan McGregor do their best with the material. While the director seemed to heavily depend on sex scenes to show the love between the two characters, one can truly see the connection more intensely when they are simply speaking to one another. Subtly is a good tool that should have been used more in this film. "},{"Title":"Magical moments","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time I read the tagline for this movie I thought it's the sentence that best describes this picture.How can these words be so perfect? ...to tell what these images are about...Then I realized this was part of the whole concept, words and vision. Parfait melange!The hypnotizing sequence when Nagiko makes Jerome her lover has a unique visual poetry.It haunts me each time I see it.It makes me fall in love.Therefore, I must blame Peter Greenaway for teaching me this new unreasonable passion the art of making my heart beat faster. "}{"Title":"Just superb","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just don´t understand how Peter Greenaway does movies so great. The story is great, actor's performance is excellent too. But the real interest of one of the greatest films ever made is the work of the film-maker. It is incredible, superb, awesome, it's a movie to see in a theater, if you don't, you will lose the main interest of the film. "},{"Title":"The best movie","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An art movie which mixes drama, literature, love, lovers, tragedy and culture besides the great photography and the great director Peter Greenway could never be one of the best films of the world. It is simply the BEST! "},{"Title":"Another masterpiece!","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I introduced and watched this film with multi-lingual friends from Asia; whether or not they liked it they all agreed it was a  masterpiece. Peter Greenaway's films are always visually and intellectually stimulating; The Pillow Book added cross cultural layers that demonstrate the depth of the director's artistry. The transmission of aesthetic ideas between Asian peoples (and later with the West) has continued unbroken almost since the dawn of the written word, and here is a film that does that great cultural highway justice. Mastery of calligraphy has always been a vehicle of cultural exchange charged with power and beauty, a fact often forgotten by keyboarding netizens. Peter Greenaway reminds us of the visual, visceral, and sexual power of the hand-scribed word and hand-bound book. "},{"Title":"The best of the decade","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Another masterpiece from Peter Greenaway. The Pillow Book is an excellent combination of love, passion, death, hate, brutality, life and the search for the identity. One of the best films of the decade.  "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning","Date":"7 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was one of the most visually stunning films I've ever seen. Greenaway again masterfully blends images in provocative ways to challenge our perspective on the written word. Erotic, brutal, powerful. His use of color and composition are magnificent. Magical and mystical in a montage of Eastern images. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 90's","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Perhaps Peter Greenaway's greatest triumph (to date) as a film-maker and visual stylist, this film will thrill anyone looking for work that takes the medium of cinema to the next level.  A riveting story and unsurpassed visuals -- along with consistently strong performances -- make this one of the decade's greatest films.  Too challenging for some, this is the kind of movie that makes film exciting and relevant. "},{"Title":"Best movie I saw in 1995","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the few directors willing to explore and experiment with the medium, The Pillow Book succeeds both as a story and as a visual experience.  The film was mesmerizing. "},{"Title":"ADD on the Big Screen.","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really wanted to like The Pillow Book. Intriguing story, interesting character outlines, Ewan Macgregor in the utterly glorious altogether. Unfortunately, I hated every minute of it. Greenaway got so enamoured with presenting the movie uniquely, and not to the film's benefit. I won't even get into Vivian Wu's abysmal acting.You get distracted from the story with 4 billion teeny windows and calligraphy that rolls on the bottom of the screen displaying the lyrics of the music that's playing. It seems he lost sight of presenting the actual story and developing the plot, and got entangled with foo-foo embellishments that have nothing to do with anything. It's a bit like presenting a John Singer Sargeant portrait in a chintzy Hallmark frame that says GRANDMA LOVES ME! in big sparkly letters.This movie seems to be a casualty of the director auteur's ego instead of what it could have been - disturbingly and horrifyingly beautiful. In another director's hands (Jeunet? Coppola?), it could have been a masterpiece. In Greenaway's hands, it's best relegated to fine arts classes that also take themselves too seriously. "},{"Title":"Fatally Flawed","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Inventive and most original, full of arresting images and unpredictable developments, this flick has one fatal flaw.The whole progression of the story is predicated on the character Nagiko's obsessive power over others. One would have to have the beauty and fascination of ten Mata Haris to carry off this woman's singular willfulness. But the actress who impersonates Nagiko has none of that. She is a reasonably pretty female with little or no personal magnetism that one can discern. Her high-pitched voice and peevish, juvenile enunciation of the English language are singularly irritating. At one point she is called by the script to scream out the name Jerome a dozen times (she pronounces it J'roam) she sounds like a hysterical high school student, or perhaps a dental assistant whose finger has been drilled through.As a result of this flaw, the spectator is bewildered by the sight of two dozen men running around feverishly trying to execute this woman's whims. It makes nonsense of the whole situation.Ewan McGregor is sweet and charismatic (and lovely to look at) as the much screamed about Jerome&#151;one wonders what did he ever see in the aggravating Nagiko. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but .......","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I voted 3 for this movie because it looks great as does all of Greenaways output. However it was his usual mix of art sex and pretentious crap.I know lots of people like this film but I grew tired of it VERY quickly. It is definitely not for everyone. The ubiquitous McGregor obviously took the part for crediblity's sake I guess but he really should not have wasted his time. I hate to consign anyone to pseud's corner but please.....!!! On the plus side it IS visually very attractive and I enjoyed the music but could not see it through to the end and I cannot say that for many movies. I usually watch the whole thing but this is unbearable!! "}{"Title":"Ignorant dabbling in Oriental cultures...","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can only comment on the Japanese aspects of this film, but...anyone familiar with Japanese language or culture will find themselves cringing fairly frequently throughout this. Nagiko, ostensibly Japanese (but played by a Chinese actress, Vivian Wu), oddly insists on using English when speaking with other Japanese. Even McGregor is brave enough to venture a few fractured Japanese phrases...but not Ms. Wu. The Japanese actually spoken in several places is unnatural, and the English subtitles are often incorrect (i.e. mixing up the 7th and 8th books, etc).If fidelity to native cultures is not an issue for you, however, The Pillow Book is enticing, with the hallmarks of a Greenaway film--sumptuous visuals, original treatment, weak storyline. Still, worth one viewing.  "},{"Title":"PILLOW TALK IN A PILLOW BOOK.","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie certainly gives some visage credence to the old addage I can read you like a book. I was intrigued by the premise of the movie, an intrigue that soon turned to boredom. I feel that Greenaway was being particularly pretentious here and although many of the images were startling, the images alone could not give the film a full sense of cohesion. The nudity was un-erotic, the art artless. A dull film full of it´s own relevance and importance. But my darling, you must really see the new Greenaway, it´s so....Greenaway!. "},{"Title":"Pretentious, annoying, and poorly-written, but good-looking.","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Greenaway gets points for showing scads of penises.  There are naked men on screen for fully half of this movie.  However, the story is straight out of sophomore film (fiction, poetry, whatever) class.  The writing is terrible and melodramatic.  The look of the film is actually quite stunning at times, but good looks can only overcome so many glaring personality flaws. "},{"Title":"Sickeningly boring, pretentious crap.","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've just finished watching The Pillow Book, and I can honestly say that there have been few times when I've hated a movie this much. Greenaway is lucky that so many people can confuse pretentious art-crap with intellect and actual art. The plot is thin, weak and boring. The characters are one dimensional and boring. The dialogue is a repetative blathering, boring mess. And even the oh-so-artistic cinematography was too cluttered and/or boring. Okay, SOME of the shots were visually appealing, but they'd look a lot better in the context of a music video for Bjork. There was seriously nothing I liked about this piece of crap. And did I mention that it's totally boring? I want my two hours back. "},{"Title":"This is called art?","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I could only sit through about 1/2 an hour of this nauseatingly gruesome, so-called erotic tale. Although well acted, it's a little too disturbing for my tastes. I'll stick with some of Ewan MacGregor's lighter material, like Emma and even the new Star Wars trilogy. "},{"Title":"Pretentious garbage with nice visuals","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First of all, this is an art movie. It's so artistic, that it is all about crazy artists and only the original writer knows what it is about. While the visuals are interesting, as well as the chosen soundtrack, they probably appeal only to ..you guessed it, artistic people.The film has it all fetish, emotionally unstable girl confusing sex with art, sports maniac husband abusing wife, Ewan McGregor naked, Vivian Wu naked (although I found her highly unattractive), pathetic geeks drooling over her, etc. It carefully avoided physical violence, though I think it could have made the film less boring.I didn't know who made the film, I just got it for Ewan McGregor. Then I found out that the director also did The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover which was also a piece of arty trash. Maybe I am too dumb to realize when something really deep is going on in a movie, but while I am, I will mark this kind of look at me, I am the coolest director ever, only I can understand my movies stupidity very very low. "},{"Title":"What The ?","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I will give someone $20 if they can explain to me what the hell this movie is about and what it is trying to say and what in God's name is Ewan McGregor doing in it. This movie makes no sense. I am sure it has something to do with art, but it beats the hell out of me what.The movie is about a young Chinese woman named Nagiko, played by Vivian Wu (Joy Luck Club) who has had calligraphy painted on her body since she was a little girl. As she gets older she keeps looking for more calligraphers so she can continue to be painted on and have sex with some of them. She meets Jerome, Ewan McGregor (Star Wars I, II, and III) and she has a thing with him where we get to see his schlong in all of its glory. There is some kind of homo erotic thing with a Japanese editor but don't know why he is there or what his purpose is but hey, whatever.Um, I guess the writer and director, Peter Greenaway, has some reason for putting this book onto film. If you ask me, it's so that he can have Vivian Wu and Ewan McGregor nude for most of the film. While that sounds like a good idea, its not. There appears to be no other point to this movie, what do nude bodies look like with paint on them and what does it mean? Peter Greenaway has written and directed two of the worst movies ever put on film, The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover, and this movie, all though for different reasons. First, there is no story other than the garbage I have tried to explain. Second, Greenaway edits the film where there is a picture within a picture scene, I guess so he can double the torture that he is giving you. Third, the sound editing is horrible. The beginning of the movie has a Buddhist chant but it is so loud that birds outside my window were collapsing from the pain. Then he goes into the movie and everybody is speaking almost at a whisper. Then he switches scenes and the music is so loud that the human body is forced into the fetal position until the noise stops. I am sure he made his choices for a reason, but to the layman, it doesn't make work.This is just a horrible movie and I am amazed that people look at it and like it. Greenaway should never be allowed to touch film and he in fact should be a canvas, but the paint should be honey and he should have to lie in the middle of a desert with army ants eating him alive for this movie. Never, ever do a movie like this again. Greenaway should be forced to remove elephant dung from every zoo in the world for the next 20 years. *This movie review and others can be seen at www.bbmc.dockratent.com* "},{"Title":"Artistic but slow","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The pillow book is 1,000 year old Asian journal of ancient philosophical writings. A six year old girl is read to by her mother from the pillow book and is told by her father to begin a diary of her own. Nagiko(Vivian Wu) is constantly having calligraphy done in ink, first on her face, then on her body. She is obsessed with having artists write on her skin and she draws her feelings on others.Peter Greenaway's use of picture in picture images is a distracting device and the plot is fairly simplistic with Nagiko's search for partners willing to use her body as a canvas, even to the point of having the Our Father drawn onto her arm, chest and stomach; this is a very off-beat tale which features frequent nudity, both male and female. Greenaway's eye for images is sharp but the film is repetitive and needed to be shortened by at least 15 or 20 minutes. Vivian Wu is beautiful as Nagiko, the lead character and Ewan McGregor is always good. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked a whole lot","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was my first Greenaway movie. I rented this becuase i heard it was just like Cook-Thief-Wife-Lover, and it was the only one I could get my hands on at that moment. Well when i popped it into the tv i was really excited. Lets just say to sit through this whole movie was like sitting through the wake of your father, long, boring, agonizing,and very very sad. I read rave reviews of this film and was very disappointing. I also thought that it was a little much with all the different screens at one time. And on top of that we had to read subtitles. I think that Greenaway is much better than this garbage. CTWL was much better and people should steer away from this film like roadkill. As long as you stay away from it and don't look you will be fine. "},{"Title":"Just watch Ewan's part. Skip the Rest.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I did not have high expectations when I watched the video (I was underage when the film was first released), but still I was disappointed. Sure the effect and colour were rather good, but it's weak in most other points except Ewan McGregor.Never mind the main story, what really gets on my nerves was the absolute lack of effort in understanding what Hong Kong is like, despite the fact that a large part of the movie was set in Hong Kong. Sure enough Hong Kong seems to have nothing to do with the story, but that's where the story took place, so at least that can be portrayed a little like Hong Kong.Some people go on about calligraphy or poetry combining with film. Maybe it's because I'm an Asian, I don't really see what the deal is. I couldn't help asking myself what the director was on, when there were spotlights of Chinese words beside Vivian Wu. If anything, it made me feel very detached from the film.But I don't regret buying the video, and that's because of Ewan. Maybe it's because the part of the film he's in has a better plot, when he's there, there's more fun, which is a big contrast to the bore of the rest of the film.It was loose, out of sorts, purely a display of technology. "}{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One quick glance at the quotes in Peter Greenaway's biography on this site will tell you all you need to know about this film - a smug, up itself mess with ideas way above it's station.I must admit I was intrigued during the first 15 minutes or so, just what was I watching here, seemed original and somewhat interesting to begin with. But talk about over-doing it, we get basic repetition of scenes merely for the sake of it and it becomes very tiresome VERY quickly.Plus we get the director's absurd fascination with Ewan McGregor's manhood, Greenaway seemingly living his own fantasies through an elderly Japanese publisher, who gets his way with Jerome on an all too regular basis for it just to be a plot device.Don't expect narrative progression by the way, this is a rebellion against the filmic medium, this is art, this is the structured pictures of a painter. This is crap. 3/10. "},{"Title":"One of the most boring films","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Boring and pretentious.  To me, everything about this movie is phoney, starting with the title as the film is not based on the famous Pillow Book. It tries very hard to be fanciful, most of the time it just does not work. The nudity is surgical.  One sits and wonders if something of interest would come, nothing does. "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Given a choice between gratuitous nudity and gratuitous violence in films or on the stage, I would choose nudity every time.  The extensive nudity in The Pillow Book almost didn't seem gratuitous, given the (rather feeble) premise of the plot.  The minimal (by today's standards) violence in the film was justified by the plot.But I fear Mr. Greenaway missed a the opportunity to make a really good film (given its specialized nature I think there's no way it could have been great) by indulging in arty effects (the maddening inset frames; white subtitles on off-white backgrounds enough to give the viewer a headache; pointless and repetitive switching back to the thousand-year-old model for the pillow book--pointless in that the words of the original writer hold scarcely any relevance for the experience of the self-indulgent, spoiled modern protagonist shared nationality alone is not enough to forge a spiritual or artistic bond).I applaud the director's decision to thumb his nose at the absurd, puritanical (and hypocritical) taboo against total nudity, especially rife in my own nation, and apt to remain so for as long as the country itself survives.  But I lament his wasting so much film and imaginative power on an ultimately weak, silly, and pretentious product.  And why, oh why, is it that in virtually every film of the past generation, including this one, there is not one likable character, nobody the viewer can empathize with or feel concern for?  Such facile cynicism is simply juvenile and, to me at least, extremely repugnant.  I practically shed tears of joyous relief when a filmmaker like Hirokazu Kore-Eda comes along with a story inviting a compassionate, concerned human response.  Or films like Shower, The Son's Room, or Mostly Martha, with their subtle and profound probing of human relationships carried out with the use of simple, honest dramatic means.I could only give this movie a vote of three.  I wish it deserved at least a seven.  By the way, I found the final sequence so tediously sentimental I had to fast-forward through the last three minutes or so. "},{"Title":"A silly sexual-fetish film disguised as an art film.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A beautiful Japanese broad gets off on body-writing. This is certainly not the way Greenway would have put it, but it pretty much captures the essence of this movie. While a far, far more believable (though silly) fetish than the one unleashed on us poor viewers in Cronenberg's Crash, it's still nothing more than another sexual-fetish movie that delves too much on one and the same thing. Greenway basically packages this story - essentially a story of a light sexual perversion - in his trademark arty style. However, this time he made a film that is easily more accessible than his previous ones. (The accentuation is on more.) The first half-hour is very much typical Greenway floating pictures and scenes, some sort of poetry or literary readings, no concrete plot, visual showing-off, etc. But as soon as Vivian Wu leaves Japan we suddenly witness a premiere in Greenway's film-making career (more-or-less) normally shot scenes. What follows is Wu's search for Mr.Right (or Mr.Paint-On-Me-Correctly-But-Don't-Let-That-Erection-Disappoint). Good calligraphers are old and cannot take advantage of what I have to offer, while young ones get too distracted, she says. Some problems she's got there, the poor girl... She wants the perfect mate, you see. If she were totally ugly, she'd be happy just to have a dog urinate on her leg. But as a true princess with high expectations, she pretty much settles on McGregor (well, she uses him), who just happens to be the homosexual lover of the publisher Wu has her sights set on. Greenway would probably dismiss all criticism of this far-fetched coincidence as an attempt to make a point about destiny. At first McGregor doesn't fulfill the high expectations of our Japanese princess (bad spelling, messy hand-writing, or something like that being the unforgivable drawback), but she gets involved with him when she finds out about the connection with the publisher. Soon she gets him hooked on both calligraphy and her body (the ease of achieving the latter which is not explained, other than the obvious assumption that McGregor must be bi). The last quarter then delivers the inevitable - the obligatory dosage of vintage Greenway death, gore, and yet more perversion (this time a little on the heavy side). Still, the film is - as expected - original and unusual. It seems to me, though, that the film lacks the depth that was probably aimed for here; it is hard to identify with anyone here, and most of the film simply deals with Wu's search for someone who will excite her with the proper calligraphic skills. Sorry, but there is absolutely nothing deep or profound about that. Making a black comedy out of that would have worked better. "},{"Title":"Call me crazy, but","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this movie sucks! It's disgusting for no good reasons. It was just about exotic fantasy from western people's imagination--don't tell me that's post-modern or symbolism. To me, it is just a simple bad movie without soul. Why there are so many movies following Floyd so closely in such a shallow and awkward way? It tries to explain the girl's fetish and fate by her childhood experience (with the book and her name), trauma (seeing father's affair with the publisher), Electra complex, narcissism, ambiguous SM, and gay/bi-relations...give me a break...it's just so artificial. Plus, the so-called calligraphy on bodies in this movie is really cheesy. You would think the director was so obsessed by the idea of relations between calligraphy and sex that he should at least show the beauty of this unique art. Well, it looks more like graffiti in the movie. "},{"Title":"Powerful images combined with poor storytelling","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the Peter Greenaway quotes section there is a statement of his that called my attention If you want to tell stories, be a writer, not a filmmaker. To that I would reply If you just want to make pretty images, be a painter, not a filmmaker.I thought this movie had very interesting visuals, but it seemed more like a moving collage than a movie. It can be argued that The Pillow Book is close to being an experimental film, but in that case, don't get us interested in a story... There were interesting characters who deserved to have their story well told. I often feel this frustration with Greenaway; he seems to have really passionate things to say so... just play it out man! "},{"Title":"The Filmgoers Book Of The Truly Awful.","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Since The Baby Of Macon, Peter Greenaway's brain has gone mysteriously AWOL. Whereby his films up to then were atmospheric, intellectually stimulating, and also very attractive to look at (not to mention some brilliant Michael Nyman scores), his more recent efforts must surely be vying for some of the most excruciatingly boring films ever made. The Pillow Book is unfortunately a prime example. This film lacks almost everything but originality. But originality on it's own does not always make for a good viewing experience. However, if you suffer from insomnia then i can guarantee that you will be sound asleep after about 15 minutes. Please try and ignore other users who have said that this film is a masterpiece - IT IS NOT - avoid it like the plague. You have been warned!!. "},{"Title":"Clumsy, dull and massively overrated","Date":"6 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a very strange film about a young girl whose writer father writes on her as a child and each year on her birthday. This becomes an obsession for her as an adult and she chooses her lovers by their calligraphy skills. She falls for Ewan McGregor who happens to work for the same publisher who, as a child, she saw violate her father in return for publication.The film follows her journey through life until she is able to have the publisher killed after his final sin, of skinning McGregor who having offended her by sleeping too long with the Publisher accidentally kills himself trying to make a dramatic gesture to gain her forgiveness.The film has a lot of split screens and used miniature screens to contrast past with pleasant and black and white with colour. There is no consistency to this technique and sometimes the past is in colour sometimes black and white, sometimes the past is the main picture and sometimes the miniature. Song lyrics in French periodically scroll across as subtitles in calligraphic script. These techniques were clearly meant to add to the sensuous feel of the movie but for me they were clumsy and confusing.I disliked this film for its pace, its fiddly techniques and its reliance on nudity to buy it out of jail. All of them failed. Finally if you are going to use a Chinese actress instead of a Japanese then at least choose a good one there are plenty. "},{"Title":"Misinterpretation of Asian Culture","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beautiful but yet very pretentious. Only watched it last night on Channel 4. As a native Hongkong girl, I found this film quite disturbing. I just don't understand why the movie is being set in Hongkong but nothing has been mentioned in the movie in relation to our culture. The 'WRITING' bit is a little bit cheesy, I must say. It feels like those Chinese writing tattoo that you can get it everywhere. I am so surprise that Vivian Wu as a highly respectable Chinese actress has agreed to play in this film as it just messed the whole Chinese and Japanese culture up. I mean their should be at least some culture value in this type of movie but I am sure it just confuses a lot of Western audience who doesn't have a lot of knowledge of oriental culture. Really, I think the director should have done more research before filming. This film looks good but that's it really. Oh yeah...can someone tell me why all these Japanese guys want to sell themselves to the gay publisher please? "},{"Title":"Fetishistic pornography in disguise","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is about a Japanese woman who has an obsession with calligraphy on skin.The plot is absolutely bizarre. I fail to see any sensual or erotic undertones. The plot turns an ancient art form into a fetishistic pornography. In addition, the scenes that are filmed in Hong Kong are certainly portraying bad parts of Hong Kong, such as the airport in the middle of the city, poor living conditions and noise pollution. Throughout the whole film, I keep thinking that The Pillow Book is insulting the Japanese culture and the Hong Kong environment.The Pillow Book is a perverted, yet boring film. Seriously stay away from it. "}{"Title":"SPOILERS - Plot revealed in case you don't want to sit through it","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was awful, as well as disturbing. A Japenese woman is obsessed with being written on, like her father did. Her search for a proper lover to write on her as she wishes leads to Jerome (Ewan MacGregor), but not before a good half hour into the movie. They are in love, they paint each other, have lots of graphic sex, etc. Then because they want to get a book published or something, she allows Jerome to sleep with this old guy who owns a book store. Jerome is having a lot of fun, and doesn't return on time so she banishes him. He gets depressed a commits suicide. Then she paints on his body and buries him. The old guy digs up his body, and I wish I had turned the movie off right after that. Make sure you do. You do not want to see what happens next. "}]