[{"Title":"Underrated Sci-Fi Classic","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"91 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" OK this film has virtually no budget for a sci-fi movie and no real stars to speak of other than Peter 'Robocop' Weller but that doesn't matter because what it does have is a good story well told. It's a shame that bigger budget sci-fi productions never seem to remember that sci-fi should be have an interesting premise and not just throw a few explosions at the screen every few minutes.What is on offer in Screamers is a solidly entertaining 1hr 40mins of sci fi fun, reasonable acting and a great story based on a Phillip K Dick short. The main idea of screamers is a very scary one a war that had been taken over by machines that fight on our behalf a war that can't be stopped.For sci-fi fans this is a must see, for everyone else it's still solidly entertaining 7/10 "},{"Title":"A very, very good movie","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"82 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Screamers impressed the heck out of me.  Reviews I'd read of it called it a slasher movie and said that it was highly derivative of other movies, such as Aliens and Blade Runner.In fact, I found it to be highly imaginative and original, very much in the spirit of the Philip K. Dick story that inspired it, pondering the ultimate meanings of humanity, war and technology.  The scenery and story surrounding the film were both intriguing despite the film's low budget, the director did an excellent job of constructing the devastated planet.  Peter Weller and Jennifer Rubin turned in excellent performances, and the supporting cast was also quite good.  Finally, every scene is shot with a real urgency to it; particularly well done are the nightmarish confrontation 2/3 of the way through the movie and the poignant and shattering ending.  In short, this is a very very good movie and well worth renting.  It will stay with you for quite a while.Before signing off, I should say something about construing one science fiction movie as a ripoff of others.  Screamers had elements of its plot which can be found in other films (ie men and machines, monsters) but it blends them seamlessly into its own original story.  The mere presence of identifiable elements from other films has given people ground to criticize this movie as unoriginal.  By their standards, I don't think it would be possible at all to make new movies or novels or anything.  These surface similarities will always be there.  One can argue that the Matrix is merely an update of Socrates' cave allegory.  In conclusion ignore the critics and see Screamers!! "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"73 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie aptly showed that you don't need a huge budget to make a good picture, even when that picture is a sci fi.  It wasn't the best movie I've ever seen, but for crying out loud it was a heck of a lot smarter than Independence Day and that movie cost a mint.  I had read Phillip K Dick's 'Second Variety', the short story upon which this movie is based, before I ever saw Screamers, and I didn't realize Screamers was even based on the story until I watched it.  Being a big fan of the original story I was glad to see it brought to the screen, and more or less faithfully - I thought Peter Weller did a great job in this movie, the atmosphere was actually somewhat as I had imagined it reading the story (they updated it somewhat by placing it in a totally different location, since the original story's wasteland was a result of nuclear war between the U.S. and Russia; something which I'm sure seemed plausible at the time it was written but is a little dated now), and although I don't think they pulled off the sort of paranoia we saw in The Thing, there was some nice tension as the story unfolded, although it fell apart a bit at the end.Bottom line - if you're a sci fi fan sniffing around for some sci fi you haven't seen but don't want to sit through a total dog, it's not a bad renter. "},{"Title":"Not bad considering the budget","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"55 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the future the mining planet Sirius 6B has become a war zone with two warring factions. The ground is patrolled by underground robots called Screamers who target anyone not wearing identifying marks. One side receives a plea for peace negotiations after 10 years of war and discover from a lost soldier that the war has been forgotten on earth. The two sides have been left to die on Sirius 6B while another way is started on another planet. Commander Hendricksson (Weller) sets out with the lost soldier Jefferson (Lauer) to contact the other side and declare peace. However what they find will spell the end of their war one way or another.This is based on a Phillip K. Dick story and has all the intelligence you would expect from a sci-fi from him - this is not a gory horror movie. This is an intelligent story about the creation of the Screamers and their evolution. It also has a cynical edge lended by the way that the soldiers have been deserted by their leaders and continue to be tricked into fighting while the leaders get on with their business.Weller is excellent as the world weary commander who finds his life sold out from under him. The supporting cast are OK with their stereotyped characters but the real stars are the Screamers who start out by small things with saw-blades and gradually take other forms. The child versions of Screamers are particularly creepy and perhaps a little disturbing.However this is not as terrifying as it should be, nor is it as intelligent as it starts out being.  The whole issue behind the different screamers is not explained and towards the end they just keep popping up without reason!  It also has one of those watch out for the sequel style endings - although in fairness it isn't quite as bad as that.  The special effects are a bit ropey but do the job - after all this is a very low budget movie.The whole thing is not as good as it could have been but is certainly head and shoulders above a lot of low budget sci-fi thrillers. "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"44 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screamers is a futuristic Sci-Fi Horror set on another planet, Sirius 6B. The film starts off very poorly with a narrative spoken in a robotic voice, indicating that Screamers will be no more than Z-grade garbage. Luckily, Screamers proves to be a respectable, suspense filled film that superbly displays the extremes of raw human emotions.Screamers always has the advantage that it was written by Philip K. Dick, the author whose stories lead to Blade Runner, Total Recall and Minority Report. Whilst Screamers is no way in the same league as these films, it is much more thought provoking and gripping than other Sci-Fi films on a similar budget. The pace at which the plot moves is extremely intense; it seizes the attention of the audience and leaves them waiting for the next scene. The relationships between each character are all very compelling; every character has their own little story which ensures Screamers does not become one dimensional.Peter Weller is excellent in his role as Hendrickson. I've only seen him in Robocop so it is good to know he is not simply good at playing a robot. His character is complex as he misses earth, yet has submitted to being stuck on Sirius 6B. His relationship with Jessica (Jennifer Rubin) develops wonderfully throughout the film and is a good contrast to the horror taking place. Jennifer Rubin also puts on a great performance as her character starts as a mystery and gradually opens up in to someone the audience really cares for.The Screamers are a tremendous idea as underground defence robots who adapt to produce a new, human looking batch of screamers. The sound they make is very chilling and really brings up the hairs on the back of your neck; this is greatly reflected in the characters reactions on hearing the screams. Sadly, poor stop motion effects mean it is a disappointment when it comes to seeing the screamers attack but it is not hard to overlook special effects for a good story.It is a shame Screamers wasn't given more budget as it had potential to be a truly great film. I don't care about special effects very much but I feel the films vision could have been realised more if there was more money in this area. Also some of the sets are poorly designed as there appears to be a lack of effort in some places. The outlook is supposed to be bleak but the director does little to emphasise this.Possibly the best thing about Screamers is the end. With paranoia levels reaching those in The Thing, the twist at the end is very surprising and tense. Weller and Rubin really shine in these scenes and do well to affect the audience's emotions. The script, which is good throughout, is also especially good in the final sequence.With more money behind it and better direction, Screamers would be a Sci-Fi classic, as it is, Screamers is an underrated, well acted, great story. "},{"Title":"Good movie on a budget","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Based on a Phillip K. Dick story (the writer of Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep, which was the background for Blade Runner) this movie delivers, but suffers because of the apparently tight budget. Some scenes in here reminded me of the original Star Trek episodes, where the production crew had to become quite inventive to get effects on an almost non-existing budget.So movies low on money have to rely on their scripts and on good actors, and Screamers has them both. The story and its subplots could serve for three movies and especially Peter Weller showed a superb performance here. Generally there are some weaknesses, but they can be forgiven, if you allow yourself to get into the story.If you have enough of FX loaded movies that cover their thin plot with a multitude of explosions, then give it a try. "},{"Title":"Truly an under-rated file","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"40 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Obviously most people didn't think this movie to be much anything special, although I tend to disagree. I thought this movie was probably one of the best sci-fi films in years that I've seen. Peter Weller (best known as RoboCop) is also a very under-rated actor who deserves some good roles these days. The only problem with this movie was the very poorly done special fx. I'm sure if this movie would have been given a bigger budget it would have done better in theaters. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Under rated, scary, yes, even creepy. I LIKE IT! I rented the DVD years ago, and look to buy it for my collection... to put next to my soldier and starship troopers dvds, no less. Petter Weller carried the movie. No doubt about it. The whiny, phsycologically scarred soldier from the NEBs was far better tolerated than Mr Game over man! from Aliens (bill paxton at  his unusual worst). This movie deserved a better budget, but was well made within what they had. Yes, I see the static back drops... a far cry from the dynamic CG animated ones we have grown used to in recent films. However, the Outer Limits style of cinematogrophy worked well for me. Okay, everyone just getting up and dusting themselves off after launching a mini-nuke into their kid-infested base was unrealistic and could have been portrayed better. The David screamer caught me off guard from the beginning, I didn't suspect anything until he was shot. And the chick? classic move. The teady bear at the end was UBER CREEPY... and begs for a WELL DONE sequel... with Peter Weller... or else don't even try. Mark this as one of my favorite unsung movies. A must see for the SCI-FI afficianado.  "},{"Title":"If you're going to be a rock, be a rock; don't be a bug","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Another highly entertaining sci-fi film based on a Philip K. Dick short story which I have subsequently read; and I agree with other reviewers that the movie is true to the story for the most part.Have yet to view a movie based on a Dick story that wasn't enjoyable, e.g., Blade Runner, Minority Report. If you liked either of those movies,you will enjoy this movie for its intelligent entertainment.Weller's character Hendricksson is fairly straight forward as a disenchanted commander believing that his command has been abandoned and that their battles on this outpost planet have been made irrelevant by the higher authorities. Consequently, Hendricksson sets out to bring a truce proposal to the enemy forces.But technology gone awry rears its ugly head in the form of self-manufacturing killing devices known as the screamers named for their high pitched sound just before they slice and dice humans. "},{"Title":"Great movie for Peter Weller fans","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For the few who happen to be fans  of Peter Weller, this is certainly one  to hang onto. A great little film that is  just as brutal and vicious as any  movie by Paul Verhoeven. I was  surprised Verhoeven didn't direct a  film like this. A little cheesy, but often  times interesting, Screamers  is a  little film I like quite a bit. The funny  thing is, I liked this film, even though  I had watched Twelve Monkeys just  a couple hours earlier (I did a little  theater hopping). A cool little film  with a freaky ending. "}{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this late one night on TV, and to my surprise i actually thought it was pretty good. The thing about movies today is that not many have a good solid idea, it's just not original enough. Here though i thought they had at least a decent concept and tried to capitalize on that.On a distant world a war has raged for many years. One side however have developed a weapon capable of winning the conflict. It's a weapon called Screamers, small machines that hunt down and kill anyone not wearing a special bracelet identifying them as friendlies. The problem is that the weapon has now developed itself further, and is no longer capable of separating friend from foe...In the half-asleep state of mind that i was when i started watching the movie i thought the idea of these weapons was rather interesting. And even when i had become more or less awake that thought stayed with me. Peter Weller is as usual decent enough in the lead. I can't say he's my favorite actor by far, but he always keeps a certain dignity in his performance. The rest of the actors left rather much to wish for though.The special effects feel dated when watched today, but they are not too bad. Considering that this is not a high-budget movie they were sufficient. What really carries the movie though is the story and the surprises throughout. A sappy ending lowers the grade a notch, but this is still worth watching in my opinion. I rate it 5/10. "},{"Title":"A Gem","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Contemporary releases in sci-fi/horror genre prove that rich Hollywood filmmakers are running out of ideas. This film is really an excellent example of how you can do a great job with almost no money.The greatest thing in Screamers is that there is a message in it. It's just a way the real art should be - it should make people think, dream, use their imagination and not only consume the finished and totally digested pieces of information. And I think not many expensive Hollywood productions (especially sci-fi) are successful in this regard.So, for instance, the idea that someone who looks human, can be a rusted dead machine inside and you can never say who's who judging from their appearance. Or the forsaken soldiers who sacrifice their lives in a pointless war, which was forgotten by the governments who started it. Blood is cheaper than raw materials - this is also reflecting the main principles of our life today.In my opinion you mustn't have one million explosions or world-famous stars in a movie to make it good. It's just a good story, an appropriate atmosphere and some really well done acting to make it good. And in my opinion Screamers has all these elements. "},{"Title":"Sure, it's a second-rate sci-fi movie. But it's one of the best.","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A well made, gritty science fiction movie, it could be lost among hundreds of other similar movies, but it has several strong points to keep it near the top. For one, the writing and directing is very solid, and it manages for the most part to avoid many sci-fi cliches, though not all of them. It does a good job of keeping you in suspense, and the landscape and look of the movie will appeal to sci-fi fans.If you're looking for a masterpiece, this isn't it. But if you're looking for good old fashioned post-apoc, gritty future in space sci-fi, with good suspense and special effects, then this is the movie for you. Thoroughly enjoyable, and a good ending. "},{"Title":"A great adaptation of a Philip K. Dick Story","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was a pretty faithful adaptation of Philip K. Dick's story, The Second Variety. The only major difference is that instead of a Cold War setting on Earth, they used a corporate setting on a colony world.So why did this movie rock? Because they stuck to the story, which was quite a good one, of killer robots who decide to ignore their programming to attack the enemy and consider all humans the enemy, and have developed a way to replicate them in the process.Peter Weller, whom I don't consider a great actor, is at his best here, as a war weary commander who stumbles onto this shocking fact, as he tries to get back to his base to warn his comrades. Jennifer Rubin is pretty good as a killer android who doesn't know what she is until the climax.They gave it a happier ending than Dick did, but still, a solid film. "},{"Title":"Nice underrated Sci-fi flick...","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Set in the distance future and in a place far far away, Screamers is an excellent sci-fi flick about two warring entities whom both have been long since forgotten. For the past 10 years, Sirius 6B has been shaped by the face of nuclear war and now it will be shaped by a another, more smarter, and aggressive entity called a Screamer. A Screamer was a man-made robot (sent to help one side) complete with an advanced A.I. who lurks beneath the ground waiting for its prey. Waiting silently and patiently. But little do both sides know that this man-made robot has got a few tricks up its own sleeve. Screamers is a amazing movie that features lots of suspense, plot turns, and a few good comedy scenes of its own. If you enjoyed Pitch Black or Red Planet, this is a great movie to add to your collection. "},{"Title":"a combination of Phillip K Dick and Dan O'Bannon in a better than average/less than great sci-fi flick","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screamers is like one of those made-for-HBO science fiction programmers from the mid 90s, except that there's some brighter things going for it. One of these is that it's based on a short story by one of the hallmark authors of science fiction, Philip K Dick, and another is that the script mostly got work done (and seems most noticeable) by Dan O'Bannon, writer behind Alien and Return of the Living Dead. There's more weight in levels of irony, not always the uproarious variety but more nuanced and violent, more in putting some good twists to the clichés that are taken for granted in stories set in desolate futuristic environments (the discovery of a cute abandoned child, the devilish nature of the 'screamers' themselves and how their more advanced counterparts work, the personalities of the crew that Peter Weller's character discovers at the base, and how each member soon dies/gets killed off). This might also be attributable to O'Bannon, who tackled this in his previous successes in films, but to say who is totally responsible for what can only be said for those who've read Dick's story Second Variety, which I have not. However it should be said, if only on some level of understanding from reading past works of his, it feels like it has a level of faith to the source, albeit changing locations and certain details in the situations, by being approximately cynical to the characters.The only problem then comes in with it being directed, more or less, as a standard slightly-higher-in-quality made for TV movie. It's by no means a sci-fi channel movie of the week, however Screamers might have fared a little better with its challenging and darkly funny bits without director Christian Duguay, who is professional enough to make it watchable on such a low budget (low for how it looks anyway), but doesn't give certain scenes enough juice to really fly past where it stays at being average. The cast too is a little more of the regular variety, with isn't totally a bad thing; by having character actors, B-level character actors (if that), it helps add to the levels of slight subversion in this story they're in about technology gone to the dogs on a snow planet in 2078. I liked seeing actors cast to type, like Andrew Lauer as the 'kid' who's got enough experience as a soldier but is still pretty naive in other ways; Roy Dupis in a sublimely duplicitous role; Jennifer Rubin as the token tough girl. Even Weller has his right place in the framework, not too cocky a hero but with enough confidence to carry a picture without the Robocop gear. I even enjoyed some of the action set-pieces, with one especially involving a whole field of Davids (the little robot boy).There's also a slight issue that has to be contended which is too many 'gotcha' addendums to the climax. It's not enough that one character suddenly appears as another cyborg, but that there's another, and then another...and then finally one last wink in the final shot (which actually does work as a creepy last bit), and it's detracting from what is attempting to be a little more substantial. It's only when the hints of things not staying all happy-in-the-end do the director and actors really hit good ground. Screamers has more than its share of moments, and it will continue to be an underrated find by sci-fi fans as the years go by. That it's nowhere near the best of Dick's adaptations- and not the worst- is understandable. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"B-Side at its best...","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Woah... I saw it in 1996 in a theater near my small Provençal village, and i simply wasn't expecting that... Christian Duguay proved once again he was terribly underrated by both the press and the public, Screamers (Planète Hurlante in France i/e Screaming Planet, nice title too...) is the B-side at its best, the B-efficiency with an almost-A script. The cast is OK (Roy Dupuis was almost a star here in the early 90s, the VFX impressive (for the most of them), and - as some viewers wrote earlier - the first part very promising. Overall, a good job. Take it on video with a couple of friends, some chips'n'soda (ok, beer if ya want). "},{"Title":"Creepy.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Thats right. Those small kid robot things. Uhhhhhh *shudders*.Anyway, a good sci-fi flick that sometimes a bit cheesy but otherwise it dosen't let you down as far as action and suspense goes.  Christian Duguay, Dan O'Bannon and Philip K. Dick did a fair job at a movie that has a decent jab at the sci-fo genre. Although one of the lesser sci-fis(in my opinion) the storyline would have to be one of the best and the characters fit in perfectly. Peter Weller does a splendid job as Hendricksson. His acting performance is probably up there with his robocop one and it probably lifted his career to new heights. Special effects impress for 1995, as this helps lift 'Screamers' to new heights. A good movie for anyone who wants a creepy sci-fi. Overall 70%  "},{"Title":"A good, fun video to rent","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Philip K. Dick, and so I already knew the basic story behind Screamers. (it was based on a short story of his). On seeing the film, I was satisfied with the way that they managed to work around the original's cold war trappings. Also, despite the low budget, the effects were sufficiently good to suspend disbelief. In fact, the attention to detail (surroundings, back-ground, odd gadgets etc.) was excellent, as is important in all sci-fi films...by creating a coherent world, the movie becomes that much more convincing. The performances were excellent, for such a low budget, and some of the lines were very quotable (up there with the script of 'Aliens' if you ask me). This is always an advantage. However, right at the end, I felt a little let down by the love-scene. It kind of destroyed Philip k. Dick's 'message'. Nevertheless, I managed to overlook that, considering how much fun it was.This film is no classic, but it's well worth a look. It's really quite good! "},{"Title":"Above Average Sci-Fi Film","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Shakespearean references and underlying philosophical being and becoming themes involving machine and human nature, elevate this above average Sci-Fi film to the next level. Not as classic a film as the existential Blade Runner but worthwhile nevertheless.  "}{"Title":"How to do sci-fi/action on a budget","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Possibly the best film I've seen that no-one has heard of.The acting is only average, but is made up for with imagination. The setting of the film is clever and well explained, the main event of the film (crossing the wasteland) has sensible motives etc.The main strength of the film is the type of confrontations the cast encounter - suspicion (is he or isn't he?), tension, bluffs, decoys, - without resorting to cliches like oh no my gun has jammed at such an inopportune moment to keep the action flowing.Top stuff "},{"Title":"In space noone can hear you scream?","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is particularly worth watching, in the light of Alien's tagline. Screamers then already has value, for any Science Fiction buff's collection.The fact that it is based on a Philip K Dick novel gives it a worthwhile pedigree, because Philip is one of the most respected science fiction authors since Asimov.Not having read the book, I am not in a position to advise as to how well the transposition to the silver screen has been performed, but it is unlikely to satisfy ardent Dick fans.Essentially, Peter Weller is the leader of a group of Striking miners, who are at war with a government that wants them to mine energy efficient ore, but highly radioactive... The only reason that they have not been defeated, is that the alliance against the government has provided them with a defence weapon, called a screamer. A screamer is like a landmine, underground, but designed to recognize life and move through the soil in order to locate their target, which they do not explode, but rather slice apart. The miners have bracelets that electronically tell the screamers that they are not targets. Where this becomes classic science fiction material, is that the screamers are designed to utilise material of their victims to reproduce themselves and they have the capacity to upgrade, their own design.Peter Weller acts his role with assured ability, of one of the most underestimated actors of our generation. The story builds well, leaving you to only guess at how the story will unravel, and the credit must go to Dick for this, but the direction does not fail to keep the page turning suspense element. Once you start watching you become more and more engrossed. It is low budget science fiction, but the effects are simple and effective, and the money has been spent very wisely. I thoroughly enjoyed this film, and if you are reading this because its up on your cable guide for the night, do yourself a favour and watch it, especially if you are a science fiction fan.  "},{"Title":"The best sci/fi film ever made!","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best sci/fi film ever made! It has a great hero (Peter Weller), great likeable character (Andy Lauer) and hateable badguy (Roy Dupuis). The settings (the snow planet and lair of the NEB's) enhance the wonderfully inventive sci/fi elements and it's always entertaining. For fun, great fx and great plot, Screamers is a great rental!The R rating comes from sci/fi violence and terror, language and some quick nudity... in a rather funny scene ('good lord, you're beautiful!'), but this film is pretty well suitable for all. No matter who you are you will love this movie!--- Pretty Cool, Huh?------ Top not entertainment! "},{"Title":"True SciFi","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent scifi. The genre is usually dominated by touchy-feely stories which have men exposing their soft gooey center, or horror stories which have men exposing their soft gooey center. In either case man is shredded into little pieces for the audiences pleasure. I find both of these types to not be scifi I think of them as fantasy with the watchable part being scifi.This movie avoids the pitfalls of femininazation and horrorization (is that redundant? ) and instead remains true to the original intent of the genre' - a true scifi. 9/10I found the ending annoying, which if cut would push this movie up to 9.5/10. But half-a-point does not ruin this movie at all. If you like *REAL* scifi's, like this one, then also see the movie version of Lost in Space.-ZafoidPS Kudos to the special effects. They were absolutely brilliant - from equipment to backdrops and the robotics!-Z "},{"Title":"This film has gone in my classics list, and yes, it's horribly underrated","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Realistically probably only about an 8/10, but its 6.4 rating at the time of writing is completely silly.And relatively speaking - by comparison to most American SF films - it IS actually a 10/10.Yet again we are shown that if you take a Philip K Dick story, and then just tell it more-or-less straight, you end up with a wonderful, brain-massaging and exciting SF film.This film keeps you guessing all the way through, and right when you think you know what's going on it twists again. And the twists are often violent or action-oriented, keeping you visually entertained, or else they are downright macabre - and the bizarre is completely justified by the story, it's not just pulled out of thin-air to make spectacle (eg. as Spielberg probably would - how he got Minority Report right I'll never know, it still flabbergasts me).I think the DVD cover and poster-art does this film an injustice, and may be one reason so few have discovered it. It makes it look like some B-grade schlock SF film, and in fact that's why I first hired it. I brought it back to the share-house I was living in, along with the pizza, and out came the stimulants and we all assumed we'd be having a laugh and mainly talking over it.Instead we ended up dimming the lights, turning up the sound, and hanging on every word of dialogue.I had to laugh at one small part near the beginning. It's like a contractual-obligations scene that they had to put in, then they got past it and proceeded with a very good film. Peter Weller is delivering a speech with the rising strings underneath, and you almost feel that there should be ticker-tape along the bottom saying OBLIGATORY FLAG-WAVING MOMENT. OUR APOLOGIES. WE WILL BE BACK TO THE HARD, MIND-BENDING SF IN JUST A MOMENT.Screamers is good enough to go on any hard-SF buff's library shelf, not just mine. "},{"Title":"The war between the workers and the bosses moves to a new level.","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is an awesome movie and is one that leaves you wondering what really was the truth. In the end you find out but what seems basic at the beginning of the movie, that is the nature of the screamer, in the end becomes a plot with many twists. This movie is about what you think you know is really what you do not know.Screamers is set a little way in the future (2078) and is on a planet, Sirius 6B, that has been totally ravaged by nuclear war. An energy corporation, the New Economic Block (NEB), has discovered Berynium, a new source of energy. The problem is that mining it is incredibly lethal and the miners want protection. The NEB won't give it to them so they form an alliance and declare war on the NEB. The war turns into a cold war on Earth between the NEB and the Alliance while NEB obliterates Sirius 6B with Nuclear bombing raids. The movie opens at the tail end of this where both sides are holed up in bunkers and want to negotiate peace.This war seems to the something similar to the union disputes occurring today. The workers are being forced to work in harsh conditions and the corporation doesn't want to fund the extra money to protect them. The protests today are of a different matter, namely removing union control, but what we see here is the same sort of thing happening, except the war between the unions and the corporations has resulted in a shooting war.There is also the idea of the arms race. Both sides have struck with destructive weapons. The NEBs used nuclear weapons while the Alliance developed the Autonomous Mobile Sword, or the Screamer. They are called Screamers because they scream when they attack. At first they are just little nasties that burrow under the ground and attack anything with a pulse, but we learn a little way into the movie that the are built in an underground bunker, operated completely by automation, and they upgrade themselves. At first the Alliance believe they know all about the screamers, but when a new guy arrives, ignorant of it, they slowly begin to realise that what they accepted for so long they really don't understand.Then there is the nature of the war. It seems at first that the war is coming to the end and negotiations are nearby so they prepare to travel to the NEB bunker to talk, but then a transport crashes and they learn that the war is nowhere near over, but just moving to another planet. With the nuclear wasteland and the screamers, Sirius 6B has become uninhabitable. It is also interesting to note that Hendricksson says a number of times, We were all NEBs once. The whole nature of war is that we are the same and in the end the whole reason of the war becomes moot and we just fight because we can. "},{"Title":"A mix of previous ideas but still entertaining","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's hard for filmmakers to adapt stories to the screen, especially when they resemble stories that have been previously told. Turns out though director Christian Duguay evens out the story and though it still recalls other movies before its time, it still has elements in it that make it have a quality worth watching.The story of Screamers is loosely based off of Second Variety, a short story written by Philip K. Dick, the novelist of Blade Runner (1982) and Total Recall (1990). Dick is a very prestigious science fiction writer. His work has multiple twists and it always was a pleasant read. I also read Second Variety and much of it was fairly close to this movie. I actually enjoyed the film adaptation more than the story itself.Peter Weller is Joseph A. Hendricksson, an eccentric commander of an alliance bunker located on a planet known as Sirius 6B. Years before on Earth, there was nuclear fallout between two major groups; the N.E.B. (New Economic Block) and alliance workers over a special mineral that could change energy usage for transportation. So the fighting was moved to Sirius 6B where there has been a Cold War ever since. For the alliance to defend themselves, they created the Autonomous Mobile Sword or better known as, the screamer. The screamer is a mechanical life form that was equipped with a razor sharp blade so it could kill its enemy. But like all man made robots, they become self-aware and are now deciding for themselves who they should kill. Strangely enough, they are always updating their software, even making screamers that look like humans. So from there, audiences might make the connection of these traits between Skynet from The Terminator (1984), and characters not knowing who's real and who isn't from the novel Who Goes There, by John W. Campbell Jr.But for those few relations, Screamers can hold it's own as an entertaining sci-fi horror movie. It does not contain a lot of blood but it can be very suspenseful. Weller's performances are always a welcome to the screen. His ability to make his character sarcastic as is serious is a great touch. Andrew Lauer plays a innocent rookie named Ace Jefferson who tags along Hendricksson to meet with the N.E.B. command. The N.E.B. group these two visit is lead by the lovely Jennifer Ruben as Jessica Hanson. And with her is Roy Dupuis, who looks like Matthew McConaughey's distant cousin, who likes bugging another soldier who has some serious patience issues. The special effects are definitely dated. And it's really obvious when the camera is focused on the screamer itself but hey, the creature looks cool enough to look at. I think the most baffling part is how the machine keep upgrading their models. It makes you wonder, What's going on down there. The set design is also something to see. A lot of does have the same color like from the movie Soldier (1998) but it at least looks real. The backgrounds actually resemble Chernobyl; which is eerie. Normand Corbeil composed the soundtrack and it also another strong point. When Hedricksson runs into a homeless child, the music makes the scene so heartbreaking. It's emotional and soft on the ears.The film variation of Second Variety does borough ideas from previous movies, but it's put together in such a way that it won't matter to the audience. The music is good and so is Weller's performance as a tired out war veteran. "},{"Title":"I would LOVE to see this movie remade with a good director and a large movie budget!","Date":"4 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I originally saw this movie in the theatre. Many reviewers comment saying it should have gone straight to video but I don't think so. As this movie for its time was not that bad. I have seen this movie about 6 times since 1995 and every time I have enjoyed it.Could this movie have been better? Of course! But for what it cost and for what kind of movie it is, it is alright! Its such an interesting premise I would LOVE to see this movie remade with a good director and a large movie budget! As that would be GREAT! Screamers did have a OK script, it had a great story, OK character and storyline development. All in all it was an OK 1995 film. As most sci-fi goes it is not the worst at all! Screamers was an original movie and it is entertaining so if you get the opportunity to see it, I recommend you check it out if you like sci-fi movies. "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of the Philip K. Dick short story Second Variety","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is the only movie (so far) that for me captures the depressing isolation and desolation that is the most common post-nuclear dystopia for so many of Philip K. Dick stories. I've seen several other movies based on this great author's work (Blade Runner, Total Recall, Minority Report, etc.) and this one really captures the feel.This movie is full of empty landscapes of Sirius 6B, and although it makes some changes for the silver screen it stays generally faithful to the excellent Philip K. Dick story throughout.Screamers contains one of the two main themes that Philip K. Dick likes to explore what is human? (the other common theme is what is reality?).Another thing this film captures really well is the paranoia in Philip K. Dick's stories ... You don't know who to trust or what is real or fantasy and in this movie the main character (played very well by Peter Weller I thought) constantly has to change his assumptions about what is possible and not in his reality, who is an enemy or friend, what is a machine, who is human, etc.The concept of an automated factory being left alone by humans which then decides to accomplish it's mission without human oversight is also well presented here. That is another common theme in Mr. Dick's stories; when artificial intelligence is running things the results can be unexpected and usually bad for the humans.Some things in the movie, such as who is a screamer and who is not, are purposely left vague and the ending is also up for debate.There were some comments about this movie being cheesy or having some low budget special effects but I prefer the look of this movie to most modern high budget films with their CGI effects that are almost interchangeable from one film to the next. The special effects in this movie have an organic feel to them that I miss. I also prefer the effects in the original Star Wars movie to the later films. "},{"Title":"A screamingly good sci-fi movie.","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Philip K. Dick has long been a source of inspiration for cinematic sci-fi endeavours (from Blade Runner to Paycheck to A Scanner Darkly and many other takes on his work, both official and unofficial) and his short story Second Variety provides the basis for this movie, written by Dan O'Bannon and Miguel Tejada-Flores and directed by Christian Duguay (probably best known to sci-fi/horror fans for his direction of the Scanners sequels).The movie is set on a mining planet ravaged by a war between a major corporation and those who used to be employed by them and/or those who support the stricken employees. A robotic weapon, the Screamer, has been developed that can hunt down and kill any living person but that's not all the robots were created to instantly begin creating themselves and have continued to do so over time, complete with upgrades. One man (Joe Hendricksson, played by Peter Weller) thinks there may be a chance of peace and so sets forth, with a young grunt by his side (Andrew Lauer), through perilous terrain to see what can be achieved.It's quite obvious that Screamers wasn't made with the biggest budget in the world but it does well with what it has. The effects vary between the impressive and the lame, the casting is solid (alongside Weller and Lauer we get Jennifer Rubin being a great female character and decent enough support from the likes of Roy Dupuis and Ron White) and the intelligent ideas about identity, technology and the psychology of warfare are nicely worked throughout the movie.I, like many others, caught Screamers years ago on VHS and it has been a favourite of mine ever since then. One of the few movies that I would truly identify as an undiscovered gem. Fans of sci-fi should have already seen this one or, if not, should head off immediately to give it a viewing. "}{"Title":"Underrated totally","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Wow, I can't believe this doesn't have a better rating. I really liked the atmosphere, some nice twists, good story overall, and Peter Weller is great on this one. Are people so dumb nowadays ? This is light years ahead of Avatar and other blockbuster crap. Sure it got it's flaws and maybe I'm overreacting, but I haven't seen a movie this good that came out lately...I'm just sad because I wonder what will I watch once I'm done watching these gems from 80's and 90's.Well, watch 'em again, I guess... And this goes on my gem list, that's for sure "},{"Title":"7 years after the release it goes science fiction in US","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i am not what one would call a critic, so for what it's worth, this film to me alone was at best **(two stars) i would have never gotten the opportunity to have viewed it had it not have been for science fiction channel, and insomnia, i would not have chosen it firsthand. all the actors in this film, stayed pretty true to form except for Roy Dupuis, he was less robotic that i seem to had developed an acceptance for with a series of television episodes he starred in here in US on our beloved USA network. it did take me by surprise to see Mr.D. smile, a little scary, but cool.i am still lost in space why it took science fiction channel 7 years to decide to carry this true to category film. geesh "},{"Title":"The most Underrated Sci-Fi Movies of All Time","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the most Underrated Sci-Fi Movies of All Time. I guess i'm a sucker for Cyberpunk movies and this one ranks in the top five. I think its better then road warrior and blade runner, it's not a masterpiece like Alien but close. It has a few plot holes like any science fiction movie and with the budget they had it looks great on the visual department. The acting is above average, Peter Weller is more or less carrying the hole movie from start to finish, no fan of Robocop but they guy is a legend in my mind. I wish they would make a prequel to this movie, that explain more about the situation leading up to the Screamers.If you like science fiction this is a must see and if you like Cyberpunk movies you are an idiot if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Not so bad movie, much better short story","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't overly impressed with the movie adaptation, but it was also not a terrible flick. Since it's been awhile since I saw it, I cannot remember many details, but thought at the time that it was an OK way to spend a couple of hours on an evening of otherwise uninteresting TV.If you like SF, you should read the short story by Philip K Dick that this movie is based on. That one was severely 'unputdownable' and gave me a serious case of 'the chills'. Absolutely recommended! Yeah, they are also not movies, but for the SF crowd (or maybe more realistically the newcomers to SF), I also recommend Alfred Besters 'Fondly Fahrenheit', Harlan Ellisons 'I have no Mouth, and I must scream' and Anne McCaffreys 'The Ship who sang'. Movies are great, but sometimes books are better. "},{"Title":"Stands for its own self.","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Really, I mean that this is a self-contained movie; it sets up a premise, a backdrop, characters... and manages to deliver. The grainy/gritty look of this film is really commendable, and instead of just saying Killer robots! and putting it on autopilot the filmmakers kept throwing little bits and pieces of creativity out there. Peter Weller is perfect for his role and develops great repartee with the greenie who tags along with him to... some pretty nice matte paintings. Budgetary constraints aside the movie looks good, the spaceships look good, the robots look good, and this is simply the kind of unified enterprise that doesn't get made with $100,000,000 and Bruckheimer producing (what is it with the Germans? I mean, Devlin and Emmerich and Bruckheimer?). So watch it, it's enjoyable and competent until the last 15 minutes. "},{"Title":"Better than you might think","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seen it years ago when it came out to rent and again this year on DVD, it is a good film but still in the straight to video bunch of films, some FX are really good for such a film and some are not so hot but it has been done to the best of there budget which has not been much, any weak parts are made up by a good story one i would like to have seen run another 20 mins or more as it seems to end just as its getting in full swing, this is all down to budget mind, if the film had more money, bit more gritty. bit more spent on FX, better lighting, more depth on story, then who knows this could of been a very very good film to push other films such as ALIEN and others, but as it is 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A very good sci-fi movie.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The story is very original and actually very scary. The movie takes place on the planet SIRIUS 6B where the humans has settled to dig for minerals and they have built robots to help them. But suddenly the robots starts to turn against the humans and kills them one by one.The robots also develops new forms which is identical to humans. The poor humans can't tell what is a robot or human,before it is to late.Trust no one, even your best friend can be one.This is a good movie with a great story. The fx are really good and the picture quality is amazing.Not many sci-fi movies can compare to this one. Go check it out.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Quality Sci Fi","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Screamers has all the tricks for a good science fiction flick.  Alien planets, evil robots, paranoia of your fellow man and fancy weapons. All this is very well done in Screamers and I happen to enjoy watching this whenever I get the chance.Weller does a superb job with his grizzled character, and manages to hold his own in the action scenes.  Most of the other characters are throw away, but their lack of development doesnt set back the plot all too much.All in all Screamers is a very good look at man's weapons gone awry.  the Screamers are just more mobile landmines of today,  still around long after their purpose is long past.Gave it 7 outa 10.  for a buck, its a great deal. "},{"Title":"Not much room for improvement...","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Stories by Philip K. Dick always get transformed into good science fiction films.  First there was Blade Runner, then came Total Recall and now we have Screamers.Screamers is fairly low-budgeted (I think around 10 - 12 million dollars), but it is really, really good.  The script is ace because its written by Dan O'Bannon (Alien, Total Recall), and the director knows exactly what he's doing.  It stars Peter Weller (from RoboCop), and he really shines as an actor in this film.  Andy Lauer, who plays the rookie who is ironically nicknamed Ace, is also very good, as are Roy Dupois who plays the mysterious Becker, and Jennifer Rubin who plays Jessica.The story is interesting and has a sense of paranoia, because you never know who is a Screamer (a killer robot), and who isn't.  The futuristic sets of a war-ravaged planet are also excellent, and the costumes and props to go with it are good too.The only thing that lets it down are the special effects.  For some parts they are ok, like the spaceship taking off at the end.  But the rest are not so good, such as the stop-motion Screamers that are outdated and when Becker gets shot in half.Overall, I think this is a very good movie.  If it had a slightly higher budget to sort out those special effects it would get full marks, but as it is I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"A good, intelligent film","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this existential movie the other night on cable.  I was struck by how intelligent and subtle it was.  The plot is engaging; the script writer cleverly uses the ambiguity of the situation to hold your attention between the surreal and suspenseful action sequences.  The acting is generally good; in particular, Peter Weller gives a great performace as a sad and thoughtful man who has been stripped of everything and everyone he holds dear.  Mr. Weller is one of today's most underrated actors.  The development of the screamers parallels the evolution of life on Earth; thoughtless, savage animals give rise to creatures capable of self-sacrifice and nobility but still containing the seed of brutality.  The movie isn't flawless however; the chronology of the off-screen events is a little confusing. Nevertheless, it is an interesting movie. "}{"Title":"Intriguing, fascinating plot!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw this film I thought the concept was superb! Artifial intelligence is an issue that needs to be highlighted and this film does it so well, really making you think. The effects and scenery are amazing though at the end it is obvious that the budget ran out! All in all, great acting, and a brilliant plot. ENJOY!!!  "},{"Title":"complicated expositions but good sci-fi B-movie","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's 2078 on the planet SIRIUS 6B. The Berynium mining colony was run by the all-powerful the New Economic Block (NEB). The Alliance, mine workers and scientists, demanded mine closure due to the pollution. This led to the devastating war as the Alliance unleashed self-replicating weapons under the surface called Screamers. Col. Hendricksson (Peter Weller) commands an Alliance outpost. He receives an offer for peace negotiations. Ace Jefferson is the sole survivor of a mysterious transport crash. Hendricksson discovers the Screamers are being modified. With conflicting reports, Hendricksson believes that they've been abandoned. He takes Jefferson on a mission to negotiate with the surviving NEB soldiers.The story is overloaded with background expositions. Sometimes, less is more. The movie needs to have one scene which reveals everything that is needed to know about the Screamers. Once that stuff is put away, this is a compelling sci-fi B-movie. Peter Weller is a solid sci-fi actor. I really like the premise but the expositions need to be tighter. "},{"Title":"Can I come with you?","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screamers is a well placed B-movie but it could have been more than what made it onto the screen,The movie itself is based on a short story by prolific sci-fi writer Philip K. Dick, who has been responsible for some inspired sci-fi movie adaptations including Blade Runner and Total Recall,As a sci-fi film Screamers is flawed in many ways specially in the end of the film, but it doesn't mean is all bad Peter Weller dose great in this film and honestly is is a very underrated actor.A lot of the flaws in this movie could sum up to the Budget, other Philip K. Dick stories that were adapted to film ad an enormous Budget compare to this, there are no big spectacular action sequences, in my opinion Screamers could have been a lot better than it is.If you are curious check it out, it wont disappoint on being entertaining "},{"Title":"The last scream you'll hear will be your own","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screamers is based on short story Second Variety written by Philip K. Dick . There is also reference to the short story The Days of Perky Pat and the novel The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch. both were written also by Dick. The original story was about Cold War in the 50's between UN and USRR. The screenplay has been slightly modified to fit for the 90's and is set in the distant future. It's possible that it is set in the same universe as Blade runner.The movie is very much in the spirit of the Philip K. Dick story . It asks important questions about war , technology and humanity. Despite the low budget the movie makers did an excellent job of constructing the devastated planet . The mood is a depressing one , it really affects you . Sure , some of the special effects are little outdated now (and look more like from the 80's) , but overall this movie feels more arty than typical sci-fi Hollywood blockbuster. It's definitely not a slasher movie (like some reviewers said) , more like a thriller/drama.Peter Weller(Robocop) and Jennifer Rubin turned in great performances. Waller is stubborn cynic tired of world , while Rubin is nicely morally ambiguous. The chemistry between them was believable .The supporting cast was also quite good. The direction is solid with some nice suspense. The ending is good too.Blood is cheaper than raw materials. A sad message , but a true one . For me it's a more important message than anything that Avatar tries to sell to the audience.It's a well made , gritty movie . Not a masterpiece and not one of the best sci-fi movies ever , but a nice one and worth having in collection. It's more than a B-class movie , yet not quite a A-class movie. There is something about this story that makes m keeping back to it from time to time . It holds good on repeated viewings . I give it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Close Deception","Date":"11 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Trust has always been a fundamental problem throughout the years because by it's nature it's never been a solid foundation to begin with. Despite the length of time we spend with a person we never truly know them, from his/her past to even what they do when were not around them. This film is an under the radar sci-fi gem which is based on a short story by my favorite sci-fi author Philp K. Dick.I like the production value despite a low budget they were able to use it well. We see a post apocalyptic world that is just dirty, grimy, and desolate. There is no vegetation, it is always cold, there is hardly any sun, and the worst part is the radioactive winds that blow every once in a while. It really adds to the suspense because it gives it a feeling of isolation, the fact there is hardly any life stirring means there is no help that will come when you need it the most.I also like the effects, most to all are practical so there's no CGI, at least none I know about, though some effects are a tad dated but not bad in my book. I really like the designs of the Moble Sword/Screamer robots, whom are menacing from their capabilities not just in killing but in learning and the different types they were able to produce which unfortunately give them an edge.The music is good, action is decent liked the hill battle, but most importantly I really like the suspense where you are on constant edge and has a steady build because you're never sure of what you'll discover, and when you do it might be too late. Like one sequence which is my favorite is when Hendrickson is using a computer in the bunker to discover all the different types of Screamers, it was suspenseful on two counts; one the fact that he has only a limited amount of time to use it and second what information is left in the dark afterward which puts us a step behind and makes the stakes of survival even higher.The story is very good, I wouldn't say the concepts are entirely new but everything done right. I like how despite post apocalyptic conditions they still have high technology that still works. And certain aspects of the story somewhat acknowledges or are even prolific on our war for oil as well as terrorism. Characters are solid, Joe Hendrickson played by one of my favorite actors Peter Weller. I like that Joe is a person whom is layed back, has a sense of humor, tired of the war and just wants to go home. Same with Jessica Hansen play well by Jennifer Rubin whom despite someone on the shady end of things, is capable of being selfless, doesn't give her trust to just anyone. I like that both have a decent dynamic together, I bought it.I really like how the film gets at the issue of paranoia as well as the philosophical issue on what is a human. One of the best things about Philp's stories is how our perception of humanity can be blurred. We discover how far the robots come not just in replicating human's physically but even in feelings and thoughts, which makes you wonder if that constitutes them as human and not just machines.The only problems I really have are the pacing can be slow at some points. And also there isn't enough action, but then again this is more of a suspense thriller so I can't complain much.Overall, I think is a very good sci-fi that I think is worth checking out. Be careful of who you trust, it could be the last person you give it to.Rating 3 and a half stars. "},{"Title":"Doesn't compare to other PKD adaptations","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The story is about a war on a mining colony between two rivaling human factions. One of the factions has developed a new weapon an army of robotic drones, nicknamed 'screamers', that hide underground and attack anything that they don't recognize. However, as the war is starting to draw to a close, the screamers refuse to work for the human faction that created them and it soon becomes clear that they have evolved on their own and now pose a threat to both sides.It's a neat idea and there are a lot of twists along the way, albeit very predictable ones. The writing could have taken a little more effort, the characters are shallow and the dialogue is very cheesy.The acting is also not that fantastic. Neither is the direction. It's all very average.Screamers is entertaining, but it doesn't stand out like other PKD adaptations such as Bladerunner or Minority Report. If you are looking for a fun sci-fi action flick, you might consider checking this one out, but if you are looking for depth then you're looking in the wrong place. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi the way it was meant to be","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I decided to watch Screamers because I'm a big Phillip K. Dick fan, and this was a film based on one of his stories I never read yet. I had realized I overlooked the movie for way too long. I originally thought the movie was outdated, since I have experienced the human/robot social films for a while now, mostly with Battle Star Galactica, Blade Runner, i, Robot, and even Terminator. However, this is one of the first and original stories to convey the human/robot social conflicts and was glad to find the film on my video on demand lists.Worth mentioning first is the fine acting by Peter Weller, and I can't help but wonder why he never became more than a cult film actor, he truly could have been a big time action star on par with the other heavyweights of the 90s. And he really is convincing in this film, as a man who was on the brink of madness from desolation and hardship. As for the supporting cast, excellent performances for a low budget film. It reminded me of a time when all Science Fiction films were B-movies, before the Star Wars and Star Trek's came along.Come to think of it, the film had a decent sized budget for a 90s film. Nothing like other adapted Phillip K. Dick novels had gotten, such as Blade Runner, Minority Report, or Total Recall, but still, Screamers is a story that needed a bigger budget and if it had gotten one, this film would be a classic to be mentioned in the same breath as Dick's other masterpieces. The story reminded me of Blade Runner in some ways, and another short by Dick called The Defenders In a sense, Dick re-tells his themes over and over again, but nevertheless, Screamers is well written and unique in its own way. It's just perplexing why this film didn't come out in the 70s, or even early 80s, before the original Battle Star Galactica, and before Terminator, etc. This story would have made for a very pioneering film. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi doing a great job to entertain","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a surprise movie meaning that turns out to be a great movie when you were expecting just a good one. The story has to be respected and understood. Then, what happens after that falls into place nicely. I am totally disappointed that they did not make a sequel to this winner. It was certainly set-up to do so. It has what I call genuine and satisfying scary moments brought to you via intelligence, not shock. Anytime you can engage the viewers imagination in a quality way after a movie viewing (as well as during) means you got a success on your hands. This is certainly one of those movies. The concept presented of something man has done that has mutated into something else is a good one. Now, if that something else wants to compete and then eliminate man, well you got my full attention thus this movie. Science Fiction treads a fine line of being believable or not when introducing a story. It doesn't have to be perfect to make its point. It has to be respectful and this movie respects the viewer. You will not have any trouble getting into this movie after the first few minutes. Then, all the dots start to connect and cause a viewing pleasure. It will suck you right in and when the ducks line up, scare you good and proper..Enjoy with a favorite snack so you don't bite your nails "},{"Title":"Decent sci-fi with creepy children on a small budget","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A war ridden apocalyptic mining planet, a small defence robotic weapon known as Screamers have continued to evolve into something more deadly which puts both sides of the conflict survivors at risk. Alien (1979) scribe Dan O'Bannon delivers an interesting take on the infamous writer Philip K. Dick's short story, Second Variety. Both Jennifer Rubin and Peter Weller are very effective as the leads in what could have be just another B-science fiction and the rest of the small cast are adequate enough. Christian Duguay direction is competent and he builds up some genuine tension when the Screamers burrow through the ground, wielding blades and attack their prey, the human war survivors. Although the special effects are below par and are now dated, the practical effects, chopped limbs, explosions are decent and there are some great matte paintings and the costumes look excellent.As Joe Hendricksson (Weller) journeys across wastelands to negotiate peace the film becomes more visually interesting and atmospheric with its desolate cold surroundings, sweeping snow covered landscapes and fort complex. An ominous atmosphere is created especially in the darker scenes, which have some nice surprise moments and creepy children.Screamers is a slow satisfying paranoia sci-fi with guns and robots on a small budget. Overall, it's certainly worth the watch if you're a fan of the genre. "},{"Title":"Killer machines are evolving!","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screamers is a better than average monster flick. They're a little bit Hal 9000, little bit Tremors, and a lot of violence. Killer booby-trap machines that were originally programmed in a war long since ended are still roaming the desert of a distant planet, and they are ruthless hunter/killer machines that attack from the ground. Well, at first. You see, these guys are evolving themselves; each generation of robots is building new, more efficient progeny that are progressively more diabolical. And deadly.There are many other sci-fi's that the Screamers emulate; two that it most looks like are Body Snatchers and The Thing. The more sophisticated robots impersonate objects, animals, even people. Needless to say, nobody is safe, and everyone is suspect. The intrigue provides plenty of suspense, and the wild battle scenes are frequent. Scary, exciting, and a good story that is built well. For a lower budget movie, this film was executed well with what they had.Only one notable weakness; as the movie progresses, it becomes more and more obvious to recognize the disguised monsters. The movie tries some different ways to conceal them and set up scary reveals, but it isn't able to fool you after a certain point.Worth a viewing. Good sci-fi/horror popcorn feature. "}{"Title":"I know, I know I shouldn't have like this &#x96; but I did!?","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well this movie, let's be clear, it's a B movie. However, as much as I thought it would be the biggest pile of rubbish since Critters 4, I couldn't help but be entertained. It's a fairly decent concept, well acted by Peter Weller who dispenses of all the niceties of the role and really makes it fairly entertaining.The extra-terrestrial post apocalyptic tale involves automated robotic machines that kill the enemy, over a commercial resource war. After a message of negotiation they both decide to meet&#x85; I'll leave it there, as I don't want to contain spoilers.But the later part of the story ain't bad, not the largest budget or the biggest cast, but it that ain't bad for what they had that's why I'm giving it a generous 7! "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi Drama","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is based on a novel by Philip K. Dick.As such, it has an old sci-fi feel, where the futuristic components are understated (similar to Battlestar Galactica, and contrasting with Star TrekTNG, where everything is deflector this or teleporter that).As a drama which tells a story that can also be considered a timeless satire about the political realities of war, this movie is, well, a classic. Even more so because it does this in a very subtle way.However, it seems to suffer from two things 1. Comparison to horror movies, such as Tremors and The Hills Have Eyes.2. It is not immediately obvious that it is mainly a drama/satire, with some thriller, horror, action, war components, rather than being in any of those genres.Putting those mistakes aside, you can easily find a lot of enjoyment in this movie.However, remember, it is first, and foremost, a drama. "},{"Title":"Not sure why it never got appreciated any better.","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie has basically every great science-fiction element in it. Granted that it's not the best ever movie but still the movie does really deserve some more attention and recognition.The movie has a pretty good main concept, that is formulaic but well done nevertheless. It's set in the distant future, on a distant planet and has evil, constantly self-improving, robotic characters in it that are up to no good for humanity. It sounds real familiar all and yes watching Screamers is not the most original experience you will ever have but it all works out well nevertheless for the movie and its story and it's an overall really well done movie, that didn't even had too much of a budget to spend.It has the rights looks and feeling for a science-fiction flick. It has some pretty good looking effects, especially when considering that this is an 1995 movie. It looks and atmosphere certainly help to make the movie work out.Perhaps thing with this movie is that it just isn't always fast enough moving. It has a bit of a dragging middle part, when new characters suddenly get introduced but overall the movie has plenty of redeeming qualities in it to still really consider this a good and also quite enjoyable genre film.I really liked Peter Weller in his role. I actually think that he is a pretty good actor who just however made some wrong choices in his career and got mostly stuck with playing in low grade science-fiction or horror stuff and never got the best out of his career. He's over 60-years old now, so it's hard to imaging that things will suddenly still start to improve for him.A pretty good genre movie that is also really enjoyable to watch.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"I've Seen Worse. . .","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Philip K. Dick's Second Variety, is a fine example of that difficult form, the science fiction horror story. When I discovered recently that it had been made into a movie, I prepared myself for the worst. The cinematic butchering of Robert Heinlein's Starship Troopers and the absolutely horrifying desecration of Isaac Asimov's Nightfall had shown me the depths to which the film version of a revered SF classic could sink.But what a surprise! Screamers isn't at all bad. Though transported through time and space from Earth to a distant planet, Dick's basic plot remains intact. The murderous claws of the story are called screamers in the film, but their function is the same to search out and destroy human life. Better still, the atmosphere of creeping paranoia that rendered the original story so memorable has been effectively transferred from page to screen. The cast, headed by Peter Weller and Jennifer Rubin, do well in their admittedly undemanding roles. The special effects, though hardly whiz-bang, are sufficient unto the film. I had a good time with this movie myself, and I think others would enjoy it as well.The reason why Screamers can be rated as a modest success is a simple one. The movie remains faithful to the letter&#x97;and, more importantly, to the spirit&#x97;of Dick's original story. Second Variety is a little gem of terror, and the people who made Screamers had the good sense not to mess it up. If you enjoy cinematic SF and/or horror, you'll like this movie. For sure, you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Not as good and as bloody as I would have hoped.","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When I saw the previews for this movie I thought it had a chance to be a really good and kick ass type of horror science fiction hybrid. What it turned out to be was just an okay one that could have been better, as it turned into what amounts to a who is real or not type of movie, paranoia horror that just is not as good as the super paranoia horror movie John Carpenter's the Thing. The plot centers on these two opposing groups on a far away planet. One side has taken a decided advantage by using these machine like weapons that burrow underground. Well the opposition is now requesting help and the one group is going to learn the price for setting this super saw like weapons on the loose. Some good scenes here and there make up for the plot that has gone bad at points, I love the scene involving the little kids coming out of the one facility. It also has a typical horror ending of the 80's that I did not care for one bit and one to many plot twists involving what is real and not. Still, the movie has Peter Weller in it and he is always good in this type of role, I can not put my finger on how this movie could have been a lot better, but I know it would not have taken to much. "},{"Title":"Phillip K Dick adaptation - the best  from the bottom","Date":"24 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There have been numerous screen adaptations of Phillip K Dick's work, but this one seems to be the best from the bottom. Seriously, there were so many others which created the environment and then progressed with the narration. In Screamers, at the very beginning there is long read for the audience to get the basics right.Even the suspense of figuring out Type-3 after Type-2 is uncovered was anybody's guess.There is nothing noteworthy to mention about the performances either &#150; crass is the nearest word perhaps. The only saving grace is the justification on the futuristic settings but all good things come to end there. "},{"Title":"Decent, if slightly plodding low budget sci fi","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've owned Screamers for years and watched it a couple of times when I was younger. I saw it again recently, remembering that I thought it was OK but too slow. Also, I'm a bit more of a fan of science fiction films than I was when I was younger and figured I might be able to appreciate it more. I had a pretty good time but yet again found the film to have too low key a pace. The story is excellent, as is the script, by genre legend Dan O'Bannon and Miguel Tejada Flores. Apparently the film sticks fairly well to the Philip K. Dick source material, which I ain't read. Certainly it isn't a generic Hollywood whizz bang explosion laden mindless dreck fest. Instead the film strives for dingy atmosphere and lots of cool ideas and the script offers up bits of nice bleak humour as well as a good deal of general interest. As far as low budget science fiction goes, the writing is marvellous, though the pace is a tad lacking. The acting is strictly OK, apart from a nicely grizzled and world weary Peter Weller and his enthusiastic companion whose name eludes me at present no one stands out really. The actors all play their parts well, its just that they're generally kinda workmanlike, which is a shame because it doesn't bring the writing or the ideas to life as much as it should. Although I'm all for intelligence over action, I can't help but feel that with a cool adversary like the Screamers there should have been more action, or grue. They aren't really the focus of the film and are pretty underused. The opening is pretty neat and I would have liked more Screamer shenanigans in that vein. Having said that there are still various cool moments, especially involving disguised varieties. Director Christian Duguay does fine work with his budget, conjuring just the right bleak, dingy atmosphere, some good jolts and a handful of cool, imaginative action scenes. He treats the material with flair and respect and the film mostly doesn't patronise the audience with the kind of nonsense that comes in big budget science fiction, ie. the last half hour or so of I, Robot. Screamers does have a slightly silly climax, but it doesn't dissipate the goodwill that the bulk of the film builds up. Altogether, I have a lot of like and respect for this film. Its one of those films that does terrific given its budget and is well worth a look for science fiction fan. A wee bit slow but still recommended. "},{"Title":"Nice try could have been better.","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Welcome to my examination of this movie and the short story second variety written by Philip K. Dick, upon which the movie is based. Dick's story tells of a surprise attack by communist forces on the west, the communist almost achieving victory until halted by UN killer robots called claws. Those in the west who survived the nuclear wipe-out moved to the moon leaving only soldiers, claws and underground weapon factories behind. The story kicks of when an UN commander receives a message from the enemy begging for a truce. The commander then sets of across no-man's-land to an agreed meeting point. During this trip he picks up a small boy. When the commander reaches then enemy lines two soldiers and a woman pop up and kill the boy. The boy turns out to be new type of advanced killer robot that infiltrates and then kills. The two soldiers survived such an attack because they happened to be enjoying themselves elsewhere in the company of the woman. The commander decides to return to his bunker. The return voyage is cloaked in fear as it becomes clear that new human like robots have been turned out that kill everyone. Since there are two variations known number one and number three, the paranoia builds. The mood doesn't improve when the commander fails to contact his bunker and one soldier is killed by the other because he suspects him to be the 2nd type. The climax is reached when the group reach the bunker and discover it has been conquered by robots who attack the group. In the attack the 2nd communist soldier is killed and the commander is heavily wounded. The 2nd soldier turns out to be a robot. The commander and woman then try to escape the robots via a rocket that is programmed to fly to the moon. However, since the craft only takes one person the commander allows the woman to escape. When she is gone, he finds out that the second soldier was type four and the woman was type two.The movie follows the short story closely although details have changed. For example the action takes place in the future on another planet, with earth taking the role of the moon. The sides are called the called differently.There are however some real changes that in general improve upon the story - The movie spreads the action across more time and this makes the story stutter, with the action being broken by dead moments. - The movies takes of quite slow with scenes about the life in the bunker in a very cheap looking setting, especially the sliding doors are unbelievable. It would have been wise if they had just left them out and turned made things darker so it wouldn't be obvious how low budget the movie is. - The movie adds a fifth person to the group via a peculiar space craft crash. My guess this is because the commander can tell him(and thus the viewer) what is going on. Otherwise it is quite a mystery why a space crash occurs in the story. In other words it doesn't help the story along. - In the movies the claws are called screamers. The boy robot screams when it attacks. My guess this is to introduce a shock effect like in the Invasion of the body snatchers(seventies version). Again this doesn't seem to help the story along and the screaming robot boy isn't scary (and believe me I scare easily). - The end is completely different. In the end the commander isn't heavily wounded and he escapes to the earth. Although it isn't an entire happy end as in the last shot the doll from a boy robot is seen lying(and moving) in his craft. Also the woman robot(who is the love interest in the story) dies fighting another one who tried to kill the commander.- What really is different is that the movie fails to convey a strong mood one way or another. While the actors are adequate, with Jennifer Rubin and peter Weller being reasonable strange decision are taken at many points. For a paranoid feeling the movie fails to built up the tension. People are killed of to soon for that. Also much of the environment is to well lightened to be a horror. If all else fail one can try sarcasm, but alas this movie is devoid of wit as a desert is of water. When I wonder about this movie I wonder about the movie Stalker by Tarkovsy. I think this story needed a bit of stalker. It is a pity in never came off. - In addition the movies beset by strange moments that attest to the noting that less is more. Leave this out. An example is that the commander is chased aliens style by the boy robots down a corridor and he has to wait for a slow moving elevator while the robots are smashing in a steel door. Up till then and after that the boys move very slowly(the bunker attack sees them shuffling along). When the robot soldier attacks one of the group he breaks in an unbelievable rant. It would have been better to just leave the babbling out. When the commander is at the escape rocket place there are two fights there, the commander fighting another ranting robot. The woman robot fighting another one. The movie makers apparently had to bent over backwards to introduce some unbelievable moments of affection between Rubin and Weller. It would have been better to be left out.All in all the movie isn't as bad as it could have been, but it isn't as good as it could have been either. With some better lighting, leaving things out and some more dialog between the prime characters this might have even been a reasonable movie. As it is it isn't worth a second look. Nice try. "},{"Title":"Screamers","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" On a planet named Sirius 6b, a civil war between two factions has broken out over a mineral energy source called Berynium which was once a unified state. Earth supplies the planet with soldiers of the Alliance to battle those who dub themselves the NEBs. The Alliance were in trouble of losing to the NEBs until the creation of robotic creatures underground were created called Screamers(the screech loudly as they prepare to kill). The Screamers are self-evolving to the point were they can actually duplicate humans and use the human-shell to trick Earthlings. Through a downed aircraft carrying a nuclear device carrying one remaining soldier left alive, Jefferson(Andrew Lauer)explains that the Alliance were bound for another planet housing a mineral source to do battle with another group of NEBs. Through a message that was sent to leader of the Alliance Joe Hendricksson(Peter Weller), they discover that they were told of unified peace between them and the NEBs which turns out to be a lie when Jefferson informs them that the one that delivered that very message has been dead for over two years. Joe, knowing that the Alliance had left them on the planet forever, sets out to make contact with any remaining NEBs that might still be alive, carrying gung-ho gunner Jefferson with him. The Screamers do not attack the Alliance members for they have these arm bands which throw off their signal.Good old-fashioned old-school sci-fi actioner B-flick directed with visionary flair by Christian Duguay is actually exciting and imaginative. It's also tense with these Screamers quite elaborately detailed. Good special effects and a tough-talking band of soldiers brings this noir mentality to the film. Weller's hero is a direct representation of that very noir mentality as he doesn't dawdle with small talk..he's a man of few words, wiser than anyone else. I could give or take the ending, though, as The Screamers have evolved quite impressively into humans to the point where they express emotion and bleed blood. "},{"Title":"Not bad considering","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Screamers smacks of a B movie but is not bad at all considering the lack of a famous cast or big budget. The story is set 100 years in the future and revolves around a mining dispute between two faction one of who invented a robot called a screamer which has evolved itself to attack anything with a pulse. OK some of the acting is wooden and some of the special affects are hardly in the Star Wars catagory but there is something about this that makes it compelling. I would recommend this to any Sci Fi fan but maybe not to anybody who is not keen on the genre. 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Why Phil K Dick stories work (includes spoiler)","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I list Philip K Dick as one of my top science fiction authors. His short story Second Variety is one of his best. It was this fact that decided me to watch Screamers which was broadcast last night on UK television. It was shown at midnight to two am, which does rather imply that it is of limited appeal, however I would say it was an excellent film, and I would acquire it on VHS if possible...having read the story I had a good idea from the initial half hour of what was too happen. SPOILER Without reiterating the plot, I will concentrate on the end part of the film, which seems to have received bad press. I knew that the Second Variety was a near human or human replica (echoing the replicants of Bladerunner), starting with the boy then the wounded soldier and finally the woman herself, which you don't quite figure until the very end, after Hendrikksen has had a fight with his former XO. What did wrong foot me was the appearance of Jefferson and for much of the film I had assumed he would turn out to be a robot... Personally, having read the reviews above, it strikes me that some viewers are quick to slag a film that reflects the low budget and limited CGI SFX available to it (due to the budget). There are some good sequences, and I actually liked the desert trek, which allowed the Colonel to explain to Jefferson (i.e. the viewer) the history behind the screamers and the planet etc. Weller and Jefferson were convincing, but with the interaction limited to a few characters possibly more could be made of this ( and maybe extending the film to 2.5 hours...) In summary, a good film, watchable and rewatchable. Also buy the book which has the short story in it, you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Very nice, despite a few faults","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This won't go down in history as the next Aliens, but bless it, Screamers does try. The early parts that set up the basic plot background will seem a bit too talky and vague for some viewers (it -is- a bit tricky to get into), but a pretty clever, if done-to-death concept is established quite well. The main characters, played by Peter Weller and a really loveable Andy Lauer are very sympathetic. Though not exactly very deep, they grow on you and are entertaining to watch (especially Lauer, who seems perfectly in place as a boyish and eager space rookie, hats off to the man). Some very good sets and imagery, backed by a good music score manage to build up an atmospheric and suitably bleak environment, and the special effects and action scenes are decent enough as well. But alas, there are some flaws in there as well. It is never explained why or how the Screamers in question went haywire (not even a hint, nothing), the ending goes a bit too over-the-top, the storyline doesn't quite deliver as much as it promised and the three characters that are introduced halfway into the film never really develop into anything more than boring and annoying stereotypes that just clutter the film. But this doesn't ruin the movie, and it remains enjoyable to watch. Give it a look and you might just grow very fond of this film. "},{"Title":"In space no-one can hear you get your arms and legs chopped off","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Good to see I'm not the only one willing to give Screamers a chance. While I'm glad it was deemed worthy of a fully-fledged cinema release, I have to admit I was as surprised as anyone else at the time - not because it's a bad film, but because it's low-budget sci-fi with a cast from the B-list and below, and let's face it, you're not going to get much of an audience response to a pitch like that.Still, Peter Weller's always been good at doing gruff and resilient, while Roy Dupuis isn't half as annoying as he is in that dodgy Nikita TV series - no, really. Effects (particularly location shots) are pretty amazing in general considering the budget, and if that little stop-motion interlude is probably best forgotten, well, it's a small price to pay. Some nice plot twists, sharp dialogue, a few genuine chills and it's not afraid to kill off any of its characters, even the 'nice' ones - on the whole much better than you might expect from something with such a cheesy title, so if you've got even a passing interest in sci-fi or horror, give it a look. You'll probably hate it, but hey, you don't know where I live.  "},{"Title":"Not as cheap and corny as the Trailer made it appear","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You don't get many Peter Weller films these days, and I was glad to find he wasn't wasted.  When I saw the trailer to this film in theaters I figured it was another trashy shot-em-up action/thriller using sci-fi as a genre audience hook.  Luckily, I was convinced to try it.  Aside from some short bits of bad foley and bad stop animation (and I mean very short), it was not a bad adaptation of Philip K. Dick's Second Variety.  If you're a science-fiction (or a P. K. Dick) fan and one to give unpopular films a chance, try this one out.  I was happily surprised.  Certainly not a blockbuster must-see, but a worthy film. "},{"Title":"Uneven","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts out with one of the most promising plots I've ever seen.  The actors are all well fleshed out, and the action and suspense scenes are gripping.  However, what is inexcusable is the utterly stupid ending.  Never have I seen a movie go downhill quite so fast as this one did.  The end is utterly nonsensical and you can tell the director was just trying for a rweally cool twist.  8.5 for the first part of the movie, 0.00000000 for the ending.  If I could go negatives I would. "},{"Title":"Could have been better if...","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Most films based on the works of famous science fiction writers usually are hit or miss at the box office (case in point -- H.G. Wells, Jules Verne, Isaac Asimov, Phillip K. Dick). Dick got big-budget, big-name casting and directing for three of his stories (that became Blade Runner, Total Recall and Minority Report). Unfortunately, the same could not be done for Screamers. It's a shame because it's ultimately a neat film. For those who have read Second Variety, the Dick story on which this film is based, it might be disappointing. But, for the average sci-fi fan, it should be okay. Short stories must often be changed to fill time and to be updated for the current age.As such, Screamers, which, as a short story, dealt with the Americans and Russians facing off after a devastating nuclear war, had to be changed when the Soviet Union collapsed. Thus, the film's location is changed to Sirius B, a mining colony where civil war has sprouted between the mine workers and scientists (known as the Alliance) and the NEB's (New Economic Block), who are basically corporate honchos who want their valuable berynium dug out despite the radiation hazards.To gain an edge over the NEB's superior equipment and firepower, the Alliance builds Screamers, nasty little self-sufficient killing robots that announce their arrival with ear-piercing shrieks. For those who hear it, it usually means they're seconds away from being sliced and diced. The Screamers are built by Artificial Intelligence in an underground factory to keep the NEB's from finding it. The Alliance soldiers wear special tabs to keep the Screamers at bay. Unfortunately, although the Screamers balance the scales in the war, they create a stalemate. NEB soldiers can't leave their bunkers for fear of being sliced and diced. Alliance troops can't leave their bunkers for long for fear of being shot to pieces by long-range weaponry.Into this we have Commander Joe Hendrickson, a divorced Alliance soldier who's quite comfortable with the status quo, even as his second-in-command, Chuck, dreams of going home. Even when the NEB's have gone quiet for six weeks, Joe is content with his routine. Things change when a NEB soldier gets sliced and diced right outside Joe's bunker as he delivers a peace offer. Then, a transport plane crashes nearby, but instead of civilians, it carries Alliance troops and nuclear weapons. A lone survivor named Ace Jefferson explains that the Alliance is off to attack a new NEB planet to secure berynium and that Sirius B has been forgotten. This spurs Joe into accepting the peace offer. So, he takes Ace with him to the NEB bunkers.Here, the story gets weird. The pair encounter new Screamers, more sophisticated than the originals. While the humans got complacent, the robots didn't. We get to see Type I's, Type 2's, Type 3's and Type 4's -- a lizard, a boy named David, a wounded soldier and a mysterious type. The humans soon realize they might have held off on peace negotiations a little too long.The acting here is solid. Peter Weller (Robocop, Robocop II, TV's 24 and Odyssey 5) is excellent as Hendrickson. Andy Lauer (TV's Caroline in the City) plays Ace with just the right amount of fear-based hubris. The supporting cast is okay, although Roy Dupuis as Becker is wooden. Jennifer Rubin does exude some sexiness, but her romance with Joe comes off as unbelievable. Ron White as Chuck does good, too, while the late Bruce Boa does his usual affable job in a cameo. Probably the best of the supporters is Charles Edwin Powell as Ross, a cowardly NEB who gets so irritating even a deaf man would want to kill him.The special effects are okay for the budget, save for a fight scene near the end. There are some disturbing scenes, especially when Becker shoots a David. Up until then, we were supposed to believe the boy is real.The one main thing that hampers this movie is its director, Christian Duguay. Prior to Screamers, he'd done Scanners II and Scanners III, both of which went straight to video. So, he may have seemed perfect for this low-budget French Canadian thriller. But, he destroys the tension, most likely unintentionally, by giving away the identities of the advanced Screamers early on. For instance, when Becker is sighting his long-range target scope on Joe, Ace and the David, we see that all three are marked as armed two different times, so clearly we find out the David is a Screamer. Thus, when he's shot, it's not as shocking as it should be.The wounded soldier Screamer acts virtually like a robot during most of his scenes, walking with his eyes forward and treading through knee-high water with nary a thought while the humans are constantly scanning the area for trouble. The mysterious Type 4 pours boiling hot water into a pan and then swirls its hands in it with absolute no reaction. It was hard to believe Peter Weller's character would miss those obvious signs, but he had to, I guess, to keep the film going.I realize liberties have to be taken to turn a short story into a feature-length film, but Duguay overdid it. Out of the blue, he adds a totally new Screamer (that doesn't scream, by the way) at the end. In the scheme of things, the whole scene was unnecessary. The ending is different from the book, too, but that's okay as story endings don't have to entice several million movie goers into parting with ten bucks.To sum it up, Screamers is an okay movie that could have been more, even with its limited budget, had it been directed by a better director. "},{"Title":"That's right.  Pinnochio's not a real little boy!","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Rarely does a film completely turn me against it in the last twenty minutes. Such is the case with Screamers. This movie had so much going for it. It had an apocalyptic feel, such an isolated and hopeless atmosphere. I loved it. The story involves a struggle on a mining planet where the ground war has been won by menacing, burrowing robots known as Screamers. Dan O'Bannon (Alien) was writing the screenplay from a Philip K. Dick (Blade Runner) story, and I love both of those guys. Peter Weller was in top form and was carrying the cast. Everything was perfect. Everything except for that ending. Too many plot twists and inconsistencies. Oh, he was a Screamer the whole time and Oh, she was a Screamer the whole time. It just got stupid. If they were Screamers the whole time, why not kill everyone when they had the chance? They should have stuck with the original ending of the story. For those of you not in the know, the story ended with Weller's character sacrificing himself to send the girl back to Earth. Only, after she is safely away, he realizes she is a Screamer (the Second Varierty if you will) and he's made a major mistake. A very disquieting ending that would have made this film a classic. I've got to wonder if Screamers is a victim of studio tampering. Either way, it's still worth a watch just for the atmosphere and for getting it half right. "},{"Title":"Even in space, you'll still be able to hear them scream...","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screamers takes obvious influence from a whole range of Sci-Fi films, including Aliens, The Terminator and The Thing and somehow manages to bring everything together to form a coherent and exciting movie. Futuristic action movies were in vogue in the nineties after the successful release of Terminator 2, and this is certainly one of the better releases since James Cameron's masterpiece sequel. Director Christian Duguay presents a good futuristic atmosphere, which is all the better given the fact that this movie was made before CGI became part and parcel of action films. The locations are good, and it's easy to believe that the film really is taking place on a distant planet. Screamers takes place on a mining colony known as Sirius 6B. The planet has been at war for ten years, and one of the results of this war is the creation of the deadly 'Screamers', a machine that has the ability to maim and replicate its victims. However, what the scientists who created them didn't count on is the evolution of the machines post man's control, and this is proving a problem for Colonel Hendricksson, as it's not easy to tell the difference between people and machines anymore...Christian Duguay evidently decided that it would be a good idea to play it safe with the lead star and opted to cast Peter Weller, who had been tried and tested in futuristic actioners almost a decade earlier with Paul Verhoeven's Robocop. Weller makes for a good B-movie lead as although he's no Arnold Schwarzenegger; he looks strong and knows his way around an action scene. However, for me he's a weak link in an otherwise strong film, as he doesn't look interesting enough and has a hard time when it comes to the emotional scenes. The rest of the cast is good, despite there not being any big names on board, and Jennifer Rubin provides eye candy as the female interest. The film is very imaginative, and while the effects aren't always solid; they're well used and seeing all the different things that the title villains can do is always a highlight. The action sequences are exciting, and while some scenes feel very derivative of Aliens; Screamers works because it's always exciting and the fast pace benefits it immensely. Overall, this film is a good B-movie and while it's certainly no masterpiece, Screamers comes recommended to action and Sci-Fi fans. "},{"Title":"Pretty good Sci-Fi!!","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An above average sci-fi film! Peter Weller was quite good, Roy Dupuis was excellent, he played the part of psychotic 'Becker' superbly! The plot wasn't bad; as most sci-fi rely on special effects, this is one of the few that didn't; probably just as well because the effects weren't on par with the acting.Briefly--The story takes place on Serius 6B, a mining colony now polluted by radiation. It is 2078 and there is a cold war between the New economic block and the Alliance. The New economic block want to continue mining for monetary gain. The Alliance stopped the New economic block from mining. During the cold war which has continued for the last ten years, the screamers were created to protect the Alliance from a New economic block takeover, seeking and eradicating anything human. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I had very low hopes and was expecting to be rather bored, needing to ridicule this movie for extreme corniness (as per the awful 'Invaders from Mars') and ended up pretty glued to the movie, determined to see how it ended.For a low budget movie the acting varied between poor (in the exception) to better than average (overall) to extremely good depending on whose performance is scrutinised. I agree with a previous reviewer - on the strength of his excellent performance in this movie Peter Weller deserves to get some much better roles than he has been getting. He plays a surprisingly good tough guy with a clue. OK, he's hardly Arnie but then heroes don't have to be. Closer indeed to Kurt Russell's Soldier as has been noted.If you like sci-fi movies with bite then don't be put off by the simplistic sounding plot. They do a much better job with it than you might expect.I can see hints of Dan O'Bannon's earlier screenplays and indeed his John Carpenter connection (a flavour of Ghosts of Mars (which I don't believe he had anything to do with) about it at times) and it sadly couldn't possibly compare with the likes of Alien, but given the likely budget not a bad way to spend the time. It won't keep you awake at night with nightmares like Alien, it's just not that scary or creepy - but if you want something more light-hearted to entertain without being too intense then it's well worth starting to watch this film, you'll be able to decide pretty quickly whether or not it's suited to your taste.It left me ready to watch another movie which is unusual. Sure it didn't satiate me like a major blockbuster would, but it didn't make me think I'd have been better off putting a CD on instead either. Maybe it just left me wanting more. More of the same would be fine.Worth checking out. "}{"Title":"Good story let down badly by its ending.","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As you do, I was up late one night and the advert for this film came on, and as i'd never seen it I though I should give it a chance and watch it. Any regrets?, not really. The story (at the time) is original (ish) as a planet has been involved in a war about some stuff on the planet which leads to two armies hating each other. Time passes till one organisation recieves mail about a cease fire, and venture out to talk to the opposing army. When they do they find out that the man in the mail has been dead for many months and this maybe a trap. Up to this, I believe its the best part of the film as you dont know who or what to believe. It also explains about the real killers in the film the screamers which are little robots underground that attack u if you dont have a special arm piece. However we also learn the screamers have improved themselves with the Mk3 versions or Davids (little boys that follow you back to your base, and the Mk3's which isnt shown on the computer.Long story short the main characters decide to leave the planet and fight to a secret escape base.Watch the film, decide if its good story that goes out in a fizz or a bang, I think you'l agree with the first. On the whole, entertaining but not really anything special. *** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Nicely Crafted Science Fiction Drama","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As advertised, this is a story about sentinel killer robots engineered and deployed by an alliance of mine workers who are warring against an economic bloc that controls the mines.  It appears that the war is at an impasse and a message is received by the miners that the bloc wants to get together to negotiate a cease fire.  The miners venture out into the sentinal ridden zone outside their bunker.This stars Peter Weller who also starred in the immensely popular Robocop and he does a great job of moving this movie along.  The plot may not be very original for the well traveled sci fi film fan, but is not without some interesting twists.  The special effects and sets are excellent and could have benefited from some better grade cinematography. "},{"Title":"Entertaining B-movie.","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a very entertaining piece of B-movie sci-fi starring the Robocop himself, Peter Weller. Its about these little robot defence mechanisms with the ultimate in AI. They defend the Alliance by attacking the enemy with their sharp implements and horribly loud screaming sounds. It turns out though that they were so efficiently made that they have been evolving and are now not just little round blade toting robots but take the guise of cute young boys with sob stories(who wouldn't take them inside their base to help?) as well as other human forms. Its one of those interesting looks at how new technologies could run amuck. The movie is very well directed by Christian Dugguay ( Art of War) and he builds some good tension. Peter Weller is also very good, he adds class to this and makes up for some slightly poor acting from some co-stars.The action is always exciting and despite being very cheap there's plenty of destruction and great sets. The special effects are very suspect, take the cheap end of the mid 90's technology and that's what is here. Overall they don't detract from an otherwise entertaining mix of Terminator and Aliens. Of the 'Aliens' clones this is one of the better ones but can't hold a candle to Pitch Black. *** "},{"Title":"Better than it gets credit for","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bleakly atmospheric, but low budget and slow moving, this movie does not deserve to be mentioned with truly top-flight sci-fi flicks such as Alien(s) etc., but it DOES deserve mention as one of the best of the rest -- as a solid entry that at least tries something a little different than the standard monster eats everyone or alien invasion plots which dominate the genre.  Does a nice job of conveying the weary hopelessness of its characters and until a somewhat sloppy, although poignant, ending, it generally plays by the rules.  A lot of questions go unanswered, but that too works for the movie -- the characters themselves never truly understand what is happening to them, and are stuck trying to piece together clues. Overall, a nice, solid time-waster that just suffers from a lack of ambition.  Something like a 6.5/10.    "},{"Title":"Pretty Darn Good For a Low Budget Sci-Fi B Movie","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Adapted somewhat faithfully from a Philip K. Dick short story, the movie tells the tale of a planet once ravaged by a human war  . . . and is now ravaged by sentient robots hellbent on eliminating every single human survivor.  Seems that highly intelligent robots were developed during the war by both human sides, but the robots have continued to evolve and build better versions of themselves, with their original programming of destroy humans still intact. As the war-weary Colonel Hendricksson, Peter Weller decides to take it into his own hands to end the war . . . and to hopefully stop the robots from killing all forms of organic life on the planet.This isn't a great movie, by any stretch of the imagination. Some of the acting is pure cheese, and the special effects range from looking okay to looking downright hideous.  Still, the story is fairly original, and manages to avoid a lot of the typical plot twists of the genre.  Petter Weller's performance is also very good -- his portrayal of the grizzled cynic Colonel Hendricksson is a small gem buried within a lot of mediocrity.  Definitely worth a look, especially on a rainy Saturday afternoon.  B-   "},{"Title":"Cool Little Critters","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time the other day on the advice of a friend, and I approached it with great apprehension. Fortunately, I was pleasantly surprised. The special effects are fantastic, and have aged quite nicely over the last five years, and the sound was good too,although the plot can leave plenty to be desired at times. All in all, Screamers is a good movie with Peter Weller at his Sci-Fi best.My vote 7  "},{"Title":"An OK sci-fi/horror movie","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Based on Philip K. Dick's story Second Variety, involving soldiers fighting a long-forgotten war on a distant planet having to deal with a new enemy a secret weapon they developed has continued to evolve on its own into humanoid form.  By its plot, I thought it would be a great movie. But instead, the pretty good storyline starts getting lame from the middle on. Not just the storyline is getting bad, but as well with the special effects -- you can clearly see the blue screen/computer generated images in a lot of scenes. But I should also admit, with it's budget of only 11 million, the director did a alright job of using it. So, I've decided to give Screamers a 6 out of 10 stars.    "},{"Title":"True to the the feel of Philip K. Dick, yet slightly naïve","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  While there are many inconsistencies in the adaptation this movie is fairly true to the feel of the Philip K. Dick world. Where it fails is in the technical naïvity as, for example, when the 1st variety they encounter in the NEB bunker use an old fashioned bayonet joint connector to interface with the computer (something which must require some sort of controlled vision) while it fails to see the intruding humans, or the magnetic card reader compatible tags almost outdated today considering the ever evolving smart cards. Small things but fairly annoying.If you enjoy the likes of Ray Bradbury and Philip K. Dick, this movie is quite enjoyable. If you expect to see another sci-fi movie, this is probably not for you. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just as good as Terminator or Aliens. It has good special effects, good acting, and a great atmosphere. It takes place in the future on a minning planet that has been turned into a hell hole by nuclear war, and there are only a few settlements left. The story is the best and the main plot line is quite original. The only bad part is most of the ending, but that does not ruin this sci-fi. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I see Screamers for the first time last night. I expecting a cheap movie  because of the $11 million budget. But, it's surprising. I see some  great effects and good performances by Peter Weller and Roy Dupuis who came  from Quebec. But the story is not great at all. We don't very know how the  Screamers can change to human size. The director Christian Duguay does an  interesting work on the project.My vote 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Poorly executed movie.  Could have been good, a shame.","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" People say here that this was a good movie that suffered from a lack of the effects budget, and that it was better than Minority Report. So I gave it a chance.To me, the story was good, but the screenplay, the acting, the music, and the direction was awful. The movie could have been really creepy during the 2nd act, but they really failed to bring it together.If you like Blade Runner, Minority Report, A Scanner Darkly, and other movies based off of Dick works, this movie pails in comparison to all of those. If you go into the movie expecting your typical sci-fi channel Saturday afternoon type deal, then you're getting what you'd expect. "},{"Title":"Things ain't what they used to be","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The year is 2078, the place Sirius 6B. A once viable mining planet now reduced to war torn scenery and long forgotten memories of those back on Earth. Berynium was to be the savior in an ongoing energy crisis until it was found mining this mineral caused radiation. Soon production stopped and arms were raised. Now years later, the two factions, the earth-backed Alliance and The New Economic Block (NEB) lie at a cold war-like stalemate. Primarily due to the development and deployment of Alliance built Screamers. Self-replicating blade wielding devices that burrow under the ground effectively killing anything with a pulse.It's this stalemate that has gone unabated until a lone NEB sentry journeys towards the Alliance base after months of no contact. Forgoing how he got this far alive, the Screamers finally do their worst, but not before he is able to hold up what turns out to be a message canister from NEB command asking for peace talks. Enter Alliance commander Colonel Hendricksson (Peter Weller). Tired and weary of the war they have been commissioned to fight, he must decide what to make of such a dire communication from the enemy and whenever he can trust them. Especially after an unexpected event raises questions and calls into belief what he knows. Deciding things can't remain the same, he ventures out into the wasteland of Sirius 6B unaware that the threat he faces isn't from NEB forces, but from the devices made to protect him.The source of Screamers comes from none other than Philip K. Dick, who's body of work has a shaky history of being adapted. Screamers could easily have been just another action romp that uses an oversimplified sci-fi scenario as a backdrop to carnage, but the story has a measure of depth if you're looking for it. It's dark, it's cynical. There's two future mindsets. You either have this vision of an Utopian paradise or you have in my mind the more believable scenario where things have gotten progressively worse. Screamers fits the latter. Governments have crumbled, we see the glimpse of a military state, resources are scarce and life is still cheap. Man is still man with the primary instinct of trying to survive. Still very much trying to screw everything and everyone over given the chance. It's this dark subtext sprinkled throughout that benefits the movie immensely and gives it some intelligence. There also came a point early in Screamers where I thought I knew where things stood and then I'm thrown for this downright scary (and exciting) loop I didn't see coming. That bit ranks high on the I-will-not-forget meter adding a memorable notch for Screamers.Like most sci-fi, there are questions still left unanswered by the end and the action while short and sparse is done efficiently for a low budget film of this type. The visual effects however are merely passable (at best) making most of the film's suspense and tension more mentally driven than direct. Holding the line is first billed Peter Weller who fares really well in the lead role (outside of one or two bum lines of dialogue). By the time we set eyes upon him, we already know how the deck has been stacked. He establishes with few words and a look the bleak picture on Sirius 6B. Of the small supporting cast, Roy Dupuis is the highlight. He's just a ton of fun to watch.The biggest hurdle I believe Screamers faces is how forgiving you are willing to be of it's third act. I felt the movie came very close to going off the rails in a very bad way. Screamers juggles a few themes, but the most predominate is Philip K. Dick's question of being human and by the end of Screamers we learn not much is. Now we've had movies that have dealt specifically with machines among us (Terminator) and we've had movies that dealt with mass paranoia in desolate places (The Thing), but neither one of those featured such a haphazard finale as does Screamers. Coming down to the last moments to find out almost everyone is a Screamer isn't shocking in any sense. Especially considering in an effort to be entertaining, the movie comes awfully close to trashing it's own story logic.On the whole, I still enjoy Screamers. Even with all its flaws, it shows a lot of promise. A great sense of atmosphere and that bit at the very end is a superb touch, but obvious budget limitations and a dismal third act keep Screamers from being top tier sci-fi. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was an almost verbatim rendition of the P.K.Dick short story and it was done extremely well. The ambience, the characters and casting was simply superb. One thing I did not understand was why this movie was so savaged by the Hollywood film critics. Perhaps because it was made in Canada? I thought this movie was really good,as good if not better then other recent P.K.Dick based movies. This was one of those movies that taught me to generally ignore most film critics, who, if they don't like the story the film's based on, give the film a horrible review. "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, i won't criticise this movie, it wasn't that bad at all, i'm sure for when it was made it was kewl, there was just nothing there that was interesting.I will give the orginal idea behind this credit, i DID like the idea of creatures (i use that word loosely) being set loose in order to kill the enemy and then evolve and manage to turn themselves loose upon their creators and then end up killing everything on the planet, not a bad story, pity there wasn't enough effort put into making it what could have been a GREAT story.*WARNING!!* *MINI SPOLIER!!!* *WARNING!!*The acting was ranging from plain bad to quite good, the only problem with this was that after the shooting of the first kid and then the killing of the last N.E.B human, everything just kinda clicked into place, it did get kinda dull towards the end and i think everyone just figured out the ending.This movie wasn't soo bad, it was just due to lack of money, i liked the premise of this movie, its just a shame that i didn't like anything else in it, i'm thinking, perhaps someone would do a new version of this and hopefully include some better graphics etc. I would like to see that! "},{"Title":"Screamers is another low budget sci-fi movie in the vein of Soldier and Spacehunter.","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I picked this film up on VHS from the bargain bucket. I am a sucker for low budget sci-fi films. Sometimes they surprise me and I tend to watch them more than once (Cherry 2000 and The Wraith for example).Screamers is your average cheaply made film. Set in a desert/dirt outback somewhere with the occasional remains of some no-longer-in-use industrial concrete structure with burned-out cityscapes overlaid on the background.The CGI is very bad (Type 1 revised in computer room) and the special effects were around in the late 1980's (Terminator for instance).The storyline is not too bad. Using only a few characters the film explores the futility of war and the use of technology that requires no human interaction.The technology in question, the Screamers gets its name from the noise produced by the spinning of its various circular blades. An underground plant that requires no human involvement produces this technology. How does it power itself? We are told not to ask.In fact this film does raise a lot of questions. One example is how they can produce the Type 2 Screamers that look human. Another is why do they take the corpses underground? Maybe the answer is in the questions. It does leave a few things to your imagination.I found this movie quite entertaining to watch. Its no Mad Max but it fares pretty good in my opinion against the majority of the B-movie sci-fi films of this genre that I have seen. "},{"Title":"An OK sci-fi/horror movie","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Based on Philip K. Dick's story Second Variety, involving soldiers fighting a long-forgotten war on a distant planet having to deal with a new enemy a secret weapon they developed has continued to evolve on its own into humanoid form.  By its plot, I thought it would be a great movie. But instead, the pretty good storyline starts getting lame from the middle on. Not just the storyline is getting bad, but as well with the special effects -- you can clearly see the blue screen/computer generated images in a lot of scenes. But I should also admit, with it's budget of only 11 million, the director did a alright job of using it. So, I've decided to give Screamers a 6 out of 10 stars.    "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After reading Philip K. Dick's fantastic short story Second Variety I thought it would make for a great movie and was quite excited to see that it had been made into one. But when I saw the finished product I felt as though I had been cheated.I have to say that for a film shot on a very low budget, the special effects are good and the story is well done for the first two thirds. Also the dialogue in some scenes were fantastic. This is not a terrible film but it could have been better.What didn't work was the poor acting from pretty much everyone involved with the exception of Hendrickson. The music was also fairly cheesy and the directing detracted from a decent story.My main problem was with the scriptSPOILERS AHEADAlthough the film was close to the short story up to the part where three of the five are killed, the ending is awful Hollywood-type junk. Not only does it ruin the original short story (which left a chilling ending that actually makes sense), but my friend who was watching it with me said that the film version's ending doesn't make sense and I have to agree. Why would Jessica fall in love with him if it goes against her programming and fight her robot clone? The fight scene with Hendrickson's boss was unnecessary and silly. Worst of all the final shot where he tosses off his Screamer detector and the teddy bear of the type 1 robot comes to life (as if to signal a sequel or his impending death) makes the ending seem extremely silly.  The rest of the stuff at the beginning was decent but the ending undoes what was otherwise a good film - see it and you'll agree.This is not a bad film, but it could have been better had it stuck to Dick's story. I would be in favor of a remake with better actors and a better ending. I don't think you should avoid this film since it has its moments but you will find the ending cliched and disappointing compared to an otherwise solid story.Overall 5/10 "},{"Title":"Why make a decent movie and then ruin it?","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a rhetorical question.  Why do studios feel the need to ruin a perfectly decent and surprisingly involving film by devolving into an orgy of purile worship at the Temple of the Gun?Why go to the bother of casting talented actors and giving them believable lines?  Why bother to build sets that although sparse, are highly convincing?  Why film in beautiful locations?  Why bother to use a restrained, focussed score through most of the movie?  Why build up a careful sense of tension throughout?  Why choose such a sound piece of short science fiction to adapt in the first place?Why do any of this if you're going to end by saying Just kidding! and turning your sympathetic, well played characters into dumb trigger pulling louts?  Is there some message about the nature of humanity there?  A commentary on our indomitable spirit, and our defiance of even the dark depths of our own folly?Or, as I rather suspect, did they just have a bunch of blanks to cap off, and plenty of celluloid to waste filming it all from many angles?This film is a sad waste.  When it's good, it's great, but that does not excuse the awful lapses into cliche and pointless fireworks.I suspect (I hope) that there was a better ending made that got lost in studio politics, much as the great ending of Salute of the Jugger was butchered to turn it into the audience friendly jingoistic abomination Blood of Heroes.  I'd *like* to think that. "},{"Title":"Oh my god you are TERRIBLE","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I word of advise NEVER LISTEN TO FRIENDS OPINIONS ABOUT MOVIES. My friend said Screamers was a decent movie he was wrong. I watched this movie with a few friends and have never lived it down since. The opening scenes are good then the long trek across the desert with THE most annoying character outside of Jar Jar Binks, with lines like You were the ones who started throwing the bombs around arghhh. They stumble across this bunker type installation and the love story begins with the main character (robocop guy) watching a woman they have discovered there and then just randomly saying My god you are beautiful ,classic. Anyway they travel on into an even bigger bunker which uses up an entire 1/3 of the movie and more than 9/10 of the budget and achieves, NOTHING. So anyway the rest of the movie they try to escape the planet and more killer robots are introduced but they all suck, one more awful twist then the movie ends THANK GOD.Oh yeah DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE IT IS VERY BAD!!!! "},{"Title":"Hell, Fire Skies!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  **Type of Ending Given**This film isn't terribly bad but then again it isn't a new can of worms. The good thing about it is that it keeps the genre alive by creating new possibilities in sci-fi. Weiler is a sick and tired soldier (he looks more like an inept weakling) and there are creatures that are used in warfare called 'screamers' that are creating all sorts of hell on some far away planet that is engaged in constant battles. The atmosphere is a good one, the result of constant bombings, the planet is covered in hubris and ruins. But then again, where are all the troops? You can tell that then couldn't afford them so they make it a survival tale. The ending is a ludicrous this isn't the end type of foreshadowing, but in all, watch it if you aren't forced to. "}{"Title":"Quite good sci-fi film with an excellent story.","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Good science-fiction movie. Based on the short story 'The Second Variety' by Philip Dick. Years in the future Earth and the colonized outer planets are shaken by a decade of civil war. The war brought destruction and even nuclear arms were tried against major civilian centers. Colonel Hendrickson (Peter Weller in the role) commands a military base of the Alliance on the planet SIRIUS 6B. The enemy, however, is also present there. Both sides are entrenched in subterranean bunkers leaving an uninhabited land in between of destroyed cities and desolate landscapes. It appears also that a specific model of robotic killers operates in these areas keeping either side inside the bunkers for safety. Suddenly news arrive that a peace treaty is signed and the war should be over. Nonetheless, soon thereafter an Alliance plane crushes and a surviving man tells a different story. Hendrickson decides that he 'd better check with the other side and attempts to make the dangerous trip to reach the enemy bunkers and negotiate. He will soon have to face a different reality from what he expected.I liked this sci-fi flick from the 90's. With no major special effects but with such a good story that keeps it interesting. Peter Weller reprises another role in the sci-fi genre (after the more known film 'Robocop') and brings a lot to the credibility of the film. Jennifer Rubin also has the second role as one of the enemy soldiers. If you like sci-fi movies you will not be disappointed. A 7.5 from me. "},{"Title":"A Visual Mess","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" On a distant mining planet ravaged by a decade of war, scientists have created the perfect weapon a blade-wielding, self-replicating race of killing devices known as Screamers designed for one purpose only -- to hunt down and destroy all enemy life forms.This is a film that should be successful. Start with producer Antony I. Ginnane, who had great genre films dating back to Patrick and Strange Behavior. Add a story by Philip K. Dick, which was turned into a screenplay by Dan O'Bannon. Add on great actors like Peter Weller and Jennifer Rubin. Heck, even add the Chiodo brothers for special effects. How can this fail? And yet it does. Visually, it just looks a mess. The opening narration is off-putting. The cinematography is sloppy (though this may be because of the CGI and not the fault of the camera). This is the sort of film that would benefit from a remake, but there is always the fear they would botch it again. "},{"Title":"Average Film","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a mediocre film... I would normally give it a 5/10 but I give it 1 extra star for the ending that leaves you thinking. The budget is clearly low, and the sci-fi nature of the film suffers as a result. The plot is pretty cool, but the film constantly violates the laws of physics and just overall looks pretty cheesy. Towards the end, the plot is interesting and good enough for me to watch. I was entertained by the film but wouldn't watch it again. The mini-nukes look like a lot of fun! The military component of the film was terrible.... 2080 something and they have giant, cumbersome shotguns that hold only a few rounds.The character development isn't that bad, but the dialogue is kind of predictable. The movie does keep you guessing a little bit as to the next design of the robot, but I think everyone can predict that the final form is a human being. This film would have been better suited as an 80s film.There are some parts of the movie that deny common sense, such as when the commander guy looks at the screamer's programming files He sees that the chip from the type he killed says it is type 3, so he concludes that there are only 3 types of the robot. First of all, there could be 20 types and he only got a type 3 by coincidence, and this also neglects the fact that there is the original design (the one that digs around in the sand). "},{"Title":"Noisy, Too Generic for Its Own Good","Date":"25 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film sounds really cool in concept. But, it is permeated by lots of yelling and (yes!) screaming. The film follows acclaimed Science Fiction writer Philip K. Dick's original short story fairly closely, except for its difference in tone and ending.The direction is fairly routine, as is the script. The showdown upon showdown upon showdown gets tiring at the end, and undoes the paranoia of what came before. The acting gets pretty hammy, adding to the melodrama.The visual and practical effects are very good for a lower-budget film. The film score is fairly routine. Philip K. Dick was one of the most visionary Science-Fiction writers. And, few of his stories have been made into good films, which is too bad. Screamers is one of those misses.***** (5 Out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"A quite impressive but obviously flawed film","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" There are two sides at war, but the war is winding down, it looks like one side has won, and the other side wants a truce... The trouble is that the autonomous weapons systems that the winning side deployed (called screamers) and which helped them win, have other ideas. It stars Peter Weller, from Robocop.On the face of it, this looks like it'll be a by the numbers crappy scifi thriller horror with paper thin characters and wooden acting, and at best some testosterone fueled action movie sequences... That's what I thought anyway. I was very wrong.The acting was all extremely well done, especially by Weller. I was very impressed. Very good performances by all. The filming was atmospheric and well shot. Sets were great, props and costumes too. The story was full of emotion, it was thought provoking and well acted. This was an intelligent film!It was let down in two areas 1. For most of the film the effects were very cheap, contrasting with the quality of the rest of it. 2. They lent a little too much on the cheap thriller aspect in parts of it, especially at the very end. It detracted a little from the intelligent themes and great acting. It's almost as if there were two competing forces at work Highly competent, professional, pro, A-list film makers VS some strange incompetent cretin who BADLY wanted it to be a B-film. So it was flawed. "},{"Title":"Competent but underwhelming sci-fi actioner.","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Good example of squeezing every cent of value out of found locations and minimal but well-executed special effects. Peter Weller doesn't do much more than act tough as the beleaguered commander of a down-to-the-dregs military outpost on a ruined planet, but he's good enough to keep interest in the narrative.Mechanical effects of the 'screamers' -- autonomous killer robots which mainly burrow through the ground -- are well-done, and there's some nifty stop-motion work by the Chiodo brothers showcasing a small reptilian version that stalks some of the heroes inside a building.The science is disappointing for a film set in 2078 on a planet ('Sirius 6B') in another solar system. As the level of technology would demand faster-than-light spaceship drives, as well as robotics that allow machines to self-replicate and even evolve into perfectly counterfeit human forms, there's little evidence of it. No doubt that's due to budgetary limitations. But what's more risible is the made-up mineral being mined there, something called 'berynium', that's supposed to be 'the solution to Earth's energy problem' but has become terribly radioactive(?). Why wasn't it radioactive when they first started digging it up? And what kind of preventative treatment could be contained in the reddish cigarettes everyone smokes? How could its ingredients possibly protect every cell in the human body from the constant bombardment of ionizing radiation? That's just dumb.The film's not a time-waster, and it's certainly not just a time-killer. Its plot moves well, and there's some bleakly effective cinematography of the wastelands and bombed out industrial structures. Unfortunately a romance between Weller and a female soldier seems trite as well as unlikely, and the story's ending is anticlimactic and dragged out for too long. Many questions about the war and the Screamers remain unanswered. "},{"Title":"I wanted to, but just couldn't wholly recommend this sci-fi thriller.","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ** stars out of ****Screamers has a lot going for it  an interesting story, good action scenes, better-than-usual performances, and a fascinating setting and production design.  Unfortunately, the finale leaves such a bad taste behind, you almost forget all the positive material that came before it.  This is a film that just barely missed getting a ** 1/2 star (and possibly ***) rating from me, with the problems hinging mostly on the bad ending.Screamers takes place in the year 2078, with a war going on between two factions over a certain mineral on a planet called Sirius 6B.  The constant nuclear warfare has left the planet a dead one, with only a handful of soldiers left behind to fight.  One faction used a machine known as the screamer, but these machines became too much too handle and they have begun operating on their own, with nobody to stop them.Hendricksson (Peter Weller) hears a message of a possible peace treaty, but then begins to believe that the message is fake.  With another soldier, Ace Jefferson (Andy Lauer), they go in search of the enemy faction and discover that most of them have been slaughtered by the screamers, with the exception of two soldiers (including Roy Dupuis) and a woman (Jennifer Rubin). These five survivors trek across the wasteland, and must find a way to hold off the screamers, who have found a way to imitate humans, and get off the planet.The film's story was based on a Philip K. Dick short story, Second Variety, and the film's roots does seem to stay true to Dick's themes. After a slow beginning, Screamers' tension factor heightens around the half-hour mark, and my attention was held all the way through.  There's a good deal of suspense, and the action scenes are well-done.  The film's highlight is an exciting outdoors shootout between the outnumbered survivors and the screamers.  With these sort of scenes, director Christian Duguay shows himself competent in creating atmosphere, tension, and paranoia.If the film bears similarities to Alien, it's no coincidence the screenwriter is Dan O'Bannon.  For 90 minutes or so, the script works well, with reasonable intelligence and some interesting ideas.  There's enough character development to create some likeable characters, too. It's only unfortunate O'Bannon felt compelled to pack the finale with so many cliches.The performances are mostly decent.  Peter Weller turns in a strong outing. The lovely Jennifer Rubin delivers a decent performance, while being nice eye candy at the same time.  Andy Lauer provides some good comic relief, making his character genuinely likeable.  Roy Dupuis plays the stereotypical tough guy, and he can't do much with the role other than look rough and ready to fight.  Still, you can't accuse the actors of not putting effort into it.But the real flaws come in the last fifteen minutes, which begins to get very ridiculous, with one unbelievable plot twist too many.  There's also a badly choreographed directed kung-fu catfight (I'm not kidding) that does not belong in this movie.  Just as bad are the special effects in these scenes, which were decent (with a couple of exceptions) up to that point, seem to take a nosedive, resulting in some fake and unintentionally funny scenes.  Then there's the final scene, which is infuriating simply because it hints at the prospect of a sequel, the sort of ending that has become tiresome in a movie of this sort.So, do I recommend this movie?  No, at least not to casual moviegoers.  It misses its marks in the finale on too many of its attempts, especially when these sort of problems could have been easily avoided.  Fans of sci-fi thrillers will probably enjoy it and they might not find the flaws as irritating as I did.  But for a superior similarly-plotted film, I highly recommend David Twohy's Pitch Black.  "},{"Title":"False movie","Date":"5 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" By 2070 a galactic war has erupted between corporate and state powers fighting over resources on a Syrius 6B. After nuclear attacks by the NEB corporation the opposing Alliance employs automated robotics called Screamers to turn the tide of the war. Deep in the bowels of the planet the machines fabricate robot warfare, which in time evolve and start building bigger better products. Facing annihilation after the lengthened war captain Joe Hendricksson (Peter Weller) responds to a seize fire and embarks on a journey to the enemy bunker to undertake peace proceedings. Unfortunately for him the path may have been chosen too late...Post-mortem Philip K. Dick doesn't get much love from scriptwriters and the story Second Variety is no exception. For someone so cerebrally metaphysical movies based on his novels tend to take a action turn for the worse, dissolving the underlying essence of his stories and frontally assaulting with visual high-octane spectacles. Screamers is a low-budget take on the latter, albeit with some undeniable atmosphere to back it up.Nonetheless based on a clichéd ridden script with thinly developed characters spewing out tirades of one-liners occasionally interrupted by Shakespeare quotes, Screamers is an undeniable work in progress having some wider appeal, but lacking substance to stand the test of time. Budget and technological limitations to the movie decrease the overall quality, but the underpinning problem is one of limited tension, surprise and a multitude of scenes, which essentially lack sense or reason. Somewhere within this world lies potential much in the vein of Bladerunner, but inept direction overly focused on churning out action brings Weller and the remaining cast down with its undertow. Plastic people with plastic morality ultimately divert attention from possibilities making us focus on the superficiality of the effort. "},{"Title":"Couldn't the other side have just sent an SMS?","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screamers is not bad, but somehow can't get away from its humble B-movie origins. The exteriors of the planet are solid, but the interiors consist almost solely of your typical railings and balustrades factory-look crap. (See MST3K episode Space Mutiny.) The background story promises complexity, yet very little is explained, made clear. I certainly didn't understand why N.E.B. couldn't simply send the Alliance a message through radio or whatever about wanting to meet for peace negotiations. This technologically advanced world has ultra-effective robots and androids and yet no-one can afford a mobile phone! The pretty Jennifer Rubin certainly helps things, but not to the extent that she could have prevented the movie from ejecting a few oh, come on! moments. In the end, everyone turns out to be a robot and this might be a little too silly. Still, silly or not, it was fairly interesting.Leonard Maltin, that goofy little deluded film critic, claims that if there were a list for most depressing sci-fi film, 'Screamers' would be right at the top. Screamers doesn't look particularly depressing. What about Outland, Quintet, or even Blade Runner? Maltin is even worse than your average, pretentious IMDb contributor who fancies himself a film critic. "},{"Title":"hmm...not bad...but worst then i expected.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't have too much to say here.  It felt like a low budget, it played like an episode of The Outer Limits, It moved slower than most films I've seen, It was banal beyond belief.  I enjoyed it as i watched it though but didn't feel it was worth my money.  Could have been better.  Makes me think if the upcomming Minority Report will do justice to the Phillip K Dick story unlike this film.  If you liked something as stupid as Soldier or Starship Troopers, then you'll like this.  If you like Phillip K Dick's stories...hold this one off until it's on TV.  "}{"Title":"Could have been more, but not bad...","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I found this movie quite interesting, some parts were made pretty good. FX is OK, actors too. Sometimes I had the feeling that something is missing or could be explained clearer... so 6/10. "},{"Title":"Good premise, bad execution","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've always wanted to watch this film as I'm a great fan of 'Aliens' type films, and I finally managed to catch this on TV a few days ago.First of all, I was impressed by the opening as it seemed like a cross between the Terminator and Mad Max; but what spoilt it was the serious miscast of Ace, and the plot holes you could spot a mile away.The plus was that Peter Weller as Hendrickson was excellent and I loved that his character was consistent and different from the usual hero-types (blunt and brutally honest - especially to Ace, 'you must've mistaken me for someone who gives a sh*t!').*SPOILERS* As I said, a lot of plot holes, like where did these new terminator-type robots come from? Why did they suddenly come out of the blue and throughout the film even newer, different types were revealed without any explanation. How does the wounded soldier robot work? Do they act normal until they are wounded or do they already know what they have to do, and if so why did he do things to protect them (i.e Becker killing the child screamer with them).The ending was the biggest disappointment though - predictable and it just kept dragging on and on! These robots just kept popping up from nowhere trying to stop him getting away (e.g where the hell did the 2nd Jessica come from??)If they expanded and enlightened us on a few things, maybe this film would've been slightly better. Shame because this film had potential - it genuinely had some atmospheric bits, only spoilt by some cliched dialogue, terrible acting (bar Peter Weller) and unexplainable events.Note Notice the similarities between the robot David here and the robot David in A.I. Similar age, same name, similar speech, similarly mass produced and similar teddy! This one was obviously it's evil twin!  "},{"Title":"Watch robots maim and dismember... or not","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Oh no! Not intelligent adaptive robots?!! Whatever shall we do? Yeah, this movie may have preceded others like A.I., Virus, The Matrix, I,Robot and probably a slew of other similarly themed movies, but I've just seen it all before. It still came after greats like 2001 A Space Odyssey, Blade Runner, Terminator, and even Short Circuit. But unlike the aforementioned movies, I thought this movie was extraordinarily lame. Peter Weller played a prototypical tough guy complete with all of the stock one liners. He wandered aimlessly going from one desolate compound to another with seemingly no real goal. The screamers, which started off as government weapons, evolved into independent machines with the ability to upgrade and revise and reproduce more of themselves to..., well I guess, kill. If there was an adequate explanation for the robots becoming what they became it passed me by. I thought the movie was going the direction of perhaps destroying these destructive and blood thirsty machines, but in fact the only solution was to just leave the planet. O.K. Well, if that was the only defense against the underground bots, then why didn't the remaining folks just up and leave to begin with?I didn't particularly like the characters nor the script in this flick and there were no exciting scenes to at least keep me visually stimulated. This movie was a B movie and just a small blip on the cinema radar. "},{"Title":"Very good beginning but completely fell apart by the end","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film really did have the potential to be a really good sci-fi film. It had all the good aspects of really being a good movie. Killer robots that have evolved to destroy mankind, futuristic weapons, war savaged planet, corrupt government, brilliant actors. I really did like the beginning of the movie and even the middle, it totally fail apart by the end. It just had way too many plot holes by the end. I found the end very confusing and unsatisfying. Why would they have the killer robots help the humans kill their kind and help them to survive to only try to kill them in the end? Also why only have one human survive, it's a planet, I would imagine that there would be more than one survivor. "},{"Title":"Not too Sirius","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Definitely spoilers!This could have been a good movie. The sets are good. The planet looks somewhat believable. The acting is pretty good. The techie stuff if not bad. But the plot...oy! The only thing that didn't turn into a robot was those lovable little rats. I thought things were going pretty well, until the little boy shows up. First off, that didn't make any sense. How has he survived for 4 years with little food and no water? So, OK, I decided to play along. But when he turns into a robot, although not a bad twist, it doesn't make any sense. All these little creatures in the sand are determined to kill people immediately... and they're good at it. So why is this kid waiting? And when in the world did anyone who had a pretty good killing machine invent a new one that does a poorer job? It's like having a shotgun and then inventing the bow and arrow. Then Becker turns into a robot. What was he waiting for...kosher? And then the heroine turns into one and tries to save our hapless hero from her evil twin and she develops a conscience and the ability to love. But then, the escape vehicle only has one seat...isn't that a little stingy? Couldn't they have afforded another seat, these people trying to save the top brass from a Serius death. And if this is 2078 ( a little far fetched since at the rate we're going, we'll be lucky to have colonized our moon by then) why are they still smoking? Surely rational people could have given that up by then. Johnny Walker Red in 2078 with still the same label? This just wan't very well thought out. "},{"Title":"Oh well at least the beginning was cool.","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I recently got a chance to view this film after not having seen it in close to ten years. I first saw this when it just arrived on video & to me at the time, it was a pretty good time passer, now after so many years my thoughts & opinion on the film has completely changed, I thought it wasn't the worst I had ever seen, but at the same time it wasn't no winner either, now don't get me wrong, the film had some interesting things in it, but turned out to be ultimately dull as it went on, especially after the films opening opened with a bang. The film quickly slid into mediocrity as it went on, becoming somewhat repetitive & dull. The story has a group of soldiers investigating a series of mechanical creatures called Screamers that of course scream really loud & have the power to kill you in so many different ways & have incredible speed & now they have gotten smarter & can duplicate human beings, setting paranoia into the soldiers, as they try to figure out who is real & who isn't. The films story was great & the film is generally well acted, I'll give it that, but the direction isn't up to par for this type of film & a rotten ending sinks it. Such a shame, since it's writers were also the ones responsible for the very fun, entertaining Sci-Fi/Action film, TOTAL RECALL. Followed by a direct to DVD sequel 13 years later called SCREAMERS THE HUNTING** stars "},{"Title":"Slow paced, mediocre film","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was so glad to see Peter Weller in this, I have been a fan of his since Robocop, and you don't see much of him nowadays.  This one claims to be a hybrid of several movies, mainly Alien, which it only somewhat suceeds.The beginning somewhat grips you...a lone soldier trying to deliver a message to a rouge mining outpost who is cut to shreds by the screamers, these little mechanical devils who are buried in the ground and serve as the primary defense for the miners in some futuristic war with a greedy corporation a la Alien and Aliens.  What you get is a great idea from a story by Phillip Dick, a great opening, and a poor follow through.  The acting ranges from atrocious (the guy from Caroline in the City has got the be the worst choice of the 'gung ho' soldier, what a wuss) to not bad, (Peter Weller and some others).  What gets me is the pace, or lack there of...this movie drags so much, it feels like a 3 hour movie.  I did, however, like the atmosphere.  They did a good job of depicting an apocolyptic future on some desolate mining planet.  I also laughed at the idea of 'red' cigarettes that counter act the radiation from the nukes...haha, that gives us smokers some hope, cigs that are actually good for you!  I got more than a good laugh at this and saw the director's obvious wink to the joke.  But other than that, this one is completely average, not exciting and a rather dull 100 or so minutes.  I'll give this one 5 stars, only b\c Peter Weller was in it...otherwise this would be a 3, no doubt.  Watch this one if only you are so bored you'd rather pull the hairs out of your head than do nothing.  5/10 stars. "},{"Title":"It looks more like a Outer limits episode...","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Such a second rate sci-fi production made with a few dollars and with Pete Weller (RObocop) as the only known face in the cast. It's based in a Philip K. Dick story, so it deals with artificial intelligence and stuff.Anyway, it looks more like a Outer Limits episode than like a real movie. I guess they didn0t even take it to the cinemas. And even though the actors are not very good and the special effects aren't like Matrix's precisely it's an entertaining product.*My rate 4.5/10------------ --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- "},{"Title":"YEEECCHHHHH!","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A sci-fi action flick where most of the action takes place offscreen, and what is on the screen is fairly pedestrian.  Two warring factions, one invents a fairly inventive mechanical weapon which ends up attacking everything with a heartbeat. Strong silent commander, rookie gung ho soldier, three people from the enemy side, truce talks, betrayals, almost everyone dies, and then a final closing shot that says, Guess what, it's not over, get ready for a sequel if we do good box office. Waste of time is what I thought of this movie  "},{"Title":"Wasp Woman meets Robo Cop","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It is amazing what you'll find at 4am. This was certainly one that I should have skipped and tried to get back to sleep. It's far into the future and on a mining camp the robots are loose. They are cute little things that look like doggie-sized metal T-Rexs. Got the picture.But they also can assume human shape. So watch out. Your best friend may not be real. Better see if he bleeds.Peter Weller (RoboCop) didn't have Nacy Allen around to help him, so he relied on Jennifer Rubin (Roger Corman's Wasp Woman). They made a nice pair, but he still cut her hand to check if she bled. She kissed him after that. What a woman will do when there are no other men around! Lots of shooting at these screaming robots, but not much else. "}{"Title":"Good Script, Lousy Direction","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dan O'Bannon turns Philip K. Dick's great short story Second Variety into a very decent script (though not without some holes and some excess), but Christian Duguay drags it down with direction that borders on the incompetent.  You get an engaging, thought-provoking story that's continually undercut by terribly uneven pacing and performances; there are scenes that'll grab you and scenes that'll have you talking back to the screen. There's more of the former, though, and it's definitely worth a rental for fans of intelligent sci-fi. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Screamingly Bad","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Quite a few movies have been made from the works of Philip K. Dick. Movies like Blade Runner, Minority Report, and, of course, Screamers. Which is not as good as the title implies.Screamers tells the tale of a war torn planet where robotic um Screamers have been released to fight the enemy. The screamers have two abilities that may sound like a bad idea to add to a bunch of little killing machines, but when you really stop to think about it, it still seems really stupid. These added on attributes are the ability to learn and the ability to recreate. So, through the magic of science, a race of mechanical creatures becomes super intelligent and begins to turn on its makers.While the plot was fairly stupid, what really brought it down were the special effects. Arms and legs are supposed to fly off as the screamers launch themselves at people. However, shots of the screamers flying through the air look vaguely like videos taken of UFO's with a camcorder. The blue screen is put to obvious good use, and a few of the characters are really annoying.Other than these few faults it's an okay movie, but only because it was based on a Philip K. Dick novel. If it had been a stand alone movie trying to make its own point, innocents could have been hurt.  "},{"Title":"Are you coming... or are you just breathing hard? Average sci-fi/horror.","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screamers is set on the war ravaged mining planet of Sirius 6B during the year 2078, a group of rebellious miners who call themselves the 'Alliance' revolted against their company N.E.B. or the New Economic Block when it was discovered that the revolutionary fuel they were mining for them called Berynium produced lethal amounts of radioactive gas & as a result a long 10 year war between the two has raged. Joe Hendricksson (Peter Weller) is the commander of the Alliance when one day a lone N.E.B. soldier (Sylvain Masse) hand delivers a plea for peace & to set up a meeting. Soon after a N.E.B. spacecraft crashes near the Alliance's headquarter's which contained soldiers & weapons on their way to another planet rich in Berynium, the N.E.B. were going to leave everyone else on Sirius 6B to rot as a new source of Berynium has been found. Hendricksson decides to head to the N.E.B. base & discuss terms with whoever is left & takes the one & only survivor from the crash Jefferson (Andrew Lauer) along with him. Once there they discover almost everyone slaughtered & the few survivors talking of killer robots left over from the war known as Screamers that have evolved to mimic a human being perfectly, trusting anyone suddenly becomes very difficult...This Canadian, American & Japanese co-production was directed by Christian Duguay & is an average sci-fi horror at best. The script by Dan O'Bannon & Miguel Tejada-Flores was based on the short story 'Second Variety' by Philip K. Dick & to be honest it feels like it as there just wasn't enough of a story here to maintain my interest. For a start Screamers is far too slow, after a promising opening scene things settle down & plod along for the next 90 odd minutes & I just found it very difficult to get excited about anything in Screamers. Don't get me wrong as I don't think it's not without some merit but I thought it was pretty forgettable stuff. The character's are clichéd, the situations they find themselves in are & various other films have more than a passing influence on Screamers like The Thing (1982) & the mistrust of each other, lots of soldiers with guns in futuristic settings reminds of Aliens (1986) & robotic killing machines mimicking people was done decades earlier (& better) in The Terminator (1984). There is also a fair bit of political nonsense & a slightly over complicated war that seemed a bit too complex.Director Duguay does a pretty good job, some of the snow covered, post apocalyptic wasteland landscapes give Screamers a nice atmosphere & feel to it with some really good matte painting as well. The action scenes are flat & not very exciting unfortunately, just imagine lots of people running around in dark corridors. Screamers could have done with some decent action scenes, the opening sequence of the N.E.B. soldier being sliced 'n' diced by a Screamer is as good as it gets. There is also a disappointing lack of gore, a few severed limbs & some splashes of blood is as good as it gets.With a supposed budget of about $20,000,000 I have to admit that I would liked to have seen more on screen, there are no big name actors, no big action scenes, limited special effects, limited locations & a few run down factory locations. As a whole 20 big ones seems like a lot of money considering the end product. The acting was OK but no one will remember Weller for anything other than Robocop (1987) will they?Screamers is an OK film, it's generally well made with that Hollywood polish to it but I found it rather forgettable, a bit dull & lacklustre. Don't expect an all guns blazing sci-fi shoot-'em-up because Screamers isn't it, watch Aliens again instead as it's far superior in every way. "},{"Title":"In All Seriousness The Worst Film of the Last Decade","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I love the basic idea of warring factions and defensive Screamers guarding perimeters. I love the notion of self-improving machines adapting independently of their programming. But this is where I stopped loving this film. Hollywood insisted on shoving into my face a ridiculous explosion of extremes that was absolutely unbelievable and unacceptable. I've since heard that the movie was based upon Philip K. Dick's Second Variety but sure as heck not the ending, eh? This film should have ended about half-way along. The progression of the movie was preposterous and the acting terrible and together that managed to ruin the good premise. "},{"Title":"Could've have been a good episode of The Outer Limits","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  That's what it feels like. Actually, I've seen hour-long Outer Limits episodes that are tighter, as well-produced, and as plausible as the plot of this movie (the one where the soldiers are injected with drugs to trick them into fighting other people). The only bright spot is Peter Weller; everyone else is forgettable. The ending is fairly predictable, as well. See this one on TV. "},{"Title":"Cheap budget - cheap flick- cheap result","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, i'm prejudiced agaisnt the director... I admit it.. I have seen this movie on video, hoping for the best but expecting very ordinary fare...As for several Quebec made movies, the budget is the major issue here. I read the movie was made for 11 millions, which surprises me a lot. The problem with this movie is that the director tried to compete with major Hollywood productions while not having the budget. The obvious choice would have been to go for a minimalist approach (à la Alien), which he kinda does, but without a complete success. Overall, the movie looks cheesy.The casting is really poor. Peter Weller is stiff - kinda like Robocop with the mask off. As for Roy Dupuis, well... he is Roy Dupuis. Maybe it's because I saw him in his first productions, but i cannot take him seriously as an action hero. Considering the talent in the original story/script department, this movie is a disapointment. Next time, better send the script to James Cameron. He'll get the right financing and will turn out a major movie. In this case, the end result looks like an erzatz Cameron production, on a shoestring budget.  "},{"Title":"An awful film! (warning minor spoiler)","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first half of 'Screamers' managed to draw you in, and was filled with suspense! The concept was pretty good, and the art direction was cool giving the premise an sinister feeling. Then it just got unbelievably stupid in the second half, and the ending was just pure cheese and completely lame with a ridiculous twist! I can't believe people are actually comparing it to 'Blade Runner' or 'Aliens'! Come on people- this is pure c**p that could have been so much better- there is a reason the critics loathed it! *1/2 out of *****! "},{"Title":"A good story made into a bad film","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yet again a Philip K Dick short story has got the Hollywood treatment and lost most of the subtlety of the original. The result is a poor mess of original concepts from the short story with the meaning abandoned in favour of inappropriate action scenes and moody set pieces. No-one tries to turn in a good performance, almost as if realising this is a way to pay the bills rather than a worthwhile project. If you are considering seeing this film I's recommend investing your money in the short story collection titled Second Variety (the original story name) instead. You'll get a story with much more thought and 26 other stories of equal imagination. "},{"Title":"Pure TRASH!!!!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you ever, God forbid, think of renting this movie, DON'T. It is the worst, most boring piece of trash I have ever seen. I was ready to shoot myself ten minutes into this so called 'movie'. Do not watch this movie, EVER!!! If you are with friends and they all agree to watch this movie, do EVERYTHING you can to escape!! "},{"Title":"an unfortunate thing","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I can't say much that's good about this film. Not that I really expected it to be anything fantastic, but Peter Weller has always been an interesting actor and Philip Dick's stories are among the very best in all of science fiction. However this is just a cheap shot, turning his story into a rather typical action film with poor production values. Weller is pretty much the only real actor on the scene, and the director (Christian Duguay) isn't able to do anything to help them. The whole thing looks so cheap as to be sordid, and features so many clichés as to be dull.Weller plays the commander of a unit on some alien planet which has been engaged in a war for years with an entrenched opponent. To help them win the war, Earth has imported screamers to aid them, small mechanical battle units that operate autonomously from their owner's control. Gee, who would guess that they might get out of control and start killing everybody? Philip Dick's stories are always original and never predictable, so they must have done some heavy surgery to get this one down to a less ambitious and more digestible form for whoever they thought was their target audience. I've read the story Second Variety several times, and other than the idea of a mechanism evolving there isn't a hint of Dick's story or ideas to be found here.I don't envy Weller for the quality of this film or some of the others that he's been involved in. He has to labor to try to make the character believable or to make the situation somehow less obvious. I can't say another actor would necessarily have done better, but it was a waste of his talent. At least we can say that not too many other talented people had their time wasted by this one, except perhaps various members of the audience. "}{"Title":"Philip K. Dick messed up bad with Hollywood Happy Ending","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I believe the original story that this film is based on is called Second Variety, a great post-apocalyptic novel by Sci-fi meister Philip K. Dick. The film captures some of the terror from the original story, but director Christian Duguay and storywriter Dan OBannon fails to deliver the film that this had the potential to become. Philip K. Dick's stories adapted to film have previously been great successes, like Blade Runner and Total Recall. So why Duguay and OBannon chose to rewrite the ending completely into one of the worst cases of Hollywood Happy Ending I've ever seen, and in doing so completely removing the the ENTIRE plot of the original story, leaves me a bit provoked.My vote 4 out of 10  "},{"Title":"nice attempt....","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts off well. When the guy comes to the main characters base with that scrool then he is chopped up by the screamers. The plot also starts of well. Little ground digging (like miniature versions of those things in Tremors) robots are used for war, and guys on the same side as them wear wrist bands that let the screamers know they are of the same side. The people in the base have to smoke some red cigarettes to protect their lungs from something in the air We have to protect our lungs from sh*t by putting sh*t in them. But this movie gets bad in a hurry. We really want to turn it off when those kids (screamers in kids bodys) are walking and the main characters going help me. But some decent special effects and ok atmostphere let me give this film 6/10. "},{"Title":"Yet another bad Canadian movie.","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  YAAAWWWWNNNN. This movie is one big bore. What were they thinking when they financed this cinematic snoozefest? Once in a while Canada can make a good movie but when oh when are they going to stop coming up with crap like this. Shameful film making at the most. "},{"Title":"The only way you can tell them apart... is by their scream.","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw previews for this movie back in 1995, I actually thought this would be a great sci-fi thriller. Peter Weller of Robocop fame should have known a thing or two about futuristic films. He also should have known a thing or two about box office turkeys.This movie really should have gone straight-to-video. I remember watching this on the big screen and having that strange feeling that I could just pause it at any time and make a hasty escape to the kitchen for more snacks.The movie is basically about survivors living in an outpost in a post-apocalyptic territory. A plane crashes outside and a rescue effort is launched only to discover that one man has survived, a soldier. Strange mechanical-like machines zip back and forth below the ground's surface, harvesting pieces of the carnage of the crash. One flies out of the ground towards Peter Weller's face letting out a shrill scream before it is blown to pieces by someone else's firearm. It is discovered that these machines, appropriately titled Screamers, were created by man to keep rebels and shady characters away from the outpost. Since then, they have somehow 'mutated' into better machines and are now a threat to mankind. Peter Weller gets a bright idea that he should make a pilgrimage with the soldier to intercept some sort of a peace treaty that has been transmitted by some signal to their outpost.As with most futuristic post-apocalyptic movies, the landscape provides for nothing more than rocky canyons covered in snow and it always seems to be night time. The two men encounter a young boy who begs to be taken with them. Weller's gut instinct is to leave him behind with a few cans of food, but the soldier insists on bringing him along. You can basically see at this point in the film that something is fishy.Without blowing any more plot points, the film's grand finale consists of Peter Weller blowing away an army of human screamers.The special effects were pretty mediocre and there was barely any horror or terror contained within the dialogue. At the end of the movie, I didn't really care what happened to Peter Weller's character.The only thing that has surprised me about this movie is that there hasn't been an endless barrage of straight-to-video sequels released. Screamers 7 The New Breed perhaps? "},{"Title":"This is definitely a direct to video.","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am still amused and confused why this stinker ever made it to the theater. The poor plot and nonexistent story made this one of the worst movie going experiences that you could waste money seeing. It has all the look and acting of a really poor direct to video feature. "},{"Title":"Ugh... sigh... yuck","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ----SPOILERS INCLUDED---- not that it matters for such a horrible film, though...Carnivorous robots in outer space that self-mutate and multiply underground before annihilating everyone on a forgotten planet in the future... does it sound like the recipe for a REAL turkey? Well, surprise, surprise it is.It's hard to even begin shredding this unwitting parody of a horror sci-fi. Maybe they should let some of those screamers do the job instead let them loose on the original reels. Good riddance. And take the script too, as you go; if you can find one, that is. Don't worry about the writers and producers; this film was probably the result of some alien self-mutating process deep down some forgotten Hollywood vault anyway. Oh, help us if these films start self-multiplying as well.OK, Peter Weller is decent, that's one star. The rest? Hrm. A clue don't waste money renting this film to find out.If you're easily thrilled/scared by little lumps of unused screenplay crumpled up and dragged by string under a sand surface, then this is for you.If not, you'll agree that the title Screamers probably was inspired by the envisioning of hordes of horrified moviegoers stampeding out of theatres, panicking at the thought of having spent any money on this crap. Now there's a sight that would probably have made a better horror movie, but that's beside the point.Thank IMDb that there is a site like this to warn other people about wasting parts of their precious lives on this garbage.FINAL GRADE Epically bad. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  No plot.  No dialogue.  One decent actor (Peter Weller, who's probably trying to forget his involvement).  Zero redeeming qualities.  Lots and lots of pointless walking through wastelands.  Special effects that make the Dr. Who folks envious.  Do yourself a favor, don't watch this film. Please. "},{"Title":"A real stretch ..................................","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Screamers is what it is, and what it is, is a short story STRETCHED beyond belief. Most of the film is Peter Weller and a cast of bad actors wandering around the landscape. Occasionally a mechanical Tremors' sand worm buzzes through the soil or attacks in mutated form. Almost everything about Screamers' is redundant, boring, and ultimately, forgettable. Character development is non existent, so you really could care less if someone gets buzz sawed. I saw glimpses of at least a half dozen far better science fiction films, and rode the fast forward button through a pointless romance towards a couldn't wait for it to end conclusion. - MERK "},{"Title":"So bad it's amusing","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film years ago, when it first came out at the cinema. Even after the first 10 minutes I found myself laughing at the apparently serious film. The special effects were bad - with the exception of a computer generated sequence at the end of the film, and the melting plasticine woman was good too...hmm. The low budget was especially visible when a Microsoft® Natual Keyboard is seen in the film, obviously a high-tech computer would need one. If you have nothing better to do and love anything sci-fi then watch it - you might get a laugh out of it.   "},{"Title":"The Real Origin of Screamers","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am Doug Crepeau. Along with Daniel Gilbertson and Dan O'Bannon, my name is on the Original WGA # 239377 registration slip dated Oct 9 1980. The registration was under the original movie title C.L.A.W., an acronym for Cybernetic Lurking Anti-personnel Weapon.I refer you to the Cinefantastique Jan 1998 page 52 article, The Terminator and Philip K.Dick. You will find that Terminator contains original material I developed for C.L.A.W. (the product codes for one that were also used in Dark Angel and the half-machine face- Yes James Cameron had access to this script - the true origin of The Terminator as well.).You will find our version was much closer to the original Second Variety story except for replacing the Moon Base with an L-5 Colony harboring the last of Humanity which Hendricks (not Hendrickson - a gimmick Teja-Flores used to build up his word count for screen credit.- We used Dick's original dialog from Second Variety which did not count for our final screen credit in the final Screamers script) saves in a spectacular battle in space with the female robot (Tasso) now in full kill mode.To quote Dick from the Cinefantastique article A winning script...Sensational ending. Better than my original story. The last line has tremendous punch. I read it, emitted a tremendous shriek and fell over backwards! I wish everyone could have seen our version, especially if it had come out in 1982. "}{"Title":"the usual seventies garbage clichés","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The seventies were undeniably the worst decade for films, mostly because film makers refused to take chances, but merely made the same clichés over and over.This film is a sci fi action flick that is supposed to involve mystery, but there is no mystery, except who can act like the most clichéd tough guy.The depressing monotone nature, the one dimensional characters that only someone who lives in a bubble could find credible, the same Republican self justification for vicious behavior, the same neo nazi rule of killing as many brunette women as you can, just complete seventies garbage. We know it's coming, because we have seen this over and over and over and over and over forever. "}]