[{"Title":"A movie that mothers and daughters can cherish.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My daughters (ages 10 and 12) and I love this film, we cherish this film.  We laughed, giggled, cried, hugged, and bonded.  I highly advise this film to all mothers and daughters.  Some warnings.  There is a brief scene where some skinning dipping boys are chasing the girls who have stolen their clothes.  It begins with a very quick shot of an older boy's penis as he flips into a pond (I didn't see at first, but my daughters did after repeated viewings and use of the pause button), followed by a discussion of male erections by the four girls.  The scene is so well written and handled that parents could actually use it to break the ice in the discussion of sex with their children.  I did.  The girls then proceed to steal the boy's clothes and are chased on their bicycles by the four boys who are seen nude from the rear.  This scene is played so innocently and cute that a parent need not worry about it, though I have noticed my girls rewinding that scene.  A parent should not worry about their children viewing this film, however, the parent should watch it with their children. "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now and Then used to be my favorite movie when I was younger and it still remains one of my favorites. It's about four friends that have made a pact when they were younger that if one of them ever needed each other they would be there. Now that time has come. Chrissy( Rita Wilson) is about to deliver a child and she wants her friends to be there. Roberta( Rosie O'Donnell), Teeny( Melanie Griffith) and Samantha(Demi Moore) have all arrived and are about to reunite again. While all this is happening, Samantha is telling the story of their childhood and how their friendship began. In the younger days, samantha is played by Gaby Hoffmann, Roberta by Christina Ricci, Teeny by Thora Birch and Chrissy is being played by Ashleigh Aston Moore. This movie is absolutely wonderful, it puts me in such a great mood. The story is just so great, i could watch the movie all over again.It makes you think that real friends do exist. I would give Now And Then 10/10 "},{"Title":"Even Though It's A Girl's Movie, I Liked It.","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"23 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now and Then is a good film that has a likeable cast and is funny and expresses friendship. Yes, it is definetley a girl's movie, but even though, I enjoyed it. The movie is like Stand By Me, except it shows girls's perspectives. The film is a good and fun movie to watch for fun. I give Now and Then a 9 out of 10.  )  "},{"Title":"All-star cast. All-good film.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Now And Then' is about a group of women who return to their old treehouse and reminisce about the one summer that truly changed their lives...With an all star cast, 'Now And Then' features Melanie Griffith, Demi Moore, Rita Wilson and Rosie O'Donnell, with Thora Birch, Gaby Hoffman, Ashleigh Aston Moore and Christina Ricci playing their younger counterparts.Teen star Christina Ricci ('Casper', 'The Adams Family') is great - as is Ricci's 'Gold Diggers' co-star, Ashleigh Aston Moore - as the mis-informed Chrissy. Bonnie Hunt ('Jumangi') and Devon Sawa ('Wild America') also star.The story is great - plenty of laughs to be had here, with sad moments, too. The acting is A-Grade (the young girls look very promising) and the finished product is a film all the cast should be proud of.  "},{"Title":"Very hilarious and touching movie about the power of friendship","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" NOW AND THEN, in my opinion, is a very hilarious and touching movie about the power of friendship. If you ask me, it makes you and your friends stop and evaluate your friendship. I know it certainly made me stop and evaluate my friendship with my really close friends. All in all, this was a very good movie. In conclusion, if you enjoy buddy movies, and you haven't seen this very hilarious and touching movie about the power of friendship, I highly recommend it! You're in for a real treat and lots of laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. If you miss it, I guarantee you you'll regret it. "},{"Title":"Stand By Me for Girls","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a cult classic girl movie and i still watch it today. Although I did not enjoy the 'Now' version of the film, where the four girls are grown up and re-uniting, mostly because i feel the characters dont really like eachother anymore, i loved watching the 'then' part with the four girls growing up in 1970's USA. The excellent soundtrack just adds to the uplifting feeling of this film. Watch as we follow Christina Richie and friends growing up through fun times (Devon Sawa getting his clothes stolen) and bad times (Richie finding out how her mum died). Look for an early performance from Brendan Frasier as a soldier back from war, and Thora Birch before she got all serious! Excellent film. "},{"Title":"Cute, Wholesome, Family Flick.","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a great family flick. It was funny and charming. I watched this film with my girlfriend, when she picked it out at Blockbuster I cringed at the fact of having to watch it, but you know, I admit, I enjoyed this film a lot more than I though I was going to. It was cute, the plot was good, it actually kind of reminded me of another fantastic film called Stand By Me, but in a girl's perspective of course. If you have young children, heck, if you don't have young children, give this one a shot. This is a film I think any Female would probably enjoy. If your a dude, put away all your manly inhibitions for about an hour and a half, don't expect too much going into the film, and I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Cute and fun","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a nice example of a fairly popular genre, the nostalgic growing-up, adventure on the edge of maturity, friendship bonding thing. As already mentioned, the adults are irrelevant and add nothing to the film (not even acting talent). The roles the girls take are all nicely stereo-typical, the princess, the prude, the tom-boy, the 'normal' one - they could have been the Spice Girls! Anyways, if you want to see a cutsie flick that's nostalgic and fairly innoffensive, this could be for you. "},{"Title":"Good, But Not Great","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having just recently watched Now and Then again, I decided to check out what other people thought. Reading through a lot of the comments, I noticed that many compared this film to Rob Reiner's Stand By Me. I guess I would consider the two to be of the same genre (coming of age), but, to me, that's really the only thing the two have in common.Now and Then is a fun film. It's got quick and easy laughs that many (not just teenage girls) people will find humorous. I will say that Then is vastly more entertaining than Now; the adult versions of the characters briefly open and close the story, with forgettable filler in between. Then offers some slight depth of character for the four girls who embody stereotypes of adolescent girls (the princess, the tomboy, the sheltered one, the seemingly normal one). Now still embraces those stereotypes (the princess has become an actress, still obsessed with body image; the normal one has become a writer, who showcases her intellect by wearing black and smoking). There is no growth amongst the adults. Now is focused on Chrissy's pregnancy and reminiscing, while Then seems to get distracted amongst its various subplots (unraveling Crazy Pete, watching parents fight, bicker with boys, watch movies, build a tree house, ride bikes) without ever really coming to a true conclusion.For a movie hailed as a Stand By Me for girls, the film is lacking in its overall sincerity. Whereas Reiner's film grapples (and in some cases overcomes) 'mature' themes like death, acceptance, and separation, Glatter's film skates over the big issues. Stand By Me captures true childhood friendship (friends help friends get leeches off their backs) Now and Then is only truly poignant, well, now and then.I'd recommend Now and Then for a time when you are in the mood for something lighthearted and distracting. I'd second the opinion that it's great for a girl's sleepover or something. But if you are looking for something a little deeper and, in my opinion, more true to childhood friendship, I'd tell you to skip this movie and go straight to Stand By Me. Note Stand By Me is rated R; Now and Then PG-13. Both films have great soundtracks. "},{"Title":"Grown-ups are a dull letdown","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In this coming-of-age story set in both the 1970s and 1990s, the younger cast is brilliant and natural, particularly Christina Ricci and Gaby Hoffmann. The script soars with female teenage humor, friendship, and pre-puberty naivete -- a sprightly soundtrack of 70s tunes takes older viewers down memory lane. But then, just when the story about four best friends during summer vacation in a new housing development is clipping along at a compelling pace, SLAM! The film jumps forward 20 years and the girls are grown-ups. And at these points, the movie groans along like a garbage disposal with too many potato peels crammed in it.Remarkably, the dismal acting of these veteran actresses isn't as bad as the lack-luster script during these flash-fronts. Were there separate writers for this film? I usually adore Rosie O'Donnell, but casting her as the grown Roberta was a horrible choice. Demi Moore's character is now self-absorbed and self-pitying, and Melanie Griffin (super-famous actress) and Rita Wilson (pregnant homemaker) are insipid caricatures. None of these women are one-quarter as interesting or delightful as they were when they were adolescents, particularly Roberta (Ricci/O'Donnell). The film's flipping back and forth between the decades becomes quickly annoying.Suggestion Rent the video, and fast-forward through the adult stuff. Fast-forwarding the tape won't rob anyone of the film's message (something like friendship is forever, or don't go into cemeteries at night), and it'll save you about 30 minutes of fidgeting, waiting for the film to turn back to the four girls. At least they have fun. And the treehouse they save up to buy is every girl's idea of truly cool! "}{"Title":"One the feminists will love","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A rip off of the film 'stand by me', this film, unfortunately, relies on the age old methods of feminism to appeal to the younger female audience.'Now and then' shares the 'now' story of four women as they remember a 'Then' summer from their childhood. The idea and thought were good, and should have produced a female focused version of 'stand by me' which is a classic.However, 'Now and then' delves into the always popular arena of degrading the male half of the species, something 'Stand by me' did not have to sink too with regards to girls/women. 'Girls are so much better' is our message from this Demi Moore production, with violence against boys condoned and made humorous. There is the always acceptable underage male nudity to remind us all of the absolute outrage that would ensue if underage female nudity was used in the same way to humiliate girls. A good example of respect and equality that the film manages to achieve on so many levels, if your the right gender of course.'Now and then' is a great example of how far female privilege has gone instead of showing how far women may have come in terms of equality and respect. What a shame 'Stand by me' is able to take the moral high ground without even trying. "},{"Title":"Beautifully crafted, but relies totally on subplots. **1/2 (out of four)","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  NOW AND THEN / (1995) **1/2 (out of four)	Lesli Linka Glatter's touching drama Now and Then is a misguided tale that beautifully captures the many painful and joyful ups and downs of four best friends growing up in the 1970's. Best compared to Stand By Me and Man in the Moon, this tender movie gently touches base with the delicate time period when young girls experience the confusions and emotions that are present in the process of puberty.	The plots happens over the eventful summer of 1970. The film details the lives of four best friends, Samantha (Gaby Hoffmann), Teeny (Thora Birch), Roberta (Christina Ricci), and Chrissy (Ashleigh Aston Moore). During this summer, the girls find it necessary to ware bras for the first time in their lives, a factor in which they have varied feelings. This is also the summer where they discover their town's horrifying secret about a young boy who mysteriously died thirty years ago. Pursuing the girls are the neighbor boys named the Wormers.The film is told in the present through the girls who are now adults. The adult actresses, including Rosie O'Donnell, Rita Wilson, Demi Moore, and Melanie Griffith, appear only as wraparound bookends to fill the audience's desire to see whom the girls turn out to be. However, they are not examined in enough detail to fulfill these desires.Now and Then filmmakers describe the characters descriptively and vividly with believable character traits like curiosity and lively spirit. They are very well cast by some of Hollywood's biggest names, who perform with a sweet, gentle, fitting attitude. The movie's actors are willing to give more than the script allows.	The problem lies not within character, however, but in plot. The film seems unclear of what it is about, whether it wants to detail the lives of four adolescent girls, discovering the death of Dear Johnny, childhood mischief the story is so easily distracted. The film persistently adds in unnecessary clichés and predictable character formality involving relationship conflicts and novice romances. Yet at the same time the plot is executed artistically with an enjoyable sense of style and an effective mood along with a soundtrack that is true to the 70's era.	Now and Then is the kind of movie that relies entirely on subplots to propel its distracted story line along. I compare the film's structure to that of a deformed tree, where there are plenty of narrative roots and the story branches off in many directions, but it does not have a thick trunk for support. "},{"Title":"Female equivalent of 'Stand By Me'","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Samantha (Demi Moore) is called home to Shelby, Indianna for her childhood friend Chrissy (Rita Wilson)'s coming childbirth. She recalls her childhood in the summer of 1970 in the new subdivision Gaslight Addition. The four friends Roberta (Christina Ricci), Teeny (Thora Birch), Samantha (Gaby Hoffmann), and Chrissy (Ashleigh Aston Moore) try to earn enough money for a tree house. One night, they play séance at Dear Johnny's grave at the cemetery and lightning strikes. They go off to discover the story behind Dear Johnny while Wormer brothers continue to hound them.There is a definite 'Stand By Me' feel to it. It's the female equivalent. The obvious question is if the adult version is compelling enough and do the two versions fit together. I can certainly do without the adult version. Rosie O'Donnell doesn't really fit as an adult Christina Ricci. It would have been much better to limit the adult storyline like 'Stand By Me'. Although, it's only about 20 minutes of screen time at the start and the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"A User's Movie, Not a Critic's Movie","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie when I was 11. Like all movies you watch when you are 11, it has that nostalgia value that no critic can touch. Sure, it's not entirely realistic or in any way makes you contemplate your life on a deeper level. It's one of those movies you just accept, flaws and all, because it's catchy and fun and full of childhood nostalgia. The cheese factor is pretty low, compared to many other coming-of-age films. So yes, it may have a 19% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, but I will always have a special place in my heart for this movie. And yes, because I'm sure everyone wants to know, I SO wanted to be Roberta. Ps Since when have you had to have 10 lines of text to be considered a review? Wtf IMDb, we are in the culture of efficiency. "},{"Title":"Not incredibly memorable","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Would be Stand by Me for the girls, about growing up and making lasting friendships. The plot from I. Marlene King (a semi-autobiographical piece) has little substance and never really manages to captivate, reducing the target audience to teen girls twelve to sixteen years of age.Director Lesli Linka Glatter's film is almost entirely about Then and rarely covers Now. Top line stars Demi Moore, Melanie Griffith and Rosie O'Donnel are wasted completely, playing less than a handful of paltry scenes. Whatever Miss Glatter was trying to create, she fails to make Now and Then into anything incredibly memorable.All pic. contains is a few light hearted adventures of four girls' discovery that they are on the verge of womanhood during the summer of 1970. Christina Ricci, Gaby Hoffman, Thora Birch and Ashleigh Aston Moore (the girls in question) do a reasonable job, but stars Hoffman and Ricci need to be challenged with meatier roles. Average film over all.Saturday, March 30, 1996 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. I saw this movie for the first time about 10 years ago and since then I have seen it about 100 times. I love it. When I was little my friends and I would pretend we were all the characters and have tons of fun. We used to watch it over and over. Even now it is still my favorite movie and I can just relate to it so well. I think it is the perfect movie for girls and I think every girl should see it. I think that every girl can relate to this movie. I love this movie. I had all my friends watch it and now it is their favorite movie, too. I think all of the acting is great and the plot is excellent,too. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved the movie the first time I saw it. I used to be obsessed with it. I remember watching it so many times (I bought it on tape) and analysing it. I even have the script (written, by me, very painstakingly pausing the movie).  Me and my friends in the neighbourhood used to act it out. The adult part is definitely unnecessary, but the parts with the children are easy to identify with. It's a great movie about growing up. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is horrible all over. It is compared to Stand By Me. That movie is a classic. This one does not even come close to measuring up to SBM. Some say this is an inspirational movie for young girls. Just so you know, they are wrong! If you're a parent do not show this to your child. It promotes sexism in the worst ways. The girls as children are all persecuted by boys. This is taken to the absolute extreme. This is not like real life. Every interaction with the boys these girls have they act as if they are being attacked. In response they proceed to become violent physically, verbally, and by their actions. This is a horrible movie and a bad influence. 0/10. Do not watch it. "},{"Title":"Yep, this is a pretty good coming-of-age movie for 4 friends the summer they were 12.","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I vaguely remember seeing trailers for this movie when it came out all those years ago but never saw it ... until today. My public library recently added the DVD to its holdings.The now and then refers to four 30-something friends from childhood who have come together in 1994 and seeing the old treehouse still in the backyard of one reminisce about that fateful year, 1970, when they were 12. So most of the movie has four 12-yr-old actresses playing the roles, but the beginning and end are the mature actresses playing their older selves. One is a doctor, another is a writer, yet another is an actress, while one stayed in town and is about to have a baby.The summer of 1970 has the girls playing in the cemetery at night and seeing a tombstone of a boy their age, 12, buried in 1945. Part of their quest is to find out who this boy was and how he died. They have a number of experiences, some with the local bullies, four brothers. And some adventures are unpleasant involving friction in families. But somehow they survive and finally finding out about the dead boy had some life lessons.Overall a really good movie. Shot in and around Savannah Georgia. "},{"Title":"Girly version of Stand By Me?","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now and Then is as if Stand By Me (1986) and The Babysitter's Club (1995) were thrown together in a blender. It has fairly decent acting (Rosie O'Donnell and Walter Sparrow give excellent performances) and a pretty good soundtrack. Set in the nostalgic era of Super-8, modern suburbs and kids still frequently going outside, 1970, Now and Then is the story of four adult women going down memory lane in the Nineties and talking about their memorable summer as children. As kids they were all dealing with their own issues Roberta was obsessed with death and playing dead after her mother was killed, Chrissy has no idea what sex is and feels immature compared to her friends, Teeny is a stuck-up only child who seems to know too much and Samantha's father has run off; her parents are getting a divorce. Their summer goal is to save up enough money for a large treehouse, but they get sidetracked when ghosts, family matters and their own growing up all interfere.Now And Then was a pretty good movie but definitely not original, it's a girly version of Stand By Me and mimics nearly every aspect of it. Christina Ricci was in it as the childhood Roberta, and she's a really great actress, no doubt about it, but she was in so many similar roles during the 1990's (The Addams Family, The Ice Storm, Mermaids, etc.) that she's overused and not very effective once you've already seen her in a million other things. Just like Dakota and Elle Fanning and Chloe Grace Moretz are overused way too much in the 21st century, Christina Ricci was in their place during the Nineties. She does a good acting job but it's just not convincing when she's been in so many other movies like Now and Then.The plot was very childish (yeah, I know it's about kids), but childish that it makes the characters acting like eight-year-olds rather than their supposed ages in the story. Still, the cast choice as adults was amazing, they look very much as you would picture the characters to be as grown-ups. Rosie O' Donnell looks exactly like an older Christina Ricci and so on.Now and Then isn't bad, it's a typical nostalgia movie. It isn't as good as Running With Scissors (2006) or The Ice Storm (1997) but it manages to keep you watching, so you've got to give it credit for that. "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My bet is that you will laugh, cry and cheer. I thought this was cute and not bad at all. Like other great dramadies, it is filled with charm, innocence and drama and romance. I thought it was a nice mix. The casting is great and Demi Moore gives a performance of a lifetime. It is an emotionally uplifting movie that will raise your morale. Unfairly dismissed by some as formulaic, this kind of character piece needs a tight focus so all of the nuances of the characters shine through. I found it entertaining and it left me with a warm feeling. I thought that there was really good chemistry between the main characters. "},{"Title":"One of the best adolescent nostalgia movies ever made.","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I see a lot of people comparing this movie to Stand By Me but the problem with that is if you were old enough to see Stand By Me when it was first released then hate to break it to you but this movie is not targeted at your demographic. Just because something feels like a remake of a movie made a decade before does not mean that the new movie is in anyway terrible. Take Heathers and Mean Girls for example both good movies but in my opinion Mean Girls appealed to me more as it was aimed at my demographic. If you can't judge a movie on it's own merits than perhaps you need to chill a little.Anyway, Now and Then is one of those movies that sticks with you for life. Recently I just converted a friend of mine in her mid twenties to loving this movie. I was dumbfounded that she had missed this right of passage that most young girls had when this movie was released. Every girl can relate to one of the four characters and it reminds you of a simpler time where all that mattered were boys, having fun and navigating your way through growing up. I still remember taking Cosmo quizzes and thinking they had an insight into your soul, preparing for your first kiss and investing in my first bra. I know there are a lot of parents who think this movie is overly sexualised but guess what when your kid is going through puberty nothing will turn them back into your precious little angel. Accept it and hope they have supportive friends who they can share their journey with.If you watch the movie with an open heart you will find a great cast that feels real in their characters, a brilliant soundtrack that increases your nostalgia level and a deep and meaningful storyline. It deals with subject matter that many adolescent movies steer clear of, just because you are young does not mean you haven't experienced hurt and pain like an adult. Adolescents needs to know that life is not always perfect and that there will be ups and downs but everyone is all in it together. I cannot strongly recommend this movie enough if you are willing to enjoy this movie for what it is, a fantastic coming of age movie. "},{"Title":"excellent and clean","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When you watch this 1995 movie in 2012, you wish all children grow up in small towns with the simplicity and innocence that comes with it.. it has its own share of maturity,  it is normal when things are shitty .. the movie shows that real understanding can lead to a life-long friendship among four characteristically different kids..one having a tragic past, another having quarrelling parents, yet another being given unreal sex education by an embarrassed, yet caring mother..The kids have done excellent acting.. the pace is smooth.. the biggest lesson comes from from a mysterious man who visits a particular grave in a cemetery.. A must-see for all parents and also for all children who want to avoid loneliness "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Now And Then' is about a group of women who return to their old treehouse and reminisce about the one summer that truly changed their lives...With an all star cast, 'Now And Then' features Melanie Griffith, Demi Moore, Rita Wilson and Rosie O'Donnell, with Thora Birch, Gaby Hoffman, Ashleigh Aston Moore and Christina Ricci playing their younger counterparts.Teen star Christina Ricci ('Casper', 'The Adams Family') is great - as is Ricci's 'Gold Diggers' co-star, Ashleigh Aston Moore - as the mis-informed Chrissy. Bonnie Hunt ('Jumangi') and Devon Sawa ('Wild America') also star.The story is great - plenty of laughs to be had here, with sad moments, too. The acting is A-Grade (the young girls look very promising) and the finished product is a film all the cast should be proud of. "},{"Title":"Can be a nostalgic flick for girls","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching this reminded me of the Korean movie Sunny although this came out first. Well it wouldn't be a shock if the director of Sunny was influenced by this movie. The dialogue however didn't seem as natural sometimes and seemed like watching some southern novel that isn't really down to earth. It just didn't seem like what a group of women would be saying to each other, but than again the story switches back from the 70's to 90's when it comes to the characters. The dialogue just seemed too safe to be natural despite the sexual stuff and it's a girly movie. Since the 4 main character are 4 girls in the 70's and women in the 90's. Anyways the story is about 4 women getting together after spending there childhood together and reminisce of the past and adventures they had together. Although most of it takes place during a summer. Now I am not a fan of Rosie O'Donnell, to be honest I think she is irritating to watch sometimes. Her character is like the main character or leader of the pack and I thought it was ridiculous her younger version would be played by Christina Ricci. Not that I am a fan of Ricci either, but the comparison is too big to the point you can get confused who is who sometimes when it comes to the younger version with the older version or visa versa. So yeah I don't know if Rosie picked her younger version but it's just absurd. Overall this is a touching movie that most girls and maybe some boys will probably enjoy watching and parents will probably enjoy it as well. It really does give off a nostalgic feel because of the friendship, even if you didn't go through the same things the girls did in the movie. I give this movie a 6.8 because the development of the characters aren't done all that great and somethings are not explained and not for good reasons. Some say this is a female version of Stand By Me and I agree to certain extent.6.8/10 "},{"Title":"A comedy for the ages","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this film. Well, let's be honest, I will love any movie with Roseanne. Add Demi Mrs. Kutcher Moore, Melanie Mrs. Banderas Griffith, and you will just have a bang.The story goes back and forth between now and then, and it is a testament of the power of female friendship. The heroes, or maybe I should call them She-roes, are able to stand by each other through thick and thin. I know that some men cried (not me, but i know for a fact that my friend Derek went through a full box of Kleenex watching this lovely film).There are my two cents. Girls kick a**. Forever. Definitely.See you next time. "},{"Title":"this movie is amazing.","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie now and then is one of my favorites and will continue to be.It is the story of four best friends Roberta,Teeny,Samantha,and Chrissy.It shows two parts of their lives. Now when they meet for the first time in ten years to celebrate and help Chrissy through pregnancy. Then when they were young twelve year olds discovering love,boys,and true friendship.It takes place during the summer of 1970 where the girls go on a crazy adventure to find out about a spirit they thought they released during one of their séances. Through out the movie there are things to entertain everyone; comedy,romance,adventure and more. This movie is great for girls of all ages.I love it,and I think other people will to  "},{"Title":"Summer Classic!","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie!!! It is definitely the perfect girl summer movie. The plot is simple and at the same the adventure they have is so much fun. The characters are so easy to relate to, no matter what decade you belong to, you know you would want to hang with your friends like this. I remember the second I finished the movie me and my cousin grabbed our bikes and began our own summer adventure. To this year we still love to go out on our bikes in the summer. Its really great for kids of today to watch this, it gets them inspired to go out and have fun outdoors instead of having their butts glued to the TV or computer. I recommend this movie to anyone who wants to put a smile on their face. "},{"Title":"the movie is about 4 girls who's summer dream is to buy a tree house","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i am a younger girl. I love this movie it is perfect for a slumber party! its so fun! i watched it 4 times in the last three days. your daughters will fall in love with it. i would give it a ten out of ten because every girl would love watching it. There is a tom boy, a un informed girl,a science fiction freak, and a girl who wants to make it as a movie star. All the girls have real ambitions and face real life challenges. such as near death experiences divorces and sneaking out at night. the girls talk about sex and have other adolescent conversations. They learn to trust in each other and live life to the fullest! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is an amazing movie that is not only well-acted, but has an amazing storyline. Even for those of us that didn't grow up in the 1970s, seeing these girls' unforgettable summer makes your heart ache. Whenever I see this movie I wish I grew up in small-town Shelby, too. This movie will make you laugh and cry, and ultimately make you wish and think you were there and you knew these girls. Whenever I think of this movie, I think of all the great times these girls had together. No matter how much I grow older, I still fall in love with this movie over and over. Their struggles, and joys, are those that are timeless and we can all relate to. I recommend it completely. "}{"Title":"Charming if familiar coming of age tale is helped by good performances by the young female cast.","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Four long time friends (Demi Moore, Rosie O'Donnell, Melaine Griffen and Rita Wilson) are reunited, since they didn't seen each other in years. Once these friends decide to talk about their past. They talk about the best summer they ever had as Kids (Gaby Hoffman, Christina Ricci, Thora Birch and Ashleigh Aston Moore) and the difficulties they had growning up.Directed by Leslie Linka Glatter made an familiar, coming of age dramatic comedy. Which some might say this is the female version of Stand by Me but towed down version of it. Good performances highlights this, especially from the young cast. There's also a fine 1970's soundtrack adds to the enjoyment of the movie.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an lively Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD's only features are the original theatrical trailer and cast & crew information. This film was an modest hit at the box office. The movie is entertaining, especially for the pre-teen girls. Adults will likely relish this picture as well. Demi Moore is also one of the producers of this film. Brandan Fraser appears unbilled. (*** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"A touching story about four friends","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I absolutely love this film. It is one of my three favourite films of all time. My friend introduced me to it about 7 or 8 years ago. I am eternally grateful to her. We used to watch it at every single sleepover and many other times apart from that. There was four of us in our group so we used to imagine it was us. I borrowed the video of my friend a lot. I was thrilled when I got to tape it of the TV and I bought it on DVD recently (the only thing is that I would have loved if the DVD had special features). The film tells the story of four 12 year old friend growing up in the 1970s in America. They all have different personalities and come from different family circumstances. Roberta is the leader of the group. She is a tomboy. Her Mum died when she was young. Chrissie is Roberta's best friend. She is quite naive and her parents are over-protective. Samantha is the clever, book-worm of the group and is interested in ghosts. Her parents break up during the film. Her best friend is Teeny. Teeny is the over-dramatic one, who loves dressing up and acting. Her parents barely even notice her. The film follows the girls as they deal with growing up issues such as liking boys, wanting freedom and problems such as dealing with divorce and death. These issues makes the film and storyline both very good and realistic. The cast are very good, especially the four young girls. I just love this film so much because it reminds me of my childhood and the things me and my friends used to get up to. I can relate it to my own childhood and the friends I had (and still have) and how we would do anything for each other and be there for each other. I am sure others have this same view. "},{"Title":"a fresh, feel-good and fun movie, focusing on lives of typically emotional teens","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Roberta (Rosie O'Donnell), Samantha (Demi Moore) and Teeny (Melanie Griffith) and Chrissy (Rita Wilson) all made a promise to each other twenty years ago that they would forever remain soul mates and reunite when one of them was in need. Now, Chrissy is about to give birth and that time has come. Cue back Then to the Summer of 1970, to four friends having the time of their lives as well as going through experiences of their own...In all honesty, Rosie, Demi, Melanie and Rita are rarely in the movie - they are shown at the beginning and nearer to the end. Although when they are shown, they seem to share great chemistry and play the roles of the older version of the four lifelong friends well. Demi's role is particularly memorable, because as Sam, she is the storyteller throughout the movie. Onto the younger cast - which adds up to being generally faultless. Christina Ricci excels as tomboyish Roberta, Thora Birch inspires confidence as wannabe superstar Teeny, Gaby Hoffman pulls it off as emotion-filled Samantha and Ashleigh Aston Moore is considerably funny as highly-strung Chrissy. You cannot go wrong with a cast such as this one, because the chemistry between the girls and the effort put into their performances is more than obvious.What I like about this movie is that the true life of a teenager is shown from both sides of the picture. For instance, one scene with the girls riding their bikes as they are singing along to the song 'knock three times...' is shortly followed by another scene in which Roberta is faking her own death, not just as a way to seek attention but as a way to deal with her own pain because her mother was killed. The emotional trauma of this subject strongly contrast with the high amount of fun being had by the girls as a group. Together, they are strongest. They don't have to deal with their issues alone and as we learn from Sam as the storyteller, each girl is going through a hard time. Not to mention being targeted by the Wormer boys on the street with jello balloons...I'd give this great movie 9/10 because my only criticism is that Roberta's growing romance with Scott isn't developed further. Otherwise, I'd recommend this to anyone who wants their spirits uplifted and wants to sing along to a highly charged 70s soundtrack, with the songs used cleverly in the movie in scenes with the four friends together - showing that girls really do just wanna have fun. Devon Sawa plays Scott Wormer, coincidentally playing the love interest of Ricci's character just like he did in Casper; so all the girls out there can feel free to swoon over him. Oh, and watch out for cameos by Hank Azaria, Bonnie Hunt and Brendan Fraser. Hope you enjoy it as much as I did "},{"Title":"An all star cast, Now and Then is a touching friendship film!","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Somewhat reminiscent of the classic Stand by Me, Now and Then is a delightful, touching movie about four girls trying to come to terms with death, loyalty, and independence during the 1970s. Their reunion in the 1990s enables them to put the past in perspective and to reconfirm their need for each other.Produced by Demi Moore, who also plays the adult version of one of the characters, ''Now and Then'' concentrates on the bumpy, bittersweet transition between childhood and adolescence. Loss of innocence, sexual awakening, the first glances at adult betrayals and disappointments -- that's all here, and played quite nicely by two corresponding quartets of actresses. Highlited with amazing performances from Christina Ricci, Thora Birch, Gabby Hoffman and Ashleigh Aston Moore.Overall, the flick not particularly deep, but it's a good-natured, sprightly comedy that ought to find its most appreciative audience among preteens.7.5/10 See It If You Liked My Girl, Stand by Me, The Breakfast Club-Luke Rowe "},{"Title":"All for one and one for all","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film really does show the friendship and loyalty that is forged by a group of young girls, who when they said, friends forever, meant it. It was so long ago, years and years in fact, that i first saw the film, but i still absolutely love it. The friendship which the girls have in their childhood really is a lot like other people's childhood friendships. The tree house, swimming, bike trips, mystery. It has always been around.The film starts with Demi Moore's character Samantha returning back to her home town, a place which she didn't really want to see again, but she still made the trip back home, all because of a pact which she made with her friends as a young girl. Whenever we need one another. We will be there. and they kept their promise when Chrissy asked for their help, to get through her pregnancy, and when expecting her first child to be born at any moment they came. After returning back home, memories from one particular summer flood back, the summer they got their tree house and the summer that held many mysteries and drama. It was the summer where they grew up and learned to fend for themselves. As Demi Moore says at the end of the young girls story- The tree house was supposed to bring us more independence, but what the summer actually brought us was independence from each other. and that was how their summer of mystery ended, but it was not the end of their friendship. "},{"Title":"Friendship makes the world a better place","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I caught this one a long time ago and recently came across its VCD and bought it.I loved it then and my opinion stills remains the same. It struck a cord somewhere. Its been long since i have spend quality time with my friends and have been as carefree as Teeny, Chrissy, Roberta and Samantha. I long for those days when we could hang out just for the sake of hanging out. Each of these characters had problems of their own but they were always there for each other and had each others backs.This movie moves back and forth to the past to the happenings of a particular summer when they were 12 and brings us back to present where everybody are adults. That summer in the 70s was instrumental in creating a bond between the girls that still lasts and a promise was made for eternal friendship. When any one of them needs the others they will be there her no matter what. I wish i had friends with whom i could have made such a pact. In any case the movie evokes a strong feeling of nostalgia for the days gone by. The parts from the 70s are very good and entertaining. The casting for the young actresses were spot on match with their adult counterparts played by big stars like Demi Moore, Melanie Griffith, Rita Wilson and Rosie O'Donnel. All in all its a feel good movie for sentimental people who still remembers the good old days of childhood. I am sure your children will like it too. "},{"Title":"A great Movie!","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This fun-filled story will make you laugh,and make you cry.Thora Birch(teeny),Christina Ricci(Roberta),and Gaby Hoffman(Samantha) i thing did a great job of acting. this is a great story that tells of 4 best friends. And deals with teen things,like smoking for the first time,your first kiss,A deiced parent,Annoying siblings,just everything Here are the cast members\ SamanthaGaby Hoffman,Demi Moore TeenyThora Birch,Melanie Griffen RobertaChristina Ricci,Roise O'Donald ChrissyAshleigh Ashton Moore,Rita Wilson and many more very talented actors and actresses.I would recommend this movie for ages 10 and up.The will enjoy this heart warming comedy/drama about these girls and just fall in love with the movie "},{"Title":"Review of the movie","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is truly amazing, one of those movies you can watch over and over. It's a family film, but also a teenage film, as it deals with questions which girls/boys have at that time. It also shows the meaning of the true friendship. It's fun, nice, with great 70's songs which add up to the enjoyment and the ambient of that time. The whole plot is very interesting, the girls wanting to solve the death mystery back from the 40's. That summer was like a turning point in their lives, up to that summer they all had sweet idealistic lives, thinking that their town is protected from outside and that nothing bad will ever happen in their lives. Little by little, they are realizing that things are not what they seem, and that they will have to lean on the only thing that is persistent - their everlasting friendship, now & then. "},{"Title":"Hello","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well.. when i was like 12 years old i saw this movie with my best friends and we loved it ... we made almost the same thing in the movie .. it was so funny, i really would like to see the money again.. i really miss it. Since me and friends went to different direccions! u know guys and girls, men and ladies.. school..! well i fell really bad but I've been trying to get the movie since the first time we saw it!I hope you like this movie if you get a chance to see it ;) !i really recommend it to everyone!Its a really good movie and u should see for sure!sincerely, FiemiEsmeraldaP.D. if u would like to talk about the movie please add me to my e-mail fiemi@hotmail.com .. thx for time! "},{"Title":"It Hit Close To Home","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now and Then was movie every young girl searching for love should watch. The movie focused on the petty trials young teens go through, especially while dealing with friendships and clicks. I loved the way all of the girls in the film valued friendship, which was the moral lesson in watching the movie. Seeing some of the scenes, the kissing scenes, and the lake scene when the boys are shown naked, added to the overall effectiveness of the film to hit close to home for teens. After all, I remember the days when my friends and I reminisced about what we thought our crushes looked like naked. The movie did a good job of using profanity and sexual content without necessarily offending anyone. The only thing I did not like about the movie was that the ending was too predictable. It seems like every movie happily ends, and I would have liked to see a moral adventive ending to this one. "}{"Title":"What a Fab Film!!!!","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have see this film at lease 50 times, it is my favourite film ever!!! I would recommend it to everyone, its a film that suits all ages and people, I would say its more of a chick's film, but I do know guys who have watched it and liked it.There are so many true phrases in the film, the best ones have to be when crazy Pete is talking to Sam by dear Jonny's grave, and the speech at the end by Sam, in the tree house holding the baby. I think both quotes have so much meaning behind them, and really made me cry! The whole film has a meaning to it, about when your younger, the way you have a care free attitude, and then something changes, and you grow up, and things happen in your life that you cant help. I think Now & Then has a good message to send out to everyone.Its a film worth watching, trust me don't miss out!!! "},{"Title":"Really Cute Nice Movie","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a really nice movie. The actresses are really well chosen and, especially the young girls do such a great job. It is a coming of age story or four friends who in a summer that started their becoming a woman period, they swore they would be there for each other forever. So years later they are all coming back together when one of them is pregnant and really needs their support. Together they relieve this summer that changed their lives and are again brought together by it. It is a really strong friendship they share and it is a really cute plot. For people who like drama this is a must see.You can definitely identify with either one of the characters who are all very different. They all got through many different tough times parents divorcing, starting to like the boys you always fight with, being fat... This summer who shaped who they became is now what brings them close again after some years apart. Well thought out film, highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Young and experienced talents carry the film well","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have heard so many people refer to this film as a female version of Stand by Me. Yes, I see similarities between the two films, mainly along the lines of friendship, growing up, family issues, the dead, and drifting apart with age. But I must say like Now and Then better. Some parts are cheesy, but it has a great message and is timeless.Four childhood friends Samantha, Roberta, Tina, and Chrissy make a pact one summer to be there for one another when needed. Twenty five years later, they all reunite in their hometown for the birth of Chrissy's baby. As 12-year-olds in the summer of 1970, they dealt with issues such as divorce, the war in Vietnam, ambition for stardom and wealth, local bullies, and a murder mystery. They had each other when their families were absent or indifferent to them. They promised to be there for each other through the good and the bad, no matter what happened in life. They fulfill their promise, but how have they changed? Will they remain close through it all? While the adult actors Demi Moore, Rosie O'Donnell, Melanie Griffith, and Rita Wilson provide great opening and closure to the film, it is the young actors who carry its weight. Gaby Hoffmann, Christina Ricci, Thora Birch, and Ashleigh Aston Moore, respectively, play their roles with genuine believability. They have their limitations, but who doesn't? We are led to believe that somehow, they will succeed. An elderly man tells it best to one of them Things will happen to you in your life that you can't control, but don't shut out the world around you. Life is not always fair, and we all have to grow up. But the film is a great reminder that in a cynical day and age, our friends are not lost! "},{"Title":"One I will always remember","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie a long time ago. I remember watching it with my best friend and my cousin at numerous slumber parties and we loved it. I will always remember this film because of the easy going lifestyle in the movie, the memorable characters, and the funny script.But now when I go and watch it again now, one question will always pop into my head. This question is Why in the world did our parents let us 7 year olds watch this movie!?Despite this mind plaguing question, I will continue to enjoy this wonderful movie.9 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"my opinions of Now and Then","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i personally love this movie. its a great story about 4 girls who slowly discover that they are no longer the innocent little children they have grown accustomed to. they are growing up and with that, each girl discovers or comes to terms with something about herself. i, being a teenage girl, relate to many of the elements in this story. my parents divorced at a young age and i had a hard time with it- thats the Samantha in me. i discovered the need for wearing a bra and felt like an outcast because i was the only one of my friends who needed to- thats the Roberta. i always had a grown up sense to me when in fact- i was still a kid and had to remember to enjoy life as it comes and try not to grow up too quickly- thats a bit of Teeney. Now, unlike Chrissy, I was never as naive- I was usually the one giving the trash- mouth information- as her mother puts it. I also had a friend, Johnny, who died when i was younger, so the Dear Johnny thing kinda hit close to home. But i loved that. I first fell in love with this movie when it came out- I was about 6. Now, at almost 16, I feel like I can relate to it even more because I have grown up a bit and all of the feelings in those four girls were all mixed around in my little self. In summation, I think that Now and Then is one of the best coming-of-age stories I've ever seen and I don't think that will change anytime soon. Whatever age you are, you can surely relate to one-if not all the characters. Its a touching story about growing up,loving life and the bonds of friendship. "},{"Title":"Great then and still great now","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's the year 2004, and i finally get to watch this movie...and i regret for waiting. An amazing achievement. The four young 'then' rising starlet's prove their acting abilities such that i was shocked that neither one of them left a stage with an award. Christina Ricci's tomboy looks were fitted perfectly into the character of Roberta, equipped with the ever famous Rosie O'Donell as her future self. Thora Birch's blonde hair image and personality was molded so well, that Melanie Griffith seemed like her mom. Gaby Hoffman's resemblance to Demi Moore would have been slightly hazy, but lets not forget then 13 year old Gaby's performance. Ashleigh Aston Moore..what ever happened to her?The casting is great, and truthfully, the 'then' kids provide a better performance than the adult 'now' women.Being released in '95, when Demi Moore was the apple of Hollywood, Christina Ricci was making it big with Casper, and Melanie Griffith's relationship with Antonio Banderas was in the spotlight, this movie would have generated quite a lot of hype.The best thing about this movie is the wonderful nostalgic feeling, that it leaves you at the end- making it a good feel good finale.I believe that Leslie Linka Glatter did an excellent job in directing- even the 'not so good' scenes were enhanced by a catchy vintage song from back in the days, which made you go along with it.Check out Dewon Sawa's first performances as Scott Wormer, and Brendan Frasier as the Vietnam Vet. All in all this movie speaks a lot about friendships- and being a pure chick flick, doesn't stop this movie from being soppy, girly or ditsy.As for my personal rating, i would give it without a doubt a 5/5.  "},{"Title":"Love it.","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having seen Now and Then over 150 times since it was first released in '95, one may assume I would be sick of it by now. Well, I'm not. The first time I watched it was with my cousin. I was seven, she was five, and we both fell in love with the music, characters (and the actresses that played them), the plot, and the movie in general. We wished we could have grown up in a town like Shelby, with best friends to count on and mysteries to explore. Now, being obviously older, we still wish we could have had that chance, and plan to give our future children the semi-exciting lives we never had. Now and Then is a classic, simply put, and deserves more recognition for its talented actors and touching story.  "},{"Title":"now and then, oh yes!","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is my all-time favorite movie ever ever ever!  it was the best even if it isnt of my time and i feel that kids everywhere who are around that age can relate to the characters and their actions.  they're not like those shows or movies where everything turns out perfect.  it teaches some important lessons.  it lets you know that no matter what, you can always go back home to your friends.True friends are the ones who see the hurt in your eyes when everyone else is fooled by your smile. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As a Middle Aged Woman, watching this took me back to my Childhood. What a Blast I had with my Friends. Remembering those Rotten Boys, Club House, Hanging Out, True Friends, Little Tiffs with my Friends, First Kiss w/a Boy, Dealing with Parents. My Childhood was filled with many Good Lasting Memories, along with some bad. But overall they were some of the Best Times I had in Life. "},{"Title":"Love at first viewing!","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie! I saw it when it came out, at a friend's house when I was 12. It's definitely my favorite childhood movie. The characters are true to life; they're not all the typical gorgeous Hollywood actors, and the story line is really believable. Obviously, it could've been better, but it was good enough.   "}{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie, following Young Roberta through her years of Girls can't play softball! Christina Ricci is perfect. There could not have been a better Roberta. Roberta reminds me of her at the age of 12, having a tough shell and a soft inside. "},{"Title":"My childhood favorite","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I was in 5th grade, this was my very favorite movie. My friends and I took on the parts of the girls and would act out scenes from the movie (by middle school, we moved on to Coyote Ugly). In any case, I watched this movie again a few weeks ago and it reminded me of the good ol' days on the playground pretending to be Sam. This movie sums up my childhood, and i feel a bit nostalgic every time I see it. it is a wonderful movie about being a kid while you can and then, growing up. Not to mention, it has an awesome soundtrack! "},{"Title":"Partly beautiful...","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Even as a seventeen year old boy, I really enjoyed parts of this movie ;-)For me it's a kind of reference for that often told story of the summer of first love all of the well-known cliché-characters - the four girls and their special patterns of behavior in relation to each other, the guys, the strange old man... - are portrayed and played in a nicely detailed way. The story development works pretty fine, too, and all in all builds up an at least comprehensible atmosphere, being far away from letting you forget you're watching a film or even being realistic, but as that's not what I'd expect from such a film, that doesn't really bother me.BUT... the parts of the story playing in the present REALLY annoy me. In addition to the unmotivated kind-of-story with it's incredibly boring and unmoving ending, all actresses deliver such a bad work, that Demi Moore actually makes the best impression to me - and she's not better at all than in her other movies.In order to rate this film in an honest way an AS IT IS, I can give it only 6 out of 10 - I highly recommend it, nevertheless. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies.  Its a coming of age about 4 friends spending one summer trying to buy a tree house.  By the end of the summer, they come to see a more mature view of the world.  The chemestry of the actresses is wonderful.  Brendan Frazier's cameo role is my favorite.  "},{"Title":"best chick flick of my time","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is not boring for the whole duration of the film, I myself have seen this film countless times and have not tired from watching it yet, it is a brilliant piece of modern day flashback filmography. The acting was extremely good especially from the pre-american beauty Thora birch, Chritina Ricci didn't surprise me with her superb acting skills, basically altogether they picked the right cast for the film because without all of them the film wouldn't be so memorable to me "},{"Title":"Goofy but watchable","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I admit it I actually sat down and watched this movie when it was on ABC, and to be honest with you, it was pretty good. I thought those four girls did a very good job, and I especially liked how Christina Ricci beat the snot out of that kid during the softball game. It just goes to show you that even a girl can mix it up if you drive her crazy enough. If I had to tell you which of those four girls was my favorite, it'd have to be Ashleigh Aston Moore (I think that's her name). Being the girl who always seemed to be the butt of everyone's jokes, I really felt for her. Anyway, on a scale of 1 to 10, I'd say this movie gets an 8 1/2. "},{"Title":"Great movie, fun to watch","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie.  It is so amazing the way it is all portrayed, and I loved the flashback scenes.  All the transitions from children to adults were great except for one.  How the H*** does Christina Ricci become Rosie O'Donnel?!?  They look nothing alike.  The only similarity is that Ricci was a tomboy and almost 10 yrs. later Rosie came out as a raging dike!  My fave transition was Gabby Hoffman into Demi Moore!  I swore they were related, it's kind of freaky.  I would have loved to find out what happened in those 20 missing years that we don't see, but other than that, the movie is a great and fun watch!  7/10 "},{"Title":"So Cute!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My 3 best friends and I watched this *one of which is a guy* and we were all almost in tears by the end.  It was such a good movie, and it really portrays how us teenage girls really are -) Thanks for making such an awesome movie! "},{"Title":"The greatest movie","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yo this movie rocks... i love it so much.. it sums up all girls insecurities and prob reminds u of urself at that age. and def reminds u of the friends u had way back when. its the kind of movie that every teenage girl needs to see and the kind of movie that stays in you forever. its touching, funny and just all around great. "},{"Title":"Brilliant gurly film - ideal for a sleepover","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Brilliant girly film exploring the friendships of 4 young ladies right through into adult hood. When younger, the girls made a pact to always be there for each other which they make sure they keep as you can see throughout the movie. Warning - this film is not suitable for guys! CHICK FLICK.... But a totally brilliant one none the less. "}{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is about four young girls who made a promise to each other to always be there for one another, and then when they are older, that promise comes into affect.  The movie shows the girls growing up within a summer of there childhood.  Many of the plots are true to life, even now in these times as I am growing up.  It caught me from the very beginning and I was hooked.  I didn't really expect it to be very good.  I was very surprised as to how much I really did like it.  If you have not yet seen it, I recommend that do so. "},{"Title":"A movie about old friends and a kept promise.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie over and over again because its great how these girls have such a great friendship that they can be so close but there is always someone else in the group that they consider their best friend out of all of them and though some might not stay that way its going to end up that way because of their promise.  "},{"Title":"A great film with great actors","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great movie about four young teenagers out for an adventure to find out how a certain boy died. Goes through many moments of sadness and very emotional at times. This goes to show not every town is as perfect as you may think. These times were hard, and it shows the girls helping each other through parents divorce, and deaths. I give it 5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"A touching story about friends growing up.","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a touching story about 4 girls growing up as best friends. The four friends made a promise to come if any of them needs help. While the grownups talk they start talking about when they were 12 years old. Then you see flashbacks of when they were kids. My favorite part was when the girls find the boys (the wormers) skinnydipping in a pond. as revenge, the girls take their clothes and runs. I rewind that part 4 times just to see it. I also liked when Crazy Pete saved one of the girls. the movie makes you want to laugh, and it makes you want to cry. 10 stars. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT!!!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film when it came out and have loved it ever since. The humor is fantastic and each young actress is superb in their roles. The lines are memorable and the characters of the four young girls/women are excellent as they are all so different from each other. This is a film that you can watch over and over again (and i should know!) So go watch it now! You'll truly love it!10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"ITZ COOL","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this film realy touched me it is my fave of all timei love the way u get to c from a childs point of veiw and see how they turn out as adultshave noticed loadz a mistakes though the ciggarette stuped out 2 times is a classicsee yer all and hope u like the film 2thanx 4 reading bye "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Family Movie Full Of Fun","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rushed to see this movie when it first came out.  The reason the girls staring in the movie were the in celebs of that time period.  Thora Birch, Christina Ricci, Gabby Hoffman, and Ashleigh Anston Moore were great as their roles of Teeny, Roberta, Samantha, and Chrissy.  I also liked how they reconnected Devon Sawa's character with Christina Ricci's character, like they did in Casper.  This movie was just great.  I'd give it 2 thumbs way up. "},{"Title":"It was a unique movie.","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It was a unique movie. I liked the way they had the adults and the kids.I loved this movie so much! I think that is more a teenage movie then a adult movie but then again it could be for you! Well I hope you enjoy this movie as much as I did!  "},{"Title":"A great movie about friendship and fun.","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now and Then is about four childhood friends, Sam, Roberta, Teeny and Chrissy, who make a pact to to meet up again when they're older, incase they all go off and do different things and one of them needs the others. Well, when Chrissy is pregnant, Teeny and Sam return to there old home town, where Chrissy and Roberta still live, to see them both. Once they meet up, they all go into there tree house, which they got when they were younger and they remember one certain summer, where they all had a lot of fun and found out different things about each-other and themselves.Theres a great cast in Now and Then, including Gaby Hoffmann, Christina Ricci, Thora Birch, and Ashleigh Aston Moore, who play the young Sam, Roberta, Teeny and Chrissy and Demi Moore, Rosie O'Donnell, Melanie Griffith and Rita Wilson, who play them when they're older. All performances are great, especially Gaby Hoffman, who is brilliant as usual. Devon Sawa and Hank Azaria also have a small, but good roles in the movie too.Now and Then has always been one of my all time favourite movies. I especially love the premise of the movie. Now and Then is a brilliant movie, which features a great soundtrack too and includes the amazing theme tune, Now and Then from the great Susanna Hoffs. I give Now and Then a 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Necessity for Pre-teen Girls!!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first watched this movie when I was about 7 years old. I loved it! It had everything that I could look forward to; cute boys, summers with friends, growing old with friends, etc. Well, I just highly recommend this movie to anyone and everyone. It's been my favorite movie for so long now! It never gets boring! "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was just brilliant. I couldn't believe it when I saw a 6 out of 10 score for this film. Okay, so it's not really much like real life, it's a bit too idealistic, but it was way better then Stand By Me. I've tried watching that film more than 3 times, and I've never watched it all the way through. Somehow, a bunch of young adolescent boys swearing too much doesn't appeal much to me, even though I'm the same age myself. Now and Then made me think a lot about how important friendship is. It's a beautiful movie, and the soundtrack is wicked. A must see movie. There are too many action movies out there today. More movies like this should be made. "},{"Title":"Kept my interest, but all too similar","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I did enjoy this movie, although like others I found too many similarities to Stand By Me.  Hopefully, that wasn't the sole intent of the producers. I did like the performances from the cast.  If you do like Stand By Me I would recommend this movie as well. "},{"Title":"Girls Just Want To Have FUN!","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now and Then proves that girls just want to have fun. A thrilling movie, with action, drama, and fun. Now and Then is a movie based in Shelby, Indiana back in 1970 when four best friends, Samantha, Roberta, Chrissy, and Teeny made a pact that whenever one of them needed each other, they would be there for each other, always. So now it comes down to the 1990's when Chrissy is in need of them. Now and Then is packed with astounding actresses, Gaby Hoffmann, Christina Ricci, Thora Birch, Ashleigh Aston Moore, Demi Moore, Roise O'Donnell, Melanie Griffith, and Rita Wilson. These 8 actresses will take you for a joy ride you'll never forget, and will prove to you that girls just want to have fun! "},{"Title":"Why only a 6.1?","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now what's this movie doing with a 6.1?It certainly deserves a much higher score,and needs to be present at least in the top 50.I see a lot of positive comments but the score does not seem to be as good.And as for the people who gave this movie a 1(!), I wish them good luck.The movie is absolutely heart warming and soul stirring and I personally feel that it is one of the 50 best movies ever made.My score?A perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Then is Good, Now can be better","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Seldom have I seen such a heart warming movie. Sure, it's been done once before in Stand By Me, but giving the leads to girls instead of boys raises a different perspective. The four young actresses give superb performances. The story of four girls in the early 1970's is about growing up and standing on your own two feet. That is something all the girls have problems with, but of course they succeed... as in most lives. Too bad though that the performances of the young actresses are wasted by the older actresses (Demi Moore, Melanie Griffith, Rita Wilson & Rosie O'Donell). They star in the beginning and end, making only the middle worthwhile. Their acting is corny, but that also has something to do with the script and directing. Watch it anyway, 'cause the middle of the movie is a beautiful experience. Not just for women and girls, but also for men and boys. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic to the core!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie nearly four times and thoroughly enjoyed it! Something about the story of four  girls growing up and maturing over the course of a summer really appealed to me. All their antics - a Tom Sawyer-ish camp out in the cemetery in the night to perform seance, going on bicycle rides, delving into the mysterious death of 'dear Johnny', the way they handle issues in their private lives, from divorcing parents to dealing with the facts of puberty are all wittily portrayed. This is a movie that possibly any girl can identify with - the first kiss, a secret network to communicate with friends, a secret pact signifying their decision to stick by each other..are all aspects of those amazing growing up years in any girls life. I found myself especially identifying with the character of Demi Moore(Samantha) who runs away from relationships for fear of losing herself.      The idyllic fictional town of Shelby and the perfect little tree house form the stuff that makes childhood so golden and special...One of the movies most touching scenes is after Crazy Pete rescues Samantha and questions her and Tinny  why they're scared of him. The gang who played the Wormers were also cute. I think all the four girls have done a brilliant job - from child actresses, some of them have starring roles in movies now. Last but not least, this movie is a must-see for any girl - it's that sense  of identification that is so comforting!   "},{"Title":"A brilliant film, with excellent actors and music","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought Now and Then was truly a brilliant film.  The scenery of Savannah, Georgia, was brilliant, also all the actors were brilliant and I never wanted the movie to end.  The sex and comedy really go together, also the sadness of death and crazy Pete.  The music was brilliant, and this is probably the only film I have watched more than three times. The director and the writer are excellent, not to mention the actors. Hats off to the children in their 70's parts.Excellent and well done.  "},{"Title":"Awesomest and Most Touching Movie Ever","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I recently watched this movie on TV and I loved it. Since I am 12, it really touched me in the right way and made me realize how much friends really can mean to you. I recommend this movie to all people around the age of 11 or 12. This is definitly the coolest movie in the world. It also has a really good soundtrack!) "},{"Title":"It is the best movie ever!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is the best movie. All the actors\actresses are perfect for there part. Crictina Ricci(Roberta) is the best actress in every movie she is in!!!I like the movie because I am that age(11) and i know what it feels like to be 11 and 12. I have a little bit of each charicter in me so it real touched my heart. "},{"Title":"A great movie that should be viewed with Stand By Me","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Plain and simple, I love this movie. It allows you to be drawn into the lives of four girls, at least one of which you can identify with. Gaby Hoffman as Samantha is my personal favorite - she has her feet on the ground, but remains a dreamer at heart. And another fine acting job comes from Christina Ricci, as Roberta the tomboy who reminds me quite a lot of myself. This movie is NOT a cheap 'rip-off of Stand By Me' It is an intelligently thought out plot mixed with great acting by four teenage girls, and a lot of true life experiences no matter what time period you grew up. "}{"Title":"Almost 'Wonder Years' for girls","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you're 12 years old, and a girl, I totally recommend this movie. I first saw it when I was 9, and I liked it, but the summer into my seventh grade year was when it really clicked. Soon I was up until 130AM in my room watching this movie, just about every night. I loved it! I couldn't get enough of it!! Now and Then is definitely worth the cash to rent. "},{"Title":"One of the best chick flicks in the world","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie about a summer where four friends find themselves is one of the best Chick Flicks I have ever seen. (Even my brother likes this movie) It's got enough comedy to allow men and women to watch and enjoy it. I could watch it over and over again. Samantha, Roberta, Teeny, and Chrissy are all best friends. They live in the same neighbourhood. They have the same enemies (The wormers). They are basically the same. And then they find out that it's ok to be different. It's ok to like different things and to grow. Sam's father leaves, Roberta finds out the truth about her mother's death, and they all go on a grand adventure to find out the truth about a little boy known as dear Johnny. All in all it's a movie for everyone with a great soundtrack as well. It's got the perfect 70s songs. Check the movie and the soundtrack out.> "},{"Title":"One to watch on a boring wednesday.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie the first time I saw it on TV. Then I saw it again, then it came out on DVD, so I brought it, and have no regrets. This movie will stay on my shelf through-out my life and will be viewed many time...... It's great knowing I can watch the same DVD in seventy years time when I'm an OAP. Go and but this movie, it's worth every penny! "},{"Title":"Why Do I Like This Movie?","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I mean, Demi Moore's narration is so overwritten I kept expecting her to tell Frankie they left her twitching in the alley like a spastic, the plot's a hodgepodge of stuff we've seen before, and the scenes with the girls as adults don't work at all. However, the four young stars do a spectacular job and the film, while occasionally gooney, is sincere.  Not only is it one of the few 'women's films' actually made by women, but it's one of the very few films for (older) kids that respects them and takes them seriously as people.  "},{"Title":"Don't miss this movie!","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although it sounds like an old cliche, Now and Then is really a coming of age movie. You are pulled into the world of these 4 bright, young females and share their most intimate and sometimes embarrassing moments. Like when Roberta has her 1st kiss, or when Samantha is rescued by Crazy Pete. Some have compared it to Stand By Me, but directed more towards young girls and their experiences. Although I'm a guy, I won't forget this great film and the lessons in life it has taught me. "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now and Then is one of my favorite movies. After awhile, I stopped watching it and didn't like it. I finished watching it again, and remembered how much I enjoy it. It reminds me of me and my friends - the 4 younger girls are there for each other through the tough times and the good. It doesn't matter that they are totally different, and that is a good thing to show- that not all friends are exactly alike.  This film is an excellent example of true friendship. If you haven't seen it yet, go out to the video store and rent it. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now and Then is a great film for people of  all ages!  It's especially good for kids because it teaches them the value of sticking through tough times and it teaches them that friends are important!  There were brilliant performances by all of the actresses who played in the film! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was an excellent movie with superb performances given by Christina Ricci, Gaby Hoffman, Thora Birch, and Ashleigh Aston Moore. Every great once in a while a movie comes along and makes you feel that you know what it's like to be a certain person or at least their friends, crying with them, or laughing with them. This movie brought back a lot of memories of friends I had a couple years ago and rarely see or hear from. I give this movie a 10 - great work all the way around. This coming from a guy in the US military, who knew? "},{"Title":"A great movie, filled with friendship and fun.","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is great movie for fans of Stand By Me. Four friends make a promise when they're 12 to get together whenever one of them needs support. About 20 years later, one of them falls pregnant and the time to keep the promise comes. A few funny lines, and it also touches on some serious issues. "},{"Title":"Now and Then- A marvelous fairy-tale about four teenager.","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story was ridiculous, the adults unnecessary and there was been many cliches. BUT The energy of the four girlfriends, the fun which they have together and the freedom (I mean no duty, no responsibility) which they spread, make this movie absolutely rewarding to see.I have enjoyed the irrelevant adventures, have laughed at funny situations and have ENJOYED SAMANTHA (Gaby Hoffman). As I saw this movie I wished to be under these girls. It is unimportant whether this movie show the adventures and experiences of girls or boys. Friendship- that is the message of this movie.Oh, I wished, I would be such a teenager, with such friends in such a town. For me this movie is a fairy-tale. A marvelous fairy-tale. "}{"Title":"I think it was very good and showed great friendship.","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think it was one of the greatest movies I have seen. It  showed what friendship is really about.      "},{"Title":"Powerful memories of 1970","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watch this film every few years, and it has a powerful effect on me every time I watch it.I personally experienced the summer of 1970 as a very young male teen in a manner very similar manner as shown in this movie, riding around with my girlfriend on a bike to some creeks and waterfalls, and that was one of the happiest years of my life. The songs popular that summer were almost exactly the ones played in this movie (with a few anachronistic exceptions), the Vietnam War was on everybody's minds as shown, and girls and guys really acted as they did in the movie.It's interesting that there are almost no movies that are similar to this one in that they show girl friendship with a positive mood and a retro setting with many oldies like this. Since this film has a strong, almost cult-like following, that should be a hint to filmmakers that there is an important, undeveloped niche for successful movies along the lines of Now and Then. Coming-of-age movies are always popular, anyway, and I'd much rather see those than comic book movies, video game movies, and mindless remakes of movies that were already marginal in the '60s and '70s.The oldies in this film are great, and they are exactly what girls listened to and liked back then. My girlfriend back then liked the humorous lyrics about honeymoon night in Band of Gold, and even my mother used to dance to that song on a single back then. The fact that modern generations of girls still like these songs is sort of reassuring, since clearly those songs have successfully spanned three generations of female favor. Hitchin' a Ride was another popular and lively song that everybody liked back then, both male and female (especially my girlfriend back then), as was Signed, Sealed, Delivered I'm Yours (which also appeared the 1998 movie You've Got Mail). There are some bad anachronisms, though, which really spoil the effect for people very familiar with summer 1970. Respect Yourself didn't come out until October 1971, Knock Three Times didn't come out until November 1970, I'll Be There didn't come out until September 1970, and Midnight Rider didn't come out until October 1972. Since so much of the effect of this movie comes from its oldies, such carelessness in its selection of oldies is inexcusable. When you're growing up rapidly during adolescence, each year is very different in nature, so to mix 1970 songs with 1971 and 1972 songs is a glaring error. All they had to do to ensure accuracy was merely look at a list! Some extremely suitable songs from summer 1970 they could have included instead would be My Baby Loves Lovin', Mississippi Queen, Mississippi (cheerful though somewhat obscure, by John Phillips), Hey Mister Sun (very positive!), Save the Country (very positive!), Tighter, Tighter, Get Ready, Cinnamon Girl, Mamma Told Me, Gimme Dat Ding (my girlfriend liked that upbeat humorous one back then), For You Blue, and for a very heavy, powerful effect Song of Joy by Miguel Rios. Actually my favorite song in the film might be the ending song Now and Then, presumably made just for this movie. That's a very powerful modern song to end a movie full of already powerful music. The movie's soundtrack album is great, though there is some very nice incidental piano music in the movie that wasn't included on the soundtrack album, unfortunately, along with a few other songs.A few more comments about anachronisms... It's very unlikely a girl in 1970 would be listening to Daydream Believer by The Monkees, a song from October 1967, because The Monkees quickly fell out of favor in a major way by early 1968. Even girls who absolutely loved them for their first two years almost universally wrote them off as childish and out of style by then. The rest of the public hated them even more! Sugar Sugar (July 1969) wasn't quite as hated in 1970, but that was also getting a little old by then. Also, sex education was prevalent and fairly sophisticated by the late '60s, and was taught in elementary school, so any scene of a 12-year-old girl being taught exclusively by her mother at home on critical sex topics is totally unrealistic. That sort of backwards sex education was common in the 1950s, I believe, but not in the 1960s-1970s. To be more critical of this movie, the plot was not very memorable to me. Each time I see it, I find I've forgotten major parts of the plot, like the storm drain part, the cemetery part, or the childbirth part. That suggests that those parts of the movie don't fit very well, and/or that the movie is a conglomerate of unrelated incidents. That wouldn't be so bad if the incidents were realistic, but I didn't find the storm drain part very realistic. (What girl would climb into a storm drain late at night in a rain storm, for example? And in the worst case she could just hang onto the bars until she could float out.) Likewise, I didn't think the modern day part fit particularly well, either, and didn't add much to the story, relative to the amount of distraction and interruption it incurred.Overall, though, I definitely like this film, due to the oldies, the treehouse, the summery feeling, the feeling of friendship and learning and exploration, the sense of permanent friendship (so rare in real life), the enthusiasm, and overall positive feeling. The world could really use some more positive films like this one. "},{"Title":"Very Down to Earth Film","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Missed viewing this film in 1995 and was able to enjoy viewing all the great actors in the film and the wonderful portrayal of young girls growing into a very warm and loving relationship. Rosie O'Donnell, (Dr. Roberta Martin), played an excellent role as a young girl who had a very bad habit from childhood of eating food all day long, non-spot. Melanie Griffith, (Tina,'Teeny' Tercell) was a very charming gal who desired to become a great sexy movie star and arrived at the gals reunion with a stretch limo and driver. Demi Moore,(Samantha Albertson), played a very troubled young gal, who seemed to be lacking in love and the full meaning of life. This film showed very clearly how young gals confront young boys and in one scene in the old swimming hole of Summer, the gals stole the boys underwear and left them stark naked, except for a few towels the young boys were able to cover up with. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Stand By Me","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films of all time. Four friends growing up in suburban Indiana; tomboy Roberta (Christina Ricci), future celebrity Teeny (Thora Birch), writer Samantha (Gaby Hoffman) and fat, goody-goody Chrissy (Ashleigh Aston Moore) spend the best summer of their lives in 1970 and make a vow to return to each other when they are in need. Twenty-five years later the women (Rosie O' Donnell, Melanie Griffith, Demi Moore and Rita Wilson) return to their Indiana town where Chrissy (Wilson) is pregnant. A great coming of age film with lots of sentimentality and adolescent discussions about sex (surprise!).A- "},{"Title":"Had potential, but falls flat","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really looked forward to seeing this film when it was on CBS. It looked like it had all the makings for another classic story of remembering childhood adventures. This is not the case. These girls are cartoonish, rude and crude. I especially found Christina Ricci's character to be totally unlikable, and I usually like anything she's in. I suspect that the writer was an angry feminist because there's a definite undertone of man-bashing throughout the entire movie. All the male figures in the girl's lives are made to seem like abusive baffoons. The only male who gets a fair portrayal is crazy old Pete, the town's street bum. The film goes from bad to worse when the four girls return as grown-up women. Rosie O'Donnell is especially stone-faced and grumpy here. Rita Wilson is as whining and annoying as always. Melanie Griffith is the least obnoxious because she has like two whole lines. And worst of all is Demi Moore. The film totally falls apart right here as Demi tries unsuccessfully to squeeze a tender moment out of all this mess. The plot is so weak. It was never clearly explained as to what Demi's character's problems were. Why did she need to come home and sit in that tree house again? This is never revealed. But trust me, you won't care by this point anyway. The only thing Now and Then had going for it was the flashback to 1970. I kinda enjoyed seeing the old fashions and hearing the soundtrack which features artists like the Guess Who and the Jackson Five. I suggest buying the soundtrack and forget seeing this.  "},{"Title":"wow!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  there is so much i could say about this movie...all good! i truly enjoyed this movie and plan on watching it time and time again. i loved it very much and most likely will buy it in a couple of minutes! so...if you truly like movies than this is a must see. the actors are great and the emotional plot of the story left me in tears the first time i watched and and every time since then! i may only be 15 but if i can tell a great movie when i see one than i think others would enjoy it too! happy watching! bye ya'll! "},{"Title":"STAND BY ME remade?","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Here we have NOW AND THEN, or, as I have come to know it as, STAND BY ME PART IIA CHEAP RIP-OFF. This movie, made in 1995, is so much like STAND BY ME I could have thought I was watching the same movie with females replacing the boys. It even has a sub-plot about a dead body.But dont get me wrong. This film does have its moments, mostly upon when talking about the performances by its young stars, which, for this movie, are the only stars. It is about virtually the same thing4 twelve year olds in the hot summer dealing with death, parental problems and interaction with some bullies. One thing that I never thought could be ripped off as bad was the main character just had someone die that was close to her, like the main character in STAND BY ME. And, even this lowshe repeats the EXACT same lines as he did Why did she have to die? Why does anyone have to die? Yet, the producers claim there is no relation to STAND BY ME. And, even thisthere is a fat scaredy cat in the girls' group, JUST like in STAND BY ME, yet again, the producers claim no relation.Right down to it, ** out of ****, since this movie wasnt SO bad. In fact, I imagine, if STAND BY ME was never made, I probably would have liked this film. Maybe. "},{"Title":"Coming of age","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm sort of neutral about this film. I certainly don't hate it, nor do I really love it. I like the coming of age story of four young girls in the summer of 1970, and the soundtrack contains all sorts of great songs from that time period. The now story just seems not to work as well, and the whole story just doesn't seem to be totally original. But I digress. It's been quite a while since I've seen Now and Then, but I certainly wouldn't mind watching it again. "},{"Title":"A shoddy re-hash of Stand By Me","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Virtually every wannabe feminist film since Thelma and Louise has taken its cue from a male film, but instead of doing an imaginative variation like T&L, has settled for out and out rip off and a simple minded girls are better than guys message. Bad Girls was just Young Guns in skirts and Now and Then is just girly remake of Stand By Me, which frankly doesn't deserve the humiliation of being mentioned in the same review. Demi Moore and co. reminisce at their friend's baby wake 20 years later about the summer where they tried to solve the death of a boy in their town, which is acted out by the likes of Christina Ricci and Thora Birch. However that is merely a feeble plot device, because what mostly happens is that the girls giggle about sex, talk about puberty, take revenge on boys, sing on their bicycles and share each other's troubles. How fascinating. What little plot does go on is boring, predicable (almost perfunctory) and sickly sentimental pap. Stand By Me was a great rites of passage drama with great, believable characters, a driving plot, a touching script and performance to match, all handled superbly by director Rob Reiner. Now and Then is simply a shameless waste of a talented set of young stars to satisfy the whims of the older stars. Especially Moore, (who also produced) and is further proof of her habit of wasting good talent for her own purposes see also The Scarlet Letter. The only noteworthy thing in the entire the film is how anyone could have thought that the elf-like Ricci could have grown up to become Rosie O'Donnell! "},{"Title":"","Date":"22 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A further exploration of the territory adroitly mapped out by Rob Reiner previously in Stand By Me. The female perspective was refreshingly truthful. These 2 films would make great double feature viewing, however Reiner's has fewer clichés. "}{"Title":"An out of this world adventure suitable for any teenage boy!","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm not this movie's intended audience so I don't know if its fair for me to review it, I mean obviously since I am writing a review ultimately I've already decided its fair enough, so here goes- Nope. Movie dumb. Hey what it is is a toothless bloodless story and Rosie O'Donnell. The plot is just, I mean its crumby ,its a feeble by-the-numbers snore. The characters are forgettable and the setting is obviously a stage. My problem with Rosie O'Donnell is she can't act, she plays herself, which would be fine if she was a nice person, but she is not, Rosie sucks. OK, if you are looking for a grandmother friendly movie or a movie to show to like preteen girls at some ill-conceived church youth group thing, then Now And Then is the perfect movie for you! "},{"Title":"Sloppy Production Values and Continuity, BAD Acting from the Adults","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, all 4 younger actresses are quite engaging, likable and amazingly unaffected---they can even almost sell me on the Stand by Me plot rip off (or what passes for a plot). I don't mind sweet, small town retro (that never really existed) and I am a feminist, so girl power is fine by me.BUT...it still doesn't cut it. For starters, all the homes exteriors are unquestionably mid-80's/90's style homes. EVERY house should have been a split level or a ranch (I grew up in exactly that type of sub division). While the interiors are overall more accurate,. houses that small wouldn't possibly have such large interior rooms. Teeny's room has painted art deco furniture---fashionable in 1995, NOT 1970 (and Teeny appears to be the wealthiest of the group). Really, couldn't they have borrowed The Wonder Years set? The other thing is the truly, utterly horrible acting from the adults. Rita Wilson portrays Chrissy as fully mentally unbalanced. Keeps her home exactly the way her mother had it decorated??? Races around like a shrill harpy??? I kept waiting for someone in a white coat with a net to come and take her away. Yes, she could be nerdy and traditional--that doesn't equal totally crazy.Since they're also all 37 now, it doesn't hold water on that level (they all still act twelve, with apologies to 12 year old). Unless she had serious fertility problems, Chrissy would have wanted to get pregnant the second she got married. Athletic, cute Christina Ricci turns into fat, ugly Rosie O'Donnnel??? And Melanie Griffith (more like 18 in 1970) is already far too old, and simply horrible.In all, if nothing else is on, watch it. But it isn't even fun in a campy way. "},{"Title":"A Baby-Boomer's coming-of-age movie","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now and Then is an excellent coming-of-age movie that gives voice to both the Baby-Boomers' perspective and feminism. The movie's look at the American family provides critique to those changes in family dynamics peculiar to the Baby-Boomer childhood. Beyond its treatment of family dynamics, the plot entertains through adventure; that adventure underscores the loss of freedom in American childhood to do dangerous things typical in a Baby-Boomer childhood that we dared not tell our parents. The cast was solid, although the youth-to-adult match-ups bothered me. I struggled with Christina Ricci growing up to become Rosie O (ironically they delivered the best acting performances). If you enjoy coming of age movies like Stand by Me, Now and Then is its feminine counterpart. In both of these movies, the narrator reflects on the beauty of being twelve years old--living in the moment and having pure friendships. If you enjoy movies that celebrate sisterhood over the generations like 'The Joy Luck Club' or 'A League of Our Own' (another Rosie O movie), Now and Then is a superb choice. "},{"Title":"Nostalgic and highly entertaining!","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very enlightening, very moving, and always a gem, Now and Then is one movie I can really enjoy. A great all-star cast, a superb plot, and a storyline one must never forget. Demi Moore, Rosie O'Donnell, Melanie Griffith, and Rita Wilson play the best friends Now. Christina Ricci, Gaby Hoffman, Thora Birch, and Ashleigh Aston Moore play the best friends Then. Friends after 20 years? Anything can happen. This movie is also great for Ricci, playing the highly insecure Roberta, the boys watching will have dreams about her when they see her shirtless. AHEM! Have respect please, this scene will turn teenage boys into voyeurs if they see this scene too many times. Then there's the part where The Wormers get their clothes stolen from the girls while they're skinny dipping. BACK AT YA, BOYS! The girls score! The rest of the movie you'll have to find out yourself, because this movie is too good for explanation, and the outcome is really heart warming. Look for all the things nostalgic; the music, the food, the games, and the fun this movie brings to you. Watch it! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"A Coming of Age / Kid Film","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With a giant cast including Melanie Griffith, Demi Moore, Thora Birch, Rosie O'Donnell, and Christina Ricci, Now and Then is a surprise of a film. It is your typical coming of age drama / comedy for a kid audience. Still, with the number of well known actors, the movie is held higher than many other films of its genre.  Although this film has never made it to any top 10 lists, the story and the acting is decent enough for the movie to be rent-able. Grossing more than most comedies that year, Now and Then took in almost 30 million dollars in US markets alone. This movie was marked with two strong points. The cast carried the movie, and the age range of its audience members was girls between the ages of 10 and 15. Your story is somewhat typical for a coming of age story about a group of girls who have finally grown up and become women. Nothing terrific, but the movie has its moments and that's not bad. "},{"Title":"this movie is a good movie?","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on tv like two times on TBS it was the best movie Id ever seen its has good cast so people you sould see it its the best movie for girls every one will love it i hope you like it people "},{"Title":"It's about time!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's funny, but almost all the negative reviews of this movie have been written by men.  I watched this movie last night, and while it wasn't exactly realistic (and how many people watch movies for brutal realism anyway?), it put me back to when I was that age.There have been tons of coming-of-age movies, but not for girls.  I was really happy to see one, particularly one as well done as this.  Although they could have spent a little less time with the adults.If you're a male, or get really upset at cliches (just because it's a cliche doesn't mean it's not real), or are too grown-up, give this one a pass. Otherwise, definitely see it. "},{"Title":"GREAT!!! A much better more lighthearted version of Stand By Me","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WHO CARES WHAT THE CRITICS SAID??? Whether or not you admit it you know you loved or will love this movie. The movie is about four best friends spending a typical fun summer together. Every girl has a wonderfully cheesy story of her own to tell. Some parts are truly hysterical and some are portrayed so well that they get very emotional. Christina Ricci delivers an outstanding performance in this fun yet slightly meaningful movie. Gaby Hoffman and Thora Birch also do very well and Ashleigh Aston Moore particular shines as the funny, geeky one. She's my favorite anyway. The older version of the foursome Melanie Griffith, Rosie O'Donnel, Rita Wilson, and Demi Moore were actually quite well matched but had little to do with the greatness of this movie. Stand by me was good but nothing like this. This movie is good, clean fun for everybody and you can't help but love it. Its one of those movies everybody has seen whether they admit it or not.  10/10. If you haven't seen it crawl out from under your rock and rent it, if you have see it again! "},{"Title":"aging world","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now and Then isn't really anything that I would recommend. It's about some women reminiscing about what happened in their lives in summer 1970. The truly interesting subplot was their search for the story of the deceased boy, but the whole movie came across as contrived. Stand by Me was similar but much grittier. This movie isn't terrible, but I just got the feeling that there wasn't much to it. Maybe I like it too much when movies contain a lot of historical context, and so I kept waiting for Now and Then to depict the Vietnam War on TV.Anyway, all the cast members have done much better roles. To be certain, Thora Birch co-starred in American Beauty a few years after this. "},{"Title":"Okay for young women","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie with my sister after she had taped it off TV. It was set in a rural community in the late 60's during the Vietnam War. My sister loved it, but I didn't care too much for it.  Watching the movie made me feel a little out of place for some reason.  It just doesn't interest me. So here's a not to all you guys out there  Don't watch this movie, it's one of the dullest films of all time. "}{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie shouldn't be compared to 'Stand By Me', because 'Now and Then' is much better. Now and Then had better actors, better screenplay, a better meaning, and was just better in every other category. The actresses in this movie (especially Ricci) have lots of talent. I recommend this movie to anyone, male or female, 7 or 70, it doesn't matter. Anyone who knows a great movie when they see one, will definitely love Now and Then.  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that it was a great movie but it was kind of obvious that they were trying to do another Stand by me except with girls!!I totally recommend it to anyone who wants to be happy and cheerful! One thing that I really really liked was that Devon Sawa was in it because that made this movie race up some points!! At least thats my opinion! =) Go see it!! "},{"Title":"Used to Like It","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was a teen I loved this film. I thought it was great.I don't know what I was thinking. Although the acting is fine, there are so many off elements here that I can't believe I sat through the whole thing.For one thing, I would not let my teenager watch this. Their focus on sex is astounding for a group of 4 twelve year olds. Yuck! This is sooo disturbing to me. I assume that when I was a teen and that was on my mind constantly I was relating to them and their curiosity, but that also would have caused me to think of those things even more, which is (I'm sure) not what any parent wants for their child.There are also the regular profane outbursts by one particular child, the fights and more that promote a way of life that is not desirable for children and that I cannot be entertained by them acting it out.If you are going to watch this, please leave the kids out of it. You don't want them molded into this 'cool' persona. "},{"Title":"Now for an opinion from someone with a Y chromosome","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sorry, but as a male of the species, I just don't get what the big deal is about this film!!! The plot struck me as a female version of Stand By Me, set in a different part of the country with the added battle of the sexes.Best thing about this movie, apart from the casting, is the soundtrack. THAT'S the only reason I've sat through it twice now. Apparently, O'Donnell, Moore, Griffiths, and Wilson (who BTW, hasn't acted in anything else, similar to the child actress who played her character's younger self) had nothing better to do one day and decided to make this movie, which for them, probably took all of a day given their two scenes together. "},{"Title":"YaYa Meets Mockingbird Meets Harriet the Spy","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Melanie Griffith as an actress; Demi Moore as a writer!  As adults, they come to `investigate and present' and the framed flashback begins. What follows is a series of episodes intended to charm. Not much more, folks. Its a stock piece of cleverness, but the question is do they charm?Not this viewer. But its not from trying everything, from budding boobs, to the sewer adventure, to the cemetery mystery to the revenge on the wormers. There's more contrived cuteness in this than even the Eloise books would attempt. I admit a fascination with the careers of young actresses. That metamovie is undeniably compelling, especially when you deal with the whole class of girls who might have talent, who probably miss out on `real' life, who may fall into a pit of drugs, exploitive sex, firehosed flattery, and eating disorders. And who may come through on the other side as someone who might change our lives with their art. Melanie, Demi and cohorts are failures in this regard. Which of these girls might survive? None of them connected here, but I'll watch any movie with Garofalo or Davidovich.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]