[{"Title":"Why do people hate this film?","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"389 out of 474 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I honestly don't understand what all the fuss is about. Why do people hate Waterworld? Why was it instantly disregarded before it was even released? When you really think about it, how much different IS Waterworld from the more recent Pirates of the Caribbean Dead Man's Chest? They are quite similar if you think about it. Waterworld also cost $75 million less than DMC. But because it has Johnny Depp in mascara the whole world loves it! Hypocrisy! With a lot of behind the scenes trouble (Reynolds walked off the film and Costner had to finish the final third of filming himself) and negative pre-release buzz, everyone expected Waterworld to fail. Boasting a budget of £175 million (the most expensive ever until Titanic 2 years later) it was sure to be a flop, especially with the snooty public and critics blasting it before its release. Then, the unthinkable happened. Upon release, Waterworld actually managed to prove critic expectation wrong and be a good movie, receiving good (albeit ignored) reviews and finally earning a grand total of $255 million at the Box Office. This is before video, laserdisc, TV, DVD, HD-DVD and Blu Ray sales as well as all of the merchandise. Does sound like a flop to you? The plot is far-fetched. Yes, but so are the POTC plots involving fish-men, giant squids and Orlando Bloom as anything remotely masculine. But you accepted that quite easily. So just, for a minute, believe that if the polar ice caps DID melt that the world WOULD be covered in water. Set hundreds of years after this particular cataclysm, Waterworld follows the journey of The Mariner (Kevin Costner, who is only referred to a few times but never actually named), a man who is one step beyond human as he has the ability to breathe underwater and has webbed feet.Early on in the movie, The Mariner comes across an Atoll, a floating small town complete with its own hill...er Waterbillies. When the Atoll is seized by crazed madman baddie boss Dennis Hopper as The Duke of the Deez (as in Exxon Valdeez), The Mariner escapes with Enola, a little girl who may hold the secret of Dryland and her guardian Helen (the totally gorgeous Jeanne Tripplehorn). Not happy with anyone leaving the party The Duke sends his army of filthy smokers to catch The Mariner and discover Dryland for himself.Waterworld has a lot going for it. It's everything an action/sci-fi movie should be. There is so much escapism in the stunning seascapes and tropical feel. James Newton Howard's exotic score (replacing a rejected score by Mark Isham) is breathtaking and I seriously recommend you hunt down the soundtrack CD. The action is almost entirely special effects and stunt-work and it's brilliantly done. The editing is also quite impressive as is the amazing sound design. Waterworld is far superior to many, more expensive action films but still carries this burden of negative, unfair public opinion.I have only ever seen the 136-minute cut of Waterworld that was released into cinemas and subsequent VHS etc. But a Director's Cut of 176 minutes has been shown on TV in America several times. This version apparently restores several scenes that tie up loose ends and answers a lot of questions about how the this particular watery future works as well as revealing that Dryland is actually Mount Everest. Other than TV airings, this version has never made available to the public. Which is quite annoying as there is a huge fanbase for it.Don't have prejudices against this movie. Think different and see for yourself how cool it is. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as everyone says...","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"252 out of 299 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld is one of those movies that everyone would rather passively make fun of rather than take the time to watch. This is unfortunate, because it really is a good movie. Sure, it's borrowing a lot from Mad Max, but it's not like Mad Max was original fare to begin with. It's an interesting take on the genre, with some nice sets and costumes, a great soundtrack, and the coolest boat to ever appear on a movie screen. The script has thoughtfully and intricately worked out a new way of life in a post-apocalyptic world, and the supposed plot holes aren't as big as everyone makes them out to be (OK, we never really find out why dirt is so important in the future; so what? Is that enough to ruin the whole movie?).If anything brings it down, it's Kevin Costner's performance. The brooding, gloomy hero shtick works, but he's still far too serious for a movie like this. If he'd had the good sense to be a little more tongue-in-cheek, it would have helped a LOT. Still, it's not a bad movie by any means, and I really think all the negativity toward it is unnecessary. Enough with all the complaining... just sit back and enjoy it! 8/10 stars. "},{"Title":"NOT the worst movie ever made","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"221 out of 267 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I want the Costner bashers to sit down and watch Rebirth of the Mothra III on Sci-Fi Channel some time. Then they'll know that they have seen the worst movie ever made.Waterworld is an escapist fantasy/action picture, not unlike the James Bond and Indiana Jones pictures. Costner's performance works on exactly the same level as the Connery/Moore/Brosnan portrayals of 007 and Harrison Ford's portrayal of Indy -- straightforward, grim, stoic, a little mean-spirited, a little cruel, unafraid of dirt, grime, death, or salt water.It's not perfect by any means. I'm sure Costner hacked it to pieces in order to accommodate the two-hour-running-time maxim imposed by the studio, so that corporate could get their investment back. Now is the time for the extended DVD version; maybe that will explain where all those cigarettes came from, and how the Smokers converted raw crude into gasoline.7 out of 10. Costner bashers should get over themselves and start giving Michael Bay and George Lucas what they deserve. "},{"Title":"Waterworld may not have fulfilled its premise, but it's still great fun.","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"123 out of 156 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *** out of ****Sort of like a Mad Max meets Indiana Jones set on a planet-wide ocean, Waterworld hit theaters back in 1995 with a surprisingly decent critical reception but unforgiving responses from the masses, resulting in a domestic box office tally just north of half of the movie's infamouse 175 million dollar budget.  Ever since, there's been quite a bit of debate over whether the film earned money back on its huge production costs (naturally, the movie's detractors say no, while the fans say yes, and it was a hit overseas and on video).I'm actually surprised Waterworld bombed as it did in the U.S., given that audiences (myself included) have a predilection for big, dumb, blockbuster fun.  Hey, there's got to be an explanation for why Jerry Bruckheimer is cinema's most powerful producer.  And it's not as if though word-of-mouth after the premiere killed the movie (Waterworld actually showed very good legs at the box office, considering its somewhat meager opening weekend).I think part of the critical lashes stems from its budget, which led people to believe this movie would be a flop no matter what.  I've even heard plenty of complaints from people that never every buck appeared to be on-screen.  These days, you never hear such complaints because movies almost as expensive as Waterworld are becoming commonplace, which annoys me in that most blockbusters these days are packed with CGI as Waterworld was not, thus inevitably it had to be about as expensive as it was (filmed on the water, sinking sets, tough conditions, it's a miracle the movie was even finished).As most everyone knows, Waterworld takes place sometime in the unspecified future where the Earth has been covered by water from the melted icecaps. Kevin Costner stars as the Mariner, a Mad Max-ish loner on the ocean who's boat boasts an impressive array of sails and devices.  An opening scene introduces us to the deadly lifestyle of the open sea, with pirates ready to plunder and murder to get what they want.The Mariner arrives at an atoll (a very large trading post) to trade, encounters some trouble when he refuses to stay behind and impregnate a young woman, and is thus imprisoned (and also discovered to be part fish, it turns out he's got gill slits behind his ears and he's got webbed feet). Just as he's to be executed, he's saved when pirates called the Smokers invade the atoll looking for a girl who apparently has a map tatooed on her back that leads the way to the mythical Dryland (whether or not such a myth existed before the girl is unknown).  So said girl and her foster mother (Jeanne Tripplehorn) save the Mariner, who promises to take them with him. But being a loner, he doesn't appreciate their company.  Meanwhile, the Smokers continue their hunt for the girl to continue the search for Dryland.Even though Waterworld has a great, if also entirely implausible, premise and a fun story, it's not driven by its script.  Written by David Twohy (the genius responsible for sci-fi greats The Arrival and Pitch Black), he shows none of the ear for dialogue he displayed in those aformentioned thrillers. Inconsistency abounds in the atoller's lifestyles, as well as their beliefs. No one (except for the Mariner) is aware that there's ground below the water, but they never seem to question where dirt-which is a rare commodity-comes from. The movie's got all sorts of little problems along those lines, but I don't think they're really worth mentioning.What makes the movie worth watching is the adventure.  The movie's all about the search for Dryland, and the journey for it is an exciting and thrilling one.  Spectacular action sequences abound, from large-scale battle sequences to boat chases.  In fact, the action is the movie's highlight.  Director Kevin Reynolds' has an eye for staging and filming fight scenes and gun battles, delivering all this action with plenty of high-energy flair and virtuoso stunts.  The attack on the atoll, an eleven-minute setpiece, was 1995's second most thrilling action sequence (right behind the Battle of Stirling Bridge in Braveheart).  Also equally thrilling is the climactic battle aboard the Smokers' tanker, which displays some of the largest pyrotechnics I've ever seen.To give the adventure an extra boost, the film gives a genuine attempt at character development and actually comes off not half-bad.  Kevin Costner's basically aping Mel Gibson with his own rendition of Mad Max, and while playing a part man/part fish is pretty ridiculous, I'd have to say he's quite sincere and convincing in the role.  I'm not the world's biggest Costner fan, but I'll be the first in line to say he's sorely underrated as an actor.  Tina Majorino is a bit annoying as the cute girl, and I find it rather baffling that her character has Chinese characters tattooed on her back, even though she's clearly caucasian.  Dennis Hopper is a hell of a lot of fun as the Deacon, head of the Smokers, playing his role as both villain and comic relief (he even gets in a priceless scene with a fake eye). But faring best of all is the gorgeous Jeanne Tripplehorn as the requisite love interest.  I've always been a big fan of hers, and while I wouldn't call this a great performance, she's full of energy and vitality as the tough, strong-willed heroine who doesn't give in to demands so easily.One of Waterworld's biggest flaws is the generally cheesy acting from the supporting cast.  Most everyone in this movie has a different accent (except for the leads, of course, who are distinctly American), which I assume was meant to give the flavoring of variety, but it makes the delivery of the already silly dialogue twice as silly.That problem aside, I found myself perfectly open to Waterworld's invigorating action and adventure.  There was a lengthier version shown on network TV in the film's broadcast premiere, which I thought made improvements on both plot and pacing (the theatrical release runs a fast-paced 136 minutes, and I think the network version is actually almost forty minutes longer).  Wish I'd taped it, but hopefully it'll end up as a special edition release on DVD. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"99 out of 120 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just had to disagree with the first guy who thought it was simply awful. This is a big budget movie and it looks it. There are a number of metaphors going on in this story - maybe too many. But it really has a MaxMax on the Water feel to it. It's actually pretty fun and like the Mad Max movies - doesn't take itself too seriously.This was one of those movies that just got creamed by the press because they get very upset when movies cost a lot and in their minds - too much.Also - Costner was becoming a very big star - and the press loves to buildup stars and once their huge, they love to tear them down. This was a tear down.Heaven's Gate wasn't awful - but just too slow. This movie isn't awful either, and neither is it slow. And if you're a motorhead - its extra fun. Dennis Hopper chews up the scenery like a famished dinosaur and he's so much fun he makes Kevin's character look a little under-written. "},{"Title":"Underrated action movie with some very funny scenes","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"80 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is no point going through this film and trying to make all the science fit. The scientific fact has been stretched to breaking point. I found this a very enjoyable experience with some of the best comic strip bad guys in any movie. Costner plays a likable, although traditional, nomadic hero taking care of no 1. Fortunately, there isn't really a love element in the film to spoil it too much. This film has numerous memorable scenes that verge on the hysterical including the oars coming out of the oil tanker, the dropping of the match into the oil tanker and Costner's bungie jump to save the girl. Great stuff. I can't wait for the producers to make a sequel.  "},{"Title":"spectacular, mad max on water","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"97 out of 151 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  thanks to some false news reports about people walking out on this great movie during prerelease screenings and about the sinking of the set, it was doomed before it was released this is not a Citizen Kane or a Das Boot, obviously, but it's an extremely entertaining movie with a great story and awesome shots the same movie with someone other than Kevin Costner would have made 3 times the money. to bad peoples ill feelings towards Costner, didnt let them enjoy this movie  "},{"Title":"lots of action, little reality","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"75 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an unpopular movie, and I don't see why it is so. Admittedly, it is unbelievable, but so are James Bond films. There was enough action in this one to keep thriller buffs going all the way through. Costner did a good job portraying a lonely vagabond in a crazy, violent world. Dennis Hopper, as usual, was an effective villain; he kept me laughing all the way with his insane antics, and his stupid henchmen. I have to wonder, however, if the full nude shot of the girl was really the actress I had been watching. With clothes on, she didn't look all that well endowed. Not a bad movie, really.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fantastic!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"99 out of 156 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I heard so much bad press about this movie (including user comments on this site) that I put off seeing it until late 1999. Boy do I feel like an idiot for not seeing it sooner and/or at the theater! At home, the movie looks wonderful - I can't even imagine seeing how beautiful it would have been on the silver screen. If you like science fiction like Planet of the Apes and The Postman (another great movie for End of Civilization movie lovers like myself), then you'll love this one. Waterworld had a great sci-fi story, a great cast with great performances, challenging movie-making, and most importantly it makes you think what if this cataclysmic event happened?...What would the world be like? Just a great movie.If you are the type who wants your movies to fit like a puzzle, one piece by one piece until you can understand and see everything, then this probably isn't the movie for you. For example, if you liked Speed II, you probably won't dig this movie. If you liked Scream, then you might need to seek help - and you probably wouldn't like this movie either. But if you like to be challenged as a movie-goer, and you are a deep thinker, this one is for you. It is visually stunning as well.This movie ranks as one of my top 100 favorite movies of all time. A classic if you ask me! )JD "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites-stimulating to watch the incredible props and great actors.","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"72 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can see this again and again. Music score- wonderful! Reminds me of Thomas Newman's style, (Road to Perdition) but not him. He's got the sound of happy water down! My favorite part is the ingenious mechanisms used on the big boat/ catamaran type, the workings of the atoll-so creative. There are many lines & terms that stand out for me.... not for sale, not for sale?! This wee orchard is a 1-lemon bush-tree in a pot. Tina Majorino, here a small girl, is a strong, memorable character. Her bond with the main character, the mariner, gives one a good feeling, one of hope about what's possible for the walking wounded among us. Dennis Hooper uses his voice to the max, to bring so much interest and color into the picture. The society on the big tanker makes me continue to wonder, to stretch - what would really happen, what would people be like, after generations had gone by, and overcrowding was a problem. Great actors, all. Interesting plot, cool props. Makes one think, laugh, wonder. RE All the junk I've heard about this movie, and it's lack of promotion - I think its the non-viewers that have lost out. "}{"Title":"sadly overlooked","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"58 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" it's a shame so many people spent their time running their mouths rather than watching the movie. The story isn't new (what story is?) but its' well done, BIG color, BIG scenes,a touch of serious, a touch of humor, clear cut good guy, clear cut BAD guys with a few grey guys thrown in the middle. Costner is always a variable. When the right script hits, no one is better, otherwise it's pretty much a monotone. FORTUNATELY, this is the kind of script where the dead pan, monosyllabic Good Guy works just fine. It's a shame the experts (i.e. the critics who create nothing) trashed this one. Even if it were the worst movie ever made, Costner would have been contributing more the creative world than ANY critic will in their entire lives. geoff beneze "},{"Title":"How to boil water","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"183 out of 355 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Recipe for Waterworld1)  Take The Road Warrior.  Add water.2) Replace Mel Gibson with Kevin Costner (which would be about like removing Errol Flynn from Robin Hood and replacing him with... well, Kevin Costner).3)  Give the Feral Kid a sex change operation and some manners, taking care to swap his lethal boomerang for a box of crayons.4)  Take the Gyro Captain out of his copter and put him into a balloon. 5)  Stir in generous but subtle portions of liberal eco-propaganda without using the term global warming, have it understood that the world is flooded because of something awful the ancients did. 6)  Add a dash of oil by making the villains a marauding gang of oilmongers living in a certain famous oil tanker.  7)  Add a simultaneously anti-religious AND anti-technological zest by making sure the villains' leader (Dennis Hopper) has a pseudo-religious name (the Deacon) and gives sermons about progress and development. 8)  Add a smoky flavor by calling the villains Smokers, not only because of their use of speedboats and jet-skis, but because of their consumption of cigarettes, which were Clinton's drug menace du jour at the time.  (Exactly where these cigarettes come from, in a submerged world where no tobacco grows and paper is viewed with awe, is anybody's guess.)9)  Finally, add a pinch of Oriental spice by having the tattoo-map to Dryland rendered in Asian ideographic characters--another implied rebuff to evil Western culture.10)  Set oven temperature to 450 degrees and incinerate $175 million. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why, oh why, did they ever waste all that money on this appalling movie? As many people have noticed, Waterworld is a total rip-off of Mad Max II (aka The Road Warrior) - substitute water for desert, jet skis for motor bikes, etc. The ridiculous thing is that this movie was the most expensive ever made and yet was vastly inferior to the original which cost something like $3 million. Everything that was not copied was stupid. Such as a society which is so short of food-growing land that a tiny pot plant is worth a fortune, and yet no one appears to be going hungry! Or all the trillions of tons of water which have somehow appeared out of nowhere (anyone who thinks there's that much water locked up in the polar ice caps, or that the polar ice could all be melted without MASSIVE worldwide climate changes, needs to think again). And what about a man with implanted gills, so tiny they are virtually invisible, and yet capable of extracting enough oxygen from sea water to support his body indefinitely? If you're going to spend all that money, why not use some of it to hire script writers (and maybe even an advisor or two) who know what they're talking about? "},{"Title":"Ambitious visionary idea turned into dull action","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the movies that are bad simply because they give the wrong expectations. The basic idea, the setting, is fascinating, how will people survive if the water level go up dramatically? But from there, it seems they were not able to write a good script.I have seen it happen in other movies too, (Enemy mine for instance) You start off with good intentions, but then you bail out, finding that the story might be too hard for the man on the street. So what do you do then? You throw in a bunch of mindless bad guys whose only purpose is to fight the hero.And that is what happens here. Survival in a realistic hostile environment (an interesting and engaging problem) switches into survival in a bunch of non-realistic bad guys.The result is not the worst movie ever made, not by far, but it is a very disappointing one. If it had had a name like Water shootout or something like that, I may have accepted it just as what it is.You can compare it to Bond, or Pirates, or Swartzenegger. The big difference is the expectations.So leave it in the bargain bin where it belongs. Or watch it as yet another cheap action movie. But don't watch it as serious material in the climate debate. "},{"Title":" They've taken the land and covered it with water ","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reaching a few thousand years into the future for a story, two writers (Peter Rader and David Ywphy) penned the world according to Aquaman. Their work becomes the basis for Water World. In this futuristic setting, the Earth is complete inundated leaving only a few dots of dry land. Here on this watery planet, a hybrid human (Kevin Costner) eeks out a marginal living, trading rare dry soil for passing necessities. Skimming the oceans from one part of the world to the other, he finds little company until he meets up with a group of wondering but murdering sea gypsies called Smokers. Led by their psychotic leader, whom they refer to as 'the Decon' (Dennis Hopper) they will attack and destroy anyone to steal and take what they need. Their secret goal is to find a 'legenday' map of the world which will lead them to a utopia of dry land. The map is tattooed on the back of a little girl who becomes a pawn for the bickering parties involved. Lots of excitement, aerial action, explosive violence and spectacular stunts highlight this awesome watery film. Kevin Coatner fans will really enjoy this exception story. **** "},{"Title":"Mediocre treatment of a possibly interesting subject","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has been panned in several aspects by many. I first watched it on TV, missing the big screen effect of seeing it in a theater. The cinematography was well done, considering all of the problems that are inherent is trying to film a futuristic story among only four sets, that are essentially minimal in design. As far as my personal objections go, there are only two. The film took far too long to handle a rather simplistic subject -- the search for the dry land that so eluded everyone concerned. The other major fault is one of attitude. Costner is good looking and, almost always, is shown as quite handsome in his various roles. But, Costner seems able to play just one role -- Costner. He is a one-dimensional actor who is incapable of carrying any kind of accent for more than a single short sentence. Why doesn't he regularly employ a dialog coach when the role calls for it? He also never gives up anything about himself or the role particular role he is playing, no hint of inner being which could make a connection with the audience. The result, at least in this particular story, is that I had a very hard time generating any sympathy for him at all. I simply couldn't have cared less whether or not he found his dry land at all. This made for a really boring time, and I had to force myself to stay tuned for the entire excessive length of a story about a character that never got to first base. Too bad, because I think this subject could have been handled much better than it was. Another Costner excessive epic was The Postman, made a year or so later, which felt much to me like just another telling of the Water World story on a dry land locale. Both were Luke warm at best and way too long in length. Even Dances With Wolves (1991) had the same feel, and was only saved by the performances of the Lakota Sioux warriors and the breathtaking camera shots of the scenery.I would recommend both movies for watching as rentals, but only if there are no other choices available and you have a lot of time to kill. "},{"Title":"Plot holes can't hold much Water(world)","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When you combine a futuristic post-apocalyptic setting with Kevin Costner (loved him in Mr. Brooks, JFK, and Wyatt Earp), Dennis Hopper, and the open sea as a backdrop, not to mention a huge budget, you have all the elements you need for work of art action adventure film. I mean, Road Warrior meets Pirates of the Caribbean, Jaws, etc. you can't go wrong with that can you? Well this movies answers that question right in the opening introduction to the setting. All you need is a semi-coherent plot, some well delivered lines, and lots of action and this couldn't even pull that off.Someone on here said that the plot holes in this films weren't that big. I say, 'compared to what?' That's like saying that a bomb isn't that loud.First of all, I had no idea about the $175 million budget until recently. My only question about that is what happened to the other $173 million? It certainly didn't go to special effects (there were no memorable effects to speak of), it certainly didn't go to a bunch of recognized actors in the cast. Maybe the total salaries of the directors that left is where the bulk of it went. But hey, I guess that happens.Anyway, I learned quite a bit from this film1. You can store helium on an artificial island or if that was hydrogen in that balloon, you can shoot a hydrogen balloon and it won't explode.2. Bullets and cigarettes will be usable a century or 2 after their manufacture date - AND in humid conditions.3. You can trade dirt for a pot with a tomato plant growing in almost as much dirt as you started with and STILL have enough change for an array of other supplies.4. Everyone knows about an island no one can find, despite the fact that it would be more visible from a greater distance than any of the atolls everyone knows about.5. You can refine crude oil right on the tanker and make gasoline and engine oil from it.6. If you get shot smack in the eye, an eye patch is all you need to keep going.7. Paper will be valuable long after any words written on them have lost all meaning.8. A man with gills has some need for a diving bell. And I forgot to mention he doesn't like guests. (What the heck?)9. Polar ice caps contain enough water to cover the globe.10. You can row an oil tanker. (You've GOT to be kidding with that one!)Another thing I will add is that they show Costner's character in his boat distilling his own urine to make drinkable water. Fine, if the backdrop would have been a desert like Road Warrior and not an OCEAN with a lot more water he could have used. Sure a lot of sci-fi films have some absurdities in their sequences like this, but this one's very PLOT involves a quest for an island using a map on a little girl who we find out is, get this - FROM said island. Okay, now that's convenient but how (and WHY) did she end up so far out to sea in the first place. I guess that detail is not important even though the whole story is due to it.I gave this film a 2 because even with all it's failings it's watchable on those Saturday afternoons when you have nothing else to do at the moment but to sit in front of the tube with some beers and barbecue. "},{"Title":"Not all washed up","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I only just saw this movie for the first time the other day and was surprised that it was pretty good, because I had heard so many bad things about it. From now on, I will not be taking public opinion so seriously and will watch anything with a promising premise and good actors.Tina Majorino was, as always, (see When A Man Loves A Woman and Corrina, Corrina) believable. It amazes me how many tears this child can summon and I still believe each one of them.Kevin Costner wasn't really anything special. I had just seen The Postman the week before (which prompted me to watch Waterworld), and he seemed to me to be the same character. I could go on and on about comparisons, but I'll leave it at that. Although, I have to let you know there was a strange deja-vu thing happening between plot points and character developments.Jeanne Tripplehorn was quite convincing. I thought their tans were all apt considering the habitat of the characters, but a bit overdone.The most disappointing thing for me was how the film turned from a unique, (pre-Postman) fairly intelligent plot into a typical action film with explosions and chases. There were explosions toward the beginning that were a little overdone, but I felt they were necessary to introduce us to the Smokers and to Dennis Hopper's character. This film could have turned out quite well, if the last few scenes were completely re-written. "},{"Title":"Some interesting pictures & ideas, crappy script & action.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some interesting pictures (the underwater tour scene is quite interesting, though it could've been made better) and intriguing ideas (Costner's boat) but a very, very, very crappy script & an equally crappy and hard-to-buy action scenes. "},{"Title":"The $200 Million Dollar Roger Corman Film","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll admit it I liked Waterworld . . . or parts of it, anyway. No, Waterworld is not exactly Shakespeare -- for that matter, it's not exactly James Cameron, either  -- but it hits a certain Mad Max/Road Warrior vibe that's moderately cool, and it provides a handful of decent thrills.  Should two hundred million dollars been spent on this flick?  Probably not, but I'll ask you this Does it matter?  If you only have to plunk down three bucks to rent a movie, does it really matter what that movie's budget was, provided that you were at least slightly entertained?Waterworld is the story of the Mariner (Kevin Costner); a tough, grizzled loner who roams the seas of post-apocalyptic Earth.  The polar icecaps have melted, flooding the world, and land has become little more than a legend.  During his travels between the tiny man-made islands that comprise the remnants of civilization, the Mariner meets a woman named Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and a small girl named Enola (Tina Majorino) who claim to have knowledge -- or at least a cryptic map -- of where to find land.  Of course, a rowdy gang of pirates known as the Smokers also are aware of the fact that Helen and Enola have this knowledge; so, under the guidance of their mad leader Deacon (Dennis Hopper), the pirates try to hunt down the two.  Faced with his one slim chance of ever finding land falling into the hands of complete madmen, it's up to the Mariner to protect Helen and Enola -- and ultimately, to try and defeat the Smokers -- if he wants to keep his dreams and himself alive . . . .The premise of Waterworld is interesting enough; I like the fact that the film actually tries to show (at least in the opening scenes) how people would survive in a world flooded by salt water.  There's some cool flashes of originality in here regarding what the world would be like -- for example, the fact that ordinary dirt has become so valuable as to become the standard of currency -- but unfortunately, that originality gets ignored the second the action starts rolling halfway through the film.   Overall, the script isn't terrible -- however, it's quite predictable.  For example, the first part of the film is spent explaining painfully how there is no more land, and how it's just a myth . . . gee, wonder what our heroes will find towards the end of the film?  A couple of twists spring readily to mind (for example -- there genuinely is no more land, or dry land can be found far beneath the sea in domed cities, like some kind of Atlantis, perhaps) -- one such twist would've been nice to see.  While the story does have its good moments (particularly any scene involving Dennis Hopper), it's too formulaic to be called exciting.  Nice? Yes.  Exciting? No.  The few good scenes are very, very good, but there's a lot more average -- or even dull -- scenes spread out between the sparse fun.The most puzzling part about Waterworld, though, is the direction.  The film is loaded with action, and I'll give credit where credit is due -- nearly all of the action looks great, especially since all the fights and the action take place out on the water.  But for $200 million . . ?  It doesn't look THAT good.  I know a significant part of the film's budget was spent on floating sets out in the Pacific -- but the camera cuts and shot selections are usually so quick and tight, it's hard to notice the background.  There's no long, slow shots basking on the glory of these expensive sets.  Waterworld is filmed exactly like a typical action movie, which is okay, I guess, but it completely fails to take advantage of its resources.  Quite strange, to say the least.As for the cast . . . it's a mixed bag.  Kevin Costner does a very good job as the grizzled Mariner, playing against type as a hardened, almost amoral anti-hero.  It goes against the good-guy grain that Costner has typically played in most of his films, and Costner seems to relish the change.  Dennis Hopper is terrific as the villainous Deacon; the role is completely over-the-top and absolutely ludicrous at times . . . in short, the part is perfect for Hopper.  His lines simply drip with withering sarcasm, making him a quite memorable screen villain.  The rest of the cast . . . ehh.  Nobody does a horrible job, but nobody's particularly memorable, either.   Should Waterworld have been a $200 Million Dollar Dud?  Probably not.  In a perfect world, Waterworld would've been a $20 Million Dollar Sleeper, directed by John Carpenter and starring Rutger Hauer . . . or a $2 Million Dollar Cult Classic, directed by Roger Corman and starring Lorenzo Lamas.  However, this isn't a perfect world (as evidenced by the fact that Freddie Prinze, Jr. keeps making movies), so Waterworld is forever branded as the bad film with a runaway budget.  Too bad.  Waterworld is by no means a great movie, but it has some entertaining moments, enough to warrant at least a rental . . . and some frequent pushes of the fast forward button.  Grade B-/C+  "}{"Title":"Is this the same movie I saw five years ago and hated? NOPE!","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw Waterworld was almost 5 years ago, and I thought the movie was too long and too dull.  My friend Chris disagreed, telling me I was being too judgemental.  I decided it was only fair to watch Waterworld one more time.  Much to my own surprise, I discovered that Waterworld is a truly amazing film.Let me break it down for you1.) The sets.  Chris has always been a big fan of the Atoll (the city near the beginning of the movie).  While the Atoll is impressive, I thought the oil tanker and Dryland were awesome sets too.  And the scenes on the water create a unique look for the film.  This movie broke new ground in creating a real world, and not a cheesy backlot shot sci-fi flick...which brings me to point two.2.) Waterworld creates a unique science fiction world.  While Star Wars and Star Trek set out to create their own realities, they are still heavily grounded in our own world.  Waterworld stands out be crafting an entire mindframe that comes about from living your whole life on the water.  The characterization and logic stems from there.  It is not just people in costumes overacting for two plus hours, there is a lot going on here, from the Drifter's policies to the Smoker's screwed up perspective on anti-conservationism.3.) The casting.  Kevin Costner brings a strong performance out of the Mariner character, creating a surly loner who manages to find his own heart. Jeanne Tripplehorm and Tina Majorino round out his ragtag family well. And the Smokers!  From Dennis Hopper's The Deacon down to the guy who played the human depth gauge (William Preston), the villians all seem to have motivation for their actions.  As wicked as he is, you never think Deacon is just a bad guy.  He's chasing the Mariner for a reason.   Even Battlefield Earth's own Kim Coates plays a strong role as a sex-crazed drifter.  But of course, BE gets an even worse rap (and even more undeserved bad rap) than Waterworld.4.) The action sequences.  From the Atoll battle to the Mariner's last stand on the oil tanker, the action scenes are brilliant.  High-paced and explosive without relying on the Matrix tricks every film maker uses as a crutch these days.  This is truly what effects work can be with a some subtle computer work and a maximum of imagination.5.) The story.  While on the surface, the plot is a simple Beauty and the Beast story, the characters and unique setting add depth and complexity to the story.  In the end, their search for Dryland and the relationships formed along the way are compelling.  The conflict between the Mariner/Atollers and the Smokers is between those who try to live with the world and those who want to squeeze it for every last drop of life.6.) The little touches.  Subtle tricks help add to the already unique look of the movie.  The Mariner wears a computer chip as a necklace, a Rolex watch as a wristband, and ski boots on his feet.  The oil tanker is labelled Exxon-Veldez.  All of this reminds the viewer that they are still on Earth, even if it is not completely recognizable.All in all, Waterworld is a terrific movie.  Sure, the budget was high, but the look and style of the movie shows every penny went up on the screen. Stories of overinflated budgets and luxuries are just made up by those with no real grasp of how the film industry really works.   And in the end, like most movies, Waterworld still managed to make a profit...thanks to the miracle of video and foreign distribution.Besides, without Waterworld, the film industry would have never dared to make films like Titanic or Pearl Harbor, neither of which I think deserves to share the same sea!    "},{"Title":"strange but good","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found the entire movie held my interest. Maybe it is just because I'm a sucker for strange movies. I dont know if it was the plot so much that kept me watching, but I think it had a lot to do with the atmosphere. It made me think and wonder about a lot and that's the kind of movies I enjoy. "},{"Title":"Waterworld Hey, I thought it was enough to float!","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, I have seen a fair share of what come out of Hollywood, all shrink-wrapped and on the shelves of the local video-slinger. I have seen horribly constructed wolf-men, awesome c.g. dragons, fantastic fire-fights, a couple of boondock saints, some hobbit with a ring, Elvis sing-acting, and even had breakfast at Tiffany's. Now I've seen a post-apocalyptic action drama where the icecaps have melted, and the world is covered in Hydro, and I have to say that I thoroughly enjoyed the spectacle.This previous post mentions plot holes and whatnot, and I totally agree. The pee-converter was useful, but why just drain the lizard into it? Why not tip it into the huge bucket that is the Ocean? See what happens. Anywho... Where was I?Aaah, yes. The effects were pretty decent. The acting was on par; Not AWESOME, but fitting, I'd say. And, frankly, I liked the concept. Yes, a better movie could have come out of this, but no one has even tried to tweak this and come up with something better, as of 2004. Well, maybe that's just how it goes; If it flops, leave it till it rots, THEN maybe THINK about DREAMING about redoing it... someday. I'm not in the biz, so I wouldn't know.Long story short, I enjoyed the movie and urge my fellow talkie-loving film connoisseurs to see this movie. Never mind that three ski-do's explode into a Die Hard quality fireball without being even 5 feet away from each other. Just watch the movie. And, as always, wear your rubber!  "},{"Title":"'Waterworld' 4 hr Television Version","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There exists a 4 Hr exclusive television version of 'WATERWORLD, which includes both re-edited and previously unreleased footage, that adds new dimensions to the characters and story.It airs regularly on the Sci-Fi Channel. And to my knowledge-this version and additional footage - is not available yet on DVD nor any other format in the US.I strongly recommend you watch this version -that like David Lynch's DUNE 4 hr Version- this 'Waterworld' is sooo much better. "},{"Title":"I've gained a new appreciation for this film!!!","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld was released in Australia 4 months after the US which gave it plenty of time to be savaged by armchair critics before we even got to see it!I always decide for myself though! I'm smart enough to recognise that even a dud 2hr movie can be edited into an impressive 3 minute trailer to rope you in. And if I hate the trailer I don't bother with the movie itself. This was the case with Waterworld. I thought the trailer blew chunks and avoided the cinema release altogether.Years later though it popped up on my cable channel and I thought Why not watch it? I've already paid for the service! ..... so I did and I realised that time has been kind to this movie. The sound editing is impressive. To watch this in 5 channel surround sound is the only way to appreciate that the money did go into production afterall (well some of it anyway!!)The only fault is it is too long with neeedless scenes of filler. The Waterworld show at Universal studios packed the best 20 minutes of film into a live show and made it spectacular!!! If you haven't been to see it I recommend it strongly.Rating  6/10 for the movie. 10/10 for the live show at Universal  "},{"Title":"Lots of people hate this movie, but...","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I kind of like it.  Admittedly, is a disappointment as an anticipated blockbuster, but it features plenty of action and an interesting premise.  Suspension of disbelief is a must, but, hey, its the movies, so let that slide and enjoy the fun.The interesting premise of a drowned world is a two-edged sword.  While thought-provoking the the context of the current debate on global warming, it leads to one of the movie's weak points it is visually dull.  Lots of open water and empty sky.  Not unusual for an ocean-based film, but those kinds of flicks (for example, the World War II Victory-At-Sea genre) need a powerful hook to keep the audience's attention.  Waterworld tries in various scenes of sea-based battles and encounters with other Drifters, but it isn't quite enough to distract the eye from the empty and seemingly endless stretches of ocean.Similarly, Costner's character as a partially-mutated man-fish replete with webbed feet and functional gills, while necessary for the story line, challenges the suspension of disbelief a bit.  Those familiar with evolution will know that something this fully developed doesn't occur in hundreds or even thousands of years, but more on the order of millions.The other characters add some spice.  Of course, Dennis Hopper's over-the-top portrayal of The Deacon leads the list, although I could have done without the gruesome empty eye socket routine.  Sure, we know he was wounded by the Mariner (Costner), but just leave it at that, no need to shove it in our faces in every other scene.  A tattered-looking Jeanne Tripplehorn gives a maternally-appealing performance as Enola's surrogate mother and protector.  And, to be honest, even a tattered-looking Trippy is enough to tickle a young man's fancy.Overall, a decent action-flick, somewhat of a water-based Mad Max, as others have noted, but that adds to the fun.  Give it a viewing if you like shoot-em-ups with a twist. "},{"Title":"You shouldn't expect too much in the way of realism.","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off. I like this movie. It's an enjoyable enough action-flick, and much underrated. When you go to see a movie like this you shouldn't expect too much in the way of realism in some aspects (remember Armageddon?) but it was perhaps unfortunate that, at the time this movie came out, I was teaching SCUBA diving.As an instructor you learn certain basic facts of physics regarding the sea which perhaps took the edge off this film's impact. For a start, the opening sequence depicts the world completely flooding when the ice-caps melt - I don't think so. Then we had Kev Costner distilling fresh water out of his own urine? What's wrong with all that sea water he's floating on? No ammonia to get rid of there, for a start. A lot easier.Finally, we had him taking Jean Tripplehorn down into the murky depths to show her a drowned city. Someone obviously never told the writers that air compresses under pressure, so her little diving bell's supply would have been compressed down to a bubble probably not much bigger than her head. Not to mention that normal air becomes toxic beyond a certain depth. Ah well.Despite these negative comments, I still like this film and watch it occasionally. "},{"Title":"the sound of the world","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film deserves some serious critics. I see the film as a symbol. It is about our understanding about destroying ourselves. The mariner said can`t you hear the sound of the world?. Anyway, this is the most difficult film ever made. Even Norwegian film-director Nils Gaup had to give the job further (Gaup is brilliant). When I went to see this film, my eyes was glued to the screen, something I normally don`t do. The fantasy-spirit has been high. But to mutate like mariner is actually possible, but it will take 1000 of years and many generations. The music is perfect fitted in. What I really want to point out, is that someone is trying to do something NEW!!  "},{"Title":"spoil sport","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Nothing but spoilersFor scif-fi or fantasy to succeed the viewer or reader must be able to suspend his disbelief. To paraphrase Tolkien, it must create a believable universe in which all elements are coherent facets of the whole. Here Dennis Hopper's comic relief and Oscar worthy production values are wasted on an improbable premise followed by the unending distraction of implausible plot elements.The premise fails on too many counts. There's not enough water in the world to submerge all but Everest's top. If there was and Waterworld existed the unbroken ocean currents and unimpeded prevailing winds would band the planet in raging storm tracks as typhoon followed typhoon in unending parade. None of the artifacts shown here would have survived heavy weather.While it took 100 million years for fish to crawl on land and develope lungs and it took lung breathing cetaceans tens of millions to crawl back in the ocean and grow fins the hero of our story has developed gills and webs in a century or less.Aside from a few cherry tomatos, some Spam and a tub of human debris what did these people eat? Of what are their clothes and sails made? How do they refine fuel? With what do they cut, weld and fabricate all this metal? Where does the bamboo come from? Inconsistancies flow on broad and deep as the ocean.Every time I start to warm to Hopper's wisecracks or Tripplehorn's charms another dubious plot feature hits like cold water. The ending reveals our little girl of the tatoo really does come from dry land and we are left with the imponderable of why she ever left. "},{"Title":"Muddy","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can find something to like in almost any film. What's great here is the trimaran. Not all the stupid gizmos, but the boat itself. It's great. And Tripplehorn is appealing. But that's not her butt in the nude scene.Overall, this film stinks, but in truth, it's no worse than dozens of blowemup hits. The thing that killed it is Kostner's attitude. In other stupid fantasies, the hero looks at us and winks `look at me make a fool out of all of us, but it's just fun.' Arnie, Mel, they all goof on themselves.But Kostner in real life takes himself so seriously that as an actor he couldn't escape playing it straight. As the mariner, his seriousness here is offputting. Combined with his similar hubris in the industry, this project was doomed.The real interesting story behind this film is the story of how it got so broken at the studio level. After Sony bought Columbia, expecting miracles, another crew of Japanese bought Universal. We've made a special study of this case. The real problem here was the Japanese top-down management style. These guys just got snookered, plus they made some heavy false economies by going outside the film industry for key elements of the marine sets. That's how the trader colony sank.After waterworld, this Japanese management left the industry with their tail between their legs, selling to the Canadian booze guy. "}{"Title":"Better than many claim, but still not great.","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Poor Kevin Costner. He was perhaps the biggest star on Earth for a brief period in the early 90s. Then came Waterworld. Then his boring 1997 flop The Postman. Though he still gets plenty of work, his star dimmed considerably after the mid 90s. Its kind of a shame, too. Waterworld was one of those films already declared a flop even while still in production. Though it underperformed at the box office, there have likely been many worse flops recently. John Carter, anyone? Any Lone Ranger fans out there? I haven't seen either, so let's just focus on Waterworld for this evening. I just saw it again for the first time in some years. Truth be told, it isn't bad. Some elements of it are down right brilliant. But there are others that almost make you cringe. Dennis Hopper's mugging would come to mind. Waterworld is just the damnest of movies. So close to being an epic action film, but just cannot get out of its own way.The plot is something out of the Mad Max realm of films. We have a futuristic world in which all the land seems to be submerged. We are led to believe this would have happened due to global warming which was more of a 90s buzz-word as opposed to climate change of today. Anyway, instead of petrol being the most sought after commodity, now we have dirt as being the most precious thing. Small groups of people live together in floating atolls where there is some semblance of organized society. So much of this plot and production design seem completely lifted from Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, that someone probably got sued. I believe both films used the same cinematographer (Dean Semler) too! Basically if you made Barter Town float you'd have the atoll from Waterworld. But like Mad Max 3, this film also lacks any true sense of menace. The villains play almost every scene for laughs. Though Costner as the anti-hero Mariner is tough and resourceful like Gibson's Max, he needed a more compelling adversary. Dennis Hopper in this film is hardly as evil as Tina Turner. The supporting cast doesn't offer that much, either. Look closely for Jack Black in an early role as a pilot(!).What Waterworld has going for it are some incredible set pieces and action scenes. How cool is Costner's boat?? The tricks he uses to take care of himself and keep one step ahead of Hopper's army are what makes this film more entertaining than not. This film could have also helped itself by being a little more subtle, especially when defining its villains. They're a bunch of dirty pirates known as smokers who apparently use former Exxon tanker Valdeez as their flagship and regard its disgraced former Captain Joseph Hazelwood as some sort of hero. Uh huh. Overall, Waterworld is not terrible entertainment, however. Its inconsistent tone, and awkward pace are typical of films that had major production issues, and too many script treatments floating around. You want to see something really terrific by director Kevin Reynolds? Find a copy of The Beast or The Beast of War, as its sometimes called. That film it technically sound, exciting, and packs the gritty tone that the PG-13 rated Waterworld cannot quite deliver. Six of ten stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"It's not so bad","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Against popular opinion I don't think this is a awful movie. I hope that we will see a remake of this movie someday. Hollywood instead of remaking for example Mad Max should work with movies that had potential like Water world.Ironically this one is obviously inspired by Mad Max , but at least with some originality to it &#x96; a whole world full of water. It's an really interesting and original idea. Water world starts promising with a dark ton (just like Mad Max ), but unfortunately quickly becomes a fairytale very in Spielberg's style (pirates , orphan , mystical island) . Unfortunately Kevin Reynolds is no Spielberg and Water world lacks magic and charm typical for most of Spielberg's movies.Kevin Costner plays here a silent stranger. He's OK as the dead pan, monosyllabic Good Guy. Dennis Hopper gives a hammy , but fun performance as the leader of pirates. Other actors are good.The movie lacks true drama and deeper message . There is some stupidity here (the indestructible raft , the exploding water scooters) still it works as Sunday afternoon entertainment. I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Review Waterworld (1995)","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quite a long movie from Costner, but not unusual when you compare with Dances with the Wolves. Love his antihero persona but still think his amphibious ability was underexploited in the movie. We only see a glimpse of it in how non-mutated humans react to him.The late Dennis Hopper's at his bad guy best and pulls his borderline psychotic role well. What is Jeanne Tripplehorn to Costner's character? A blossoming romance is not explored I think but not to worry.Overall a good movie I've seen repeatedly, and one that left me a bit seasick due to the amount of water on display. Loved the expression landsick once the group lands on dry land, clearly a novel experience for the lot. "},{"Title":"Floating future","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Life in the post-apocalyptic world.The polar ice caps have melted and the Earth is just one big ocean.A mutated mariner might be able to find the dry land.He travels with a woman called Helen and a young girl called Enola, who has a map tattooed on her back.Also an evil leader, Deacon, of a group called The Smokers is interested about the tattoo.Waterworld (1995) is a Kevin Reynolds film.Kevin Costner, who had worked with the director earlier, does great job in the lead.The late great Dennis Hopper makes a terrific villain.Jeanne Tripplehorn is a fantastic female lead.And the child star, Tina Majorino, is something else.Michael Jeter plays Old Gregor.Then you can also spot a name like Jack Black playing Pilot.This movie is pretty much underrated.It has a reputation it doesn't really deserve.This movie looks good.Visually it looks quite amazing.Also the action scenes are most impressive.Like when Mariner goes to get the girl back.Give this movie a chance. "},{"Title":"Movie of the Year...every year","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So how can it get any better. First of all you have this horribly monotonous actor, Kevin Costner, who plays a sea voyaging anal bead with gills...why does he have gills? Did his mom bone Poseidon or something? Anyway, he gets into some trouble at this Sea Village (which everyone can apparently find in the middle of nowhere but not one person can find land.) He steals a young lady and her even younger sister who is all inked up. Who tattoo's a baby? Thats sick. Anyway he fights and kills a very bald Dennis Hopper and kills Jack Black who is the pilot for one of the smokers planes. This was way before Black's Box office hits such as Shallow Hal and Year One..In conclusion, after about 2 hours of Kevin Costner beating up two young girls and killing white trash jet-ski enthusiasts, they finally find land and horse wondering around on it...the horses could find fresh water easily but apparently humans are too stupid to collect rain so they decide to invent a device so they could drink their own urine. I hate you all. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, but developed only into a mediocre action movie","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very interesting idea of a whole world under the sea and what humanity would do if that happened. I was intrigued in the beginning and expected something major. The boats and the water villages are absolutely nicely designed. Unfortunately the movie itself just boils down to lots of shooting, explosions and people dying for no reason. The main character indeed was more evil than good. The bad guys are bad and attack a water village - why? for what? Where do they get food? Where do they get oil for their tanker and the boats? Where do they get bullets for their assault rifles so as to shoot them in such amounts? The movie becomes more and more stupid and illogical. Looks like someone came with nice idea at first but didn't know what to do with it. "},{"Title":"Not a Masterpiece but It's Underrated","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld (1995) *** (out of 4)Talk all you want about how this thing was a bomb at the box office. I've personally never seen how good or poorly a movie does at the box office should have any impact on its entertainment or quality level. Is WATERWORLD flawless? Not even close. There are countless problems with this film but for the most part I've always enjoyed its ambition and it keeps me entertained. The story is pretty simple as in the future all the world is covered by water, although there's rumors of land somewhere. A part-man, part-fish (Kevin Costner) gets involved with a family (Jeanne Tripplehorn, Tina Majorino) and soon must defeat some bad guys (led by Dennis Hopper) who has kidnapped the girl. WATERWORLD runs on a bit too long, loses focus on any type of story and yes the budget was crazy but in the end it's still a pretty entertaining summer blockbuster. I think a lot of credit has to go to the actual look of the film, which of course turned out to be some of the biggest issues with the production. I thought the director managed to do a good job creating a world where the viewer really did feel was nothing but water. The futuristic atmosphere also worked and the look of the costumes, ships and supplies were all realistic and fun. The action scenes were also extremely well handled and especially the ending with all the explosions and fires. The battles at sea were really just things we had previously seen in pirate movies but they were still fun. Costner also turns in a good, not great, performance in the lead and he at least keeps you interested in everything going on. Hopper delivers that crazy type of performance we all love and Tripplehorn is good in her supporting bit. Majorino is also fun as the young girl who befriends Costner. I remember watching this when it was originally released and everyone was going crazy about the budget. Everyone seemed to forget that the people leaving the theater actually liked the movie. It's too bad WATERWORLD was doomed from the start but it remains a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Final cut great, theatrical cut above average","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently watched the theatrical cut of water world and I felt a little hungry for more back story. The action sequences were pretty good, the concepts felt a little bleakly explained, the setpeices were pretty cool, and the acting was your typical action movie acting( not amazing but not terrible). But then I heard about an extended cut that shed light on some of the unexplained story, had more character development, and extended the action scenes. Though I haven't seen this version I feel that it would turn an above average sic fi movie into a milestone in movie cinema. Don't judge this movie before you see it because it was panned before it was even seen by many, no matter which version you see you'll get a pretty good viewing. "},{"Title":"Not Costner's Peak.","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although panned by critics when it was first released, Waterworld is not a all a 'bad' science fiction. Dennis Hopper upstages Kevin Costner, and the entire plot is so 'tongue-in-cheek', it becomes entirely a comical satirical commentary on the battle between the 'believers' of industrial growth and the various coalitions of a peaceful co-existence with Earth's environment.To like this film, don't take it seriously, in any regard. "},{"Title":"I like this movie!","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld has gotten a bad rep. Of course there are a lot of minor (and probably major) details that just don't add up, but still. It's a futuristic vision; it never pretended to be a correct betrayal of future earth. How would that have been possible? We CAN'T see into the future, and that's all there is to it.What's left is an epic story in a daring, visionary environment. There is NO bad acting in this movie. The photography is stunning, in EVERY shot. And that's a rare feat.In order to enjoy this movie you will have to suspend your disbelief. People who are unable to do that should not visit cinemas. It's not for them. "}{"Title":"too long, too much money, too boring","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So okay, this is one of, if not the most expensive films of the 90s, I remember a lot of press coverage or anti-press about how much money was spent or invested or in this case, wasted on a film based soley on the premise of remaking The Road Warrior on sea.I didn't really enjoy this film.  It takes WAY too long to get anywhere or DO anything.  It spends too much time building flat and uninspiring characters in a world which we (the viewer) do not fully comprehend as yet.Hopper, as the villian is, as always, excellent - but even his presence can't save this turkey.  Way too much money is spent, and the viewer tries to look hard at where exactly the money was spent...nobody I've spoken to knows where it went to.The action sequences are pretty lame and the only good one surrounds Costner sliding down a line as a bi-plane takes off from a oil ship.  The stunt is fine, though I could have thought of a better way to do it.Perhaps if the film focused on the action and concntrated less on building meaningless relationships and characters I might be interested.  But in the end I don't think I'd ever be satisfied with this film.  Perhaps its the amount of money they spent?  Or perhaps as it stands, its just way too uninspiring and boring.Overall 1/10. "},{"Title":"Not looking at the production, it's not half bad...","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'll make this short.Waterworld might not be the best action movie in the world, and it surely doesn't contain the best acting performances. But nonetheless it tries out new ground, as opposed to all the current science fiction movies we have to wade through... Space isn't all that much of a frontier when it keeps being used in such a mindless way...I'll give it a 7 for being a great adventure film, plus I like blue ) "},{"Title":"Not nearly as awful as the critics claim","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Synopsis A poorly described global catastrophe has covered the entire Earth with water.  Evolution has already produced the next step, in an antisocial semi-human known only as the Mariner (Costner).  The Mariner makes a rare visit to a floating human atoll, where, through various misfortunes, he unwillingly becomes host to a woman and a young girl (Tripplehorn and Majorino), and gains the enmity of the leader (Hopper) of a band of pirates known as Smokers.  The Smokers want the girl, because on her body is tattooed a map to the mythical Dry Land.  The rest of the film follows the escalation of this conflict to its fiery conclusion, alongside the gradual humanization of the Mariner.Critics love to beat up on the big stars, and certainly Costner is an easy target.  The most persistent criticism of Waterworld, however, is how much money was wasted on it.  Is implication that if the producers lied, and claimed they spent $100 million less than they really did, this would somehow be perceived as a better film?It is true that Costner was the weakest part of this film, and complaints about the absurdity of the premise (water covering even the mountain tops) are absolutely correct.  But if you accept the film as the fantasy it is, and concentrate on what the film-makers did well, there is a lot to like. The effects and sets are pretty darn nifty, regardless of how much money was spent on them.  The supporting actors- including the minor roles- were colorful enough to balance Costner, and the action scenes were suitably intense.  It will win no awards, and is certainly unsuitable for young children, but otherwise, sit back with a bowl of popcorn, suspend disbelief, and enjoy the ride. "},{"Title":"Foolish plot and boring characters","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, comparison to THE ROAD WARRIOR is not only justified, but illuminating. This version of a post-apocalyptic hero on a nearly-impossible quest has a foolish plot and boring characters.Why do the villains need to hold on to the girl, when all they have to do is copy the map on her back? Even though she seems to have picture-knowledge of all kinds of dry-land flora and fauna, there is no indication that her knowledge is of any use in finding this lost paradise.The plethora of incidents after the Dennis Hopper-lead attack on the atoll is mostly redundant. The whole of nearly 4 hours could easily be reduced to 90 minutes by simply dropping many of these confrontations between Hopper's goons and Costner's side. $175,000,000 is the budget estimate, but very little of this actually needed to have been spent on this paper thin story with a nickel's-worth of plot.In comparison, THE ROAD WARRIOR is a tightly plotted, directed and edited work with interesting characters and with each incident moving the plot forward without relying on spectacular visuals. The characters are far more interesting and the sugary sentimentalism of WATERWORLD is no where seen.The traditional passage of the hero who comes and goes is far more poignant in ROAD WARRIOR, because his heroic saving of the oil truck of sand means he actually did accomplish his mission, despite the fact that he was misled about what is he was guarding.And, of course, it was easy to guess that the land/mountain they find would be Everest. This is a pale analogy to the Statue of Liberty at the end of PLANET OF THE APES. "},{"Title":"I think it is a great movie","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watch and read a lot of sci-fi. This qualifies as both good pure sci-fi and good adventure. The story works. I liked the characters. There is violence but it's not excessive nor gratuitous and it doesn't rely on cheap sex as story line crutch. The special effects are memorable and natural.It takes a lot to put a chill on me. The whole sequence of showing us the submerged surface was absolutely brilliant. You want to see dry land? You really want to see it? I'll take you to dry land. Wow. It was intense like those moments when the probe entered the Titanic in Cameron's movie. People who compare this movie to others and try to dissect it that way should realize that you can do the same to any story. The best way to enjoy this movie is to stop analyzing it and just watch. "},{"Title":"Blah","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those movies that has a hard to believe premise, but even if you accept it, the half million or so plot holes will get you in the end. The world is completely under water. Kevin Costner wears creepy skin tight clothes and has gills - ? He's sailing around in a boat straight out of Gilligan's Island - everything is high tech, yet apparently made of bamboos. He's stuck with a sexy woman, whose legs magically never get hairy despite the lack of razors, and a cute little girl with dreds. He's a complete ass so I didn't really care what happened to him, and the woman was stupid, so I didn't care what happened to her either. I would have cared about the little girl, but by then I was so disenchanted with the movie that I just couldn't. Like most bad sci-fi type movies, this one doesn't pay enough attention to details - why are there all types of different American dialects, all in tact? Wouldn't everyone be speaking some kind of water language by then? Why don't they make some water processing factories so they can drink all the salt water? I could go on, but I won't.The only good thing about this movie was that it totally put me in the mood to watch GOOD movies that takes place in boats - Pirates of the Caribbean and Hook. "},{"Title":"Cannot get past the impossible premise! (spoilers)","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If every cubic centimeter of ice on earth melted, including ice caps, sea level would only rise a few hundred feet. 90%+ plus of the existing landmasses would (surprise!)  STILL be above sea level.  Are we supposed to believe the Rockies, the Tetons, and all the other great mountain ranges of the globe have somehow been inundated?   I watched only part of this movie during an airplane flight and I felt like urging the cast to Turn around! Land is right behind you!Dumb.  Probably regarded as a warning film by the Global Warming crowd which makes them even dumber.  I added spoilers to the summary line, but I don't see how this idiocy can be spoiled.  It does nicely expose the leftist agenda of a good chunk of modern Hollywood though.  "},{"Title":"You're a fool to believe in something you've never seen.","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld is directed by Kevin Reynolds and jointly written by David Twohy, Peter Rader and Joss Whedon. It stars Kevin Costner, Dennis Hopper, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Tina Majorino, Michael Jeter and Gerard Murphy. Music is scored by James Newton Howard and cinematography by Dean Semler.It's the future and the polar ice caps have melted and the Earth is practically covered by the sea. As civilisation is forced to live on the water, their only hope is to one day find the fabled place known as Dryland. A Mariner drifter may hold the key to Dryland's whereabouts........It was by definition a troubled shoot, with sackings, difference of opinions, cost overruns, production set backs (hurricane destroying a hugely expensive set) and bad word of mouth generated by a film press intent on giving Kevin Costner a good kicking. Facts are, now that all the water has evaporated over the years, Waterworld is not the flop, nor bad film, that many believe it to be. Should it be a better movie considering the gargantuan amounts of cash spent on it? Absolutely, without question! But Waterworld turned a decent profit in spite of its problems and mixed reviews, and now it firmly has a fan base willing to love it for the great sci-fi escapism that it is. Sadly for the fans, Waterworld is still only (officially) available in the 136 minute cut, thus denying many the chance to see the more cohesive 176 minute version.However, as it is, the 136 cut of the film is still a rollicking water based adventure, full of spectacular stunts (oh my those jet-skis rock), amazing sets (whoosh, the sci-fi grandeur of the floating atoll) and blood pumping scenes (the eerie journey and subsequent revelation of a city under water). Sure it's far from flawless as the pace is uneven at times and as plot narratives go it's pretty thin, but Reynolds and Costner have crafted an impressive world submerged by water. The cast, too, are delivering knowing performances. Costner's Mariner is indeed one note, unsympathetic and moody, this guy is a loner and a mutation after all, his sombre persona neatly playing against Hopper's cartoonish, satirical and maniacal villain. Tripplehorn (a porn star name if ever there was one!) beautifully shines in a film populated predominantly by males (there's another flaw for you), Michael Jeter scores favourably as a highly strung elder, while young Majorino is suitably winsome, neatly playing it as a device to mellow the Mariner's cold fishy heart.If it was meant to be a serious picture in the first place, a sermon on topical destroying of the Earth, then it fails on that score because the characterisations are bound by cliché manacles. But collectively the inhabitants of this Waterworld share a common goal of survival, played out to the backdrop of Reynolds' excellent futuristic setting. When thrust together to make a good v evil action movie, the characterisations work handsomely. That is ultimately the best way to enjoy Waterworld, let it wash over you (hrr hrr hrr) in a wave (hrr, OK I'll stop now) of water based action and heroics. It's a world where soil is currency and smoking is a marker for being a bad guy. From the opening shot of the Universal World logo becoming submerged in water, to the bittersweet finale, yes! Waterworld is indeed escapism in its purest cinematic form. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good or bad - I am not sure","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hmm, it seem s to me that this is a Love it or hate it-movie, which makes it difficult for me, because I am right in the middle. As a movie and RPG-buff I like the idea of a post apocalyptic world. This world especially, because it does not show a desert. dried out land but a flooded world, where only the highest mountains were left as dry, firm land. This idea is transformed superbly into on-screen pictures. The boats, the atoll civilisation, the living as a drifter...even the submerged city are very nice. I even took the liberty of picking the whole idea for some RPG-Sessions. Then you have the acting side. Costner is a lone, quiet hero; Hopper is an ego-maniacal villain, Jeanne Tripplehorn is just gorgeous...nothing new or especially noteworthy here, but solid acting fare with no weakness. So the acting may be average, but not disappointing. The disappointment comes with the story. Though a great concept (search for dryland) it seems to be rushed (due to cutting 30 mins of it, I would assume) and concerning itself only with the action scene between the Mariner and the Smokers at the end. I don't know how much of this was the studios demand, but I would have liked a slower, more detailed development, like Costner showed in The Postman or Open Range later. The discovery of Dryland is a bit anticlimactic, happening after the big battle against the villain. That could have been placed better.All in all the movie has great ideas and beginnings, but a weak execution of them. That is why it never created a hype like the PoC or other similar multi-bucks movies. "},{"Title":"Second Best Movie Ever","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, I've only ever seen Waterworld once, and that was in the theater several years ago. At that time, I declared it the second best movie ever made (right behind Mallrats). Any movie that starts with a man drinking his own urine cannot be all bad. Both Waterworld and Mallrats flopped big time at the theaters, but I think time has vindicated both of them and myself. Mallrats is now considered a classic and has launched the careers of Jason Lee and Ben Affleck. Waterworld made its money back, and while people still are heard to say didn't that movie suck? I think many elements of the film entered popular culture. I still think George Romero's Land of the Dead has strong parallels to Waterworld... and this movie introduced everyone to Tina Majorino, now infamous for her role in Napoleon Dynamite and appearing in Veronica Mars... but let's give it a second viewing.Two hours later This film can retain its rank as the second best film ever (right ahead of Demolition Man). If anything, I appreciate the movie now more than ever. Some critics ask where did they get all that oil and those cigarettes? but after watching the film and actually paying attention to the dialogue, it explains itself pretty clearly (the oil is running out, and they're on an oil tanker). Soem scientists are all like if the ice caps melted, most of the world would not be underwater - such as Denver or the water would become so non-salty you could drink it. And I say unto them, dudes, you're over-analyzing the film. Just chill. Although I admit I was curious as to why Kevin Costerner had to filter his own urine but couldn't filter basic salt water. But it doesn't matter. This film is so recommended, I would even suggest skipping school or work and watching it NOW if you never have. "}{"Title":"This was a good movie!!","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have no idea why everyone came down so hard on this flick. You know what, it's a pretty decent action flick. I'm not sure about most of you but has anyone else noticed the utter crap that Hollywood has put out in the last 5 years? I mean compared to something like We Are Marshall or Apocalypto this movie is freaking Citizen Kane.I asked a fried of mine (who loves movies) if he had ever seen Waterworld. This was about 5 months ago - he responded to me laughing no. I asked him why - I mean this is a dude who has seen every crappy movie that has been on cable for the last 25 years. He told me because he had heard it was terrible from reviews. Then I said, it's on tonight on AMC, you should watch it. So at 8PM, I called him at home and I said - watch it and call me when it was over. At the end of the movie I spoke to him and said well, what do you think - he said - it was pretty good, it wasn't at all what the reviewers claimed it was. I think most people who haven't seen this movie but were around when it came out will say after they've seen it.I'm not a huge movie fan, but I was really entertained. Sure the concept of these people living on the ocean is sort of strange but it is a fantasy action movie. I think this movie got the critics wrath because of the time and money that went into making it. As I recall back in 1995/1996, reports about this film was it was taking forever to film, was way over budget AND the Costner was coming off a big hit with Dances with Wolves. I do find the typical liberal political overtones a but tiring (references to the Enola Gay (first plane to drop the A-Bomb) and the Exxon Valdez - but what do you expect - it's Hollywierd.So if you find yourself home channel surfing and you see Waterworld on and you've never seen it. Take the leap, I bet you will surprised. "},{"Title":"Deserves better than 5.5","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this movie to be very enjoyable.The story is a little fantastic, but come on! It's sci-fi fantasy! Fantasy is supposed to stretch the imagination. NOT display total realism. That's why it's FANTASY.The acting was pretty good. The villains are a little over-the-top but not to the point where it's annoying.I thought the story was interesting, and the premise was fairly original. I found the depiction of life in a post-apocalyptic world to be very unique and intriguing. It really seems like a real, developed culture which has truly lived in the surrounding environment and has adapted to it.The costuming and sets are really incredible in this film, and you can see where time was taken to make it look interesting and realistic.The sea creature didn't look that real, but it's one lesser effect in an effects-heavy film. I wasn't all that upset by it.I thought Costner had his role down, and I really enjoyed Jeanne Tripplehorn's performance. I thought she did an incredible job with her role. I also found Dennis Hopper to be very good as the main villain.Overall, I felt this movie was very good and is worth watching. It is very original, has pretty good acting, great sets, great action, interesting story, great costumes, and an interesting atmosphere.Really, this film deserves much better than its current rating of 5.5... "},{"Title":"Just another 'Wacko Environmentalist' movie.","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" What was wrong with it?  Alot.The premise is impossible.  So only 100 or so feet of Mount Everest is above water?  That would mean the world was under 29,000 feet of water.  From what I have heard, even if the ice caps melted completely (as they have in the distant past), only the coastlines would be under about 300 feet of water. Sure it would be a disaster, but going from 300 - 29,000 feet is ridiculous. No telling how many people who saw this believed this could really happen and turned into evironmentalist wackos.  There was the scene where Costner dives to show the woman a ski resort area that was dry land.  The highest ski resort may be at 6,000 feet, tops? So Costner dove 23,000 feet down and survived where the pressure at those depths would crush even the most advanced submarine?Apparently this movie is at least 500 years in the future since dry land is unheard of and not even stories of the way the world was were handed down thru the generations.  But, they still have functioning gasoline engines, an oil tanker, centuries old cigarettes and even a VCR/TV setup with a centuries old video tape that still works! So an old tanker survives, but not even one aircraft carrier, warship or submarine?  Those vessels would be the last ones to vanish considering they would have been fully stocked with tons of weapons and supplies before the waters rose.  And those ships would have intelligent crews, unlike the morons in Dennis Hopper's crew.Of course throwing in the Exxon Valdez was just another ridiculous attempt to make a point about the evils of oil.  Wonder how Mr. Costner and company can ever fill up at the gas station without feeling like hypocrites?This was nothing more than a big budget rip off of the 'Road Warrior' (the best post apocalyptic film ever made). "},{"Title":"Survival in a world that knows no land.","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie deserves more credit than it has received.  Set in the far future.  So far that the humans no longer have any idea what land is.  Born into a world of endless sea and wooden fortresses, they can only wonder about the meaning of their existence and why they have feet.  Is dry land a myth? Kevin Coster plays a lone Mariner who has advanced along the evolutionary scale.  Carrying the secret of earth's past, he has developed fish-like gills that enable him to breath above or below the ocean.  Jeanne Tripplehorn plays Helen, the foster parent of Enola, played by Tina Majorino.  Enola is a young girl who wears a tatoo on her back that nobody understands.  This already imperfect world is forced to deal with an evil side.  Dennis Hopper plays the Deacon, the leader of a ruthless band of outcasts called Smokers who live on the drifting Exxon Valdez.  Hopper gets word of this mysterious tattooed girl and the possibility that land exists somewhere.  Coster is forced to take Helen and Enola as refugees on his boat.  He does an outstanding job; playing a stubborn independent character who must reckon with the Smokers and his new trouble-causing passengers.  Soon a bond is formed between them and the quest for dry land begins.  Spectacular photography and music.  This film gives viewers a grim look into a ficticious future.  Definitely one of Costner's finest roles.  It has a fun story that is sure to please every audience.       "},{"Title":"probably the best movie i've ever seen","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" this is probably the best movie ever made. i especially loved the bit where he is on the boat. the movie is full of hours of enjoyment. memorable quotes include why aren't you rowing? spoken by Dennis Hopper when Keevin arrives on his boat to rescue the girl with the tattoo on her back. the twist comes in the end when after years of pondering the tattoo they realize that it was upside down the whole time! the movie is very action packed notably the bit where Keevin the mutant goes fishing using himself as bait and catches the angry whale. a first rate cast fills this masterpiece with a plethora of touching moments such as when the little girl with the tattoo draws on Keevins boat with the crayons and he gets upset because they are his crayons and she can't use them. i cried a little at the end when you realize that Keevin can't stay on dry land and sails off into the horizon, i believe this reflects our own inabilities to accept the world around us. this movie is a beacon of the future and we should all be prepared for our own Waterworld. "},{"Title":"A Pioneer of science fiction, top #10 movie of all time","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld is not an adaptation from a book. That right there is proof for research and creativity ! The first script draft was ten years ago but Costner re-wrote it. Waterworld might be the most under appreciated movie of all time, and is a very important contribution to sci- fi, for the amazing decor and infrastructures, the phenomenal music, the number of people hired to play in it... No other movie has bothered to tackle the same subject, because even with CGIs it requires a lot of effort and work, something Costner did. I don't think people understand how brilliant Costner matches this role so perfectly, which is very hard; If you don't get it, then you just don't get acting. This is not Rocky Balboa 'brrrruubbrrruruhuhughg lightheaded acting, it took Costner a lot of effort and energy to play a masked cold angered mariner and does a few stunts at age 40 (he had a stuntman surfer doing the others). The Media of course, deliberately trashed this movie for recreation instead of praising the fact that it's incredibly ahead of its time think about it, no one had ever come up with that concept before, but Costner did. And then there's the issue of forums what we call the trolls, those who tag along and criticize just to criticize. The Media demonstrated its immaturity and autoproclaimed right to unfairly bash without taking any responsibilities. Costner was scandalously trashed by the press coalition that destroyed his marriage, they slandered, insinuating he had an affair, they kept reporting it in the tabloids headlines, reporting there were multiple incidents on set (most of it because of natural hazards that sunk a set and stuck Costner up on the sail), just because Universal didn't pay them to go watch the movie. They even said Costner's hair line was CGI effects ! And of course a ton of people hopped on the bandwagon. The story itself is great, a future covered by water and only one hope remains that a dry land still floats. One girl shipped into a basket wears markings that are coordinates to dryland. Her guardian Helen and an inventor protect her from the Smokers who have heard about her tattoo thanks to a leak (the Nord spy). Along comes the Mariner who can swim under the very bottom of the ocean, to pick up dirt and trade it on atolls but he is captured by the habitants labeled as a threat and a spy. The Mariner is released from his cage by Helen and the three take off on his trimaran in the middle of the Smoker attack, but the Smokers are determined to run him down and recover the girl. The Mariner then realizes the girl's markings are key indications but only he knows that the world has sunk and been covered up by water. They are ambushed by the Smokers who blow up his boat and kidnap the girl. The Mariner and Helen survive thanks to Grigor who spotted them up from his gas balloon but the Mariner refuses to run after the Smokers and decides to return to his destructed boat to recover the few objects left and sees drawings of dry land that match his national-geographic magazines and understands she is indeed a native of dry land. The final showdown takes set on the Deacon's boat that is overrun by the Mariner and leaves in the company of Helen, Grigor and the sheriff of the atoll on their way to dry land that Grigor has finally figured out the coordinates.I understand that at the time people were bothered by questions and I will urge them to go watch the complete version for three hours, it's out there on DVD and internet, and I guarantee you will get the answers and enjoy the complete version. It makes a HUGE DIFFERENCE. It's pivotal for the development of the story and characters, especially the Mariner. You look at Costner's performance in Field of dreams, Bull Durham, Dances with Wolves and Waterworld, not one of them are similar but Waterworld definitively reaches another level. The cast around him is very good, there are mostly very good characters, Hopper is hysterical but criticized because he's not cruel enough and looks more like a prankster. Maybe heiq, but he blows up an entire atoll and the Mariner's boat so I think that's good proof he is cruel. The negative would be the CGI - it is true that if you know the basics of CGI, you can spot the anomalies - the explosions that are offsync, the leviathan that swallows up Costner, when Costner has his boots off and his bare foot and back to wearing boots several times.... those are the regular anomalies that make this wonderful production unprofessional. Laziness ? Perhaps. But it was 1995. It would be a shame if Waterworld is not played again on TV in the full extended cut because the fans and the younger generations or even those who never saw it at the time, would discover a fantastic movie. If you have good taste, you can only enjoy this wonderful ride that leads you all the way to dryland. "},{"Title":"financial failure with cinematic redeeming value","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Mariner (Kevin Costner) is a loner sailing his jerry-rigged trimaran through a world of water. Dry land has become mythical. He battles pirates known as Smokers and thieves that roam the ocean. He freedives with his gills to salvage from the drowned cities. He arrives at a floating settlement to trade his recovered dirt. The locals discover him to be a mutant and take him prisoner. The town is attacked by the Smokers led by the Deacon (Dennis Hopper). Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and Enola (Tina Majorino) rescue the Mariner and they escape. Enola has a tattoo on her back which could point to dry land.This is an infamous financial failure although it's not a complete cinematic failure. I really like the concept of a waterworld and some of the action. There are still many problems which keep me from recommending this movie. Dennis Hopper is too much of a cartoon villain. He needs to be more realistic to be threatening. It's trying to follow the Mad Max model but it doesn't quite work. Also for a water-borne adventure, this really lacks a storm sequence. It should be simple to transfer Mad Max onto the waters but I stop caring once they get on the tanker. I like the world of the trimaran a lot more and wish they stay there. "},{"Title":"Mad max on water and a good film","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really never got why this film was slated the way it was. I've just sat through 2 hours of Mad Max Fury Road which got good reviews and isn't half as good as this. The story is believable, the effects good and the pace of the film is excellent. This is really a mad max on wheels minus some of the real grit and gore. Saying that it's an enjoyable film. It is Hollywood No debating and doesn't have real depth but what really do you want from an action movie? I've always thought this was a good film albeit a little cheesy. Over the past 37 years I have realised the critics know squat! They rate films because they think they will be noticed for rating off the cuff and small budget films. If you want to be entertained for a few hours you could do a lot worse. A solid 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Fish Max","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the early 1990s Kevin Costner struck gold four times in a row with Dances with Wolves, Robin Hood, JFK and The Bodyguard. With Waterworld, however, he submerged himself entirely and hasn't really been able to rise above the surface ever since. This 'Mad Max on water' cost an enormous amount of money, but gained only modest success. (Though it was still better received than Costner's next post-apocalyptic vision, The Postman, which he directed himself. That movie was an undeserved box office bomb and a critical failure, though I personally found it thoroughly engaging, and overall a much much better film than either Waterworld or any part of the Mad Max franchise.)The lukewarm reception of Waterworld might be attributed to several factors. The mutant hero with gills and webbed feet or the bleak (and wet) vision of the post-apocalyptic world were probably not attractive enough, and despite the huge sets and the multitude of extras, much of the film is devoted to the Big Blue. The ocean is beautiful, no doubt about that, but it is a bit monotonous for nearly two and a half hours. And the happy ending is not so happy either. Our heroes do discover the coveted land, but the Mariner, being half water creature, gets sick of it, so he leaves his prospective family on the shore, and returns to the sea, his real home.The plot and the Mariner's character are, however, decently developed. (The weakest point is the illogical final confrontation, as the one person our hero truly jeopardises there is the child he tries to save.) The costumes made of fish scales look great (the Mariner's earrings are especially memorable), and Dennis Hopper in the role of the main antagonist is as wacky as always. Life after the great flood, as presented in the movie, seems more or less plausible, and there are no major problems with the dramatic structure or the pacing of the film either. It just doesn't grab you &#x97; probably because it really is nothing more than Mad Max 2 on water. "},{"Title":"Costner's done much better","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld occupies that awkward space between so-bad-it's-good and terrible. Neither, but somehow bo- ... no, still neither. Its notoriety as a colossal flop notwithstanding, there's nothing here to revile (aside from some garish set design) and it's not really much more than a pretty dull ripoff of The Road Warrior. Despite the post-apocalyptic setting, this is surprisingly vanilla - and the only thing that really feels alive here is Dennis Hopper, out of place though he may be.This is a movie whose title has become shorthand for box office disaster, so I was expecting (hoping for) something I can have some ironic fun with. But it's played laser-straight and makes me want to pop in a Mad Max movie instead.Where's the fun in that? 5/10 "}{"Title":"True Sci-Fi classic","Date":"16 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This can go with the Chronicles' of Riddick, Mad Max, Terminator & Aliens collection. The pinnacle of the 1980's to middle 1990's Golden Age of Sci-Fi I've watched Waterworld probably a dozen times...too bad it wasn't made into a trilogy. So uniquely different & fresh. Before CGI took over & screwed everything over with waterlogged computer pixels that turned todays Sci-Fi C- movie into a pretentious blow-hard Avatar/Hobbitar Oscar garbage scow.This movie took skill and daring to make. The Trimaran sailboat was fascinating to watch in action with Costner jumping from the rigging to the deck and forth pulling levers and spinning gears with huge patched sails run up along the mast. He's character showed real love for the ocean & his boat.The horde of Smokers assaulting the water fortress was epic, a rusting barge with a Oerlikon 20 mm cannon punching holes through the corrugated metal fortress and into flesh and bone was brutal . The desperate fortress citizens fighting back with bows and harpoons.Dennis Hopper was perfect as the smart-ass Warlord taking out floating Islands like chess pieces one by one with his armada of Jet Skies and suicidal Mad Max type warriors ....really this world had as much eye candy & back story as the Star Wars Universe. A movie before its time...maybe that's good as it would have turned into the sensory overload CGI explosive slop that's such the rave now.Kevin Costner added the finish touch as a morose loner in a lonely world, an outsider half-man half aquaman . His wannabe girlfriend doable.Perfect classic to add to anyone's collection. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as expected.","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like Kevin Costner --- usually! I had read the reviews etc of Waterworld and was apprehensive ! I am NOT a fan of post-apocalypse films in general and NOT a fan of blow-em-up and explosion films ! BUT I decided to give it a try. It's not bad ! Costner is stoic and doesn't say much but he does it well. Jeanne Tripplehorn is pretty and Tina Marjorino as Enola is a kid that can be tolerated. Dennis Hopper is funny and scenery chewing as villain Deacon. There are many character actors who looked familiar but everyone is so dirty and unkempt (despite living in a Waterworld !)that it was hard to identify most of them. Michael Jeter was found mostly by voice! For me there were way too many explosions and minutes of tedious fighting and shouting and not enough sensible plot or character development. The later scenes between The Mariner and Enola (swimming lessons) and The Mariner and Helen were nice.If you like lots of explosions and running around on jet-skis etc go for it. It's not as bad as some have said. No worse than the Bond films and better than the Mad Max's "},{"Title":"So long, but where are all the fish?","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It takes gumption to open a movie with the sight of Kevin Costner drinking his own urine. But, of course, Waterworld isn't just any movie. It's an odd experience to have a movie largely survived by its spin-off theme park show (welcome to the post-1990s, folks). Of course, the notoriety helps too &#x96; choose your favourite moniker the film that nearly bankrupted its studio amidst its budgetary folly; Kevin's gate; Cleopatra of the '90s, and so many more. We've heard them all. But the real twist? Twenty years down the road, and it's not actually as bad as all that. Surprising, embarrassing, whatever you want to call it, but Waterworld is a clumsy but reliably enjoyable sci-fi adventure romp. Most will gear up to mock-watch it, but don't be surprised if you find yourself having more fun than you ought to be. Okay, sure, the bloated running time belies a false sense of self-importance, and the script (which Joss Whedon will pay good money to help you forget he worked on) is still famously idiotic, pairing hackneyed dialogue with a cast of universally unlikeable characters. These are to be expected, though. What's more irksome is, in light of its decently interesting premise (yes, Reverse Mad Max will do nicely too), how under-explored the world and its culture are. We get brief glimpses of the waterlogged former society, and whiffs of the fear culture of bandits and scroungers trading relics as currency, sadly fantasizing about rumours of dry land, but there's so much left unseen and untold. We're left to infer that the floating locals' distrust of Costner's Mariner mutate is due to inherent human xenophobia (although his gills and webbed feet make him the most ideally suited to the aquatic climate, and they should really beg for his seed more. Didn't you see him in those tight pants? COME ON!), and we get an amusingly heightened pirate battle over a lime plant, but culture and context are largely forgone in favour of lots of yelling and sea battles, which, although enjoyable, makes the film more shallow (ha.) than necessary. Even more curious this hydropopocalypse seems to have no fish in it, apart from one blink- and-you-miss-it CGI croc-shark behemoth, which leaves the world feeling strangely barren. There's at least one moment where a Costner vs. shark fight appears inexcusably cut, likely for budgetary reasons (teehee). Good filmmaking rule of thumb never cheap out on a shark fight scene. The campier the better. Trust me. In terms of aesthetic world-building, Waterworld isn't afraid to put its money where its mouth is. The sets &#x96; entirely functional, and built with practical effects, a myriad of ramshackle, apocalyptic steam-punk rafts and abandoned steamships (the film's reappropriation of the Exxon Valdez tanker crash allows the film a smarmy bit of political satire to boot) &#x96; are, in lack of a better world, awesome, and genuinely visionary. Similarly, the film's slew of sea battles, a flurry of pyrotechnics and sea-doo acrobatics, are thrilling and a ton of fun. Throw in the cheerily nostalgic score by James Newton Howard, and we've wrapped the entire affair up in an adventure serial bow. Sit back, popcorn in hand, and enjoy.Naturally, fine-tuned acting is a low priority here &#x96; this is WATERWORLD, after all. Dennis Hopper, likely still nursing a hangover from Super Mario Bros The Movie, is really the only performer who owns up to the film's inherent campiness, and his snarling, teeth-gnashing yet strategically comedy deadpan villain is superbly entertaining. Yes, the irritating double- act of Jeanne Tripplehorn and Tina Majorino as the shoehorned in, perennially whining surrogate family unit do the film no favours (who can't swim in Waterworld, for crying out loud?!), but a brief appearance by the delightful Michael Jeter is enough to bring a smile to anyone's face, and 'spot the pre-fame Jack Black cameo' is always fun. And then there's K-Cost (as no one has ever called him ever). There's bound to be a particular adjective encapsulating 'stoic, feigned badassery so stone-faced it's both thoroughly silly while occasionally sneakily working its magic, and is either way enjoyable, ironically or otherwise', but whatever the word, Costner brings it in spades. Just remember if you start to find yourself too taken in by him and his pants, remind yourself that a good portion of the film's already stratospheric budget was devoted to CGI-ing him a lower hairline. Works every time. Inevitably, it all boils down to an overly hasty and somewhat falsely utopic ending where Costner gets to play western hero yet again. Still, as daft as it is, Waterworld is too inextinguishably enjoyable to even mock-watch without some genuine affection creeping in. And for those wondering 'Okay &#x96; so if the sets and aqua-action are the best bits, why not just watch the Universal Studios show, which is basically just those, but without all of the extraneous plot and bad script?', I have only four words Dennis Hopper, Peeing Costner. And let's face it they're worth the extra two hours. Just be honest. -6/10 "},{"Title":"Waterlogged.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld (1995) Dir Kevin Reynolds / Cast Kevin Costner, Dennis Hopper, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Michael Jeter, Tina Majorino Hailed as the most expensive film ever made and not worth a penny of it. Earth is consumed by water and the search for land is on. Civilians travel by boat but only Kevin Costner knows where land is. He is captured after gills are discovered behind his ears. Pirates are in search of a map to land, which is tattooed on the back of a young girl whom is under Costner's protection. Interesting concept plagued by predictable storytelling and actors who have seen better days. Director Kevin Reynolds proves little with this toilet bowl mess. He and Costner previously scored at the box office with Robin Hood Prince of Thieves but lightning is not about to strike twice. Costner is stranded in a role that might have had potential if not for the fact that he is mainly there to brawl. Dennis Hopper is a sad case as a one-eyed pirate who pays a big price for his greed. Jeanne Tripplehorn is leveled with a boat paddle for her performance. She is basically there as a potential romantic prop to bitch at Costner. Michael Jeter appears in a forgettable cameo. Tina Majorino is the special little case young girl whom is under protection because she contains the map. Great special effects that are the film's one compliment otherwise its story has all the appeal of fishing shows. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"20 years not too late","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First time I've seen this film since it was released 20 years ago. I've not even watched it all as yet but it seems just OK at best so far. My main gripe however is the ridiculous hole in the plot. If it is indeed set hundreds of years after the Polar ice caps have melted then how the hell are they still riding around on diesel powered jet skis and boats, smoking factory-made cigarettes and firing ammunition despite no land and therefore no raw materials or facilities to make them. I can accept all the rest. The script is pretty cheesy and so is the acting. Because it was big-budget they've obviously gone for the family market instead of being brave and aiming for a more mature market such as the Mad Max films. Even if they'd gone down the route they chose but announced at the start of the film that it was set a few decades after the mass flooding took place it would explain the quite simply preposterous suggestions that the survivors are still using equipment from the present day. It's just abysmal writing and poorly thought out. Completely ruins any aspect of it being remotely feasible. Anyway, no regrets about waiting 20 years to see it. "},{"Title":"Had Potential, But Fell Very Short","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld had the makings of a potential epic adventure based upon an uncertain future if global warming manifests itself into an Earth made up of 98% water and the only land remaining are human-made islands and the remaining humans left are struggling for survival by any means possible. With a very overblown budget, people had very high expectations about this movie, aside from the fact that Kevin Costner not only stars, but was not credited for co-directing the movie (along with Kevin Reynolds). It seems that Costner finds himself type-cast in the same roles we've seen him in before and after Waterworld (Dances with Wolves, Field of Dreams and Message in the Bottle) as a drifter trying to find a meaning to life while struggling with the world he's living in currently. The final product results in nothing more but one big mess. Not an immensely messy movie, but still enough to leave one fully disapproved. The idea for this movie is actually quite original in its rather cynical look into an uncertain future. But what really let the film down was the writing. Hollywood has proved that just because the settings are remarkable and the performances were pretty good, a movie of this calibre cannot survive on just those credits alone. Our movie shows us an Earth that has been flooded after the effects of global warming has shifted to epic proportions. The surviving humans' only dry areas are makeshift boats, self-built islands and other assorted floating contraptions. The inhabitants have the feeling of no hope in the search of finding dry land. Suddenly a hybrid appears on the scene and kid with a drawing of dry land tattooed on her back become the ray of light in finding, the planet's last dry land area. As they try to save humankind, palm trees are grown and coconut is offered for these survivors to live off by. The details have quite a lot of unsatisfying results which I will gladly elucidate. While, they show us their means of survival in this landless society that dwells upon them, the concepts never go into full effect which makes makes us care very little about them which at times becomes quite laborious to the point where I start to get seasick. I find it shameful that the nameless Mariner (Costner) may have the natural talent of breathing underwater, which is a talent to good use in this flooded atmosphere, he continuously get condemned for being a freak by the other inhabitants, which shows that their world and our world is no different in judging people who have rather unorthodox traits. Then you have nasty, evil villains who have no motive as to why they are bad to begin with. And these bad guys so smoke, therefore an overlong ant-smoking campaign appears in this movie where it should not be. So, the way I see these unlikable bunch, you have one decent civilian who's ostracized for being different, but at the same time we have villains for the sake of being villains. Hard to point the less of two evils. No? Top that off with pop culture references and you have an awkwardly absurd movie. For an enormous budget of over $175 million, the settings and the cinematography was very impressive. However, I still don't see the necessity of having to spend so much money on a rather simplistic set. I can see the effort put into building a floating landscape, but I think it would have been more frugal if they just made a non-floating scenario with more carefully crafted camera angles put into the film just to make it more vivid complete with a smaller budget. The acting was overall very overcooked in many areas. Dennis Hopper who plays the top villain as the Deacon seems to have fun here, but his role falls flat in the long end. Kevin Costner meanwhile, lacks the charm or panache as the Mariner as we wonder if he's being heroic to the people or if he's doing it for himself. The real standouts for me comes from Tina Majorino as the adorable Enola and Jeanne Tripplehorn as the legal guardian for Enola, Helen. After that the supporting cast were pretty much bland.If you like to see a more quality version of this movie, I'd suggest you purchase the Extended Edition DVD that was released in 2008. Featured there includes the theatrical release along with the edited out scenes that make the movie all the more better, by approximately 40 minutes. Although Waterworld movie is not complete failure, it's not by any means a theatrical masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Looks OK but seriously flawed - 58%","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It might be tempting to go easy on Kevin Costner for this notorious bomb. After all, he'd been given all the signs that the only way to secure success at the Oscars was to appear in a huge sprawling epic that crowbars in social commentary. So it would stand to reason that he would invest so much - personally and financially - to see this sprawling epic onto the screen. Sadly, lightning doesn't appear to have struck twice. There's no doubt that the film looks good on screen and it's plain to see where the money went. However, despite everything looking OK on the surface, the film is as deep as a puddle in a car park with barely a single cohesive thought between its watery ears. It simply makes no sense but hey, at least it looks good! Right? Some time in the future, the Earth has disappeared beneath the waves after the polar ice caps have melted. Drifting on the vast high seas is The Mariner (Costner), a stranger who gets by alone by trading whatever he finds. Arriving at a floating atoll, he finds himself imprisoned by the citizens who quickly have to defend themselves from marauding pirates known as Smokers. Led by the charismatic Deacon (Dennis Hopper), they are searching for a child (Tina Majorino) with a tattoo on her back which apparently leads to dry land. In the chaos, the Mariner escapes with little Enola and her protector Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) but does Enola really have a map to dry land and is The Mariner really all that he seems? There is plenty to give praise to Waterworld for, chiefly the look of the thing. From the Mariner's odd-looking trimaran to the huge floating sets, it's much more than Mad Max on water. The action is also first-class as jet-skis blast their way through the sets, explosions rip the screen apart and stunt work is of an exceptional standard. Sadly, the same cannot be said for the acting which is almost as wooden as the floating sets. Costner holds the same expression throughout while Hopper hams it up tremendously as the pantomime villain. The other issue I cannot ignore is the apparent lack of thought behind it. Take the apparent value in a few scraps of paper - if paper is that precious then why does Deacon smoke so much of it? There are other gaping gaps in logic like how did so many jet-skis survive such a cataclysmic event (and keep working after so many years). If Costner is trying to preach to us then why throw in little comic touches such as Deacon's ship being the extremely rusty Exxon Valdez? Why do guns simply not hit anything beyond point-blank range (and jam whenever it's least appropriate) but harpoons can hit everything at whatever range and target it's fired or thrown at? For a film set on the ocean waves, it's the lack of depth that sinks Waterworld before it gets a chance to leave port. On the surface, everything looks fine but if you stop to look at it for any longer than a few moments, the cracks are all too visible. Whether the story needed more work or Costner's influence behind the scenes needed curtailing, it's difficult to know exactly where it all began to go wrong. It's not a complete bust - it's big dumb fun that undemanding viewers can appreciate somewhat but the question that keeps popping back in my mind is was Waterworld really worth all that wonga? Frankly, it's nowhere near worth it - remember that this was the most expensive film ever made until Titanic. It's fair to say that Waterworld is certainly one film that will be remembered but not for the reasons Costner intended. It is a monstrous testament to the ego of Costner and his mistaken belief that because he has Oscars on his mantelpiece, he knows best. Dances With Wolves worked because it was different from most westerns seen at that time and it had something to say about racial differences. Waterworld is basically your average post-apocalyptic blaster but set on the waves instead of a desert somewhere. If you can separate the film from the tide of publicity about it then you'll get a kick out of a mindless but well-made action flick. But good luck - the negative press acts as an anchor to the film, dragging it down beneath the waves. Nice try but at least it's not as plodding as another post-apocalyptic epic, the incredibly dull The Postman. "},{"Title":"Mad Max 2 on water","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Polar ice caps have melted, humanity has learned to live without dry land, everything is wet and covered in slime, fossil fuels are almost nonexistent and Kevin Costner survives by drinking his own excretions. What a classic movie.In all seriousness though, this is not as bad as some make it out to be. The setting is imaginative and allows for some cool features and scenes we have not seen before. The sets are complicated and look suitably post-apocalyptic. Though if I'm being completely honest, I could have dealt with less grime. Mad Max 2, for example, had this dusty desert look that still managed to look cool and western-like, whereas this one is more about slime and mold, which manages to look... unappetizing. It's realistic, I suppose, but not exactly fetching.Aside from that, I'd say that the reason why people seem to hate this film is the fact that it's rather bland. Costner as the protagonist Mariner is blandness incarnate, Dennis Hopper as the villain isn't much better - though at least he's overacting, which is better than being bland - and the rest are just meh. No one is bad, per se, not even the annoying little girl (Tina Majorino), the MacGuffin of this particular ordeal, though she's the closest to being genuinely bad.What I like most are the mechanics of the ships and ports. The Mariner's ship especially is full of exciting gizmos and whatchamacallits that are enjoyable to watch unfold. They're not enough to save the film from being disappointingly average, but they're something.And that's this film. It's about as average as you can get. The story isn't particularly inspired, the characters are rather boring, the plot is nothing new, but at least the film has some interesting design ideas and as a whole there's nothing particularly wrong about it. If you're looking for a decent adventure film, I've seen worse. "},{"Title":"Example of how Hollywood misjudges the potential audience","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movie premise The world/land is now covered with water after a tragic mistake of mankind. People have to survive by any means possible, and even though water is abundant, it is seawater and therefore undrinkable. We follow the adventures of a great survivor in this dreadful world. That's an excellent premise for a movie.In such a world filled with drifters and towns built on sea, with very limited resources and small populations scattered all over, loneliness and selfishness are themes. And this is where the movie is great. In the moments where it explores the drifter's loneliness, and the selfishness of all, including him, the movie is great. When it explores how the drifter bonds with the small girl, the movie is great. But all over, there are so many unnecessary action scenes, highly unrealistic and over the top bad guys, etc.The movie takes an excellent premise and dissolves it into an action movie. How did the producers assume that based on the premise action junkies would be the majority audience? With less more action and more development on the themes of loneliness, selfishness, survival, bonding, and eventual fulfillment, a great movie my have been achieved. Still, with those small moments, and for some good action scenes and an original premise, I give the movie a 7. It's far better than some of the criticism it achieved. "},{"Title":"Have you ever seen paper.........","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earth is engulfed with water when the polar ice caps melts, leaving the lands and civilisation beneath the sea.Drifters sail across the waters, trading for supplies and salvaging what is left of civilisation, survivors live in squalor and pirates called Smokers travel across Waterworld in search of a mythical Dryland. A mysterious drifter called The Mariner is sentenced to death when the community discover he is a mutant. When they are attacked by Smokers led by Deacon, a woman named Helen and her adopted daughter Enola bribe The Mariner to take them to Dryland, believing The Mariner has been there. But the Mariner, Helen and Enola are pursued by Deacon and the Smokers, when The Mariner learns the tattoo on Enola's back is a map that will lead them to Dryland...It's a shame that the controversy of the film outweighs the actual content, because to be fair, it's still a good adventure movie, and given that 1995 had a really poor summer blockbuster output, this was one of the better ones.Costner is as good as always as the loner who doesn't say much, and you can tell where the budget went when you watch the film, its beautiful.It's a little too long, and some of the incidental characters needn't had been included, but we have a great villain thanks to Hopper, and its hilarious to see how many scenes have Costners head to begin with, and then pulling back to see him doing a stunt as if to say 'look! I'm doing this myself!'.The rest of the cast are fine, and the last twenty minutes are brilliant, putting good use to the Exxon Valdez.Forget all the plot holes (cigarettes are really still around), and the fact that Costner is a scapegoat, you will enjoy this for what it is.Pure Sunday afternoon popcorn fodder. "}{"Title":"Over-criticized. Watch it. It's a good movie, overall.","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dystopian Pirates vs. Reluctant Hero adventure.5.9 ? That (re)confirms how completely off the mark IMDb ratings can be. I would say this movie is more like a 7.3.Imaginative, captivating premise (irregardless of whether its actually possible). Decent acting. Good spectrum of characters. Big budget. Lots of fun.Yes it's ridden with editorial flops (especially) if you watch the wide screen version. Ex. The famous scene where the bottle of scotch is gets more full as the scene goes on (clearly some thirsty actors!). But really, for me, it didn't detract much from the film. "},{"Title":"Too bad, this film didn't have any holy water. It might have save the movie from sinking","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie isn't so bad. A lot of critics canned the movie for it's over the top material. While some of the cheesy lines can be a bit over the top, it's a great adventure movie. It felt like Road Warrior on Jet Skis. Water world is a unique post-apocalyptic film in which the entire world has become enveloped in water. However, even after the ice caps have melted and flooded the earth, humans have survived. Society continues on man-made floating apparatuses created using pre-apocalyptic ruins. These dwellings can range in size from boats to entire floating fortified communities. No governments exist as we know them now and society has become primitive and brutal and survival is found in strength and numbers. The main character is an abrupt and highly resourceful introvert played by Kevin Costner call 'The Mariner'. A Clint Eastwood 'Man with no name' type of a character, quiet, gruff, eccentric stranger with a strong, but unorthodox sense of justice. He finds himself in conflict with Deacon (Dennis Hooper) the leader of an evil gang call 'Smokers'. They are call 'Smokers' due to the fact, they smoke cigarettes, and use combustion engines to move around while everyone else uses Eco friendly ships. The reason of this conflict is the search of a map to a utopia place call 'Dry Land' which happens to be on the back of annoying young child Enola (Tina Majorino) whom Mariner is taking care of, with her mother Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) because they help him from escaping from being 'recycled' (death sentence) for being an mutant (Half fish, half man). It's a tug of war between Deacon and the Mariner on whom will find Dry Land first. Much of the movie's entertainment factor is found in the well-choreographed action scenes being presented on exceptional sets, which have a strong and specific theme. The movie had beautiful wide shots of endless oceans, giving the movie its Lawrence in the Arabia moment of survivors living in a harsh environment. The soundtrack by James Newton Howard is amazing, its main theme sounds like a savage epic that can be confused with Jurassic Park. Check out the song 'swimming' I didn't expect it to be quite beautiful. 'Escaping the Smokers' has this cool exotic futuristic swashbuckling tone. I'm still puzzled as to why so many people slag this movie off, as people might think the Mariner was too much of an ass. Let's remember, he was a drifter with long periods of loneness, and trust issues way before the two women enter his life, and after they enter, he doesn't know how to deal with them. There is a redemptive arc to him, as he teaching Enola to swim, and end up protecting her from the Smokers. It is everything I would expect if the world flooded and the survivors had to survive. People would band together and yes, people will have the close mindedness to change (Hating mutations). The pedophilia which the term only exists because of modern day society, in post apocalypse with small numbers, girls would be traded off the moment to rebuild population numbers. It makes sense, but what doesn't make sense is in a world that has been covered by water for hundreds of years, how come people still have items from the 20th century and early 21th century only? Not late 21th century or 22 century? Another is the 177 minute director's cut, don't watch it. You're better off watching the theatric version as the movie is too long, and wear down its welcome. The reasons why fans hate it, because it was average for a blockbuster for the time. Plus, it was the most expensive movie ever made. Hence a colossal failure relative to expectations, which turned into the running joke. People that hate it, probably haven't watch the film. If you haven't saw it. You just need to approach it with an open mind, and don't listen to all the bad hype. "},{"Title":"Fun, But A Bit Lame At Times","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes; it's 'Mad Max 2' at sea. And the trouble is - it shows.The rather nihilistic post-apocalyptic scenario that starred Mel Gibson is reprised on the oceans by the thinking-man's Donald Duck Kevin Costner, who directed and starred in it. So much of what we see appears to have been lifted and marinised from the Mad Max franchise that I'm surprised Costner wasn't sued for plagiarism of intellectual copyright. Perhaps he bought them off. That said, it may be that the scenarios presented in either movie are a fairly accurate portrayal of how our species would behave.Whatever the case, I think the first half is extremely entertaining, with some very imaginative Heath-Robinson contrivances and gadgets. I particularly like the Mariner's trimaran. Costner's Mariner is an interesting character, more subtly played than Gibson's 'Max'. Whilst Dennis Hopper makes a humorously wicked Captain Hook-alike. The rest of the cast just come along for the sail.There's plenty of action and it's well choreographed. Incidental music is aptly chosen to accentuate the drama of the moment. Lighting, editing, camera-work and other technical issues are all up to snuff. But - something's missing.From about halfway through it begins to drag. The plot seems to lose focus. The conflict and tension don't build in the way that a good action thriller should. Maybe it's Costner himself. He just isn't the action man that he likes to present himself as. I thought he cocked-up his telling of Robin Hood in broadly the same way.Even so, this is a movie that deserves more credit than it got, I think. Despite its rather dull one-dimensional star, there's plenty going on for most of the ride that will entertain. I also think it would deserve a PG rating, there's little that would jar the sensibilities of younger children. Sex and swearing are almost non-existent. Basically it's a good family movie - Peter Pan, with an edge. As to the 'Waterworld' scenario; there isn't enough ice on the poles and all the mountains to sink the land-masses so completely as envisaged. Neither could the terrestrial heroine go deep-diving the way she did. But what the heck. "},{"Title":"cool film, liked it a lot","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, so there are some negative opinions out there about this movie - so what? This is not a film that can be explained rationally. Sure, the situation is unreal. It cannot be the earth in the future, thats a fact. Even if all the ice in all of the world (including the ice cubes in your fridge) would melt, it is impossible for the sea-level to rise more than 100 meters. Many countries are above this level. A catastrophe, yes, but not the end of mankind. So, this is supposed to be a fantasy world where people have lived for hundreds (or thousands) of years on desolated places in the ocean. Just don't think about it! I liked this movie for the following reasons Kevin Costner, the ocean, Jeanne Tripplehorn (she's just gorgeous, it's a pity they showed only her back...). "},{"Title":"Longer version","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I worked on WaterWorld and was painfully disappointed when the final cut came out. Missing was much of the critical pivotal plot points that underpinned the storyline.I was pleasantly surprised to find a two disc version that included a complete version of the film. In it are not only the missing 38 minutes but additional scenes that I remember from our production days. This will not satisfy everyone but it certainly improved the film for the people that I showed it to. It answers some of the questions created by slashing away in the editing room.One thing that is for sure, the Atoll was as impressive an engineering undertaking as I have ever seen and the full scale military assault on it while it was floating in the Pacific was spectacular not only in real life but also on screen.Finally, Kevin Reynolds and Dean Semler shot a beautiful film under some very extreme conditions. "},{"Title":"Why People Hate this movie and not the Pirates movies","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The reason why people dislike this movie much more than the Pirates of the Caribbean movies is because people like Pirates and hate Mr. Chinless Costner. Also, the Pirates movies make fun of themselves while Waterworld takes itself seriously. People enjoy slamming serious movies much more than the ones that recognize their own stupidity. On a side note, Ninjas trump Pirates. If you like Waterworld you probably should check out Battlefield Earth - a riveting tale of a man and some stuff. I really don't have anything else to say, but I want for the guy who posted the original comments to get his answer to why people don't hate the pirate movies as much. Why does IDMB have to hate on brevity and demand for long windedness in a similar vain to say, your grandma? "},{"Title":"too expensive but entertaining","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Engaging, high-priced action/adventure takes place in a very distant, post-apocalyptic future where the polar ice caps have melted and human survivors have been forced to adapt to life on the water. The population is divided among peaceful survivors searching for Earth's last bit of dry land, and reprehensible terrorists known as Smokers trying to claim the land for themselves. Costner is a drifter who aligns himself with a woman and child as he prepares to thwart the evil, megalomaniacal Smoker leader Deacon (Hopper). Infamous for its massive budget, which it doesn't measure up to, but the setup is certainly intriguing and the futuristic action scenes are a rush. Plodding at times, but as an action movie it's lots of fun. *** "},{"Title":"Expensive fun","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I keep asking myself why this film got so slandered long before it premiered. It had an oversized price tag, but that is just an excuse. The film itself isn't so bad - which is why the criticism quieted pretty quickly after the film opened. Short mindedness is the greatest enemy a movie critic can face, and it seems not many are up to the task.I give this movie 6 out of 10. It doesn't live up to the price tag and is wildly over ambitious - but it is extremely entertaining and feels very novel being set almost entirely at sea. That the bad guys, the Smokers, are more of a bunch of clumsy, kiddie matinee evil-but-stupid smokers (!) are more to the films credit than anything. Without Hoppers REALLY funny character, this film would have been way too serious to pull it all off. Waterworld is the kind of film that I like to watch again and again - it's catchy, funny, weird and at times absolutely brainless. The cost of the film is bewildering, since it is hard to spot just what would be so expensive - and somewhere along the road priorities must have slipped some of the special effects are just awkward. To exemplify, one of my favorite parts of the movie is when the Mariner takes Helen down to see the world that has been buried by water. The special effects here are really bad and the moment is almost lost because of it. The idea is haunting and scary - just not very well realized.The characters are, more or less strange, imaginative and, to be honest, simple - the one standing out is Costner himself, never smiling, very bitter and angry all the time and with good reasons. Helen and her daughter are the only normal characters in this unusual film. My favorite character? The guy sitting in the oil tanks of the giant tanker (the Smoker's home base).There is a plot hole in the story, of course - but it must be the largest one I've seen and accepted at once melting the polar ice caps would not raise the sea as much as is depicted in Waterworld. But what the heck...it's just for fun, isn't it? "},{"Title":"Half a good movie","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Despite critical infamy this film has some good moments.I think for once that Costner was quite well cast, if not type cast, as The Mariner. A role that required him to be quiet and obtuse, which he seemed to have a knack for.The film is at its best in the fill-in scenes, and it's the key plot elements that are perhaps the worst.The good fill-in scenes are the character building interactions between The Mariner, Enola and Helen. These are simple and quite sweet, if you like that sort of thing. Possibly the best being when The Mariner is teaching Enola to swim.The main plot scenes are the downside of the movie, and are just sailing above your average action movie fair. There is a certain quirkiness about them though.It's a shame they didn't make more of a character/road movie. "},{"Title":"Beat the trend by two years","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the most disturbing trends in movies now is the high ratio of Eye Candy movies to Intelligent movies, and I get the feeling Waterworld ushered in the era unoffcially.  Since this movie was released we've had to tolerate Independence Day, Godzilla, and Armageddon, not to mention all the other ones I can't think of right now.  To be fair this movie has an amazing visual flair, enough to keep me from hating it.  The script was excellent in it's premise but pretty putrid in it's execution, mostly obvious in the nonexistant characters (the only one with personality was the Deacon, but with Dennis Hopper playing the role, that's to be expected). Kevin Costner just sucked.  I can understand restrained acting, but he was giving Keanu Reeves a run for Worst big name actor.  I gotta thank director Kevin Reynolds for doing his best to make this a good film.  For the most part he succeeded, and in the process raked up the second largest bill in existence, and it's not too hard to see where the money went.  Oh well, at least the sets were more realistic than the computer generated ones that would've appeared in their place today. "}{"Title":"A New View","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know why this film got such bad reviews, critics and movies goers alike hated this film, why? because of Kevin Costner? that may be a part of it.  Costner has lost his fam he once had, there no doubt about that! Waterworld on the other hand is a great adventure set in a post-apol. Earth sometime in the far, far, far future.  This film does fall short at some points but it definitely has it's strong points.  The action and stunts are done superb, the plot line could use work but the movie it self is great! If you havent seen this film I recommend that you do and see for yourself but be warned you must have an open mind. "},{"Title":"Wet, goofy, and yet oddly amusing","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld is the movie that drew attention in the film industry because (at the time) it was by far the most expensive movie ever made.  All the money thrown at it did not churn out a great movie, but I kind of enjoyed it in spite of myself.  The filmmakers had ambition and if in the end, the movie doesn't completely live up to the hype, perhaps no movie about a world covered in water could.A voiceover at the beginning explains that rising temperatures due to global warming have melted the polar icecaps, flooding the world and apparently eliminating dry ground altogether.  The few humans left learned to survive on the ocean, living on boats and man-made atolls, constructed from scrap metal.  Things we used to take for granted, like plants and fresh water, are a precious commodity, and dirt is used as currency.  Costner plays the Mariner, a loner who lives aboard a makeshift catamaran, and I had to chuckle at the opening shot, where he urinates into a crude filtering device which churns out clean water.  Nice touch.The Mariner docks at one of the aforementioned atolls, where business becomes messy when the locals discover he is a muto, or mutant, because of the gills behind his ears and his webbed feet.  He is sentenced to be recycled, that is, deposited into the waste pit to decompose and replenish the supply of waste products to be used for energy, I guess, although I was disappointed that the filmmakers do not show us what they do with the stuff. There are a lot of these little details in the movie I would have liked them to elaborate on, as to how these people lived.The Mariner escapes, of course, when the atoll is attacked by the Smokers, a bandit horde that ride the waves in jet skis and communicate with semaphore.  They are led by Dennis Hopper, in a trademark lunatic performance.  He is the best thing about the movie, injecting life into what could have been just another villain.  His headquarters are aboard the rotting hulk of an oil tanker (which supplies one of the film's jokes near the end).Circumstances force the Mariner to take a woman and child along with him, and we know for a fact that although he wants to throw them overboard at first, they will grow on him to the point that he will brave even the Smokers wrath when the child needs rescuing.  She holds the key to dry land, or so it seems, through a map tatooed on her back.The movie runs too long for its own good, even with a good deal reportedly trimmed out.  There isn't enough details about everyday life on a world covered in water.  But I had to admire the filmmaker's creativity in set design and the work involved, and had a good time watching it.  I guess that's all I could ask for.  "},{"Title":"Soggy","Date":"17 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film has a comic book plot and cartoonish characters. Most of the budget doesn't appear on the screen since it got squandered on location shooting. It could have easily been filmed off the shore of California and no one would have known the difference. Koster gives his usual bland performance. The film would have been better if it had been a more modest production and if it hadn't taken itself so seriously. "},{"Title":"A nice movie...","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld is a movie in which we are in the future where the polar ice have melted and all the Earth become a big ocean or most of it. There a mutated mariner fights for his life and against a group of people who are the bad guys and called Smokers. Also our man after some things that happened he tries to find land with a woman and her child.I liked this movie because of the plot, the storyline and the direction of Kevin Reynolds and Kevin Costner who did a great job on it. I also liked it because of the interpretation of Kevin Costner who plays as a mutated mariner and Jeanne Tripplehorn who plays as Helen. Another thing that I liked in this movie was the nice picturing of it and how it showed it to us.Finally I believe that Waterworld is a nice movie to watch but I do not think that is a must see movie. It's a nice movie to spare nice your time. "},{"Title":"Imaginative, But Just A Routine Action/Adventure That Runs Out Of Steam","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld is a very imaginative story. No doubt about that. It's set at some unspecified point in the future on an earth that none of us would recognize. The basic story is that the polar ice caps have completely melted and there's no dry land left - well, except for a perhaps mythical place called - appropriately enough - Dryland. It's implausible (actually, impossible) right from the start. According to my research, even if the polar ice caps did melt the water levels would rise about 200 feet. That's a lot, but there are a lot of things in our world taller than 200 feet - some natural and some man made - so the earth wouldn't be immersed in water to quite this extent. But, hey, it's fiction. It doesn't have to make sense. It has to entertain.For a while, it does that. At first it's interesting enough just to try to get a sense of this world. What's it about? Who lives on it? What sort of culture has developed in these conditions? We find out about those things through the eyes of the Mariner (Kevin Costner) - a lone sailor with a pretty interesting boat that seems to have lots of gadgets. Through him we find out about the Smokers - basically pirates - and we discover the atoll - a floating community in the middle of the ocean (but then again, isn't everything in the middle of the ocean if there's only ocean?) where the Mariner comes to trade. Here, he discovers a little girl named Enola (Tina Majorino) and her sort of adoptive mother Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) who want to escape the atoll and search for Dryland. The Mariner gets in trouble, is discovered to be a mutant (with gills and webbed feet) and is about to be killed, when the Smokers attack. They want Enola, because she has a map tattooed on her back that they believe is a map that will lead them to Dryland. Why she has the map tattooed on her back is a bit of a mystery.The first hour or so as we learned about all this was pretty interesting actually. Costner was good; so was Tripplehorn. But the story settled into little more than a routine action/adventure in the last hour or so. Once we had learned the basics about Waterworld, there was nothing more really interesting about it, and action/adventures are pretty commonplace. You need something more to hold the viewers' interest. Yes, there's the search for Dryland, but that really just serves as an excuse for the Smokers to kidnap Enola, and for the Mariner to set out to rescue her. It has all the standard stuff you'd see in any action movie, there's nothing especially dramatic about the end of the search for Dryland, and the plot is full of holes.The first hour isn't too bad; after that I thought this simply ran out of steam. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Mildly Disappointing!","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really wanted to like this film because it has such an interesting premise and a very good lead actor. But, I could never get myself to like it. There are some very enjoyable moments but they are sparse. This movie started off great but after ten minutes in, it pretty much just fell apart.I really could not sense the plot in the film. It seems like it's about a group of people trying to find dry land while keeping the bad guys away.I thought Kevin Costner did okay with the material he was given. Unfortunately, this film is what ruined his career because this film did horribly at the box office. I thought Dennis Hopper did okay as well but not great.The one thing that was great was the visual effects. The effects were groundbreaking for 1995 and still look good seventeen years later. The worst thing though is the screenplay. The dialog is cheesy at best.Overall, this is an okay film. It's nothing special but I did see that effort was put into making this film. But it falls way short of being good. I rate this film 6/10. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable movie","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I never understood what all the nay-saying was about with this movie. I went to the cinema and enjoyed it, I've enjoyed it every time I watched it on DVD and also whenever I happened to catch it on TV, so why the negativity.People were maybe expecting another Dances with Wolves, Robin Hood, JFK or The Bodyguard? As this movie was more Sci-Fi based, Kevin Costner was less believable perhaps? Who knows, but the reality is, this is a very enjoyable movie with lots of different elements that make it worth watching several times.OK, there are some fundamental flaws with the science involved. It's been proved that if all the worlds ice melted, Waterworld couldn't happen. It's also unlikely that melting would happen so suddenly and dramatically to leave mankind virtually incapable of doing something about it, instead of a few pockets of life here and there among a largely dystopian society controlled by the Deacon And yes the Exxon Valdez was renamed and it's even more unlikely that cans of Spam would still be edible and cigarettes would still be smokable. As for weapons, if there was a cache of guns and ammunition in one of the cargo crates on board ship, if you mindlessly fire a four-barreled turret gun at anything it would deplete your supply of bullets fairly quick.Waterworld was designed more in the style of comic book come to life, instead of a period piece, so scientific accuracy was never going to be at the forefront of most peoples minds.Despite all the anachronisms in the film, it still holds together pretty well. Sure you can pick it to pieces but you can do the same for any of the Star Wars or comic book superhero movies as well. I don't recall anyone saying that the amount of energy needed to destroy a planet would render the Death Star useless, and somehow being bitten by a radioactive spider won't kill you but also make you practically invincible is more believable than humans evolving gills on a world that's now all but devoid of dry land.If you've never watched this movie then it's worth giving it a go and deciding for yourself. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says.","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld is an extremely competent adventure/sci-fi film with a very bad rap. I don't really understand why though; it's really no worse than any other big summer blockbuster, and in many ways it's better. The bad - it's totally unrealistic. If the ice caps melted, the world would not be covered in water. The oceans would rise like five inches, maybe. That's pretty much it. Also, if the planet really were covered in water, it would very promptly freeze over; with no means for producing greenhouse gases, there'd be an ice age very quickly, and without trees to filter out carbon dioxide, the atmosphere would become poisonous. Also, people wouldn't evolve gills like that, especially not that quickly. We'd be far more likely to evolve an ability to digest saltwater before growing gills. But you can chalk all that up to creative license; it's a fantasy movie, so who cares? How does it fare on it's own terms?Pretty damn well, actually. The characters are interesting and fairly well developed, and the effects and cinematography are brilliant. These days, it's great to watch an quality epic that doesn't rely on CGI. Honestly, it's not the best movie ever made, but it's really not deserving of it's bad reputation either. "},{"Title":"OK, it wasn't a great film, but...","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, it was a box-office bomb, there was lots people didn't like, and there's no real deep, underlying theme/message...I'm not a movie critic, I will admit that there are people I know who watch more movies in a week then I do in two months, and I'm not gonna pick apart this script in deep meaningful tones.I thought this movie was really funny. Maybe it wasn't a spoof, maybe Kevin meant it to be very serious, but I couldn't stop laughing. Dennis Hopper cracked me up in pretty much every scene. The whole idea of the movie was OK, and even though it's not possible (not enough ice to flood the earth that much) it was kinda interesting.I mean it's a movie. It's supposed to be entertaining. It's supposed to be fun to watch. And even though Waterworld is considered a huge flop, I enjoy watching it, if at the very least, just for a laugh.If you're gonna watch this for some heavy, deep, meaningful subject, then forget it. But if you're gonna watch it, and get a kick outta Dennis Hopper giving those sarcastic lines that are beyond dry, (pardon the pun) then ya, waste a few hours, and have a laugh. "},{"Title":"Above-Average...","Date":"24 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kevin Costner's most ambitious film to date, 'Waterworld' is visually breath-taking, beautifully photographed, wonderfully constructed, even fairly acted, but where it falters, is it's writing. This futuristic fare, has it's moments, but eventually fails to impress.In 'Waterworld', the polar ice caps have completely melted, and the sea level has risen many thousands of feet, covering virtually all the land. Over-here, it's characters communicate as drifters, smokers or slavers. Also, the film's protagonist, Costner, is a human mutant. Everything mentioned or shown in this film, is new to it's viewer.The film begins well, and as mentioned, is a visual delight, thanks to it's beautiful photography by Dean Semler, and top-notch art-direction. Kevin Reynolds's direction is nice, but the writing gets dull after a point. It loses the pace, and, the final 'showdown' is least convincing.Kevin Costner put his blood, sweat and tears for 'Waterworld'. In each and every scene, you can see sheer honesty all over his face. He has acted well, while Dennis Hopper is super-funny as the bad-guy. Jeanne Tripplehorn did her part well.On the whole, 'Waterworld' is an above-average fare, that failed at the box office. Nonetheless, it can be watched once! "}{"Title":"Great premise, poor story","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld (1995) is a action rampage that has a lot of good things going on but still lacks so much to be a great or even a good film. Kevin Costner (Mariner) does decent job in the lead and the action is often nicely presented but what I mostly missed from the film was a good script aka. a good story.The imaginative and interesting story premise of a post-apocalyptic world without land that Waterworld presents, offered a vast array of story lines to be told but somehow the producers and writers picked the cheesy one from the bunch. The sets are great and the film does look good but the lack of an imaginative story undermines everything good the film has to offer. I'd say that a more darker and grittier story would have fitted the post-apocalyptic setting better than the adventurous (I suppose) one presented in the film.The film's a bit of a wasted opportunity really, could have been better. Dennis Hopper (Deacon) was great! 2/4 "},{"Title":"Undeservedly Gets A Bad Rap","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this came out, I remember everybody really ripping on it. It skipped watching it for a few years because of that before finally seeing it a couple years after the release. I must say, I really don't get what there is to dislike about this movie. I thought it was pretty good. The story was unique as well as the setting. For a movie set in a world with no land, I thought they did a very good job making sure it is not boring. The Mariner is a good character and I think that Helen was a good heroine. The action is all necessary and I don't find it too silly for the type of film this is. The end is also fitting as all characters end up where they really belong. For a good action film that you won't have to think about, Waterworld is worth your time. "},{"Title":"A fantasy on the deep blue, dumb but entertaining","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" If it stars Kevin Coaster and it falls in the years between Dances with Wolves and Open Range, there are two things that you will not find in that movie, Good acting and an intelligent screenplay. That Said, of all the Costner flops of that decade, Waterworld comes the closest to a good time. Big budget values, lots of physical effects and pyrotechnics, a good sound mix, and skillfully photographed. The film has everything except a dimensional story with intelligently developed characters. This is almost always the case with Hollywood action/sci- fi, Waterworld is no exception.A hundred years into the future, the melting of the polar ice caps has not merely pushed up sea levels, it has flooded every continent on the planet. Humanity struggles to make a way of life on a completely blue world with little in the way of law order and civilization. Our story follows the adventure of one particular sailor. The Marner, (half man- half fish)One day while attempting to do some trade in an oceanic market place he is arrested for being a 'freak'. Although he is ot locked up for long. A young shopkeeper comes to his rescue. Helen breaks him free on condition that he takes her and her daughter on his boat. She is afraid because she knows that many people are after the daughter. tattooed on the kids back is a supposed map which shows the way to dry land. The tyrant king of the seas, is the Deacon. He an his navy of goons are closing in.From the beginning, Waterworld is artistically creative. Even the first shot which is centred around the use of a very unusual water filtration system is attention grasping. Though critically bashed, Waterworld actually isn't a bad movie. It does however have it's weak spots. Coaster is certainly not the greatest of heroes, Jeanne Tripplehorn, is not much of a heroine, and Dennis Hooper looks menacing, he is everything but. Tina Majorino is cute but she doesn't have a lot to say. This and a schematic story line are the movies faults. Everything else about Waterword works and offers the viewer pretty much what it intends to offer. "},{"Title":"Let Down By Its Look","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld is a cracking sci-fi premise, with a captivating far-reaching vision of the future populated by interesting characters and ideas, not least the possible evolutionary step taken by Costner's character.Yet on release and since it has been considered de-regeure (sp?) to slate it.but that's a vacuous vantage point to swoop from.Waterworld's problem lay with its visuals, and by that I mean its tired MadMax-borrowed costumes and set design. That dull post-apocalyptic livery had and has been done to death. What, does any major global apocalypse also wash the colour palette dank shades of brown? Tastless though it may be to point out to blind Hollywood set designers, the evidence of what humanity may appear as if civilisation as we know it collapsed can be seen in Africa today - a brutal but colourful existence in many parts. You see, old clothes don't necessarily fade, it's the world around them, which does. Sigh, I left the cinema 14 years ago moaning about it and there's been little since in the mainstream efforts to deviate from the accepted grimness.So rather than explore the intriguing premise thrown up by this film, it seems to me it was rounded upon for its tired stylisation. Maybe blame can be thrown at KC - didn't 'The Postman' follow the same old bleak vision? I'd like to see this 176 minute director's cut that's been referenced a few times, but until then I guess we're stuck with the studio-approved 'safe' blockbuster with the impressive story which will always be trumped by the film's lack of original styling.Try watching it and NOT watching it if you know what I mean- the script (usual clunky parts comittee-strained dialogue aside) is actually a damn good and thoroughly well-thought out yarn. Solid 6.5/10Shame. Oh, well, nearly long enough in the tooth for a remake, eh? Mr.Jackson (Peter, not M.j deceased)? "},{"Title":"Water, water, everywhere, so let's all have a seat!","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" As everyone knows, this was at one time the most expensive moving ever made coming in at a whopping 340 Billion dollars. Considering this cost it isn't surprising that the film isn't seen as a success, and it only made $12,000 in its 6 month cinema run. Luckily it doubled this in DVD sales. The main cost of course cam from shipping the entire Atlantic Ocean into Pinewood Studios so that they could film with man made weather and lighting rather than relying on mother nature. Looking back they probably should have just shot on location.Kevin Cotstar stars in this futuristic spin off of of Mad Max. The small pockets of land are all desert and deserted and free of desserts, so man decides to take life to the low seas. After a few generations they begin to adapt genetically to their surroundings- some grow webbed feet, others grow tails and gills, some gain three second memories, while others sprout sails. The plot is vague and convulsive- Dennis Rodman is chasing Kevin Hotspur's character because his blood holds the key to creating a super race of powerful mutants. If this gets into the wrong hands, like Rodman's then disaster will be the only outcome. Through into the mix a few younglings and a mate for Kocher and we have a typical disaster epic. It isn't very good though, in fact it's badness is excellent. The acting is OK, and Denis is as over the top as he's ever been. He was better in Die Hard though. Costnot was also better as Robbing Hood. It is unfortunate that Yul Burner didn't reprise his role from the Prequel Eastworld. Plans for a trilogy were dashed by the failure of this, Fireworld and Snowworld could have been pretty good if they got a decent writing team and director. There is no music in the film, just the sound of wind, waves, and gulls, and the graphics are too watery to be any good. It's worth watching once just to see what all the fuss is about, but as it is 7.5 hours long you might want to take a day off work for it. There aren't many excitements, just lots of talking, fishing, and footage of underwater swimming which was bought from the Discovery channel. I suppose you'll love this if you're a pirate or swimmer but for the rest of us, it's balls.Best Scene When Kostner is blind and is made walk the plank. He hangs upside from the plank and tries to shoot the tentacle of a octopus which is pulling his friend into the depths, but as he is blind he keeps missing and almost shooting his friend! "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever made?","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" According to what I've heard, Waterworld is considered a terrible movie based on the fact that it cost more to make the movie than in brought in from the box office. Besides that, it's really not that bad of a movie. Global warming causing the polar ice caps to melt? Where have we heard that before...? True, plot holes are present (how gasoline to power the jetskis was manufactured, the numerous amount of cigarettes and SPAM available) but the premise of the movie is relevant today. The question I had during the movie was why exactly the smokers were evil to begin with? Because they are the ones who have the guns, that automatically makes them the bad guys? Also, if the humans and the smokers learned to share the map on Enola's back, couldn't they have found dry land faster? Can't we all get along?Costner's acting, as usual was a bit monotone. Hopper's slightly humorous twist on his character, though he was supposed to be the villain, made me like him even more. Not a bad movie in my book "},{"Title":"Undeservedly Maligned","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld. The reputation of this film is so tarnished that a mere mention of the name incites giggles from others. Popular perception is that it tanked horribly at the box office and is clearly one of the worst films to have ever been made.Quite simply, neither of these claims is true. Waterworld did indeed make a profit, as can be checked with a quick click on the film's main page, and it is not even in the running for the worst film ever made, even when going by purely Hollywood standards.The crime of Waterworld is that it was the most expensive film ever made at the time of its release and the film is nothing more, nor does it aspire to be more, than summertime popcorn entertainment. The script is merely adequate, providing an interesting if implausible scenario and a plot that is somewhat patchy and stale. Kevin Costner's performance seems out of sync with the rest of the film, being deadly stoic while the rest of the cast seems to be having fun. The budding relationship between his and Jeanne Tripplehorn's characters seems forced, and the collision that ends the final action sequence was probably the most ridiculous moment in the entire film.Yet, the film has plenty of bright spots as well. The cinematography is quite beautiful--though I confess I agree with those who would have preferred a wider aspect ratio to better reflect the scale of the film. The production design is impressive, particularly the atoll in the first act; the fact that CGI was used at a bare minimum greatly increased the awe-factor for this viewer. The action sequences are, with the previously-noted exception, well-done, engaging the viewer on a visceral level as a good popcorn flick should. And Dennis Hopper's Deacon steals every scene he's in, adding a needed dash of comedic spice that keeps the movie entertaining.Is Waterworld a great film? No, and an argument could probably be made that the end result did not merit such an enormous budget. But it is still an entertaining piece of summer escapist fare and, in my opinion, well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Like a 70s cop chase movie","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hooo-boy, here we go. This is a movie I should dislike, but its the few bad movies I actually really enjoy watching, together with A Weekend With Bernies. When I saw the movie again on the BBC service, I felt like checking it out over here and I was overly surprised to see that this movie is from 1995. I expected it to be from at least mid 80s. The movie feels a bit like Espace from New York. The characters and the props would fit in the same category. The movie is very up tempo, but maybe a bit too stretchy, it just keeps going and there is not much of a story line, just that this guy has this nice boat, he tries to find this piece of land, and weird looking pirates on water scooters fire at him. Anyways, this is a fun movie to watch, it has these 70 style stunt moves with flying water scooters and enormous over the top explosions and over the top type castings. Also the props feel very low budget and the script is one written on a big stash of pot in one evening. But this makes the movie a lot of fun, it has this B movie cult feeling to it, it is so bad, it makes you laugh and actually enjoy it. You keep wondering what ridiculous thing will happen next...and I can promise you, it'll be more surprising than you could think off. Anyways, this is something to rent for a rainy Sunday, or maybe to catch on the TV and tape it to your TIVO. "},{"Title":"Silly Action Fun","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" First, to the review above I say, Here, here. Now, this movie, while it is too long and a little too cheesy, the director stages everything very well and keeps the action lively. Costner, while not his best performance, what else do expect from a character who hates everyone and can breathe underwater? Seriously now. The score is good, for this kind of film, and there are plenty of one liners, mostly from the gang known as the Smokers (has Dennis Hopper ever been more creepy?), to keep things fun. As most know, this was at the time, the most expensive movie ever produced, and you can see it on screen; the cinematography is gorgeous and the colors (which is a lot of blue) are somewhat vibrant. "},{"Title":"5/5","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld is a great not so great film. I love the idea of the world being covered by water and no land is left for life to survive on it. That alone is a very creepy thought and it works for a story. However it is merrily a Mad Max on water. So the whole plot is sort of copied and the story doesn't go much further than Mad Max so it's not directly an improvement. However the recycling pee scene at the beginning is quite something. But the film is predictable and the ending is a different genre (princess diaries) so not exactly a great execution of a great idea. Besides the production problems that happened during filming, the directing is somewhat lame. The acting is rather b movie but OK. The character development is weak. I still enjoyed it and thought it was entertaining! "}{"Title":"Drowned","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's amazing how a movie that *nets* $80 million in profit (worldwide business minus production/advertising costs) can be considered a dud. As a business venture, it was to be envied...as cinema, it was so-so, and therein lies the perceived failure.It begins promisingly enough with a clever segue to another world. The Universal logo is 'drowned', visually demonstrating where we're headed.** Quick reality check...** There isn't enough water frozen in the polar caps to inundate the earth in the manner we're expected to accept here. Simple algebraic explanations (which are easily googled) demonstrate that, at worst, sea level rise would be 150 - 160 feet above present...not nearly enough to engulf all the land...this would be dealt with more competently in A.I. and Day After Tomorrow.So the premise is ridiculous, but not uniquely so. We as a culture routinely accept that we can be entertained by 'movie reality'.Nor is this in any way original...the point of departure is 'Mad Max' cross-pollinated with the 'Man from Atlantis'...but originality is not so important either.I think what's really missing is a compelling hero. This is Kevin's star vehicle, delivered to him at the point in his career that he could have anything, ANYTHING, he wanted. But he had no idea how to play this any way but straight. Being taciturn is not the problem...in comparison, Mel's character was no less tight-lipped. But he knew how to deliver Max with a wink and a nod. In contrast, there's no fun here, just a scene-chewing competition with Hopper (Hopper wins without much of a fight).Worst of all, it suffocates in moralizing; the evil 'Smokers' smoke up the cigarette supply, there is the last voyage of the 'Valdez', the global warming message is placed at the level of 'the sky is falling', but taken in complete seriousness...it's quite amazing how many viewers drank this Kool-Aid.As in Dances With Wolves, the canvas is stronger than the star...at no point can Costner figure out how to elicit the vision that the co-creators had in mind...instead, the blue panorama wins. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as they all say","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld has been proclaimed as one of cinema's greatest failures. It is constantly put down as a horrible movie and as Mad Max on the water. Well it is Mad Max on the water, but that isn't a bad thing. This film has decent action and spectacular sets populated with scores of extras. What it doesn't have is structure. The movie, like most Kevin Costner films, is too long. Way too long. If he had chopped 45 mins to an hour out of the movie it probably would have been much more successful. Dennis Hopper is decent as the main bad guy and the Kevster manages to not get on your nerves too much as the hero. The atoll assault scene near the beginning is the best part of the movie in my opinion, showcasing some weaponry that really adds some spark to the flick.(For more info on that see Trivia.)Bottom Line A decent film about the future, just plan on sitting down for a while. "},{"Title":"Waterworld Rules!","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alright, I am not a hotheaded freak but I must say before my review, for all those people that write bad reviews. Your mother says it and I'm saying it, if you have nothing good to say DONT SAY IT AT ALL! Now that I got that out of the way, look, if you like post-apocolyptic movies, this is for you. But if you have a short ranged imagination and don't enjoy a guy that can dive hundreds of feet under the ocean to visit old cities covered in water, you better stay away. It is a lot like Mad Max, but again it's not. I like Kevin Costner movies, and I like Mel Gibson movies. If you don't mind crappy special effects, and corny acting this is a good movie. Don't cry about it and say you wasted 2 hours of your life watching it and come here to complain. Because that says you have no life. This is more of a lecture than a movie review, well it is what it is.  "},{"Title":"The movie that launched a thousand jokes","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  **********Spoiler Warning*****************Even seven plus years later Waterworld still stands as a monument to boundless excess.  Sure, part of the bazillions in the budget was because it was filmed on location, but that location was WATER.  They could have had the same effect by just filming off the coast and keeping the land out of the shots.Second was the complete absurdity of it all, even if every bit of ice on Earth melted it still wouldn't be enough to drown everything and leave Mount Everest as the only dry place on earth.  (We're talking almost five miles of water!)  Not to mention how people would realistically survive decades (or centuries as the plot says) on the ocean, with storms and heavy waves and all that.  Then there's how everything seems to be made out of metal, which would rust and corrode like crazy in salt water, or the smokers floating around on the Exxon Valdez (which was renamed and sank for real a few years after the movie came out.) Or finally, why everyone didn't cling onto the last bit of dry land and fight for it, not lose it and forget where it was.  (?!?)Okay, ignore all that and it's a fair action flick with some good stunts, (although the skiing kamikazes was a little much) and for all practical purposes it's an aquatic Road Warrior.  Matter of fact the role seems almost cut out for Mel Gibson and Kevin Costner comes across as a last minute replacement, even though the movie was his baby.It helps to watch the version with the missing scenes, as some things are explained a bit more, (such as dry land being Everest) and some of those scenes contradict the rest of the movie, that apparently the ocean going population was relatively new and was dying out within these people's lifetimes.Maybe at some level the movie was trying to make a statement about people who squander and destroy resources (like the Smokers) as compared to people who try to live more in harmony with things, like the Mariner.  Jeanne Tripplethorn was easy on the eyes and the Mariner's Circque du Soleil boat was kind of cool, but otherwise this was just another bad Hollywood movie. "},{"Title":"one of my unmentioned faves","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alot of people hate waterworld, they think it is tacky and an unimaginative rip off of mad max. Not true, I love the storyline and the characters (the dude with the long red hair is my fave)and the amazing soundtrack makes this a quality film in its own right. "},{"Title":"The Book is better. How disappointing.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the first scene of Waterworld Kevin Costner urinates in a cup. This is a horrible beginning for one of the most anticipated films ever. I expected stunning visual effects, good acting, in other words a  top notch action film.  But this film, so anticipated by the world did none of the above.  Instead the film crew skipped a entire available generation of visual effects and original action sequences for relatively mundane theatrics. My hero in this film is Dennis Hopper. He  alone rescued this film from Total disaster. I was a youngster when I saw this film and Dennis  Hopper was so scary and evil, I could not help thinking how much he enjoyed his role. I loved the ending  because it demonstrated that at least the director was true to the story artistically . Waterworld was promoted as the new milestone of visual effects; instead the audience and I wasted two hours.  When the movie ended, I remember that my father turned to me and said, this film is lousy.I wish I could recommend this film because I expected so much from it but I can't. My rating is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Average Sci-Fi/Action Flick","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, Waterworld isn't the best movie ever made, but it is far from the worst. While many of the IMDB users/critics found the film a horrible waste of time, I rather enjoyed this unusual romp in a future that will never come. It's far from boring, but most of the action is kind of 'blah.' The plot is fairly predictable and the acting is not the best, but all in all, it's really not that bad.  3 out of 5  "},{"Title":"Watery epic sank as fast as some of its sets","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While I felt much of the film was  well shot and directed, there were  too many outside factors and inconsistencies which doomed  this film. Kevin Costner's ego and  the ballooning budget proved to  be too much to overcome even  though the film is solid in most  technical aspects. The set design  was amazing, considering everything  in the film had depth and well  defined details. Costner's boat  was well conceived, and the whole  culture of the Smokers was rather  elaborate and stark. Dennis Hopper  gave one of his funniest performances  of all time. Sadly, this film could have  been so much more. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Mad max on water","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was like Mad Max on water. Despite that, the movie was not bad. It's a classical Costner/hero movie. I wished he had danced with the wolf... "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A fun adventure.  Another underrated performance by Kevin Costner, who people hate because it's in to hate him after his smash hit Dances with Wolves.  I'll take a fun adventure like this any day over a no-brains Fast and the Furious.   "}{"Title":"Mad Max does Sea World","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The amount of money spent on this movie is all that saves it from disaster.  The special effects are excellent, the sets well done, and the story never quite completely bogs down.  Nevertheless, the writing is silly and the acting terrible.  The beautiful but modestly talented Jean Tripplehorn looks and sounds like a fashion model from Tulsa, Oklahoma, not the survivor of climatic disaster.  Kevin Costner's whiny voice and southern California accent have never been more irritating.  Perhaps he was getting too old for this stuff even six years ago.  Dennis Hopper gets to wear a lot of neat makeup, smoke cigarettes, and eat all the scenery within reach.  There is no characterization, only caricature.  What the heck, though, this was a mindless actioner that more or less worked.  I can't exactly recommend it but it's not unwatchable, either, 6 out 10. "},{"Title":"Road Warrior on the deep blue 6.5","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is definately not worth 200 million bucks but aside from a totally ludicrous ending it's not all that bad.  Seriously, what can you expect from this genre anyway?  When you watch a movie like this you have to suspend disbelief a bit right?  Kevin Costner gives a fairly wooden performance but he does an action hero as well as anyone in h-wood. Dennis Hopper gnaws on the scenery a bit does add some humor.  I bought the video and find it's become one of my guilty pleasure movies, right along with Dragonslayer and Dark City.   "},{"Title":"Better than many said","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is it a great movie classic like Gone With The Wind?  No, but I'd rather watch this movie.  It is much more entertaining.  It is a pretty straightforward action movie with great background scenery (and great foreground scenery in the person of the female lead).  It was not intended to be a serious movie.  What's wrong with something that provides excellent entertainment for a couple of hours?I own it.  I have watched it 3 or 4 times since it came out, and I expect I will watch it again once a year or so.  I liked it, so sue me. "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a great film, but it sure is entertaining. The futuristic story is very interesting, and Kevin Costner is simply magnificent as the mariner. The action sequences are fairly exciting, but Dennis Hopper's power-obsessed villain is extremely juvenile. 3/4 "},{"Title":"If ever a movie needed defending, this is it.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What do people have against spending money on making a movie?  I obviously am not smart enough to get it because I'd rather see the money spent in a local economy than see the studio company make hundreds of millions of dollars on one movie.  There was so much negative press on the cost of the movie, that few people could watch it with an open mind.  So what if the studio and Kevin Costner lost money at the box office.  Not every movie is a block buster, even if it is billed as one.   Their only crime was building up expectations which they were unable to meet.  It wasn't a bad movie. Simple good vs evil, and good won.  If you weren't able to have fun with this movie, then you missed the boat.   "},{"Title":"Most Controversial","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't believe I have ever seen a movie bring so much criticism at the same time it is receiving so much praise from other quarters.  Let's face it, Waterworld is not a bad movie, and it's only fault seems to be going well over budget.  The story was interesting, their was plenty of action and those two ingredients should make for some enjoyable escapism into the movie fantasy world.  You either like or hate Kevin Costner.  I happen to like him.  Dennis Hopper always gives a professional performance.  Just except its couple hours entertainment and enjoy.    "},{"Title":"Well-done other-worldly action adventure ...","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1st watched 5/5/2000 - 8 out of 10 (Dir-Kevin Reynolds) Well-done other-worldly action adventure although at times it appears like Costner playing Robin Hood on water.  But enough of the film was well done, & unique and didn't deserve the tremendous negative press that it received.Best film by Reynolds that I've seen. "},{"Title":"A true big-budget debacle","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  * and 1/2 stars out of ****Waterworld was a notorious flop, and as it stands, is the third most expensive film in cinema history (behind Titanic and Wild Wild West).  And it did deserve to fail at the box office, simply because of the lack of effort put into the storyline and acting.  The film takes place sometime in the distant future, where the Earth is covered completely in water after the icecaps melted.  Man now fights to survive on the hostile environment, and they must rely on fishing and trade as their livelihood.  One such man, the Mariner (Kevin Costner), is a mutation, a cross between man and fish, for he is able to breathe underwater.  He's a loner, and dangerous, too.  He eventually gets involved in a battle between pirates and colonists living on an atoll, which could lead to the possibility of the discovery of dry land.Predictable, dumb, and even pretentious; these words describe the film's script, which is a mishmash of elements stolen directly from The Road Warrior and Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome, two far better post-apocalyptic action films.  The dialogue in this film can be excruciatingly lame, and the delivery of the dialogue isn't much better.The acting is quite uninspired, with another flat performance from Kevin Costner, who proves capable of all the physical elements, but not all the thespian qualities required.  Sure, he's a much better actor than, say, Sylvester Stallone, but he still has yet to put more emotion into his performances.  Jeanne Tripplehorn is better as the love interest, but her character is poorly written, and there's even an obligatory nude scene that only serves as an excuse for the filmmakers to show some skin.  Dennis Hopper has some funny lines, but his performance is mostly overwrought.There are salvageable factors to the movie as a whole.  A couple of the action scenes are decent and the stunts are sometimes borderline amazing, but it's all for naught if there's little joy behind it all.  Plus, all the material in between the action scenes weigh the whole thing down.  This isn't as dull as Costner's other post-apocalyptic film, The Postman, but it's just as unintentionally campy. "},{"Title":"I wished ONE of this year's action flicks delivered like this!!!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When you think of the biggest financial disaster in the history of Hollywood you automatically think of Waterworld. A financial disaster it may be, but this happens to be one of the most entertaining and visually exciting films ever made. This year, a few films came close (Patriot, X-Men and Gladiator)but not one film has managed to exceed the excitement of Waterworld. And I am serious. Great story, great acting (Dennis Hopper already proved to be a great villain in Speed) and the best stunts ever seen on film. If the less than praising reviews have prevented you from seeing this film, I advise you to give it a chance. You'll be glad you did. *****(out of five)    "},{"Title":"It cost HOW MUCH to make?","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld is a surprisingly good movie. I say &#145;surprising' because with all the hype that surrounded this movie before its release, it got blasted by critics who seemed to focus more on the movies budget (it had the largest one for its time) than the actual film itself. Could someone explain to me why critics suddenly become accountants whenever a movie causes a stir in Hollywood because of its budget?  I'd really like to know where that comes from. If the movie's good, it's good, if it's bad, it's bad, it doesn't matter what the budget is. Blair Witch Project proved that. Waterworld is filled with some interesting stunts, including a few things that I've never seen in film before. It has some cool ideas, but few that stand up to any real scrutiny. But it's fun sci-fi, with the emphasis on the fiction more than the science part.Yes, Waterworld is not without its faults, but it is still a decent enough adventure flick. It's been called Mad Max on water, although it's much less grim than Max. Its story actually more resembles the sequel to Max, The Road Warrior (anyone who has seen it will recognize many of the plot elements). Costner gives the standard Costner performance, which isn't bad if that's what you like (personally, I kinda like him, but at the same time I've never had to work with him). And ya gotta hand it to Hopper, he really throws himself into his villain roles. The guys a riot, I always look forward to him as the nasty one. I wonder if he has as much fun playing the characters more based in reality in the lower-budget, more independent films he's been doing the last few years as opposed to the larger than life bad guys he's played earlier in the nineties (no doubt the catering is better on the big budget action flicks). I guess I just liked the spirit of this movie, enough so to give it a 7/10 stars. You really can't measure a films worth by its budget. The best you can hope for is to be entertained in this type of film, and I think it delivers quite nicely. G'night!  "}{"Title":"Armchair critics clam up.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Best and most efficient opening sequence in film, ever. Period. When the Universal logo appeared at the end of the of the premovie corporate credits my friend and I grabbed each others arm and held our breath. Oh God please do it we muttered under our breath. And then they did. Terrific. And then, in less than twenty five words later the entire premise of the film was setup. One of the films that has been lambasted the most for bloated over expense actually has the most efficient use of film technique. Go figure. And rarely gets credit for it.Okay, let's get this straight. To all the the thoughtless arm chair critics out there. Movie are NOT REALITY. The are not meant to exactly represent a realistic state. Kubrick is quoted as stating that seeing a movie is stepping into someone elses dream. That's why Spielberg and his buddies named the studio Dreamworks. If you want to see reality watch a documentary. Who gives a rats ass if the ice from the polar ice cap melted down would only cover three hundred feet or three hundred miles of the coast, so therefore Waterworld isn't accurate. It's not suppose to be. It's supposed to be entertaining, thought provoking, and emotional, as all films are suppose to be. If you want exactness and reality become a parttime fact checker for the New York times and give moviemakers a break.  "},{"Title":"Underrated. VERY Underrated.","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I put off watching Waterworld for several years, mainly because of the enormous number of sarcastic comments I had heard about the film. They often called it Kevin's Gate, a reference to the much-maligned *Heaven's Gate*, an expensive movie that failed at the box office in the early 70s.After seeing Waterworld, I can confidently tell you that it's a good movie and does not deserve any of the flak it caught from culture-vulture critics.The worst thing I can say about Waterworld is that it is paced too slow for the average moviegoer. Well, too bad. The movie's languor and moodiness drew me in kept me for two and a half hours. The tension between Costner, Jeanne Tripplehorn (Helen) and Tina Majorino (Enola) was as finely balanced as anything I've seen in a serious (i.e., talky) film. Majorino is one of the best child actresses I've seen in several years, and Tripplehorn played her role with a combination of both vulnerability and tough-chick attitude that is often attempted but seldom realized.And Kevin Costner, as the Mariner, is downright spooky, stripped of his legendary sensitive masculinity. He gives the part an eerie, inhuman aura; the Mariner is a mutant human who has gills and can breathe water.Dennis Hopper also has an excellent role he's Deacon, the leader and captain of a seagoing cult of pirates with whom The Mariner tangles, the Smokers.So forget all those wise-acre cocktail party jokes you heard about this movie. Watch *Waterworld*.  "},{"Title":"neither terrible nor great -- fun fantasy, stupid science fiction","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld wasn't a terrible movie, but it wasn't a very good one either. As a special effects showcase, it's wonderful, even if much of the vast budget ended up on the bottom of the ocean. As science fiction, it's stupid Kevin Costner's gills, the mountains covered but flooded cities accessible, paper valuable but cigarettes present in quantity, etc. As a post-world-flood fantasy story, it's a decent story. If it hadn't been a rip-off of the Mad Max movies, the story would have deserved more credit as decent light fantasy.The best thing that could have been done with the story would have been to rewrite it into a romantic comedy in a science-fantasy setting -- that would have taken advantage of its better points, and reduced its failure to be a strong high seas remake of Road Warrior. I know co-writer David Twohy can do better work -- he wrote and directed the science fiction masterpiece The Arrival one year later. Too bad he wasn't as sharp on this one.The character development is actually pretty decent, between Costner's blandly-acted character, beautiful Jeanne Tripplehorn, and amazing Tina Majorino. The other characters are filler, although Dennis Hopper is an amusing villain.The best things about the movie are the cinematography and Tina Majorino's acting. The worst thing about it is the fact that its budget could have been spent to make several better movies.My comments are based on the ABC television version, which is apparently 40 minutes longer than the theatrical release. "},{"Title":"Not as wet behind the ears as you've been fooled to believe!","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's sad when a movie this good gets so many bad reviews from those that claim to be professional critics. It even inspires armchair critics like many that post there reviews here to tell it like they heard it, instead of telling it like it is. So, what is it? Answer It's good. A lot of attention is focused on the fact that some 175 million dollars were spent to produce the film. I've got news for you. You didn't lose anything as a result. I mean your taxes were not raised and the ticket price didn't jump from say $7.50 to $10.00 for example. Universal's sponsors didn't lose any money. In fact the film made an 80 million dollar profit not counting video sales.Now as a fact the acting was a bit weak. Dennis Hopper plays his usual heartless villain and his inability to make you hate him actually makes you laugh, but the action sequences were great, as was the suspense. The story is basically about the future after the polar ice caps have melted and covered the earth with water. Mariner (Costner) in exchange for his life and against his better judgment picks up a woman and a young girl and begins a search for a fabled land that survived being submerged in water. Along the way adventures abound as an evil man known as the Deacon (Hopper) stirs up trouble for our hero. Costner should be given credit for his ability to create a futuristic world emerging from a post apocalyptic war or natural disaster, he did the same thing in the Postman in 1997. I think these two films even rival The Road Warrior which is based on future worlds where food, gas and water are in short supply. The only true way to appreciate the movie is to see it and judge it for yourself. Don't look to far into the movie or you may lose interest. Now, sometimes the experts are right, but not here Waterworld really is a good movie. "},{"Title":"What's The Big Deal?!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was entertaining, and isn't that what makes or breaks a movie?  Chip Douglas said it best I saw Waterworld five times.  What's the big deal?  That movie ruled!!!   It Did!  The acting was a bit lacking, but its an adventure not a character study.  I think the public should create it's own opinion instead of ripping off a couple of critic's reviews.  The action sequences were the best you could get given the environment.  Mad Max created a world without water.  Waterworld creates just the opposite.  Between the two, a waterworld has a more dynamic feel to it than a desertworld.  My ONLY pick with the flick is Costner's line in the beginning Nothing's free in Waterworld! he yells to a fellow drifter.  I figure that if everybody has never been exposed to dry land, than it would be just the world rather than the waterworld because there's no alternative to water.  BOTTOM LINE  I give it an 8 because it is highly entertaining.               And always has been.  "},{"Title":"Badly under-rated","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld is a badly under-rated movie with people queuing up to say how bad it is. I disagree, it is highly entertaining and in places funny film. Granted at times Dennis Hopper's overacting grates, but that doesn't prevent it being a good film. In addition the ending sets it apart from the usual sickly sweet Hollywood ending the ruins many a good film. The effects are generally good and the action sequences are of top notch quality and Costner suits his role. Watch it wanting to find fault and you will, but sit back and give it a chance and it is a good film. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't listen to all of the negative reviews this movie got. It is a GOOD movie. Not a GREAT movie but a GOOD one. It is very entertaining. The acting is good especially Kevin Costner's Mariner character. Could have used some more in depth explanation in parts like where did the Smokers get all those cigarettes??!!! A fun movie. Not To Kill a Mockingbird but not Howard the Duck either. I recommend it!  "},{"Title":"The hero is a jerk","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The main problem with the movie is the relationships between people.Costner's character is mean for no reason. He shows no respect to others and is so selfish! He doesn't even have a sense of humor. All the rest - movie way too long, unbelievable plot, bad acting, ridiculous costumes, etc - I can gobble, but I don't have fun watching a hero who is such a jerk.Why is he suddenly nice to the girl? No reason. Why is the woman eventually romantically interested? It just all seems random.If this was a satire, the absence of character depth would be balanced by fun humor. Unfortunately, there's no humor here. The result is painful and boring. "},{"Title":"A pity Costner isn't having as much fun as everyone else","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Waterworld in a packed cinema when it first came out and, in common with everyone else, we hooted with laughter and applauded at the outrageousness of the final bungee rope rescue.Let's get one thing clear at the outset - Waterworld is an absolute hoot from start to finish. And I do mean from the very start - from the cannibalisation of the Universal globe to show the water rising worldwide from the melting of the polar icecaps (to a level, incidentally, which would require the Earth to be host to many times the amount of water which is actually here), to the Mariner's final departure back to sea, having found sanctuary for the small band of humans, the thing is a good natured, and unique, romp.It makes no sense at all scientifically, of course - notwithstanding the aforementioned excess of water, there are countless other questions to which there are no reasonable answers (how is a sustainable population maintained with this tiny isolated clumps of humans? How did the Mariner develop gills so quickly? How come no-one else developed gills?) but this is a minor quibble.It is a visual treat, from the aquatic wastes, to the Mariner's craft, to the atoll, to the submerged city (my personal favourite part), and it boasts some fun performances, of which Dennis Hopper's scenery-chewing Deacon has to be the best. In fact, the only person who doesn't seem to be having fun is Costner, who appears to be taking the whole thing as seriously as if he was playing Hamlet. Had he had his tongue even slightly in his cheek, then this film would have been brilliant.As it is, it is simply great fun. "},{"Title":"Idiotic future scenario","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Average, unoriginal plot, good SFX for the time. But &#150; It took time for the water levels to rise. Everyone just gave up and drowned? No floating cities, tons of boats, etc? Why was dry-land uninhabited &#150; it would be over-run. Come on &#150; use common sense. The waters rise, you move to higher ground or onto ships, boats &#150; anything that floats. There was a generation to plan for this! Watch Blue Submarine #6 &#150; an Anime with a similar scenario (with the addition of genius sharks that talk ) ) Sure the population will drop &#150; but not to the pitiful handful in this truly idiotic vision of a planet covered in 99.9% water.What about the big-SFX scene &#150; The mariner and his babe in the home-made bathescape (which would not work BTW, it would have flooded before 100', especially with that dinky compressor) &#150; there's a nuclear sub jammed into a building in the middle of the sunken city. Uh, why? This was a slow rising of the waters, not a tidal wave! Again, stupid eye candy with no forethought or logic.Or at the end &#150; the girl falls over 100' from the balloon, yet makes a splash as if she jumped from the side of a small boat. The 100' fall would have probably killed her. "}{"Title":"A Raspberry & A Snicker","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sorry, but this film deserves little more than a raspberry and a snicker. I am all for suspension of disbelief, but please don't insult me with such rubbish. To wit In the time it takes for humans to evolve gills for underwater-breathing, our oil and cigarette reserves have not yet run out? With the exception of Dennis Hopper, most of the actors do their level best to bring this unfortunate still-born to life. (Hopper's over-the-top sado-lunacy only draws emphasis to this poorly thought-out mess.) See this film for laughs only - for truly good film-making, take a gander at Costner's Open Range and (of course) Dances With Wolves . "},{"Title":"A Great film","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Excellent. What an excellent movie! This movie is nearly perfect whit all the action. But the movie does contains some mistakes, like where do the smokers' get there tobacco from? And I think the realism breaks at the point when Costner kills a digital sea monster. But no matter what, is this a beautiful film. The camera-movements are breathtaking. If there wouldn't have been all these small mistakes and if the ending would have been a bit darker, this film would have been perfect. Waterworld is in it's context very much like The Postman. Costner also has the main role in this film, and it also became a great flop.I don't understand why people loves to hate Costner. He has made some great movies, and this is one of his better. "},{"Title":"a fine wine","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is MAD MAX combined with PLANET OF THE APES.. and that makes for a great film!!! Like a fine wine, it is only with age that the movie watching world begin to appreciate how good WATERWORLD actually is. Reminds me when BLADERUNNER got a lashing from the critics whenever it was released and is now considered to be one of the all time greats. The cinematic imagery in WATERWORLD is truly amazing and could rival the imagery in LOTR. Combined with that, it has an interesting and original storyline and backstory, giving the film a lot more depth (pardon the pun). i my view this film is truly a great piece of cinema history!!!! "},{"Title":"Mad Max On Water Pretty Entertaining Blockbuster, That's A Lot Better Then It's Reputation Suggests, With Incredible Set Pieces, And Fun Performances!","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a pretty entertaining blockbuster, that's a lot better then it's reputation suggests, with incredible set pieces and fun performances!. All the characters are fantastic, and the story is really cool!, plus Kevin Costner is simply amazing in this!. Sure it's basically Mad Max on water, however i found it to be pretty entertaining all the same, and there is plenty of action to satisfy, plus The finale was just awesome!. With a $200 Million dollar budget, and all the huge hype surrounding it, it was almost certain to not live up to it, however i went in with low expectations and got an enjoyable film, and while a little bit overlong it's never boring, and the ending was really cool!, plus Costner had good chemistry with both Jeanne Tripplehorn and Tina Majorino!. Cosner's character is hard to warm up to at 1st, however he soon becomes very likable, and Dennis Hopper was a bit too over the top but fun nevertheless as the main villain, plus this film should at least be rated around the 6.0 range!. This is a pretty entertaining blockbuster that's a lot better then it's reputation suggests, with incredible set pieces and fun performances, i highly recommend this one!. The Direction is very good. Kevin Reynolds does a very good job here, with fantastic camera work, stunning angles, and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is excellent!. Kevin Costner is amazing as always, and is amazing here, he is for the most part very likable (2nd half anyway), charismatic, is focused had good chemistry with both Tripplehorn and Majorino, does a great Mad Max impersonation, and was just amazing overall! (Costner Rules!!). Jeanne Tripplehorn is beautiful and is a very talented actress, she did what she had to do extremely well, and was very likable, i loved her!. Tina Majorino is very good as the kid, and while she got on my nerves at 1st, she soon became likable, and did a great job!. Dennis Hopper is fantastic as always, and while he was a bit too over the top and campy at times, he was still a lot of fun to watch, seemed to be enjoying himself and had some great lines! (Hopper Rules!). Rest of the cast do fine. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"It's not that bad, actually","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Finally saw this movie last night after hearing for years about what a flop it is. It's not as bad as a lot of people are making it out to be; it's at least as plausible as a James Bond movie, and people generally like those. The premise is interesting scavengers surviving on a flooded earth. You can pick apart the science behind it all, but if you can't suspend disbelief once in a while, you shouldn't go to the movies in the first place. Of course, this doesn't work for dreck such as the laughably bad Battlefield Earth, which didn't have a single bright star to rise above the mediocrity, but in Waterworld the characterizations and dialogue are pretty good. Costner is surprisingly effective as the fish-man he's not an instantly likable character, he's cold, aloof, inhuman, self-centered. At the very least, this movie deserves credit for having the courage to create a main character who isn't like every other summer blockbuster character to march across the silver screen over the last twenty-five years. He throws the little girl into the ocean, for god's sake. He also sells Helen to the horny englishman for a few sheets of paper, after dropping the sails onto her and konking her over the head with an oar. It is refreshing to see such an abject protagonist, and one so ripe for redemption; the film doesn't disappoint in that respect, because he earns his stripes without the unimaginative treacle usually associated with a big-budget film. For instance, when he teaches the girl to swim it's believable without being sappy.I think it's a shame to dismiss this movie as a flop without appreciating the evident work that went into the detailed characters and how they dealt with each other. Perhaps it's best to watch the movie from that point of view instead of wondering where they got the fuel for the jet skis. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as critics rate!","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen this movie several times with different parts cut out of it. Even though there are lots of technical & scientific loopholes, I thoroughly enjoyed the movie as well as any science-fiction movie I've seen.The special effects were well done & better than some other movies that received much better ratings. The story was entertaining and somewhat plausible under the circumstances the plot portrayed.The only thing I somewhat disliked was the negative attitude the Mariner had, though it probably was consistent with and contributed to the plot.I don't know whether any of the versions I watched were the complete one but would enjoy watching again if offered, especially if on Cinemax or HBO.P.S. I got tired of watching edited versions and bought the DVD P.P.S. The DVD is also incomplete. The director's cut is necessary to see the whole story but I can't find a copy of it. "},{"Title":"good","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was good. It had an interesting idea, added with good acting. Although it fell into a bad few years of movies were the world ends. The movie didn't quite explain how all the water got there because there isn't that much water in the world to do that. But like I said it was a very interesting idea. Another movie I also liked was the Postman. That also had an interesting idea. But both of these movies just failed to please people. I don't get why not. But then again people conform to anything you tell them to do or see. I think everyone should go see this movie. Many people still like movies were the world ends, and this movie is one of the best i can think of. "},{"Title":"Uh huh . . .","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You know, I like subtlety.  I like movies that aren't afraid to take a step back and let scenes play out without monsters crashing through walls, without car chases and gunfights, etc . . . films that rely on its writing and the believability of the actors playing out a scene to keep my interest. I regard those films as superior to the surprise-crap-fests of wall to wall action flicks.  Waterworld has neither wall to wall action nor writing that interested me.A world covered in water?  Bleh.  The sets and costumes?  Bleh.  The people who inhabit this world and their post-apocalyptic way of life?  Bleh. None of it I could say really made me want to keep watching.  This isn't to say the sets, costumes, and concepts are bad, actually most of it is too good and too accurate.  What would a flooded post-apocalyptic world look like? Watch Waterworld to find out.So why is too good boring?  Well, if we made a movie about your life, how interesting would it really be?  Hitchcock said movies are like real life with all the boring parts cut out.  Waterworld gets points for originality and authenticity . . . but it still doesn't have my interest.And regarding the few action scenes present . . . something about boat action just goes nowhere.  I saw an episode of a cartoon Tazmania regarding a golf-cart chase, slow vehicle, ironic, they played it up . . . funny. Like Speed 2, boat chases and boat action was like taking a good action scene in Adobe Premiere and making it 50% percent longer without adding any new material (ie, putting it in slow motion.)  It drags . . . and Waterworld is serious so it doesn't have humor to save it.I went into Waterworld after hearing how several people did not like it, and actually had enthusiasm about it since I have a peculiar habit of liking films that other people don't.  This time I'm in agreement.  It did not keep my interest . . . and now I've lost interest in this review so I'll stop here.  "},{"Title":"One Word Sweet!","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, first of all, I fully realize that most people out there hate this movie, and now its become pretty infamous as a movie that sucks arse, and i suppose some people really do hate it. I, however, loved this movie. The action, the absence of plot, the perfect balance of characters, the mass amounts of explosions, it's like heaven on earth for a reckless movie goer like myself! So, if you like buff heartless guys in cool outfits trying to outsmart an absolutely priceless villains with a load of cuss words and tons of violence along the way, then grab the DVD and live like you've never lived before! But, if you want something deep and serious, i would suggest Oprah.  "},{"Title":"Under rated!","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Good Sci-Fi film with good cinematography and special effects.The acting,directing,story and script/screenplay was average.Costner looked good for his role and did a good job with what was given him.Made more towards for family viewing.The story lacks originality (MAD MAX on water) so most viewers will expect a better story.But to a viewer who truly loves adventure/sci-fi,this film should satisfy overall.A viewer who knows the sci-fi genre well will appreciate the extra care/attention to detail here which is above average in comparison to the average sci-fi movie production.The atmosphere of the movie was done with an UN HOLYWOOD approach with regard to character presentation and humor styles.The humor presented here is very EURASIAN which is more present in Asian Anime and European films.A very strong anti Waterworld propaganda campaign was done before this film was released in the U.S.A. and effectively discouraged the mainstream U.S. audience from watching it in the cinemas.The anti-Waterworld campaign was probably done by an alliance of U.S. governmnt INTEL that has a strong theory regarding a future WORLD FLOODING as depicted in this film and does not want this scenario etched into the U.S. mainstream culture too much.Another factor about this film that U.S. special interests did not like was the anti-Capitalist/Industrialist subliminal messages woven into the screenplay of this film.Also,there are certain very liberal presentations towards a pre-teen main character in this film that although very maistream in Euro/Asian cultures (old world),does not follow the usual Holywood formula.Only for liberal minded sci-fi/adventure genre fans and big fans of the lead actors......          "}{"Title":"Sci-fi epic done well","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Pros Sets, cinematography, action sequences, score, humor, characters.Cons Directing, innacurate.Instead of hype to surround this movie when it was released in 1995, anti-hype surrounded because 1) it was the most expensive movie ever made at the time and 2) rumors were flying about troubled production. This led everyone to believe that it was a bad film and because of this it flopped in the domestic market, although it did good business overseas. Waterworld is making a comeback on cable TV and this is really not a bad movie. The acting was good and the action sequences and sets were astonishing. The film reminds me of the Road Warrior which is similar in themes explored plus both lead characters are loners and wanderers. Waterworld is about what will happen if we let global warming to continue (although if all the icecaps melted, there would still be plenty of land left rather than the only one place left in the movie). Symbolism is plenty here (the base of the smokers is the Exxon Valdez and Dennis Hopper's ancestor was the actual captain of the ship, also dryland could be the tip of mount everest.)and the film is long enough for it to allow character development of Kevin Costner and a host of other's characters. The only quibble is the plot holes (How did gregor quickly figure out longtitude and latitude, it is never fully explained) and the discovery of dryland is rushed. Also gregor looks a bit like Albert Einstein. Dennis Hopper gives a good performance as the head smoker.Premise Group of atollers try to find mythical dryland.Waterworld was nominated for a sole Academy award and numerous Razzies. Dennis Hopper won worst supporting actor at the Razzies.Grade 8.5/10 (Good, ambitious sci-fi epic) "},{"Title":"How can you hate this?","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I keep wondering, how can anyone hate this movie? The plot is fun, but not that big. The acting is incredible (especially from Dennis Hopper), the music is great, the sets are awesome etc. etc. Everything about this movie is just superior to other movies!It has fast paced action scenes, without the need of CGI that is used in so many action movies today. And its 100% enjoyable! If you want a good action movie, with a cool hero, and an outstanding villain, watch this movie! You can't be dissapointed! "},{"Title":"past the anti-hype, there's much to see","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is nearly amazing how hype, and this movie's case anti-hype can not only affect a picture before it comes out but long after it has moved to video.  Waterworld is a far superior work of art than most movie critics would care to admit without at least a little debate.The most interesting new point of discussion  the completely re-edited version of that has recently surfaced on the cable TV network USA.  It enhances many of the characters beyond the action-oriented editing of the theatrical release.  Length should viewed beyond simple commercial appeal and audience testing.  It should be evaluated as a factor of the quality and appropriate depth of the story.  This new version enhances the story by further rounding out the main characters.It should, and needs to, see the light of day on DVD. "},{"Title":"Like a water ride at an amusement park thrilling","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hope my comparison gives all who read this a glimpse into my mind as I watched 'Waterworld' for the first time.I saw it on TV...back when it first hit theatres, I wasn't a very big moviegoer, so I didn't see it.  It was on broadcast TV at the time and I decided to check it out...and what do ya know?  Dennis Hopper was playing bad guy, yet again.In other words, I liked the film. A lot.It was very expensive to make, of course, but it was worth it in the end for me I got a kick out of it.  It was very much like Mad Max as far as the time frame and plot is concerned, but there was a bit of a twist global warming melted polar ice caps, and the world is flooded. Mad Max fans, please see this, for it can easily be summed up as Mad Max on water.James Newton Howard did the music for this, and the score is nothing short of brilliant.  Costner seemed rather at home playing the disgruntled Mariner, and Jeanne Tripplehorn gave a performance that should have earned her the praise of critics. In fact, had this movie gone over well, she could have rocketed into full-blown stardom.  Her acting was terrific in this.And of course, the same went for the rest of the cast.  The action kept me nailed to my seat, and it had an ending that was bittersweet (spoiler warning) the Mariner and crew got to the mythical Dryland, but the Mariner himself didn't stay.  Preferring the sea to the land, he sets out again in a new boat...leaving his friends behind on the shore.  Oh, we know he'll return...even *if* there isn't a sequel (I've heard talk of one, but...will they be able to live up to the great feel of the first, after all these years...?). *4.5 out of 5* "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as you've heard.","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first watched this movie I recalled hearing about it's enormous budget and all the bad reviews,and even though I can't see where all the money was spent I enjoyed this movie a great deal.It had excitement, action and Dennis Hopper as a truly enjoyable villain.It was like a waterlogged Indiana Jones.  I will admit it could have been a bit shorter but that's the only thing wrong with this movie,and even then I can't stand behind that complaint because the next time I watch this movie,and there will be a next time,I will probably think it's too short.  I gave this movie an 8 out of 10.If you're looking for serious drama watch Citizen Kane.If you're looking for scientific accuracy watch The Discovery Channel.If you're looking for nonsense watch Titanic.But if you just want to be entertained watch Waterworld.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Sci-Fi films of the 90's and for all time!!!! Greatly misunderstood epic storytelling at its best!!!","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld has been one of my favorite Sci-Fi films since my first viewings of it in 1995.  Most reviews of Waterworld I read are quite favorable, yet it still seems like the movie has a bad rap.  It seems some cannot forgive the film for going so ridiculously over budget.  I say who cares how much it cost, it is not my money!Hundreds of years ago the Earth was covered in water when the Polar ice caps melted due to global warming.  The Universal studios opening logo is used to illustrate this, to spectacular effect.  This is the setup for the film.  At the heart of this tale is a search for humanity, and a new world the mythic dryland.The fantastic settings are unlike anything I have ever seen on film, and the action sequences are breathtaking.  By filming almost exclusively on water the costs were excessive, but the film would have looked far less spectacular if they cut corners.  An example is the Atoll set.  Sure they could have built this as a miniature, but it never would have been convincing.  Going for broke (quite literally) with the settings is what makes the films look so amazing.The performances in Waterworld far exceed those of most Sci Fi films. Kevin Costner as the Mariner is at his best, playing an animal bent on one thing survival.  Slowly he humanizes before our eyes thanks to the characters of Enola and Helen (played by Tina Majorino and Jeanne Tripplehorn). The love that develops between the three characters is believable, only because of the excellent performances. Dennis Hopper is at his psycho scene stealing best in Waterworld.  He brings to the character of The Deacon the humor that is inherent in all of his roles.  When he is on screen as the religous head of the motley band of Smokers the film is at its best.  The Deacon believes in Manifest destiny and wants to do nothing more than find dry land and knock down trees, and build a golf course in the name of progress.  Scenes between Tina Majorino as Enola and Hopper's Deacon are mind blowing.  Hopper plays these like a bad Uncle you would never entrust your child with.Some things are explained in better detail on the network television airing by ABC, which restores nearly 1 hour of material.  To have a complete understanding of the film and how great the story is, that version is a must.  Yet the theatrical version is  spectacular, with a wonderful heart that I fear is to often missed.  If you have not seen Waterworld you are missing one of the best of its time.  If you have, well watch it again free of any bias, you won't be sorry.   "},{"Title":"Contains Good Action Scenes But Still Not Very Satisfying","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld is a movie that while contains some good action scenes, is still doesn't seem completely satisfying.  It takes a fairly interesting premise but doesn't really fleshes things out fully.  The characters aren't very appealling and there's a certain lack in terms character development.  The action scenes barely forgives the film of its awkward moments of misogyny.  Women are paddled, thrown off a boat, and unwillingly have their hair cut.  Not to mention a certain level of absurdity in terms of storytelling i.e. a tattoo of dry land on a character's back and certain spots in the movie that are slow.  In the aftermath, Waterworld is one of those movies that is released during the Summer, receives a lot of hype, but ends up tanking at the box office. "},{"Title":"Too much hype, but still a good flick.","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If not for all the hype and publicity surrounding the bloated budget of this movie (not to mention the bad shot location & decision making by mgmt.), I think it would have been a huge sleeper hit.  Minus Dennis Hopper's cigarette smoking goofball character (where did they get so many cigarettes?), the film is still really good.  I think most will enjoy it, if unbiased before watching... Waterworld has alot of good qualities, and is quite original considering it is of the worn out post-twentieth century apocalyptic genre. "},{"Title":"I admit it's not very good, but come, there are much bigger turkeys out there","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Damn the expense, location shooting is a good thing.  It made the world of `Waterworld' seem fairly solid - well, liquid and solid - in spite of many failures of forethought (a polite term for `idiocies').  I intend to list some of them.Kevin Costner has a device which, powered only by gravity, refines urine into clear, fresh water.  We see him urinating into it as the movie opens.  Did it occur to him that he's on a boat?  Why doesn't he try pouring seawater into his device, if he's so damned thirsty?  I know it sounds disgusting, but it's worth a try.Well, that's just the opening scene.  We get slapped with a few similar stupidities that Joss Wheedon ought to have noticed and removed while he getting paid thousands of dollars a day to sit in Hawaii and doctor the script - not that I blame him in particular.  But - well.  These are what we might call `scene-specific' flaws.  However stupid the urine processing machine is, it has no particular bearing on the movie as a whole.Other idiocies DO have an impact on the script as a whole.  The poor grasp Hollywood has on biology is painful - and this matters.  Kevin Costner, a `mutant', is presented as the first of the breed of the future, the amphibian who shall inherit the Earth.  (There's also a giant fish that ... oh, never mind.)  The view of evolution this entails is too wacky to contemplate.  -Well, let's take this out of the `science fiction' category and class it with fantasy.  This is a mark in its favour, if anything although the fact that it pretends to be science fiction so earnestly is a mark against it.  There's nothing wrong with honest fantasy.But alas still there are problems.  We never get a good view of the sociology of the floating world, which could have been fascinating; and we see altogether too much of an over-the-top bad guy, who was just dull.  (And why do villains always have to have a centralised power structure?)  The caricature of an Austrian inventor who comically fumbles with his balloon belongs in SOME kind of fantasy, to be sure (perhaps `The Wizard of Oz'), but not this kind.  The story disintegrated into inappropriate formula the further it progressed.  If you feel tempted to only watch the first two thirds, that would be a wise thing to do.Yet I can't find it in my heart to condemn too much.  There was a decent futuristic fantasy here, struggling to get out.  You can see its outlines through the gauze.  And the spectacle really is great.  We may never see its like again.  Digital floating cities, designed by people tapping away in front of a computer screen ten hours a day until they forget what anything else looks like, seem to be the way of the future. "},{"Title":"Not a total disaster, but near enough","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those films that are difficult to judge for a variety of reasons. At the time, Costner could really do no wrong - he had made some great (JFK, Field of Dreams, Dances with Wolves) and some extremely popular (Robin Hood, The Bodyguard) movies and was on something of a role. However, Waterworld cost over $200 million, and took ages to complete. And therein lies the problem - people's expectation.If you didn't know how much this cost, and provided you haven't seen Mad Max 2(Road Warrior), then this is probably a visually spectacular film that is fairly enjoyable. However, there are those people who can't see past the movies budget problems, and so take the opportunity to ridicule everybody involved with the film, when it really wasn't as bad as the critics made out - and actually made a fair bit of money world-wide.I managed to overlook the budget, but what I couldn't forgive was how much similar to Mad Max 2 this movie was - too similar I felt. Which is why for me, it really wasn't that enjoyable. I suggest that you watch this movie first, then go and seek out Mad Max 2 - you'll probably find that MM2 has more tension and better direction, unlike Waterworld, which only manages to contain a great opening battle and that's about it.4/10.  "}{"Title":"The script must have drowned","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When, in 1993's The Fugitive, Harrison Ford flung himself hundreds of feet down a waterfall to escape his pursuers and miraculously survived, I said to myself, Okay.  It's a freak occurence.  Such things don't happen too often, but they DO happen, so fine, I'll accept that Ford got a lucky break.  I then sat back and watched the rest of the movie, never once questioning the credibility of the events portrayed.  While watching Waterworld, I asked myself several questions throughout  If the world is covered in water, where does Dennis Hopper and his army get the tobacco for the cigarettes that they chain smoke?  For that matter, where do they get the paper in which they roll the tobacco, and where do they get the cotton to make the filters?  Oh yeah, and where do they get the dyes or whatever it is that cigarette companies use to color the paper brown around the filter?  Oh, and where do they get the lighter fluid and flints to operate their Zippos?What I suppose I'm trying to say here is that if Kevin Costner's search for Dryland had been as interesting as Inspector Gerard's pursuit of Dr. Richard Kimble, or Kimble's search for the one-armed man, I'd have been preoccupied with other matters, but Costner's pursuit from, and battles with, the Smokers never (ahem) caught fire.  Surrounded by so much water, how could it?  The most expensive movie of its time has some nice underwater photography, and some convincing heroics from Costner, but mainly what it offers is proof that Zippos, the world's most famous lighters, are apparently as durable as their makers have always claimed.  (By the way, the reference to The Fugitive is, I think, appropriate since David Thowy gets a writing credit for that film and for Waterworld. "},{"Title":"not ashamed to say i loved it","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I began to think that there was something wrong with me when there didn't seem to be one other person who liked this movie. In one chat room everyone felt sorry for me for liking it!!! Well, I've seen it three times now (and I don't even like Kevin Costner all that much) and I still can't say I find anything terribly wrong with it. In my opinion it's a great fantasy adventure. Who cares if it's based on realism or not, it's a movie, not a documentary! Solely for enjoyment.Perhaps all the bad reviews came from people with preconceived notions of the film whereas I, who live in the middle of nowhere, had not received any of the hype usually accompanying big budget films and brought only my inner child and imagination to the cinema.I suggest if your preference in movies does not include fantastical adventures then steer clear of them to avoid giving bad reviews and ruining it for other people. "},{"Title":"When Hollywood cuts a film, they cut their profits","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I personally feel this to be an excellent movie, one of my favorites, but that's because I know something that most don't.  The original full length cut of WaterWorld was over four and a half hours long, however the version that was released into theaters was only two hours and 30 minutes.  Nobody is going to spend 4 hours in a theater, and few theaters are going to show a movie that long.  But the trimming of the movie posed another problem.  They didn't edit the film to compensate for the cut out footage.  All throughout the movie, characters are referring to things said in one of the many dialog sequences that had been removed.The director's cut is outstanding, with an excellent script.  The $150 million budget, and the incredible length of the film, makes this a modern epic.  At least in my opinion. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever!","Date":"16 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In my opinion Waterworld is a sci-fi masterpiece.  The premise of this movie is really great.  Some refer to this movie as Mad Max on water.  To me that is a complement considering the fact that The Road Warrior is my second favorite film of all time.  The post-apocalyptic genre has always fascinated me for some reason, and this is very apocalyptic.  There is action, comedy and adventure.  When I first saw it in theaters, I thought it was fine.  When it was released on video with 16 minutes of unseen footage, it became my favorite.  Critics were wrong as usual.  This movie is what going to the movies is all about! ****stars out of **** "},{"Title":"Your like a turd that won't flush. Nowhere near as bad as it's reputation suggests.","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld is set in future where the polar ice caps have melt & submerged the entire world in water, dry land is a mere myth & the few survivors live on boats or floatings platforms in a lawless every man for himself society. A man known only as the Mariner (Kevin Costner) has some dry dirt to trade at a small floating community called The Atoll, the Mariner uses the dirt to buy a few things but gets into a row after being exposed as a mutation with webbed feet & gills behind his ears. The Mariner is sentenced to death but before it can be carried out a group of crazy thugs lead by the Deacon (Dennis Hopper) during which the Mariner manages to makes his escape but with a young woman named Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) & a young girl named Enola (Tina Majorino) who has a tattoo on her back that is supposed to lead the way to dry land & it was Enola that the Deacon was after. Now in a quest to find dry land Enola holds the key & the Deacon will do whatever it takes to get her...Directed by Kevin Reynolds this notorious giant misfire from Universal Studios has a very bad reputation amidst all the unsavory reports that were coming from the set during filming & of course it's at the time world record 175 million plus budget, while the whole production seemed like a sure fire disaster & while I doubt many look back on Waterworld as any sort of classic it's actually not that bad a film & if I might be as so bold as to venture an opinion I thought it was quite enjoyable. Available in both the regular theatrical cut & a extended TV version (but not a Director's Cut) with an extra 40 odd minutes edited back in I will be basing my comments on the original theatrical version. Despite the huge amounts spent on Waterwold it's nothing more than a Mad Max 2 (1981) rip-off, the similarities between the two films are striking with the only real difference being that Waterworld is set on water. There's tough uncompromising hero who's a loner & has his own souped up vehicle, there's an guy with a flying machine who saves the day on a few occasions, there's the befriending of a young child, there's the peaceful community who at first imprison our loner hero out of a sense of distrust but then he saves from from an attack by a bunch of crazy outlaws lead by a bald headed guy as they both look for a precious commodity, in Mad Max 2 it was petrol while here it's the way to dry land. As far as post apocalyptic rip-offs go Waterworld is quite good, there's plenty of action & spectacle here from fights to jet-ski stunts to exploding oil tankers to flying planes & the like, it's all done on a massive scale & you can see where the money went at least if nothing else I suppose. The character's are OK, the Mariner is a little stiff & doesn't have much personality & it is never addressed why he is or how he became a mutation but I can really relate to the Deacon since we have something in common. Early in the film he loses is right eye & I have been there as diabetes blinded me in right eye & I have to say he took it very well, I was devastated when I went blind in my right eye & still am (I haven't been the same person since) but he laughs it off as a joke which is odd but there you go. At over two hours long it didn't feel slow at all, in fact it moves along at a great pace & there's plenty of action & incident.The story isn't the only area where Waterworld is a Mad Max 2 rip-off as the costumes & rusty beat up look of the production design are very similar in appearance & tone. The action scenes offer plenty of bang for your money with huge explosions & some great stunts & there's even an underwater city scene although why the Mariner would have a home made diving bell since he can breathe underwater is another question. Considered a huge flop at the time one wonders how Unversial let it get so out of control (the original budget was $60 million but ended up being $175 million), I mean a 1,000 ton floating set that was a quarter of a mile wide, over 2,000 individual costumes & a script that apparently underwent 36 different drafts though six different writers. The dirty post apocalyptic look is there & it looks nice enough but does get a little repetitive by the end.The biggest budgeted film ever made at the time the money is on screen, filmed in Hawaii & in California. The acting isn't great, Kevin Costner is rather wooden while Dennis Hopper is fun as the main bad guy.Waterworld is nowhere near as bad as it's reputation suggests, as a Mad Max 2 rip-off set on water it's pretty good, just forget the baggage that the film comes with & enjoy it for what it is. It's safe to say there will never be any sequel although the Waterworld theme park attraction at Universal Stuidos is quite cool, I know I've been & seen it. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sci-fi adventure","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've never understood why this film gets so much flak from reviewers. Possibly because it had a large budget but was not an epic feat of film-making? Personally, I could care less if a film cost $5 or $500 million to make - if it's entertaining and gets me in the seat (or the DVD ends up on my shelf), it has done its job. This is a fun film that doesn't take itself too seriously, but also doesn't get overly corny. There's a balance, and it has a distinct Road Warrior post-apocalyptic feel to it. If you like that sort of genre, and I do, you'll like this movie. Action, adventure, pyrotechnics, great performances, some awesome set pieces (despite all the water) and an enjoyable score. It's not perfect, and it's not Ben Hur, but it nevertheless satisfies. "},{"Title":"A typical poor film with Costner","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie takes place in a world of water. It is Mad Max on the waves. Some of the characters appear to have evolved from that Aussie film. Land is unknown to the humans. So where do all these characters obtain what land requires. The bad guys smoke cigarettes and have lighters. Who made the smokes, the paper, the filters, where did they get lighter fluid or butane? It is in the future, long enough for Costner to have mutated into a Man-fish, so where does all the land based items come from. They can shave, the men are clean shaven and the women have shaved armpits. Even though their faces are filthy, no one owns soap I guess. Honda must have had a sale on Jet Skies. And so did Sherwin-Williams on drab paint colors. Also, they must have all gone to the same outlet store for the clothing. All the stuff looks the same, tattered and drab brown. For the scenes in the water, at times they are in crystal clear liquid. Other times, it is murky and cloudy. If you have a nice female body to view in the water, you can be sure the ocean will be clear as glass. And to top it all off the Bad guys' tanker is the Exxon Valdez. A little humor for the environmentalists.The entire film is ridiculous. At least, Dennis Hopper adds something to the film. He can act and create great facial gestures. Hollywood is a strange place, how does Costner rate as a box office draw? He had one good film, Dancing With Wolves, the rest of films are the pits as this one. Costner must have a lot of money or people with money and influence in the biz to continually produce poor work and still return for more of the same.  "},{"Title":"Actually quite fun, considering the word-of-mouth","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For a movie that - before its 1995 release - had some of the worst WOM of any movie of that decade, Waterworld actually turns out to be a lot of fun. A futuristic tale based on the idea that the polar ice caps have melted, flooding the earth and forcing humans to take to ships and huge floating 'atolls', Waterworld is basically, as more than one critic noted at the time, Mad Max on waterskis, but nevertheless entertaining for all that. Costner is the dour 'Mariner', a mutant who - as the result of humanity's long exposure to the ocean - has developed gills. In short order he arrives at an atoll, is condemned to death by its populace for being a 'muto', but then is freed by the feisty Helen - played by the lovely Jeanne Tripplehorn - and her adopted daughter Enola, in order to help defend the floating town from an attack by the 'Smokers'. A band of ravening bandits who utilise fuel to drive their souped-up waterskis and powerboats, the Smokers are led by the evil Deacon - Dennis Hopper enjoying himself as a one-eyed madman - whose sole aim is to locate a young girl who carries on her back a tattoo; the map to find the fabled 'Dryland'. Needless to say, the young girl turns out to be Enola, and Mariner and Helen are soon engaged (the former somewhat reluctantly, to provide the requisite grizzled charm) in a mission to protect her from the unwonted attentions of Deacon while simultaneously trying to decode the mysterious tattoo on her back. So far, so dystopic, but the real pleasure of Waterworld is in its execution. It's a tightly made action movie with a lot of incidental humour and great attention to detail. The cinematography, by Aussie lenser Dean Seamler (who won the Oscar for shooting Costner's 'Dances with Wolves'... or should that be, 'who won the award for shooting Costner...?') is beautiful and the production design, sets and costumes fantastic. Writer David 'Pitch Black'  Twohy is on solid ground dealing with sci-fi themes, although the dialgoue sometimes clunks (I have sailed further than most men have dreamed! Kevin, was that one of yours?) The only real downside, in fact, is that Costner is obviously on an ego trip here, taking himself way too seriously. His 'Mariner' character is a grim, almost wordless assembly of tough guy mannerisms and poe-faced self-regard. It's compensated for by Tripplehorn and the great exuberance of newcomer Tina Majorino as the child Enola, who's habit of covering Mariner's boat with drawings soon drives him around the bend. Also, which would have played better as a straight, essentially light hearted romp, occasionally veers towards the dark side. Someone - presumably alleged director Kevin Reynolds - has tried to tilt the film as a whole towards a kind of high-camp action feature, so the odd injection of ultra-violence or woman-beating comes as something of a shock. On the whole, though, forget about the over-budget, over-schedule, director-wrangling hype (the film actually ended up making a hefty $300m for Universal) and give it a rent. "},{"Title":"not horrible","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  DEFINITELY INCLUDES SPOILERSviewing WATERWORLD today, for the second time (1st time about 6 years ago) i come away with a few impressions1. costner makes an ok action-hero. on the other hand, this does not require much, and should not be considered an achievement (by me)2. jeanne tripplehorn is really pretty good in this film, even though much of her lines sound false. on the other hand, this is not her fault or anything like it, it's simply a case of pretty dumb writing. but what do you expect from humans? mostly i expect drivel, so i have a fast-forward button to help me through the pointless montages, and the immensely taxing scene where he takes the little girl swimming.3. wait, i was talking about jeanne tripplehorn. well, enough about her anyway.4. the dialogue REEKS of 1990's, which is.. well, too bad. yeah.5. it sure doesn't feel grand enough to have cost over two hudred million dollars.. in fact it doesn't really feel like much of anything. the action sequences, while very well executed in terms of quality, timing, production values, do suffer from an overall feeling of stupidity. i think this movie made me stupider, and that's never a good thing, because i don't hold any notions about being a genius. however, every bit of intelligence counts, as we've seen, and this film doesn't really have any to offer; rather, it needs some of yours to go on breathing. kill it.6. without fast forward to get me through the ENTIRE ending, from when they step foot on land to the credits, i would not be able to sit through this.7. the music is largely unnecessary, and in many cases obtrusive and distracting. but this is hollywood-made, so expect nothing less!! a film for the deaf, truly, or at least no one who appreciates music.8. people are stupid. don't i wish a day would go by that a new example of this would not present itself to me?9. i'm really opinionated, but uninterested in you or what you might think, or feel, so don't try contacting me. leave me alone. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the most interesting movies I have ever seen - too bad the critics didn't seem to like it - As usual they seem to trash the interesting ones.It really shows humanity how powerful the ocean is. The underwater shots were spectacular ... sent shivers down me when they swim past what once were skyscrapers in a big city, like New York. The music score is really lovely also as is the story... Andthe bad guy's ship ... How when it goes down ... the fact that it is the Exxon Valdez ... Perhaps this also is a message to protect the Earth.And it seems humans - still in the future after such a natural disaster are still incapable of accepting those who are different... Let us hope that humans will learn to respect the Earth and each other ...The movie leaves us with a message - what if the Polar ice caps really do melt? "}{"Title":"Ignore the Critics...","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great cinematography, decent acting by Costner, over-the-top villainy by Dennis Hopper - what's not to like?  It's not Citizen Kane, but I thoroughly enjoyed it. "},{"Title":" Let's hope Costner is wrong","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In 1968, I remember the venomous remarks from viewers of the movie 2001 a Space Oyessey. What was odd was the anger of those movie-goers who didn't get the storyline. Time has proven what a prescient, stunning film that was 31 years ago, Incredible! 31 years! And now, those just born will not only be stepping into that movie, but beyond it.Those same type reactions arise when someone gives us a dangerous vision of what could be that alters our mental map of civilization. I see the same reactions to Waterworld. For all the bright Hawiian sun it was filmed under, this was a very, very dark story.This was not a perfect movie.  Parts are ingenious, and parts are ludicrous.  The water scenes with the Trimeran were wonderful, and the floating colonies were somewhat believable. Then just as Costner established that we were going to see something never seen before, with an important message, he turned the whole movie into a car chase.One reality check for Costner was, don't use the Pacific Ocean as a movie lot because you will run out of money before the Pacific runs out of storms. Also, Costner really irritated fans with off camera romantic dalliances that destroyed their image of his clean cut character.I'm glad it was made.  It's important.  Who knows, in 31 more years......beware! "},{"Title":"Mad Max meets the Man from Atlantis","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great film, Waterworld is a novel concept.  The cinematography is excellent and the acting is top notch.  The character personalities grow from cold at the start of the film until you really begin to feel for each of them, even the smokers.  It did feel at times that I was watching a cross between Mad Max and the man from Atlantis, but then again, what's wrong with that. Although quite a long film, Waterworld is worth making the time to watch. "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" People say this movie sucked, but I disagree. It was a fantasy, who cares if it's not believable? When you enter the theater you're supposed to suspend disbelief, unless you're going to a Michael Moore film. The premise of the story was good, Kevin is a highly underrated actor, he was good as Mariner. And Dennis Hopper just plays an awesome villain. I would recommend this film as a DVD movie night with a bunch of friends, you can hoot and holler all through the film. It's too bad the girl that played Enola had little or no career until Napolean Dynamite. We could use more films like this. Post Armageddon movies make good action movies. Who needs it to be believable or factual? Give me 2 hours where I don't have to think and I'm happy. Kevin got a bad rep for this film then The Postman(which was also good if you ask me!) "},{"Title":"The critics are idiots (as always)","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Waterworld' was given an incredibly bad rap by many critics.  The only problem is that the film was actually pretty good.  Sure, it was corny at times, but nonetheless entertaining.Kevin Costner and Jeanne Tripplehorn portrayed their characters very well, exuding the sense of hopelessness in a world seemingly without dry land.  And yet there is a constant dream undergirding day-to-day life among the atollers and the smokers.  The cinematography was very good, the stunts were very well done, and the overall atmosphere of the film was truly magical.  There are certainly worse movies to spend your time with. "},{"Title":"Sheer Awfulness","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers AheadWell, as most of you already know, this movie blows like a sperm whale that has been submerged way too long.  Okay, let me back up on that.  I would actually like to wait around two plus hours to see the whale.  As for Waterworld. . . nah!Let's get to the basic flaws.  We know it is a sort of Mad Max rip off, right?  Well the funny thing is that Dennis Hopper plays his bit as a big joke.  And he is damn funny.  I'm sure the Costner crowd was trying their mighty best to convince Hopper that Waterworld was serious social drama.  Hopper made them look the monkey's uncle.  I can only guess as to why Dennis Hopper made the Deacon into a cartoonish freak.  Well, my guess is that Hopper read the script and realized the whole concept was a freak.  I might add, there is nothing wrong with any of this.Unfortunately, Costner, and the rest of the cast continued to play their characters straight.  The Mariner remained tough, aloof, and above all, serious.  In fact, the Mariner's seriousness was often portrayed as nothing more than murderous cruelty.  I posit that the Deacon had more sense of purpose than the Mariner.  Although, the filmwriters, probably reaching the same conclusion, added comic lines for the Deacon near the end of the film when he describes why he wants to get to dry land.  Succinctly, it is to churn up land and chop down trees.  Please!  On the  contrary, what does our Mariner in fact do when he finds the paradise?  Well he pack up and leaves of course, back to the desolation of endless water.  Well by default, churning up land and chopping down trees is the wiser course.It should also be noted that the bad guys are smokers.  This cryptic title is reinforced by the fact that these folks constantly chainsmoke.  No, I am not making this up.  It seems, cigarettes and pure hydro are the barter items of choice.  Of course, with the bad guys (i.e. smokers) they just crave smokes.Another point of contention lies with the smokers' choice of vehicles.  They opt for mid '90's Jet Skis (imagine that), replete with combat paint that tries to makes them look like they are made of steel (they don't).  The Jet Skis' mother ship is the redoubtable, Exxon Valdez (isn't that clever), with the patron Saint of the smokers hanging prominently in the Deacon's cabin.  Who is it?  Why it is the Captain of the Exxon Valdez himself who was on duty when Alaska was wiped off the map in the worst ecological accident of all time.  Please note the hyperbole and sarcasm in the previous sentence.  Again, I ask you, is this clever or rather, environmental sentiment run amok.Fortunately for this film, Hopper's comic appearances save this wreck from the notorious rating of one out of ten.  Hopper really is funny in this one, and it must still crank Costner's Jet Ski that the production company cast him to give a non-comic preformance.  I could go on and on and on. . . but why.  This film rates a two out of ten.  This may improve with camp value.   "},{"Title":"One of the quintessential sci-fi movies of the 90's","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie didn't have a huge hook to begin with after all, Kevin Costner has yet to out grow Field of dreams much less dive into the seas of tomorrow. But I saw this film when I was 10, and it didn't disgust me, but left me wanting to see it again to get an understanding of this future world. That's what sci-fi is about, understanding. This world was a stylistic showing of life on the high sees if there was no land to dock at anymore in the future. The copious amounts of rust, scrap used resourcefully, and about every manner of sea craft used just to survive were shown in this movie. It wasn't a here's how it might be story. It was a here's a world we created and here's a story inside it. Kevin Costner took some getting used to, but does his part well. Dennis Hopper is perfect as deacon, he pulls off crazy and maniacal just well, which leads one to think what would a person who commands the oppression of the future act like? Sci-fi doesn't have to always be in space, and fantasy doesn't always have to involve trolls. This moving blended them well, filling in the gaps with reality of nature. A definite for any Sci-Fi fan. Movies like this should have their own Sub-sci-fi category. Space fans, then everything Else. "},{"Title":"To Anyone Who Says This Movie Was Good","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watch this movie in its entirety every time its on just for its comedic value. This movie was so poorly written, cast, scripted and directed on such a large scale that it is almost unfathomable. It's not unlike watching videos of people running their faces into concrete walls whilst performing mundane stunts....completely utterly retardedly addiction, but never ceases to make you laugh.... no matter how many times you see it. There were so many holes in the plot that you could make a college drinking game out of watching it. Drink one shot for every ridiculous visual that makes no sense whatsoever. One shot for a statement that doesn't jibe with the the story or plot line. One shot for every ridiculous character. One shot for every ridiculously cheesy costume design. One shot for every completely ridiculous mad max type vehicle in the movie. The reason why there is no game like this, is because people would be dead of alcohol poisoning within 30 minutes of the opening curtain.The same people that wrote the glowing reviews for this movie are the same lemmings that like such things as pet rocks, spandex, Flowbee Haircuts and art made with Feces or Urine.Kevin Costner then had the testicular fortitude to make nearly the same movie a few years later, only land based, with The Postman.Kevin Costner is either the single greatest salesman that ever lived, or just happened to find the dumbest movie studio exec with veto powers that either can't read, or just plain doesn't read scripts, because I just cannot imagine what would ever have possessed a Major Studio to give him another thin dime to make the equally ridiculous The Postman. "},{"Title":"Costner's nonchalant protagonist.","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The biggest problem with Waterworld, like other major blockbuster flops, is its lack of substance. On a bleak, watery surface, is a promising, beautifully created cosmos, with plenty of love and respect put in to its composition. On the inside is a reserved, desolate hero (Costner) wasted by a dull script and even duller characters. His nonchalance towards Helen (Tripplehorn) and youngster Enola (Majorino), who accompany him on his mission to find land is incoherent, like an anti-hero without the engaging essentials. His companions are just as bad, weakened by a bombastic script, with Dennis Hopper's comical baddie getting the brunt of it. There's potential throughout this film, but not enough intensity to keep us entertained. "},{"Title":"Decent action and world-building slightly outweigh the ridiculousness","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reteaming with his ROBIN HOOD PRINCE OF THIEVES director, Kevin Costner stars in a post-apocalyptic thriller set far in the future, in which Earth is submerged underwater due to the polar ice caps melting. While there is a slight subtext about global warming and pollution, WATERWORLD is mostly an action star vehicle for Costner (and his massive ego). As far as big budget action/sci-fi goes, this film isn't too bad, though. The production values are fairly high, special/visual effects are well-done, and the acting is mostly above par. However, the biggest hurdle to enjoying the film is getting past how utterly ridiculous the science is. If you can do that, this film can be enjoyed for its visual spectacle and silliness factor. And there is quite a lot of silliness. The fashion sense of people who live in this water-covered world tends toward Mad Max levels of absurdity. However, no one is more absurd than the Smokers, the WATERWORLD equivalent of biker gangs who steal and plunder, use copious amounts of oil and, of course, smoke cigarettes...and often all at the same time. Dennis Hopper plays their leader and is yet another great over-the-top villain in his resume. My only quibble is that he's mostly absent for the middle part of the film. But even beyond that, even past the science, the script just isn't that good. It did a decent job of setting up this world, even if it does require major suspension of disbelief, but it resorts to too many clichés to drive it forward. The worst of these is using the child in peril trope as the major conflict to be resolved in the third act. Gene Siskel didn't care for it, and neither do I. Ultimately, when compared to other post-apocalyptic films, or even Kevin Costner's own work, WATERWORLD doesn't hold up too well. Still, it is an entertaining action flick as long as you check your brain at the door. "}{"Title":"Great and hilarious adventure film.","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's only land sickness, we're all feeling it, it'll go away soon. Well this is one of the strangest and most amazing films I've ever seen. And it's a hell of a lot better than Titanic. I'm confused as to exactly what I just watched, but I really enjoyed it. The cinematography is superb, there are beautiful sequences like Costner teaching the kid how to swim. But then on the other hand you have Costner throwing the kid into the ocean, collapsing a heavy sail on top of a woman, and almost pimping her and the kid out to some guy. When both women challenge his authority he cuts their hair short. I can't tell if this film was taking itself seriously, or being completely tongue-in-cheek; maybe both. Then to make things more confusing, you have Dennis Hopper, as Deacon, leader of the smokers, some kind of cult that's after dry land. His performance is absolutely hilarious. It does look like *beep* he says when someone puts some kind of eyeball in his eye socket after his eye was blown out. Dry land is not our destination, it is our destiny is another great one. There are a million others. Well I'll be damned, the gentleman puppy. He's like at turd that won't flush. I don't know, you have to see it to believe it. The little girl Enola (alone backwards) is some kind of chosen one who draw pictures of things from dry land when dry land wasn't underwater. Still with me? She has map to dry land tattooed on her for some reason and the smokers are after the map so they can find dry land, so Helen, played by Jeanne Tripplehorn, and Costner's Mariner (a half human half fish thing) have to protect her from the smokers after they raid and destroy the sea-town. In one of the film's funniest moment, Enola antagonizes Deacon and he backhands her. That kid takes a lot of abuse in this film. Well what can I say, it's a must-see. As a fantasy film, it definitely holds up; hugely entertaining. The weird ships and contraptions are outlandish enough, and the photography good enough to make the film visually very pleasing. The performances are hilarious, not least because they were done seriously, although Hopper was definitely fooling around. I actually love this film now, it's a favourite. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Premise Is Great but the Execution Isn't Quite Perfect","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really enjoyed Waterworld. It was kind of like Mad Max, but on the ocean instead of in the Australian desert. (One of the writers of Waterworld said Mad Max 2 was an inspiration for Waterworld). And this might be a weird thing to say, but I really liked what they did with the logo (the Universal logo becomes the flooded Earth of the future).Anyway, I thought the special effects and action scenes were good, especially for the mid-90s. The soundtrack was nice. I thought the acting was good as well (I'm really not too demanding when it comes to acting, though). Some may say Kevin Costner doesn't show much emotion but I thought that fit with the character. And I thought Jeanne Tripplehorn (Helen) was very beautiful and I thought she acted her role well. Dennis Hopper is great. And I thought Tina Majorino played Enola pretty well. And I was actually really interested in the world. Yes, the Earth wouldn't be completely flooded even if all the ice on it melted, as you can see here (sorry, I had to add some spaces in the URL because IMDb won't let me submit the review with a long word or something) http// ngm.nationalgeographic.com / 2013/09/ rising-seas /if-ice- melted-mapStill, I can suspend my disbelief enough to enjoy the movie. The writers gave enough detail about the dystopian world of the future but not too much, so there was still kind of some mystery. I would really have liked to see more of the future dystopian Earth. And I thought the technology was kind of cool, especially the trimaran of the Mariner (Kevin Costner's character). It's definitely not a perfect movie. Some parts of the plot were a bit illogical, like the whole thing about Dryland and the tattoo on Enola's back. Actually, that's the main story. And Dennis Hopper's oil tanker galley is kind of strange. Umm...well, it's still a fun, if somewhat cheesy, movie. "},{"Title":"A superhit in India?","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" aterworld was not a bad movie at all. Agreed it was a flop, but then the production value was very good and besides the set that they constructed for this movie unfortunately sank in a storm. And so they had to recreate it all over again and hence the enormous budget. The film was good but people like you sank it. But don't you dare call it bad movie for it is 10000000000 times better than your piece of sh_it stories that you dumb heads post every now and then.And in India, such films will certainly do well. One has got to come out of their shell and create movies like this and piracy should end. Then we could get such movies. I don't discriminate against mainstream/masala cinema... otherwise, my favorite Bollywood movie of all time would not be LAGAAN! And my favorite Hollywood movie of all time would not be LORD OF THE RINGS.WATERWORLD is a copied piece, inspired by a couple of ideas from the past. Like Nukkad and Nadodi Thendral. "},{"Title":"Jeanne Tripplehorn nudity","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some people start out by saying 'this is actually a good movie' or 'this movie is way underrated'--they are mistaken. What they mean to say is that for a crap movie this pile of crap is not so bad, Waterworld! This is a great movie to fold laundry to or to watch while you straiten up the house. The tag line of the movie should have been ' Time to get that house work done!'. Sorry Kevin Costner, not that you would ever read this, Mr. Costner this movie sucks because you told a small story on a set far too grand for it. You had a fine cast, but they were stretched too thin trying to cover all the ground you gave them. Had Waterworld run as a seven or eight hour epic, the sets would have been logical. "},{"Title":"Have people seen 2 different movies?","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I feel like the public got to see two different Waterworlds and no one knows about this. Is there some special director's cut version floating around that I should know about? I like this movie; my friends like this movie; the people on internet forums I talked to about it said they liked this movie; my mom likes this movie. Where are all these people who don't like it and what movie have they seen? Do they only exist on the 6th plain of the internet and feed on corrupt metadata? Anyway, Waterworld is a story about a post-apocalyptic world where the water levels rose dramatically and there is one girl that may hold a key to a solution. In simpler terms, it is Mad Max 2 but on water. The story is interesting, even if a bit simple.It has awesome atmosphere though - arguably what this movie is all about. The feeling of drought and general lack of supplies in a waterworld is well transferred to the viewer. It shows how everyone except Kevin Costner's character does not belong in this new world and supports why, despite having adapted to survive, everybody desperately wants to get out.Kevin Costner and Dennis Hopper really make this movie work, the latter as the bad guy is especially entertaining to watch. The relationship between the various characters is also really good. The girls that require Kevin's protection had a good albeit odd chemistry with him.Does it have a few stupid moments? Well, that is like asking whether or not it is an action movie. Yes, yes it is. But it has good pacing, good funny moments, good human moments, good acting, great atmosphere and it just generally a well-rounded action-adventure movie. It should sit right next to Jurassic Part and Mad Max.Great fun flick. "},{"Title":"A very underrated and deep film.","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I watched this movie, I went in expecting a campy good time with big sets and fun characters. However, when I did see it, I saw an epic character study of not just a small group of people trying to survive, but the entire human race.Actors Let's face it, there were only two actors in this that you actually wanted to see Kevin Costner and Dennis Hopper. Kevin Costner Damn. And I mean damn. This character is a gritty look at what could happen to someone who has been forced into a life of pure hardship because of his differences. While it didn't make too much sense that he was shunned, it still works well. His uncaring attitude reflects his years of isolation out at sea. Dennis Hopper His rendition of a crazed leader of terrorist-styled organization known as the smokers is just perfect. He's over the top and incredibly hilarious. He really brings something to the performance that I don't think anybody else could have.Script It's kind of goofy and kid's movie-esque, but, it really brings to light the side of humanity that is still relatively unexplored. You never know how someone might react to something, so really can't say it's too goofy in the context of the film, though. So, while it isn't the best story, it is definitely a worth while story.Overall Great film. It has its high and low points, but I, personally, think the high points extremely outweigh the low points. Make of it what you will. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"1 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie at the drive-in when it first came out. A totally unexpected thrill-ride. I am grateful that films like this exist. Shows the variation in humanity from love and beauty to ugliness and destruction. If somebody gave this film a bad review, it's because they think they think they're smarter than they actually are and they don't know what makes a good film. Kevin Costner, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Dennis Hopper,and Tina Majorino give great performances. I would recommend this film to anybody that is tired of the new film style of quick cut shots, cgi, and unnecessary close ups. The people that gave this movie bad reviews obviously have unreasonable values and expectations, and lack the ability to appreciate a great film. The same people that go through life unhappy, yet telling everybody else how to live. "},{"Title":"Waterworld is a world of wow!","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The awesome never stops in Waterworld. Costner plays a Man Fish! ...or Merman! Actually considering that he's more mammal than he is fish, he's probably closer to a seal. But then again every homosap is rendered a marine mammal in a big wet world. Costner sails an awesome transformer trimaran that makes the Milleneum Falcon look like a piece of junk. Can the Millennium Falcon sail through space using a giant kite? No! Early in the film, Costner enters a floating junk heap where shark ribs are the meal of the day and dirt is not exactly dirt cheap. But tension rises like a high tide when Costner refuses to whore himself out to a family looking for a seed donor. The water reaches a boiling point when the atollers examine Kevin's ears. Turns out that flotilla folk don't think highly of fish fellas. When Kev has to escape, he gets caught in a particularly clingy relationship with Helen and an unwilling adoptive father of a tatted toddler who has the cutest tattoo you've ever seen. The odd trio find themselves caught between the Deacon and the deep blue sea. The Deacon is a charismatic redneck pirate played here by Dennis Hopper. Problem for Deac is that if Costner's around, these waters are a no smoking zone, so Deacon's Smokers have their waterwork cut out for them. In the eyes of Deacon Hopper, Costner is a turd that won't flush. That's because Costner is a turd that won't go down without a fight. He's a turd that kicks ass. If you're a fan of cute little girls with tattoos, but not in a creepy way, you should check out Waterworld and yes, that is Jack Black as the pilot of the skyboat. "},{"Title":"Post-Apocalyptic Cult Film","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film is set in a post-apocalyptic world of the distant future where the polar ice caps have melted, covering the land mass with water. The survivors are 'drifters' that wander the sea in boats surviving by trading and other groups of people living on 'atolls' - floating structures. The protagonist group - 'smokers' have an oil tanker as a base and survive by launching raiding parties on the others. Food and water are scarce and technology is primitive - mainly mechanical. Everything in Waterworld (clothing, equipment etc) has a rundown/recycled look.Kevin Costner plays the 'Mariner' - a drifter, who it turns out has evolved fish-like capabilities and does not quite fit in with the other people encountered. He plays the tough, survival hardened hero, that slowly softens over the course of the movie. The leader of the Smokers - the Deacon (Dennis Hopper) is played at times with comedic effect.The storyline revolves around character interplay and the quest to discover the mythical 'Dryland'.I didn't find the film overly long (135 minutes) as the evolving storyline/action kept my interest. The film at the time of release attracted controversy (cost over runs) losing money at the box office. The film is also not particularly politically correct - the 'Smokers' are literally, well, smokers. The treatment of women for a 1995 film, could be criticised.I enjoy post-apocalyptic films (Mad Max, Terminator Salvation etc). Interestingly Dean Semler was cinamatographer - also cinamatographer for Mad Max 2 and 3. Kevin Costner played the anti-hero well, I thought and the quality was high due to the big budget. With the at times comedic role played by Dennis Hopper, the film does not take itself too seriously. 8/10. "},{"Title":"less of a summary more of  reply","Date":"1 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay this inst really a review, i just wanted to point out, that its not a plot hole, that we never find out what the dirt is used for i guess the film makers just thought it was obvious...i do, you might have noticed they have plants in this film and that they are extremely sort after. you need dirt for plants.any way over all not a bad film, though one could pick on Costners performance, he does an antiquate job with he character, who is some what one dimensional, oh and on the review before me you cant really compare this film to any of the pirates of the Caribbean films, not because one is better (thats not something I'm here to discuss) but because they are completely different types of film, about the only similarity is they both have water and boats "}{"Title":"An Expansive Alternative Action World Perspective","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This enduring action adventure sci fi epic considered a megamillion dollar flop still resonates with action, adventure, humanity and inhumanity that is well paced, well scripted, and compelling in its music and action. This balanced perspective on a world undergone global warming in is waterworld that contains all the action of the MADMAX series (1985), the post-apocalyptic world of THE POSTMAN (1997) that would be released two years later, but not quite the sweeping vision and in-depth authenticity of DANCES WITH WOLVES (1990). Kevin Costner retains his standoffish male figure and in some ways by the end of the movie retains his independence and differences in the face of nature even more so than most of his similar movies. Under-rated, this movie appears to continue to re-run in syndication, a testament to its value when other of its ilk have long since been forgotten. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to everyone's lies about this being a bad movie.","Date":"28 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was a great movie to any standard. I thing that for a sci-fi could-happen fiction movie, it did quite well in convincing me that, in the movie, the ice-caps did indeed melt, and I got taken in the movie for sure. If you think about it, this movie has its action, its drama, and its frail moments. If you give this movie a bad rating just because there is a gap of boredom through the midway, then you're basically opinionated toward movies of this type, because there have been so many more movies with long dead spots throughout history that have gotten much better reviews due to bandwagoning and opinion heavy reviews. I'd give this movie an 8 if it weren't for the conveniences, I don't like so many conveniences. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Waterlogged","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" A soggy (sorry, couldn't resist) action adventure movie set in a post-apocalyptic age when the ice caps have melted and flooded the earth. Think of it as Mad Max meets the Wisconsin Dells.Actually, though it's not really very good, it's far from the disaster it was proclaimed when released. It's no worse than any number of cheesy action spectacles, and the big sets that caused so many production woes do manage to look fairly impressive. Kevin Costner is ridiculous, but that's only surprising to people who hadn't already seen him in Robin Hood, and Dennis Hopper is a hoot as the crazy warlord villain.Why is it that every version of the apocalypse shows all surviving humans wearing S&M gear? Are porn shops the only remnants of the human race that manage to make it to the other side of oblivion? Grade C "},{"Title":"Waterworld, the more i watch it the better it seems.","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" It might not all make sense but compared to todays junk films this is a masterpiece!Recently the long awaited Extended Cut was released on DVD and what a disappointment,(with the exception of finally releasing the 30+ mins of deleted footage),and its a disappointment because the studio effortlessly gave the fans a TV version of the extended cut(a TV version,meaning all the cut edits and censors the violence and the profanity/nudity.)Makes no sense to me.It wouldn't be hard to keep everything the way it was,but instead we get something that was broadcast on ABC and it clearly boils down to them kicking the fans faces by giving them what they want but yet insulting them simultaneously with a TV edit. "},{"Title":"Very underrated!","Date":"1 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I cant even believe that this movie is rated as one of the worst movies, because it really isn't. The atmosphere, music, props, sets is all wonderful.If this movie was so bad, then why is it, or was one of the highest grossing movies ever on home video? Many years ago, i read it grossed over $500 million on home video since its release. For that reason, it also became one of the early releases on the HD-DVD format. I have never seen the much longer director's cut, but Universal should release it as it most likely would push a few copies looking at how popular this movie was at home. The recent Dredd movie flopped at US cinema's, and it still became #1 seller at Amazon USA. It shows that a lot of people waits for the home video release instead of watching them at cinema. "},{"Title":"Nothing's free in waterworld.","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I do not understand why people are saying bad things about this movie. It is very beautifully shot, the action scenes were amazing and it is very fast paced. I think it deserves more praise than it already has. True it does have some similarities to mad max, but this movie is set in a world where the world is covered completely with water. It stars Kevin Costner, Jeanne Tripplehorne and Dennis Hopper and directed by Kevin Reynolds. This is their second film collaboration, the first one being Robin Hood Prince of Thieves. It is a shame it got nominated for a few razzie awards. I mean, what is their not to like in this movie. In my opinion, this is one of the most original science fiction movies to come out of Hollywood in such a long time. If you like the mad max movies, you will probably like this one too. This movie is one not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Loved Waterworld.","Date":"27 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" We love Waterworld and have watched it so many times. Tripplehorn and Kostner are great, and what a hoot Dennis Hopper is! The movie was howled at by detractors who must have thought Kevin was too full of himself and wanted to take him down a peg or several. Ah well. He made money and continues to be in the business, thank goodness.There is a lot to be said for Kevin Kostner and all his movies. He takes the time to make them right and enjoyable. He is at his best being self deprecating and smiling and we know he is letting us in on the joke in so many of his movies. On this one, he was less charming and more serious, yet still very enjoyable.I also loved the Valdez connection and Dennis Hopper's character, who got to play over the top, something we don't get to see very often.Waterworld is a fun movie to watch and sometimes just to get away from it all, pop it in and have a night of it. And by the way, those who did detract it, well we just quit reading your reviews...talk about being full of yourselves... "},{"Title":"Survival is hard in extreme situations","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" One more film, you may say, about the end of the world when the icecap is melted. You might be wrong. Apart from the fact that some mutations will appear and be selected, like gills, most human beings will die and the world will at once be divided into the good ones and the bad ones. The bad ones will be some kind of conquerors who will loot, raid and kill in order to find the way to dry land, and survive during that time. They are called the smokers because they smoke, and don't ask where they have such reserves of brand name cigarettes. The good ones are not much better. They organize a highly selective and segregative life in some artificial islands in the middle of this watery nowhere. They will refuse the mutants of course and recycle them, they will organize their self defense, but they will practice survival economy everything has a price and shortages make these prices go up. The mutant is the main hero then because he is autonomous by being able to breathe under water. Yet he is also the one who has some morals, ethics and it is to save a girl that he will get out of his way and in tremendous dangers after he escapes by pure luck from the death the good ones had planned for him, because of the self survival interest of a woman with whom that girl is, to destroy the smokers and follow his nose to dry land where he will deliver the few humans with whom he has been travelling at the end of his journey, but he will move on back on the sea because that is his fate. The film is highly simple as for this division of the world in two after the big catastrophe. The rest is nothing but survival. Yet on one side there is no ethics and on the other side there might be some, they might be slightly more human than the beasts they look like. It is then a going home film, and yet home is not the same for everyone and we should think about that, even in an extreme situation.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Very Underrated Popcorn Flick","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is not that bad. Overall, it's very fun and sometimes exhilarating to watch. I guess the bad part is it having a very formulaic and predictable plot. I wanna touch on the good parts, the great parts, the extended version, and a prospective sequel.The Good Parts1) There are some very good action set pieces in the film. Most noteworthy are the attack at the atoll by the smoker, the airplane sequence, and the brief fishing part that stayed with me.2) I am surprise of how good the supporting characters are. Especially Michael Jeter, Kim Coates, and even the Jack Black brief appearance are very entertaining and interesting to watch. Not many people notice but Kim did a great job with his character.The GREAT PARTS 1) The music by James Newton Howard is one of the best I have heard in a movie. This is one of the two ONLY great aspects of the movie. My favorite are Swimming, and Deacon Speech. They've been used in countless movie trailers. Listen for yourself. It's great.2) I thought that Dennis Hopper performance was great. It's darkly humorous. His timing, gestures, and eye contact (yes eye contact) are very spot on and wonderful to watch.Extended Version There is an extended version out there that contains over 30 minutes of additional footage. Most of the extra scenes establishes the character more. Too bad that this extended version is rid of violence, cuss words, and nudity.Sequel It would be a dream come true for me to see another film made about Waterworld. The premise of water flooding the earth is silly but in an alternate universe this setting deserves more development. My hope would be a follow up story about the Mariner's child who is a mutant outcast in the village who sets sail in search of his father. I also do believe that it would even better if the sequel was in full hand drawn animation. It's more cost effective and the medium allows for more imaginative setting.Overall, I think this movie should be vindicated as an action movie on the same level as Indianana Jones, Mad Max, and the Westerns. I'm just confused as to why this movie was looked down upon. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining. Tripplehorn's lips alone make it satisfying.","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I concur with everyone who thinks it makes no sense that this movie was panned as being too expensive or whatever. Mob psychology makes people overlook the core entertainment value.Waterworld is full of interesting gadgets, lots of action, clever stunts, and a lead actress whose lips are much hotter than Angelina (trout-mouth) Jolie's, perhaps because they seem natural. I couldn't stop looking at that mouth and her expressive eyes, plus all the rest.If you can overlook the geology flaws (it's not the only movie that stretches disbelief), Waterworld entertains as well or better than most other future-scenario films. The intro scene soundtrack Main Titles is also very compelling.Partly because of the bad/mob-mentality press, I never got around to watching it until 15 years after its release, but I'm glad I finally did. "}{"Title":"One of the first of a new wave of films","Date":"1 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The best way I can describe Waterworld, is a live action Anime movie.-It has weird (religious or Asian) undertones. -The enemies are over the top. -Really odd yet cool sci-fi or fantasy setting. -The hero is often battling red shirts who are better armed, mostly faceless, and just quirky enough to evoke a chuckle here and there from odd antics.For several people, this will be a bad thing, causing them to pass Waterworld out of hand. All for the simple fact that it is comparable to a cartoon and, as everyone knows, cartoons are for kids six and under. Obviously this is sarcasm, but it goes to show that many people don't realize just how much Anime in particular has influenced current cinema....well, I'll save that for another time. Anyways, this is a great movie with a great story, much better than most of the tripe of the day. The effects were awesome, the acting very much in-character.***A few spoilers from here on in, you've been warned.***Despite silly comments left by others, the Mariner was not mean, but rather a fairly complex character. If people wanted to kill me as much as people wanted to kill him (unreasonably I might add) I'd be a little stand-offish too. He didn't really hate anyone, and you saw he had lots of reason to not trust people (watch the movie, even the main characters betray him at a point). About the only thing that made me groan in the movie was the HQ of the villain (I won't give that away).This movie stands the test of time, a true sci-fi classic. "},{"Title":"What's so bad? I don't get it","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld was a seriously under-rated film. I don't understand why it's copping so much heat when it was a decently well made film. It's got everything you can ask for in an action pack reluctant hero's journey type ploy. The only difference is it actually has a plot line, worthy concept & decent dialogue. The actors weren't cringe worthy and you can see the effort for detail that was put into the set and cinematography.Honestly the films that get rave reviews these days a questionable. And a the simple heart felt films that don't make major bucks at the box office are forgotten. what is the world coming to?http//musingsandmorsels.weebly.com/ "},{"Title":"Best film ever!","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite movie off all time. Every time I tell people that, they tell me that that is weird, looks like people just don't give this movie a chance. First time I watched it I hated it, but I usually hate clever movies that I don't understand and I hated The Matrix and Donnie Darko first time I saw them.The hero is an anti-hero, and everyone hates him. He hits a little girl, and does not care if her mother get rapped. It's a world of water. And thats just few of the UNIQUE things in this movie. I love movies and I wan't to work in the movie industry later on, I have a Mensa IQ and that makes people say that Waterworld isn't the movie they would expect me to love. But think about it, what movie resembles Waterworld? Thats right, there is no movie out there like this. It's the BEST movie ever!!! ...and it doesn't even have a Directors Cut, which were supposed to be 4 hours long -( ! "},{"Title":"Not that bad, really","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why the heck did this flop as it did? Good question, because it is not really that bad. Some folks says the matiné-genre came back with the Pirates of the Caribbean-movies. However, ask me and I'll tell you big time it's not the cause. I'll say it came back with this movie. Here we got everything pirates, a hero, some great action scenes, and a mythic treasure. Set in the future, the pirates are known as Smokers (with machine guns instead of swords), the hero is an outcast and the treasure is something as exotic in a world covered with water as a place known as Dryland. I really loved when I first bought it on VCR, and when I recently bought it on DVD with better sound and picture, and watched on my big flat TV with surround system, I got the idea of how it must have been when it was shown on cinema. Great movie. 10/10 "},{"Title":"my first review  water world is one of my all time favourite","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" water world , what a great movie , watched it more then 10 times and still my favourite, OK,let me give some reasons why this movie deserves best reviews, first , what a beautiful picture ,the blue ocean,and all the amazing actions in the middle of it! wondering how the picture looked on the theatre, the casting was perfect,Costner was cool,g the story is nice , actions mixed with some funny scenes , the ending was good too, i mean this is what cinema is all about, so thank you Kevin Costner and thank you Kevin Reynolds, to my opinion the movie deserves 8, but because its been underrated by those big budget hatters i will give it a 10 , "},{"Title":"Lost At Sea.","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Granted this movie has a very interesting premise and some wonderful cinematography which make it look great but it has plot holes and inconsistencies that you could navigate a boat through. Also lets not forget the completely two-dimensional characters, wooden acting on the most part and a script that probably needed to get lost at sea. However, the action is good, the photography stunning and Dennis Hopper as always is a great villain. But the film's shortcomings are definitely on display here after the amount of money spent on production so it is a complete lack of substance mixed with annoying characters (especially that goddamn kid) that on the whole let down what could have, on paper, and technicality wise, been a great flick.5/10 "},{"Title":"my favourite movie","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I find it amusing that so many people are bitching about this movie! From the very first time I saw this movie, I have loved it like no other. It has great action, a reluctant broody hero, a love story, a funny kid, a strong woman, giant alligator-like monsters (food) and a smoking villain. It works! Just to make something clear, to people who can't understand why dirt is so important in the waterworld (I thought it was obvious) if you have dirt you can have plants, and with plants comes ecosystem, with an ecosystem you can have a varied diet and so on... If you have an atoll (or rather if you discovered one) you could dump dirt there and grow some plants, which would attract bird life (there were gulls in the movie)...Do you get it now? Watch the movie again. I love it more every time I watch it! ) "},{"Title":"Mixed.","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While I gave this movie 5/10, I have to confess that I enjoyed it. It is relatively mild with respect to violence. A kid could almost watch this movie, except for a couple of disturbing scenes.The worst aspect of the movie is that it fluctuates wildly between parts which are really well done, and parts which just caused me to roll my eyes. At one point, our hero dives to the bottom of the ocean with no special gear, and the women who goes with him seems not to require returning to the surface slowly to avoid the bends.There is any number of places in the movie where suspension of disbelief becomes rather laboured, due to incredible luck at being in the right place at the right time. One character is able to hit a plane with a harpoon at quit some distance while aiming straight it (rather than in front of it, to compensate for its motion during the time it takes for the projectile to hit it), to give another example of hard-to-believe scripting.I could go on for pages about things like this, or bad lines, or poorly choreographed action, or unsuitable mixing of humour and seriousness, or incredibly corny details of various kinds, but in the end, if you can accept that it is just a second-rate action-fantasy movie, you may have a fun time watching it. "},{"Title":"Not  a  Great  Film  At  All  But  Not  The Worst  Either","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Critics demolished Waterworld in Argentina too but honestly I can't understand why. This is not a great film and perhaps not even a really good one, but in fact it doesn't lack some sort of originality as a sci-fi product in a post apocalyptic time. I don't think I would see Waterworld often or even twice, but it's worth at least one viewing in my opinion.The film is too long and has many rhythm blanks but it has some good moments too (the underwater tour provided by Costner to Tripplehorn through the once powerful and now sunk city, the destruction of the big tanker in which the Deacon has established his headquarters, the action sequences acceptably handled. Kevin Costner might not be the right choice to play the mutant but he is not Steve Reeves either.Waterworld won't make history in the movies but I've seen similar or even worst big budget flaws (Cleopatra, Heaven's Gate, Raintree County) that were not as bad treated as this oneby the critics.Not a good film at all but if you're honest you can't say its a complete disaster either. either. "},{"Title":"Seaworthy Extravaganza","Date":"28 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this massive waterborne saga, originally, received many negative reviews, to watch it on the small screen simply overwhelms anyone who knows what it took to produce it. The acting is first rate,(even Kevin Costner manages to be credible),and Jeanne Tripplehorn is the right actress for the multiple emotions she must display. Dennis Hopper should have garnered an Oscar nomination for his over-the-top pirate. However, the real star, that steals the thunder from everyone, is the very young child actress, Tina Majorino. She is a joy to watch and has an exceptional command of the emotions and dialog required.The gorgeous cinematography, special effects, and powerful music keep everything moving along splendidly. It's a tragedy that Kevin Costner's enormous production efforts were so disparaged. This a a great film that should have received high praise. "}{"Title":"Fun flick for a Saturday night","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although most people can't warm up to this flick, I find it entertaining and always a fun diversion. Kevin Costner effectively portrays a hard-hearted rebel, circa Mad Max, with a fabulous sea-going tank of a trimaran. It's one movie that definitely improves each time you watch it. Dennis Hopper plays a less-than-respectable and hateful bad guy with a crew that is not worth the oxygen they breathe. Though the effects are low-tech, they are effective and add ample spice to a dark and depressing world. With global warming at the forefront of our concerns these days, Waterworld presents a frightening picture of what our world would be like if our lands were flooded. "},{"Title":"So much potential drowned in a sea of  boredom and poor story telling.","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie definitely had potential. You can say that this movie is like a Mad Max version of a post-apocalypse world, only set at sea. Only problem is; they made the story look about as least interesting as it can get.There are several issues with Waterworld and the directing and story are definitely two of it. The story itself had definitely potential but there are several problems with it. The concept was good but the story itself is for most part too simple and childish. Of course when one of the main characters of the movie is a child, the movie itself also very easily tends to become a childish one. This is definitely the case with Waterworld. The movie fails to focus on the good and interesting elements of the movie and it instead chooses to lay the emphasis of the story on the Mariner (Kevin Costner) and his building relationship with Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and Elona (Tina Majorino), which happens to be the least interesting aspect of the entire movie. It makes the movie more of a drama like one, rather than the cool action flick it could and should had been. It also seriously takes the pace out of the movie. The middle of the movie is especially too slow and filled with rather needless sequences and long boring shots of nothing but blue water and a boat. So it's not just a bad, simple, childish story but also bad storytelling and directing by Kevin Reynolds and Kevin Costner.The movie and the story could perhaps had worked if they had made out to be an interesting one. They firstly could had done this by creating a different main character. Having a character who rarely speaks and who also happens to be a mutant for reasons unexplained in the movie, just isn't a terribly interesting one. The fact that Kevin Costner plays the part also doesn't help much. Nothing wrong with his acting in this movie, after all he rarely says a thing, but its more that he doesn't have enough charisma to play a cool and interesting action hero.The storytelling feels completely incoherent at times. For instance the main villain of the movie, played by Dennis Hopper, basically only pops up at the beginning of the movie and later again toward the ending and finale of the movie. This happens with a lot of characters. The characters are also all extremely stereotyped and they are another reason why I regarded this movie is a quite childish one.The villains are definitely a good thing about this movie. The Smokers are a pretty cool bunch of modern pirates. Dennis Hopper is delicious villainous in his role as their leader. When he enters the screen the movie revives but like I mentioned before he is way underused in the movie, which makes his role also not as memorable as many of his others.After watching this movie you can conclude one thing; shooting at sea is expensive. Appereantly this movie cost $175,000,000 to make but his is nowhere to be seen in the movie. Yes sure there are some big and good action sequences but nowhere or anymore spectacular than any other, less expensive, action-flick from the '90's. To be perfectly honest the movie even looked quite amateur like to me at times but this may also be due to the at times childish story and way of storytelling.The early special effects are also not really quite convincing enough.The musical score by James Newton Howard on the other hand is surprisingly good, spectacular and uplifting. Every once in a while Howard delivers a brilliant score. Waterworld is one of those scores.When action occurs on the screen, its definitely a fun and entertaining movie to watch. The movie is just basically your average summer popcorn flick. The action is brought well to the screen and in those sequences the pace is also good and high. It helps to make the movie still worthwhile and also quite an entertaining one. Its too bad that the less interesting elements of the movie drag down the level of the entire movie.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A movie too dark","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" There are four basic reasons this movie failed at the box office.1) People don't like an unsympathetic 'hero.' The hero here is basically indistinguishable from the villain. Both of them are ready to kill the little girl on a whim. Both of them are survivors.That's just too dark to start with. But this movie, for all the laughable elements, really wanted to explore the darker side of a post apocalyptic world. And that meant reaching down into the heart of the human darkness.Which meant a protagonist as scarred and as hurtful as any movie villain you've ever seen.2) The genre is uneven I mentioned the funny elements, right? Basically, somebody imagined this as an action-comedy at some points. It's not a slapstick by any means, but it contains enough irony, sarcasm and generally humorous mayhem to fill a boat.And a lot of it is, again, dark. HAving a pirate operating dual machine guns start shooting at his own men because he can't hear them yelling at him to stop over his noisy machine guns? Pure corn.But it works, because of the darkness. It works as a garish, black sort of comedy--see point one. Audiences weren't ready for that kind of darkness. (Exhibit a Brazil, a much more cerebral movie, that also had this problem) And, finally, the third reason; A lot of very good stuff was left on the cutting floor. Until you've seen the uncut version (very hard to get hold of) you really are left thinking, boy, the Mariner changed his mind in a real hurry when he decided to go back and save the girl. Well, if you'd seen the long scene where he decides instead to abandon her, the whole thing begins to make sense... but it's darker. Go back to point 1.Point four. This one is the worst. The happy ending at the end? SPOILER!! The fish-man goes back to the ocean, leaving everyone else alone on the land.It's NOT a happy ending. Go back to point 1. It's a dark ending--but, it's an honest ending. Everything we know about him is that he's at home out there. He thrives out there, where nobody else can even survive. They gibber into madness and sink, an inch at a time.He loves it, and we can tell.And audiences at large couldn't handle an ending that brutally dark. Even if he saved the little girl, the idea that they really couldn't live happily ever after as a nuclear family was just too honest to the tone of the movie (the one they didn't like, remember?) And now, let me tell you what I REALLY think.Scientific honesty is all well and good, but what I'm really interested in from a movie is emotional honesty. I want a movie that will actually ask, how civilized are we really? And how human will we look to an outsider, a new species? This movie stays true to that dark thesis. Everything else--the garish, lurid humor, the ending--just supports that. "},{"Title":"A Great Story","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why all the negativity over this film? The cost of creating Waterworld compared to the expected (or generated) revenue might be the only let down. As far as I'm concerned I thought the movie had a great story line that is more thoroughly thought out then the usual cataclysmic type movies. I was able to feel empathetic to the feelings of desperation from the lead female's role and hope from the other main characters. The subtle comedy and tongue in cheek humor throughout the movie was a great added bonus. The other movie I think got bad press as well is Battlefield Earth. Although not the same type of movie as Waterworld, the unique story is what attracts me and earns bonus points in my books. I want to be entertained when I watch a movie &#150; and you need a good story to accomplish that! "},{"Title":"awkward, albeit occasionally entertaining film","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS There are certain films which will go down in history as mistakes. Films like 'Freddy Got Fingered' which are so unbelievably bad that you'd rather cut your genitals off with a rusty bread knife. Or films which have so much money put into them, that everyone then hits the roof when the film just isn't that good. The perfect example of this later case is 'Waterworld'. Starring Kevin Costner, 'Waterworld' has gone down as one of the most expensive mistakes of all time. It cost a fortune, and it delivered little in return. When people condemn it though, this fiscal aspect often negatively influences those comments. 'Waterworld' is a mess, there's little point denying that, but at times it is an entertaining mess. Partly saved by a hammed up performance by Dennis Hopper, it is one of those films that you would never dream of owning, but you'd happily sit and watch if it were on television.In the future, the world has flooded. With dry land now a myth, people live out their lives either as drifters or as part of a small community. One such drifter is the Mariner (Costner). When he finds himself in the company of Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and the mysteriously tattooed Enola (Tina Majorino), the Mariner finds that he is being chased by the pirate like 'Smokers' and their leader Deacon (Hopper).Brought up to date from the start, the opening of the film suitably informs us of the geographic state of the world. It is at this point though that we are brought speeding down to the water and straight into the action. Introduced to Costner's moody and rather annoying Mariner, we never really achieve the entertainment level of watching the world flood at the beginning. Whether it's the dumb humour, the occasional extreme violence, or the childish interaction between Costner and Majorino, the film never really evolves into any special.Ironic when talking about a film set entirely on a water based planet, many of the typical comments you could use are of a distinctive earthy nature. Whether you state that it never really breaks any ground, or it digs itself into a hole, so many lines are made redundant through the general situation of the story. In itself this is a shame, mainly because if your going to review such a mediocre film, the least you could do is sprout a list of ironic puns.If there is to be one saving grace for 'Waterworld' it is going to be your over the top, daft bad guy, and whilst Dennis Hopper is never quite the bad guy that you want him to be, he does provide you with the occasional piece of comedy worthy of mention. Hopper over acts throughout the entire film, and he makes no excuses for this. The actor is there to have fun, and who can blame him. He pushes the barrier between daft and pointless, but he never quite passes it. He isn't given a well written character, and this is a disappointment, but Hopper himself is a small comfort in this mediocre and turgid affair.'Waterworld' was a financial disaster, and more often than not this is used as an excuse to hate it. This is incredibly unfair. The film is a mediocre and often pointless event which never really looks like it has spent the money it is meant to have. Mostly thanks to the acting of Dennis Hopper in an extremely over played bad guy role though, the film does retain a little dignity and can be occasionally entertaining. It's not a film you'd dream of looking for in a shop, but you can't help but watch it when it features on television. Distinctively average. "},{"Title":"Sit back for the ride","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" While i find Kevin Costner to be one of the most over-rated actors and directors of his generation, i actually find this movie to be underrated. That, on the other hand, has nothing to do with Costners performance.Many people describe this as a Mad Max on water. I can agree with that description. The same black sense of humor and scrap-yard props can be found here. I enjoyed the first two Mad Max-movies (especially The Road Warrior) quite a lot, and maybe that's why i get a soft spot for this movie as well. Granted, this is no masterpiece and i still hold The Road Warrior a better movie, but as a Mad Max substitute this works.There was a lot of discussion surrounding this movie when it first came out. Most of it was about economics. The movie became catastrophically expensive before everything was said and done, and the ratings at the box-office were a great disappointment. But i felt too much focus was directed at this instead of at the movie itself. This is not too shabby actually. Costner is his usual boring self, but Dennis Hopper seems to enjoy himself immensely as the antagonist. Also most of the movie is well made technically with several nicely filmed action sequences.So if you can forget about plausibility, forget about studio politics and ignore Kevin Costners wooden acting, this is actually quite enjoyable. The key is to not expect a miracle and rather just sit back for the ride. I rate it 5/10. "},{"Title":"It's not all bad","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So it wasn't great and yes, it was very long but it was still better than Titanic. A good plot line surrounding a world covered in water and a little girl with a map tattooed on her back that supposedly points to dry land. I had heard nightmare stories about this but when this was on TV this weekend I thought I'd give it a shot and was surprised to find that it wasn't awful. The acting isn't great but the story and the unfolding of events was enough to keep me interested. Some scenes could definitely be deleted completely but in the end, it wasn't so bad.5/10 "},{"Title":"blatant ripoff of The Road Warrior","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  let us count the ways...RW in the future there is nothing but dirt and water is scarce W in the future there is nothing but water and dirt is scarceRW a lone outcast cruises around in a cool, high powered car W a lone outcast cruises around in a cool, high powered boatRW the remaining civilized people live in a compound protected by high walls and battle stations while crazed psychos cruise around on various vehicles trying to get in W the remaining civilized people live in a compound protected by high walls and battle stations while crazed psychos cruise around on various vehicles trying to get inRW there is a cute little boy with wild hair who is saved by the hero W there is a cute little girl with wild hair who is saved by the heroRW the head bad guy wears a mask W the head bad guy wears a patchRW everyone wants the gas W everyone wants the waterRW in the end the hero is left by himself W in the end the hero leaves by himself "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People diss this movie not on its merits, but because they don't like Kevin Costner. It's the same pretentious attitude they have towards boy bands. The fact is, this isn't an entirely bad film, and it doesn't merit an overall score of 5. It's not the greatest, but it does the action well, Costner's Mariner is downright killer as the main character, and it has a great concept behind it.So don't listen to the folks who diss this film. It's a good action-adventure flick with a great concept, excellent execution, and some inspired setups. "},{"Title":"Watery version of the Road Warrior.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Instead of Mel Gibson we have Kevin Costner.  Instead of post-atomic Australia, we have Earth after a post-polar meltdown where everyone lives on the sea.  All the fuss about budget overruns made the film a joke but there are some nice little action sequences. Count this as yet another movie where the always game Dennis Hopper plays the glib baddie.Costner's role, on the other hand, doesn't really work.  He starts off as just too detached, too cold to make the transition to child-loving hero.Overall, not a bad action picture but under the weight of high expectations and low performances, it sinks.      "}{"Title":"DUMB","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow... Now *this* is what I call an Epic. An Epic Disaster! Another Kevin Kostner post-something flick, and what an astronomical bomb this expensive thing turned out to be!Whilst watching this three-or-more-hour-long cliche, I was thinking... Where have I seen this before??? What exactly was that 100 million bucks spent on??? Mr Kostner's luxury boat?He plays an amphibious man (complete with gills and webbing between his digits) who is capable of swimming 2 miles or more to the ocean depths without suffering from pressure or any water-related hazard we Terran Simians would be subjected to. (The powers of Genetic Engineering!)The whole world is under water, so said Terran Simians have been forced to exist as Aquatic Simians. A little girl has a map to an island tattooed on her back and the remaining human population is living in some oddly-built, floating wood-and-steel contraption. They are regularly terrorized by the local gang of jet ski-riding thugs who live in a tanker ship stuck on a pile of rocks. (check out the scene where they put out the oars and try to row it to the fabled island!)There is no real need to explain what happens in this movie except that its boring, predictable, and suspense of disbelief is an absolute necessity! Not a single storm crops up, (and on a world where the entire surface is water you'd get some pretty wicked storms) but if one did, all the weakly-constructed post-apocalyptic habitats would've gurgled straight down the proverbial u-bend. Much like the way this whole flick received the royal flush.CONCLUSION A disappointment. I expected to see a lot more for $100 mil! "},{"Title":"A bad movie...","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld is a futuristic film with remarkable art direction, visual and sound effects. But the directing and mostly the script were horrible. I am really wondering how far in the future the film is taken place. Hundreds or maybe thousands of years? I have this question because the tankers that we see in the film can stay at sea twenty or thirty years at the most. I think that is rather short time for everyone to forget about dry land! "},{"Title":"Bust a gut funny.","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sure that at some point or another, everyone has seen 1995's Waterworld, one of the most notorious films ever made. The film, which cost millions of dollars to make, didn't quite receive what the producers were expecting. While the film wasn't a critical failure(somehow) , it failed at the box office, and it sure did deserve to.Here's the premise Mad Max on water. Something happened to the arctic, and now everyone lives on water. Everyone dreams of dry land. When a woman (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and her adopted daughter join a drifter(Kevin Costner), who happens to be half man half fish, they soon realize that the daughter has a map of dry land on her back, and that a crazed man(Dennis Hopper) is out to get her.I had a hard time writing the synopsis, considering the movie is so forgettable. There are times when the film is gut bustingly funny, painfully stupid, and over the top. What the hell, that's the whole movie. My IQ was dropping the deeper and deeper into the film I got. The majority of the characters are annoying. Costner looks bored, and Hopper is so over the top it's moderately enjoyable.The dialogue is corny beyond belief, and the film is at times, most times, over or under acted. Not really much of this film works. I can say that I have seen worse movies in my lifetime(cough... Flash Gordon... cough) , but I sure have seen movies like this, and done better. What this movie needs, besides everything, is not to be filmed at a Six Flags Waterpark. That may help.D "},{"Title":"The film that takes you away and leaves you in a place where adventure still goes on in you","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was very much surprised that this film took a lot of beating from a lot of reviewers.The movie stood up for what it was made for entertain. period.Sure there were several inaccurate facts that this movie was rife of, but still, it is a movie not made to inform, or educate for that matter.Let's discuss these flaws one by one.1. the polar ice caps have enough water to engulf the world, leaving a tiny portion of land of which to be believed is the highest mountain peak in the world. false. if all the polar ice caps were to melt, the sea level will rise by not more that 50 meters. sure, some lands will sink, but there would be substantial surface that could remain.the movie wanted to engulf the whole world with water and the most probable event that could accomplish this is by melting the ice caps. although the probability of this happening is less than 1, it's still a probability nonetheless.2. desalinating the urine and converting into potable freshwater. quite stupid really thinking that the water surrounding you has more than enough freshwater that you could convert into drinking water without looking like disgusting.the movie wanted to convey the message that freshwater is extremely precious, albeit gross disgust.3. how could have the girl from the dryland fled to a very very far-flung place and have a tattoo, which she could use whenever she will be lost, of all places, on her back? the film wanted to tell the story of a girl who was experimented by her parents that if they put some tattoo on her back, and throw her to a place of nowhere, she could eventually return.this lack of critical thinking was necessary to make a story for the film.I am willing to overlook these flaws as long as i'm entertained. and so the film delivered what i expected of it.what i did not like in the film though was the inappropriately bad timings where music had to be scored in the background even if the dialogue was ultimately essential.bad musical scoring. period.kevin costner's portrayal of the character was perfect. no one could have done it better (steven seagal is overqualified as he doesn't really have some useful facial expressions even in real life). i have always been wanting to acquire that kind of personality where you talked less and command respect.tina morino's lines were the wittiest i have ever heard. they were hard ass punches with satirical and humorous blows.this film is great. i am a critic of movies but i do not know why i can't bash on this one. i know, it's simply awesome.i have watched this film for about maybe 5 times already from different sources, and each time, or twice, there were new scenes that i've never seen before. this movie always surprises me each time i watch it "},{"Title":"This Movie is Great.. Enough Said","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld .. A costly Bomb ??? Nope. Not at all... There has been so much negative talk about this movie and not enough positive things said about a movie that does not deserve any of the things that have been said about it..1. The budget  well yes it was very expensive.. yes the Atoll set sank in a storm. Yes Costner gets the big bucks.. One of those Hollywood lines went something like the biggest movie disaster ever.. well guess what... what do i care about what it costs to make a movie.. If the movie is well done and entertaining, then who cares how much Hollywood wants to spend..its their money, not mine ) So who ever says a movie is good or bad because of the money spent is stupid..2. Coaster got a lot of flack because his character of the mariner was a bit of a hard ass..Yes he was in the beginning but as the story progressed, he became a hero and likable person.. He character was supposed to act like someone who only cares about himself. But Enola and Helen changed him into a caring person. Yes his character is not very likable in the beginning but thats what they way he is supposed to be.. See how you would act if you lived in a Waterworld...3. The movie itself..  What can i say.. I have actually enjoyed this movie since I have seen it in the movie theater. its has a great premise that was was never done in the movies before that I know of.. It has a lot of great action and a great music score.. I have the soundtrack  ) The characters were good too.. All in all a great movie.4. For the most part, the people who bash this movie probably have never seem this movie at all. Hollywood bashed this movie before it even came out because of the money spent...Yes Costner makes demands on his films.. I would too. I would want my movie to be the best it could be.. Yes Costner likes to make epics like Dances with Wolves and yes  The Postmnan  too,, and yes I enjoyed that movie too... I would like to see the extended version one day be on DVD... that would be nice.. now with all the talk of Global Warming.,,, Waterworld is not that far fetched these days...WATERWORLD RULES !!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Always like the future fiction action","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the original Planet of the Apes, Soilent Green, Omega man and more - to Waterworld and The Postman (two great Costner flicks) I will always be captivated by the future fiction/dystopia flick...and Waterworld gets it done. The critics were wrong, and I think anyone who likes action will like this film. Costner pulls off the silent hero with no real direction - and Dennis Hopper shines as the villain. Keep your eyes on the details, they are what help pull it off - Mad Max watch out, the Mariner has arrived! The film's mega budget was worth it - even if it flopped at the box office...yet it remains in my personal library as an all-time favorite. "},{"Title":"far from the bomb that most ignorant people claim it to be.","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know i'm in the minority here along with my good friend Mr Mark Plant, and an ever increasing circle of people who actually enjoy this very under rated movie The trouble was Costner popularity fell drastically with the fans at the same time as production started on his most ambitious project since Dances with wolves.Wyatt Earp and The War both opened to empty turnstiles and when this movie went over schedule and budget everyone was waiting to slate it before giving it a fair chance. These days, you never hear such complaints about the budgets because movies as expensive as Waterworld are becoming commonplace, and most blockbusters these days are packed with CGI as Waterworld was not, thus inevitably it had to be about as expensive as it was (filmed on the water, sinking sets, tough conditions, it's a miracle the movie was even finished).Costner's performance works on exactly the same level as the Connery portrayals of 007 straightforward, grim, stoic, a little mean-spirited, a little cruel, unafraid of dirt, grime, death, or salt water.It's not perfect by any means. Costner hacked it to pieces in order to accommodate the two-hour-running-time maxim imposed by the studio, so that corporate could get their investment back. Now is the time for the extended DVD version; maybe that will explain where all those cigarettes came from, what happened to Mount Everest and how the Smokers converted raw crude into gasoline.Costner bashers should get over themselves and start giving George Lucas what he deserves. "},{"Title":"I keep coming back for this one","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't understand why people give this movie so much heat. Costner is great in it so are many of the other actors. It's post apocalyptic which might be what scares of all them fancy french movie critics ) Story is good ( for this type of movie ) Actors believable, action is good to. I have seen waterworld 4 times i think and it doesn't get worse. Enjoyable entertaining good pace and good actors what else does a good movie need. Only problem is originality for which I'm going to deduct the last point . But Kevin Costner really is a remarkable presence in the screen Even though I'm 11 years late on this one. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It's OK, the way I figure it is that the director lost a bet and had to do a pretty stupid movie","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have heard nothing but horrible reviews about this film, how much it flopped in 1995 and that it's just a terrible movie, period. My mom was the only person who seemed to be a fan of the movie, and I mean, seriously, how bad could this movie be? It has Kevin Costner and seems like a fun action flick.While the action is still fun and the scenes are for the most part entertaining, the story was the main lacker. But I'm going to base this paragraph on the good. The story actually wasn't a bad idea, it was more exciting. The world is completely turned into water and now these people and some mutants are looking for Dryland. The action scenes where Kevin and the women are being chased by Dennis Hopper are pretty cool.The story however was not presented well in my opinion, and that is what made the movie now work for me. It was presented in more of a cheesy action flick more than an actual action/drama movie that could've been a great blockbuster. But that's just my opinion.6/10 "},{"Title":"Those who don't like this have no ability to love.","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some say it is too slow, some say it is too serious, and others say Costner simply drags everyone else down to his level of acting. Critics and fans alike have panned sci-fi adventure Waterworld for years and I am sick of this unfair criticism. I love this film and hope that maybe the next generation will appreciate it.Waterworld is a post-apocalyptic story in which the polar ice caps have melted and people are left out in a gigantic ocean that is Earth to fend for themselves. Anyone who doesn't recognize the genius of the manipulation of the Universal Studios logo to illustrate this in the beginning is nuts. Yet, Waterworld does not preach about global warming or the irresponsibility of past generations that probably led to this catastrophe&#151;it is a straightforward story of people searching for a myth called&#133; Dryland. Between interesting basic ideas (melted poles), amazing locations, incredible set designs (the trimaran boat that Costner has is awesome), fast-paced action, and well-delivered lines (cheesy one-liners are kept to a minimum)&#151;Waterworld is a fantastic adventure. Dennis Hopper is a total psycho as the one-eyed badass Deacon and Costner fits the part of a brooding, difficult man-fish hybrid. Even though most of the action is spectacular, nothing feels too far-fetched or cringe-worthy.Serious props to anyone who quotes this film. "}{"Title":"Waterworld rules.  Seriously.","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld has everything you need to be a great action epic1. A huge budget. 2. A slightly disgruntled outsider of a protagonist. Beneath his rough exterior there's a heart of gold that loves kids. 3. A hot lady who sheds her clothes. (Partially.) 4. A cute kid who holds both the key to the conflict, and the audience's hearts. 5. A ridiculously over the top, heinously evil villain. Preferably played by Dennis Hopper. 6. An amazing, outlandish, deadly setting. (Especially here.)Kevin Costner is great in this, as is Kevin Reynold's directing. This is an amazing popcorn movie, definitely on par with, (if not surpassing)Con-Air. By the way, if you liked this, check out Con-Air and vice-versa. Also try Reynold's other flicks, and some Ridley Scott.Or Speed. "},{"Title":"Costner talks little, but swims a lot.","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld -- Science Fiction/Action -- ReviewBack when this film was made, it was the most expensive movie ever. It cost over a hundred million bucks to make. Small fries by todays standards, huh? Where Troy cost $200 million for no real apparent reason. CG films don't cost that damn much, and that's mostly what that was. But at the time, it was a big controversy. One could actually see people with the attitude that if it costs that much, it must really suck. It was also plagued with nasty rumors of going way over-budget, having a lengthy running time (just over two hours), and stories that Kevin Costner was in it. Well, he was, and this was before his reputation was heavily damaged with stuff like The Postman. He was still riding high on the success of Robin Hood Prince of Thieves.This film takes place in the distant future, long after we modern humans have totally f*cked up the planet and global warming melted the ice caps and covered the world in a spiffy layer of one giant bottomless ocean. Humanity now lives on boats and floating villages in sparse little populations. Basically, humanity is on it's last legs. Costner is our hero--all action, little talk, gruff and selfish. The bad guys are called smokers and they're led by the ever entertaining Dennis Hopper as he uses rhetoric and cigarettes to keep his minions in line. They wander the globe on the crusty Exxon Valez oil tanker, which was apparently repaired just in time for the end of the world. And everyone's after one little girl who has a tattoo on her back leading to mythical dry land.Here's the breakdownThe Good--Impressive sets. The floating city called the Atoll is actually pretty impressive. More impressive yet is the fact that they actually built this thing for the movie and used it as a sort of floating crew quarters during filming.--Good acting all around. The little girl is one of the better child actors I've seen, and her character is portrayed quite realistically. Pretty much all of her actions are what you'd expect from a stubborn little kid.--Jeanne Tripplehorn's brief nudity!--Costner doing a lot of his own stunts, thinning hair and all!--Very nice musical score.--Tons of action to keep us entertained. Complete with rampant gun violence and explosions.--Dennis Hopper is extremely entertaining--the majority of the film's best dialog belongs to him.--Good atmosphere and decent cinematography throughout. A lot of underwater shots, as one would expect. A lot of tracking and action shots as well.--Interesting story, especially for being released theatrically. These days, this kind of stuff is now relegated to half-assed Sci-Fi Channel films.--Overall, good special effects and make-up. Costner's gills look good, but his webbed feet not quite as good--but we hardly see them.Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--Despite the decent acting, the dialog is occasionally somewhat cumbersome and clumbsy. Not nearly as bad as something George Lucas would write, but not exactly perfect.--Some cheesiness here and there. In the writing, dialog, or characters. Granted, these futuristic humans don't have a whole helluva lot going for them, and a lot of them are getting pretty crazy.--A few shots containing CG elements which, while they don't look perfect, for some reason, they still look a lot better than some of our modern CG-laden films. *cough*vanhelsing*cough* One involved Costner fishing for a large sea creature for dinner, which I actually did not remember being in the film way back from my original viewing.--Decent compositing work on some underwater scenes. Nice visuals on the now ancient ruined cities beneath the waves.--Not exactly scientifically accurate about the realities of such a scenario--with the earth flooded over and all. (In reality, the atmosphere would likely be so dense with moisture that breathing would be next to impossible.)The Bad--Costner's ego, while somewhat under control, does creep into the foreground now and then.--Very cheesy action elements during the film's climax--including a bungee cord.The Ugly--Dennis Hopper's replacement eye!Memorable Scene--Seeing the ruined ancient city underwater. (Note the submarine inside the city.) Thankfully, it's not something cliché like showing us New York City all ruined. That's been done to death in films of this nature. Planet of the Apes, A.I., The Day After Tomorrow...Fun Fact--Waterworld is the only motion picture to have a game licensed on Nintendo's ill-fated Virtual Boy gaming system.Acting 8/10 , Story 9/10 , Atmosphere 8/10 , Cinematography 8/10 , Character Development 8/10 , Special Effects/Make-up 8/10 , Nudity/Sexuality 2/10 , Violence 7/10 (quite a bit for a PG-13 film) , Gore 2/10 (extremely brief) , Dialog 7/10 , Music 8/10 , Direction 9/10 Cheesiness 3/10 , Crappiness 0/10 Overall 8/10Overall, this is a good, solid, movie. A bit formulaic maybe, but then again, what isn't these days? A negative reputation has kept it largely overlooked by most people these days. As a plus, it can be found in Wal-Mart's $5 bin now--and is one of the best deals in there. Also, Kevin Costner. His hit-or-miss career may turn away a lot of people. Trust me when I say that, despite it's box-office failure, this is one of his better films. Also good Robin Hood, Open Range, and Dances With Wolves. Recommended mostly to Science Fiction fans.www.ResidentHazard.com http//bartboard.proboards3.com/index.cgi (Movie themed Message Board) "},{"Title":"the most purest movie on earth,only for pure thinkers","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, what to say about a great film that was so badly misunderstood. waterworld was certainly the most misunderstood movie of its times.what could be the reasons 1)expensivethis was the most expensive movie of its time. so people probably had a negative prospect of the movie.2)a bit too theoretical people told this scenario was never possible (ex. the theory of the submerging of the water)3)a bit ridiculous the first question that came into the mind of the people who watched the film was, the existence of the jet skis,cigarettes etc.now coming to the points as to why i think this is a great movie.1)first of all, a great story which was original and fascinating. ---spoiler warning--- 2)a music which i think is the purest that i have ever heard or will ever hear(the best one being the music that comes on dry land when the mariner realizes that dry land is not the place for him) 3)KevinCostner fits the bill perfectly as the enigmatic hero from nowhere and his emotions just perfect(ever tried to 'listen' to the sound of the world). also fantastic acting by Tina,jean and Dennis hopper. 4)great action sequences (especially the escape of the mariner from the smokers during the middle of the film) make it truly stupendous. 5)great settings especially the atoll and the dryland(truly a beautiful scene) 6)the degree of honesty shown( this can be understood only to deep thinkers) 7)And last but not the least a great great ending which i think is the best one ever to be made( especially the scene where we come to know that dry land is actually Mt.Everest).can any movie match these points.think, or see the movie and then think. i bet people who hated the movie will change their minds. with so many points i would like to end with the note that waterworld is truly a dream movie that makes u think and then love it once that you have seen the movie. once again this movie is only for deep and pure thinkers. "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WaterWorld i think is a fantastic movie to watch. This movie was made in 1995, then a few years afterwards the movie was re released as a special edition movie which contains extra footage that has never been seen before. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw Waterworld in the theatre a few years ago - and I didn't like it. I gave it a second chance last night on TV and I still didn't like it. ... and I'm not even sure why. The premise is interesting - Mad Max on water, with many ideas seemingly lifted from Pandora by Frank Herbert, ecological themes...I don't know what went wrong, probably the script, or direction, or both. See, Kevin and his passengers are dead serious while the smokers are cartoony (and downright funny). It's like trying to mix two genres in the same movie.Then, it's impossible to like Kevin's character, and this is probably the deepest flaw. In an action movie you want to relate to the hero and want him/her to succeed. Mind you, this isn't an intellectual movie, with complex personalities, where characters are more than just good/evil. Kevin the seaman is not complex, he's just dull.You can't even laugh at this movie. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My favourite picture.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld is are my favourite picture. Here's why.When I was 13 y.o.,I sought it for the first time. It was the time when my favourite actor was Arnold Schwarzenegger and I could not afford any film genre besides action and sci-fi. Well,it's hard to say how deeply I was shocked. At last I have understand the sense of drama in the movies.                               Star Wars makes me laugh,Terminator-2 makes me cry,WATERWORLD makes me THINK. Waterworld have been turning point in my cinematographical afflictions. Now my TOP-10 includes Martin Scorsese's Kundun,Mel Gibson's Braveheart ,etc. I want to thank Waterworld's crew - they make me smarter. If only there was even smallest possibility of sequel...               "},{"Title":"Yuck and why it cost so much","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The reason this movie cost 300 million to make is the island cost 50 million to build and Keven Costner lived in a house that cost 1,500 a night,that breaks down to about 2 million during the movie shoot,plus the fact Costner made 15 million for the movie. For all that money he wasted he got nothing for it,waterworld was a terrible terrible movie,bad acting,bad everything. 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Exasperating","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This must be one of the most infuriating films ever made. Its strengths are an intriguing scenario, an absorbing first hour and a robust performance from Dennis Hopper. So, what happens then? The second hour degenerates into an incredibly hackneyed lonesome hero protects woman and cute kid story before dribbling away into an insultingly obvious conclusion. This doesn't make Waterworld an altogether bad film, but it could - indeed, should - have been so much better. Full marks for trying, Kevin - but try again eh? "},{"Title":" I've fallen and won't get up ever?","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Junk.This word describes the film.It doesn't know what it is.A comedy,joke,or a thriller.There is no plot.Costner lives in lala land. This movies makes no sense.Exxon Valdez in waterworlds?We laughed at it all week long.Kevin just try to make a movie once in awhile not an EPIC!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"If you crave disappointment I would recommend this film.","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the start this film had promise, however the plot never left the first scene of The world has no land, its all covered with water. After knowing this you can safely miss the next 90% of the film and just watch the final scene without missing anything significant. However Kevin Costner is more believable in this than in Robin Hood Prince of Theves. However for a film with no plot that wastes two hours of your life its rather encapsulating. I found it hard to draw myself away from the picture as I was worried that something interesting would happen and I might miss it; however when the credits appeared I knew that I had been disappointed. "}{"Title":"I've seen it and it is that bad!","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes I actually sat through this entire film and I can confidently say that it is bad -- very bad. Picture _The Road Warrior_ with a vast ocean wasteland instead of a vast dry wasteland. Then throw in the futuristic love story, as well as the leading man, of _The Postman_ and you can pretty much predict this entire movie. It's an adventure story mixed with sci-fi mixed with the cheesy romance that is all too common in films featuring Mr. Costner and it is not done convincingly. There is a hero, a woman, and a girl, evil gangs, lovable comrades, cheesy comic relief and a storybook ending. Just change the character names, the place names and the setting, throw it all into the formula and you get standard Hollywood drudge. And they wonder why no one goes to movies anymore. "},{"Title":"Not the unmitigated disaster it's made out to be, but still pretty awful","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The four saddest words in the English language are what might have been, and Waterworld certainly fits into this template an interesting premise hampered by terrible direction, a script so full of dud one-liners it makes your average adult film sound like Shakespeare, and acting (with the possible exception of Costner) that is cringeworthy in the extreme. The stunt sequences are simply too boring to even care about, and while Costner is one of the biggest movie stars of the past two decades, action man he ain't.Inexplicably, the direction team seems to have given Dennis Hopper a carte blanche to shamelessly overact whenever possible. While this style was disarmingly effective in some of his earlier movies (such as Blue Velvet), he is just laughable here producing an array of facial contortions complete with the frequent eye-bulging symptomatic of a drug addict. If this is supposed to be the point, it fails miserably, as Hopper's maniacal laughter and irrational gesturing made me want to personally set fire to his union membership forms. Costner is far more restrained (some have argued that Costner is never anything OTHER than restrained) as the mysterious boatman with the novelty earring, and he is somewhat believable in his role without ever really getting under the skin (gills?) of his character. The real problem lies in the the performance of Jeanne Tripplehorn, as the the maternal survivor of Hopper's plot to destroy their floating communal home. Quite simply, Tripplehorn is disastrous, on a par with Madonna in Swept Away and your choice of Affleck or Lopez in Gigli. I'm trying to think of terrible performances, and ultimately Tripplehorn shares the award with Elizabeth Hurley in Bedazzled. Suffice to say, she's not up to much.The romantic moments (usually a reliable facet of typical Costner films) have little or no chemistry due to the detailing of Costner's character as an emotionless iceman. But to be fair to him, I wouldn't have any romantic inclinations towards Jeanne Tripplehorn either.That said, Waterworld has its moments. The occasional action piece is well constructed, and the conclusion (whilst a sentimental cop out) is satisfactory.Overall, though, this is a blot on the careers of all involved.4/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty bad.","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was excited to see Waterworld when it came out back in 1995. I guess I was too stupid to have heard of its awful advance previews and its months on the shelves; an action delivered by a studio fearing wasting money on a hugely expensive flop.Well, they wasted their money, all right. This film (which cost way too much - i.e. millions upon millions) is rightfully acknowledged as one of the largest disasters in cinema history. Rivalling Battlefield Earth in the Ego of the Star department, this was supposedly a personal battle of Kevin Costner. He saw potential in the project and fought to get it made.Now let's look at this logically, yes? The plot The future is a post-apocalyptic world where polar ice caps have melted or something, and hence the world is a floating assortment of pirates, ships and people who look like they just stumbled out of a 1492 The Legend of Columbus re-enactment.Oh yes, it's bad. What did Costner see in the material? I don't know. Whatever it was, it seemed to put his career on hold for more than a few years. Even when he came back, he never really came back. It's interesting that Costner has made two disaster post-apocalypse movies...this and The Postman. You may be asking yourself why a man as well-adjusted as Costner has a fixation on destruction and chaos? Well, there's only one answer I have no idea. Whatever it is, I suggest he seek psychiatric help immediately. I don't want to have to sit through a Waterworld II The Return of the Postman any time soon. "},{"Title":"Great concept, but poorly executed","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love films like this, and what a great concept.  Regrettably, this film has no continuity and drags until its conclusion.  Too long, and too many senseless scenes.  There is a few good action scenes, and that is the only grace for this film.  Costner's performance is awful, I do not know if the script was intended to make his character look wooden or withdrawn, but the audience lacks any sympathy for the man.  Huge error for the script; maybe, they were trying to copy the Road Warrior.  This film is an example that a high budget can not replace a good script, or a good rewrite.  I find this sad, because with one more rewrite this film  would be a classic, and give Costner the long last mark of his film legacy.   I like him better as the bad guy with his silent approach, instead of the hero.  Do not watch 3/10  "},{"Title":"Environmentalist lovefest","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, it is a ripoff of The Road Warrior set on the ocean, but I think the thing that I really can't stand about this movie is the ultra-liberal environmentalist tone of the movie. I mean, the basic premise of the whole movie that global warming melts the polar ice caps & covers the earth in water, the evil bad guys use internal-combustion engines burning hydrocarbon fuels while the good guys use environmentally-friendly wind power. It's no accident that they used the Exxon Valdez, the ship which caused the world's worst oil spill, as the base for the evil guys. And Deacon, the head evil guy, wants to find dry land so he can mow down all the trees! Obviously this is a reference to evil logging companies cutting down poor innocent trees in the Pacific Northwest. And to top it all off, the bad guys smoke cigarettes! How evil can you get? Not to mention that there's no explanation why or how the world's supply of cigarettes ended up on an oil tanker.Of course, they seem not to mention that when the Valdez blows up in the end, it would cause a large oil spill. Of course, with no land, there would be no innocent baby seals to get killed by the oil, so I guess there's no problem.I'm no arch-conservative, but it's obvious the message that was being sent by this movie. It's obvious that a couple of liberal ex-hippies came up with the idea for this movie while watching The Road Warrior while high.Some of the action scenes are passable, but not good enough to save the entire movie. Watch this one if you're bored and it's on cable, but don't waste your time renting it. "},{"Title":"This film really is great.","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have spent the last five or so years defending the reputation of this movie.  Just because this movie cost quite a bit to make, the critics had it out.  Predicted a flop before it was even released on the silver screen.  I can imagine the polar ice caps melting and flooding the majority of the world.  Jesus, look at the Greenhouse Effect.  And has anyone else noticed how weird the seasons are anymore.  But this movie is true sci-fi.  First, you have the not so appealing cast.  Kevin Costner takes the lead, and does a great job.  He plays a mariner that has evolved from normal homosapiens.  He now has gills to help him live in this future world.  So it makes sense that he should have more street smarts and belongings than most.  But the Jeanne Tripplehorn character stank as bad as the fish in the water surrounding them.  I could see any actress cast in her spot.  She brought nothing to the movie.  Jesus, young Tina Majorino did a better job in this one.  And she is probably triple her age.  But the main star that made this movie what it is, would have to be Dennis Hopper, my favorite actor of all time.  He plays the ruthless, greedy, fearless tyrant, The Deacon of the 'deez.  Exxon Valdez that is.  He is the only one with a half a brain in this film, besides Costner.  He decides to take the helm and draft as many drifters as he can to be in his army.  And it is a race against time to find the greatest prize, dry land.  Full of great dialog and wonderful battle scenes, this movie should be viewed at least once.  I will admit that there are a few slow scenes, but shouldn't be skipped the first time around.  My friends and I based a shot game on this movie.  I have seen it twenty times easily.  So I guess you can sum up the movie by saying that it is a journey to find dry land, if it even exists.  And just like 98% of all movies, it does have a happy ending.  But Hopper doesn't go down without a fight.  I rate this movie 4/5 for the presence of Dennis Hopper and all the aquatic battle scenes.  I would at least rent this one if you aren't brave enough to buy it.  Of the record, Costner directed a few of the sequences in this one.  Probably the best Kevin Costner movie I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you remember","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Im glad that in recent years people have acknowledged that Waterworld is a far better movie then it was considered at the time. Waterworld was one of the most expensive films ever made at the time, so when the film ended up being alright people got disappointed. I admit, there are a bunch of problems, Costner's acting is a bit on the wooden side, the kid can be a little annoying, and there are a couple of small plot holes. However, I find the movie a lot of fun. The world it creates is awesome, and I wish there was more expansion to it, because its really interesting. Dennis Hopper is enjoyably over the top as The Deacon. The effects are great, watching all the machines move is really cool. Waterworld is by no means a great movie, but a bad one? Definataly not. Don't go in expecting a great film, just go in wanting to have fun, and you will. "},{"Title":"In A World Where...","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kevin Reynolds and Kevin Costner co-directed this big-budget science fiction-adventure film set in an undetermined future time after the polar ice caps have melted, flooding the world with water, and the few human survivors either exist in boats as scavengers or pirates. One such scavenger named Mariner(played by Kevin Costner) meets a woman(played by Jeanne Tripplehorn) and a young girl who are sought after by pirates(led by Dennis Hopper) who want them for a map of dry land that is somehow tattooed on the girl's back, and Mariner must protect them so that they can reach it themselves...if it really exists. Mostly waterlogged film had some potential but is squandered in a clichéd plot, and story that fails to involve the viewer. For all the money spent on it, it should aspire to be more than Mad Max on the water! "},{"Title":"Don't take the critics word...ever","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think this is a great flick!! The kind of movie that you can just sit and absorb (ha ha..waterworld..ha..eh hem moving on...), as I have commented on several other films- you just need to let yourself go! Go with the flow. And no that is not the end of the clichés. I have loved this movie since I was 7, which goes to show the wide range of entertainment potential. The idea is highly original (quite an achievement by today's standards) and the action is never stagnant or slow. The story is easy to understand; the premise simple- ice caps have melted, world under water, survivors battling on. The great ocean visuals are an awesome backdrop and the fight/escape sequences are nicely suspenseful while not dragging on. The acting is great in my opinion, and of a calibre no more or less than you would expect. And what does everyone have against Kevin Kostner anyway? Everywhere he turns up, so does the phrase since Dance's With Wolves and one or more of no good, downhill, bland etc. Every actor has a few bad turns, but give him a break, he's just playing character's in his style; which is what he's best at. I think he's charismatic and engaging actually...(maybe it's because he reminds me of dad..weird). Great movie, great story, definitely one of Kev's best. Just step down from your high-horse and see this movie. "},{"Title":"Call it MAD MAX on water","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  thats exactly what it is...if you liked Mel Gibson's Roadwarrior movies you might like it even though the idea is totally stolen...also watch if you wanna see Costner drink his own pee...not a good movie not terrible either...5 out of 10- "}{"Title":"Watered down  Mad Max","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld starts off quite reasonably, but soon levels out into a boring one-dimensional plot. A large proportion of the 'action' takes place at sea, which doesn't help - I found myself longing for more varied locations. Its one saving grace is Jeanne Tripplehorn, who plays the female lead - looking very horny indeed throughout the film!  "},{"Title":"Mad Max at sea.","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie plays a lot like a Mad Max movie.  Only in this one the future world is entirely covered in water.  Though I liked The Road Warrior more, this one was pretty good.  I always like movies at sea, and you get that here.  The story has this man who has gills going into a port to trade some goods.  While there it is discovered he has gills so they try to get him and do.  They plan on killing him.  Fortunately, a gang who smokes and uses gas powered vehicles attacks and a woman and girl free the gill man (Costner) and they get away.  There is apparently a map on the girls back that gives directions to dry land and the rest of the film is them trying to find it and trying to rescue the girl who gets captured by the gang.  Not the best flick in the world, but it does have some memorable sets and a lot of water.  Though I highly doubt that if the polar ice caps melted the entire world except on piece would be covered in water.   "},{"Title":"'A Beauty'","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Kevin, Jeanne,& the excellent performance of Tina, everything, from the story, production, editing, and acting made this film a beauty, and one of my all time favorites. It would have been even better (and suitable for children) if some of the over use of violence & sex references, plus the scenes of Dennis Hopper playing around with his artificial eye - and socket, were removed. Unfortunately the USA film industry seems to think every film it makes HAS to exploit EVER WIDENING boundaries in the use of unnecessarily foul language, sex and violence. The more of each that they can manage to add - In their eyes - must improve a film. Sorry, the reverse is true. A WELL MADE movie doesn't NEED to over exploit their use. "},{"Title":"A little lame (spoiler)","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really disliked the beginning of this movie where the main character is urinating into a cup.  It seemed, at least to me, that it was supposed to be a funny beginning, but it was really kind of gross.  I thought that it was a little unrealistic.  For example, Kevin Costner's (main character, Mariner) boat is very unrealistic.  It seems impossible for him to make his boat like that with the few supplies he probably had.  Another thing is that I thought it was really gruesome when you saw the Deacon's bloody eye socket. (pleh!) Also, whey the Mariner cuts Enola and Helen's hair out of anger, Enola's hair looks pretty good to have been angrily cut off with a knife.  The action was good and Dennis Hopper (the Deacon) played a good bad guy.  All in all, I have to say it was quite disappointing.  "},{"Title":"Big Movie","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A lot of people didnt understand this film.It is my feeling that this movie was misunderstood.  I thought this film was big. With great vistas,it made you think about WHAT IF.The young girl did a great job acting in a role a lot of older actors might not have done so well.The strange people on that floating island looked like you would think people would,under those conditions, all ragged and such.The action was fast and stark,like that sequence with 50 cal.machine gun,loud and suspenseful.Watch it more than once and get the full effect of the story and the people in it.  "},{"Title":"don't bother","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can not think of a reason why anyone would want to sit through  this film, i did but that's something i am just going to have to come to terms with on my own. The only vaguely interesting thing about it is Dennis Hoppers tab smoking bad guy, even this is little comfort in the maelstrom that surrounds him. Save time and energy and watch Mad Max 2 again instead. "},{"Title":"Watered down","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"   This movie never had potential to be anything more than a popcorn movie. Kevin Costner stars as a drifter in this post apocalyptic world which is completely covered in water. Dirt is equal to our gold and a group of pirates plan an attack on the Atoll. The atoll is a floating city. The mariner has fins and gills which made him able to go in the underwater world and bring up our past as treasure. When he goes to this Atoll he is imprisoned as a freak. A beautiful woman and a little girl with a tattoo on the back of her neck which can be the map to dry land, are go with the Mariner after the smokers attack. The movie has some bad acting and corny limes but the action is good. Dennis Hopper plays the leader of the smoker gang. Let a lesson in film making be learned, dont make wannabe blockbuster movies on water. **1/3 out of **** (Explosions and stunts cant make ****) "},{"Title":"Ignore all the negative press comments","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film came in for a lot of unnecessarily harsh criticism from most of the media. However, if you can ignore that and forget about all the on-set problems and the fact that it was (pre-Titanic) the most expensive movie ever, you may be in for an unexpected treat. Just watch the film without any such pre-conceived ideas about what to expect and you'll probably enjoy it. It's not the best film ever made, but it's along way from being one of the worst. "},{"Title":"Better than the abuse it took","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld was original (although some thought it too much like Mad Max)and I liked it. This was a prime example of the power of the press trashing something before it was even finished. I preferred the longer, televised version aired on ABC. The film was exciting and funny...Dennis Hopper was a hoot. "},{"Title":"Oh gosh, this movie is fun...","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...fun for those who dropped out of school before 2nd grade. This has to be the worst Special FX laden (FX does not  redeemer)piece of trash that I've seen. Although there will be those that will say man, forget you, this movie was fun and exciting, I have a few points to contradict that If the earth warmed up, the glaciers of both poles would not be enough to cover all the continents. Somehow (in this movie) when it did cover land, the only survivors left were from the same country and secluded in one clump. Does the flood water have a biased mind of it's own? Costner's hero was unheroic and unconvincing. He played this half-man half-amphibian superhuman, and it's never really explained how he ended up that way, other than that it was in the script. And let's not forget Dennis Hopper's performance as the villain. Not a villain, just Dennis Hopper playing another villain. So much for not being type-cast. There was poor word of mouth prior to this film's release, with words such as sinker and flop being the most common.If you haven't seen this movie, avoid it at all costs. That includes a free TV-version.    "}{"Title":"Not so bad.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a neat movie. Mad Max of the seas. Costner does a good job of a mean half man/half fish, who turns out to be a good guy during the movie. Dennis Hopper is great as the bad guy if not a little campy.Sure some of the things about this movie is not possible, but what if a chunk of ice from space crashed into the oceans and the polar caps melted too. Then the oceans would swamp all land.I enjoyed the movie, some folks need to have more imagination and let go some. "},{"Title":"Best movie of the 20th century","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It is a pretty safe decision to make now that the 20th century is behind us. But I really got taken up by this movie. The concept was good. The sets were very good. Kevin Costner was superb and the direction was flawless. I fail to understand why this movie flopped in the US? It is about life on earth after the polar ice caps melt. Don't miss this movie at all. "},{"Title":"An overlooked film","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this is a very good movie. It shows Kevin in a different action role. I really don't like science fictions movies, but this could happen, if we continue with our pollution and global heating. I hope it will be better recognized as a good movie in the future. "},{"Title":"Boring.","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dead boring after all the hype and the dollars, a very long film with an incredibly glum and dull main character and where nothing really interesting ever happens (the floating island exercise is NOT and exception). And of course, you can tell what is going to happen at the end from the very beginning. One redeemable feature though evil chain smoking Dennis Hopper and The smokers cruising the planet on board the Exon Valdez. "},{"Title":"Mad Max on water.","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Kevin Costner's folly? This movie is hardly as bad as a whole lot of critics think. As for scenery...the water is beautiful. Costner plays Mariner, a mutant man-fish of sorts who helps survivors find the mythical Dryland. The earth has been flooded by the melting polar ice caps. The bad guys in this floating action drama is a band of hooligans called The Smokers , led by the dastardly wicked Deacon(Dennis Hopper). Mariner aids a woman(Jeanne Tripplehorn)and her daughter(Tina Majorino), who happens to have a map to the Dryland tattooed on her back. Not exactly riveting, but episodes of loud action. Some of the violence is pretty harsh and to some may be disturbing. 135 minutes may be too much to endure. Costner may have shot the wad and diminished his star power with this one. Also in the cast Chaim Girafi, Michael Jeter, Kim Coates, Robert A. Silverman, R.D. Call and Jack Black. "},{"Title":"better than space odyssey 2001","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is not a bomb its good but not the best. A Space odyssey is the most terrible bomb movie, least thats what i think. Waterworld should have got more higher ratings than a Space odyssey 2001 but they both should have been on the bottom score board. Lets start from number one positive sides of the movie Waterworld.1. Waterworld had explosions. 2. Waterworld had Kevin Costner. 3. Waterworld had a good story plot in it. 4. Waterworld had good fighting.Now lets start with the negative side of Waterworld.1. If you saw the movie for the first time it could almost put you to sleep, so if you saw the movie the second time you would go to sleep finally but why the first time because it has some action in it. 2. Most of the movie was on water.  "},{"Title":"Fine idea, but ends up in a normal Hollywood action-film.","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The beginning of the movie looked well, but just after the first action-scene it just went down. We find all the usual types. The evil type with all his evil plans about kidnapping the little girl, to get the tattoo-map on her back. We have the tough good-guy who lives alone on the sea. He's a mutant, he can breath under water and has enhanced senses. He doesn't like the girl and the woman at all. But of course he calms down at last, and becomes the usual over-sensitive macho-hero that will go through fire and risk his life to save his little friend.So, thumbs down, i gave it a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"If you want to get put to sleep....","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was visiting a friend for a weekend and was having trouble sleeping , he said i have the perfect solution His perfect solution was the movie Waterworld. I had not seen this movie before so in the video went and sure enuff , i was out within an half an hour and slept like a baby all through the nite.I woke the next morning wondering what happend in the movie that was SO boring that i fell asleep ( i am usually good at staying awake throught even the most boring movie) so i decided to brew a pot of coffee and slam it previous to watching the movie again. i finally after a few sitting and pots of coffee got through this entire movie , and in my opinion was that this was the MOST BORING MOVIE EVER. the only thing that made this movie even remotely watchable were the funny quotes by the deacon char. Piece, The 55 "},{"Title":"Not the best movie ever, though not the worst.","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While watching this movie, I admit that there were times I rolled my eyes and thought, oh, brother.  And there were times that I simply burst out laughing.  Although, that's not necessarily a bad thing. The movie may not have been realistic, although it was entertaining.  Dennis Hopper was hilarious as the villain, though Kevin Costner's attended hero character was dull.  He was the strong, silent type, in other words, he barely had any lines.  I would recommend this movie to someone who is just looking to be entertained for a couple of hours.  Overall, 4/10. "},{"Title":"Positive among the negatives","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All the time I hear people using Waterworld as a yardstick for a lousy movie.  I have to say that I very much enjoyed it. A great cast and a very good humoured script. It looks GREAT. There have been thousands of absolutely awful films which could be held up as the ultimate dummer. I feel it was at least on a par with Costner's Robin Hood (Which was made by the same production team)  The critics just weren't with him on this one. "}{"Title":"No. 1 on the worst movie ever!!!!","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sorry, but this is the worst movie ever. A lame script (very), the biggest budget ever and not so good actors!!! The script has a plot that goes nowhere.... and where did all the water come from??? I saw better movie with a budget under 500000$ So the budget is not all u need for a good movie. If u didn't see it.. good for u!! u did not miss anything!!! I wonder what happened to have a script like that... it's a Mad Max on water. Where is the originality... where did it go??? next time, hope they put that money in something good!!!! "},{"Title":"very unique","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a pretty original movie, I haven't seen another like it and it's very very good. In the future glaciers all over the world melt and all but one large landmass is taken over by water. Everyone lives on ships or are seperate drifters searching for the one last piece of land still above water. This movie is done very well the acting is good, and you really feel sorry for the surviving people of the future. There is a lot of action in this movie I recommend it to everybody! I give it a 8 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of all time","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Waterworld can be classified as one of the greatest movies of all time based on location, photography, diction, plot, character development and special effects. Coster is superb, as usual.  Tripplehorn is sexy and can carry a line even though it seems to be the wrong one.  Hopper was at his best in the movie Hoosiers an gives an equally satisfying performance in Waterworld. The girl who plays Enola is going to be a bright light in the future of the motion picture industry.  She was great in Alice in Wonderland. Waterworld is the best--in my top 10!! "},{"Title":"Creative idea, mediocre execution","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The film's premise isn't original, but effective in it's new context.  The film is basically like Mad Max only after the submergence of the continents due to the melting of the polar ice-caps.  Would work more effectively if the lead wasn't Kevin Costner.  Once again, it's Kevin Costner starring as Kevin Costner as a naturally bad actor.  Idea to shoot on the ocean is effective, creates believable atmosphere.  The little mutant girl is scary and ugly.  "},{"Title":"The critics are wrong","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie Waterworld deserves much more credit than it is given. In my opinion, the critics are wrong. This movie is quite original, and though it is science-fiction, it is not entirely impossible to think that we might someday be living in a Waterworld if the polar ice caps melt. The actors and actresses all did stunning jobs, and they are to be commended. The music is also to be applauded - the soundtrack is one of my favorites. In my own opinion, this movie deserves a 20 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Super Cinematography","Date":"28 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  IMHO and for what it's worth cinematography...top-quality; plot...a somewhat (un)pithy fish story.  My overall film rating 4 (of 10).  "},{"Title":"I'm one of those...","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" who can't see a reason to watch this movie.Really,I can't.Kevin Costner is not an action-hero to begin with,he is best suited for romantic dramas and maybe comedies.NOT action and adventure. The movie itself is of course a Mad Max rip-off as many already stated. A very obvious one.I like gloomy visions of the future,but there are so many better ones out there.Blade Runner,for instance.Seeing Kevin Costner dressed up as a fish-man is not my cup of tea.The basic story is that earth's ice sheets has melted due to environmental destruction and the surface is covered with oceans.A man who has become so adapted to the new environment that he's partially fish;appears like the lone ranger living on a raft,alone,independent,strong,tough,extracting drinking water from his urine.He encounters a fraction of people living in a kind of society in the middle of nowhere,he fights villains,meets beautiful woman,fights more villains.Seems familiar? He eventually becomes the messiah-type figure who is supposed to lead people to a mythical Dry Land.The scenery is great though,I admit I'm a sucker for grand scenery. "},{"Title":"Six doughnuts short of a dozen","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Waterworld was a great attempt bungled by over publicity and just terrible acting. Kevin Costner showed zero emotion and barely seemed human in this movie. You know your in trouble when a little girl beats you in acting. The plot of the movie was creative and could have worked with some different changes. The evil guy was a but too stupid looking along with his biker like cronies. The story and acting combined to fail miserbaly, when the story itself would have done better alone. Also the overpublicizing of the film before it came out made peoples expectations higher than the movie could deliver. They should have kept a low profile if they couldn't handle the press. "},{"Title":"Glug-Glug-Glug ...&... Gurgle-Gurgle-Gurgle","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" So, kids, how's this for a deliciously riveting opening scene from Waterworld, the $175 million movie-extravaganza? A seriously balding Kevin Costner (as the badass Mariner) is standing (positioned facing away from the camera) on his drifting trimaran while earnestly peeing away into a large, plastic measuring cup.Following the necessity of this act, Mariner then pours this precious, yellow liquid into a ridiculous, primitive-looking filtering contraption. And once his pee has filtered its way into a waiting container below (are you ready for this?), he greedily grabs up the beaker and downs its contents in one thirsty gulp! (Shlurp! Shlurp! Shlurp! Dee-licious!) In my opinion, this opening, thirst-quenching scene pretty much set the mood for the remainder of Waterworld's predictably tiresome 140-minute running time.Believe me, this 1995, Sci-Fi/Action picture, set in the year 2500, was a total nose-picker from start to finish. The visuals were lousy, the dialogue demented, the battle scenes limp-wristed, and the characters despicable, one and all.It really figures that Costner also served as a co-producer for this grate-on-your-nerves piece of junk.Not only was Costner paid $14 million to star as the Mariner, but he also raked in a percentage of Waterworld's gross profits, as well. (This probably didn't amount to a helluva lot, though, since this film (deservedly) bombed, big-time, upon its initial release. "},{"Title":"Despite the undeserved kicking, this is still an enjoyable summer blockbuster, nothing more but certainly nothing less","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The polar icecaps have melted, all land has been lost below the rising waves and man has had to adapt to a new world where the survivors live wholly on the sea. Mankind now exists within several key groups slavers, smokers, small communities and lone sailors who trade their way as they go. One such trader is the Mariner, a tough, lone man who mistrusts everyone &#150; a mistrust that is proved correct when a community spots he is also a mutant and sentences him to death. Before it can be carried out though, the Smokers attack and the Mariner is able to escape thanks to a woman and a little girl. However the little girl also happens to be the only existing map to dry land and the Mariner finds himself pursued by the Smokers.Everyone knows that the critics had buried this one before it even reached a single screen. It is rare for critics to see horrible movies &#150; few of these make it to the cinema &#150; so whenever they get the chance to write a scathing review, they tend to take it and run with it. However as the critics moved onto the bandwagons of other years, Waterworld has been left to stand for itself and be judged on its own merits. When you look at it as it actually is, the film just sits as an OK blockbuster, nothing more but certainly nothing less either. The plot is a cross between Mad Max on water and the standard tough guy coming to love little kid things that provides a plot driver and supposedly an emotional way in. In creating a good story, it doesn't really manage it because it is too full of holes and lacks a real sense of engaging motion and characters but then, isn't that something you could say of many blockbusters.The creation of its own future is pretty well done and it all looks good even if it does lack any sense of logic. Again, I don't understand why it got such a kicking because to my eye it looked pretty good considering the challenges of shooting on water. Too many lazy reviewers (professional and amateur alike) have jumped on the all at sea line when talking about the performances and, although few are that great, lazy joking is rather a critique. Costner goes for a dark hero but misses a bit and ends up just being a bit unrelatable until his predictable sea change (sorry) at the end. He is still OK but didn't help me get into the characters. Tripplehorn is basic and her character could have easily been played by anyone. Majorino is annoying of course but then she is a typical cute kid role and nothing more. Hopper at least has fun and he does add a bit of enjoyment to the film where the others are forced to treat the material a bit more seriously; the film's high points generally come when he is on screen. The rest of the cast fill the space but don't do a great deal else but then, like many blockbusters, this is not an actor's film.Overall then, critically mauled and great fun for critics of the time but in essence it is just another in a long line of average blockbuster movies. The cast aren't great, the story is so-so, the action is enjoyable and the design of it looks good (albeit a bit too much indebted to Mad Max). Nothing special about it and mostly memorable for the kicking it unjustly received but if you are looking for an apocalyptic summer blockbuster then there is no reason why this shouldn't do the job. "}{"Title":"Controversial, but still no good","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A film that so much has been talked about; you shouldn't get past the point that it's actually no good whatsoever.Kevin Costner films are legendary for two things going on for ever and being rubbish.  This succeeds on both counts.The acting is terrible even the usually excellent baddie Dennis Hopper is a shadow of some of his other roles, the story is just silly and about the only thing worth seeing is some brilliant camera work in some of the panoramic scenes towards the end.Don't waste your time - you have better things to do with 5 billion hours! "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made. A fact.","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Till today I was OK with the trash that many producers and studios made, threw it on us and then expected us to eat. But hush-hush no-more &#150; Waterworld is that kind of garbage and I won't tolerate that anymore. Kevin Costner must be in a terrible process of decadence if he made such a film; and co-directed it as well. Oh, the horror - nothing was right the props were terrible and I guess the art-director didn't use his common sense when he designed the - wide - open - never - ending - ocean. This movie makes the sea look bad and at some point I got down on my knees and prayed that the characters will die in a terrible way in the end. I prayed. I don't even believe in God! That's how bad that movie was. I couldn't even watch it patiently. I couldn't stop moving, looking at the furniture for forgiveness, asking them to put an end to my misery. The script was - - - that doesn't even have a word, and the co-stars... OH LORD!!! I felt so sorry for the movie that I couldn't give it 1 star (and that's the only reason!) because even the kid was terrible. I didn't like her in Waterworld and I don't like her in Veronica Mars. The music tried to squeeze some sympathy but I didn't have much for the poor actors who had to fight their way to the - only - land - left and sadly found it eventually. The music wasn't the right choice for that kind of trashy - movie - for - 5 - year - old - kids - and - a - futuristic - blockbuster - that - wasn't - thank - God. Can someone find something reasonable in the movie? No? I know why - because there isn't!!!!!!!!!! Please don't make anyone, ever, remake that film all over again without a major re-writing and a profound thinking about the actors. PLEASE!!! "},{"Title":"All the money's up there...","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Titanic, another expensive 1990s movie, managed better to combine action and chick flick.  This is an action movie that manages badly  the romantic side (but makes the effort). The ending is American.I was surprised at the boringly obvious left-wing Hollywood slant to the story.  Those terrible, terrible corporations and those greedy, rapacious gas-guzzlers.  For such a budget, I thought the morality could be higher priced.Compared to Heaven's Gate, Waterworld was in fact fun to watch.  No endless wedding scenes or pointless dance sequences.  But see Waterworld in 5.1 digital on a wide home screen.  The sound alone is a couple of hundred million great.  "},{"Title":"promising start and boring end","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't care about how much the movie cost. I just saw an interesting and sumptuary start that led to a stupid hollywoodish happy-ending. With the Mariner starting to like the little girl and boarding the big freighter to rescue her, the film became ridiculously pc, extremely predictable, and boring. Good thing, I got to see it for very little money! "},{"Title":"Wet remake of 'Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior'.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Move 'Mad Max 2 The Road Warrior' from Broken Hill to Hawaii, lobotomize the script, replace Mel Gibson with Kevin Costner, add a $100 million or so, and this is what you get. Hopper is typecast as the villain, but at least he's more fun than the wooden Costner. There are some good jokes and exciting moments, but just think how many INTERESTING movies could have been made with this much money, and you'll see why so many people hate it. "},{"Title":"A rip-off of Road Warrior","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I hated this movie.  Instead of renting this, rent Mel Gibson's Road Warrior, since they are both basically the same but Gibson is much better than Costner.Dennis Hopper was the high point of the movie, but it's a shame they spent so much money to make such a bomb.   "},{"Title":"$200M down the (enormous) drain","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All I could think of while I was watching this derivative, hokey, silly sci-fi fantasy was They could have made ten $20 million movies for what this cost.Think about it--ten The Usual Suspects, ten Fargos, ten This is Spinal Taps, ten . . .I don't want to think about it. "},{"Title":"Playing solitaire would have been a better use of three hours.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I predicted the entire plot after seeing five minutes of the movie.  Hoped for a plot twist, was disappointed.  I don't understand why even hard-core sci-fi geeks could have liked this one.  The only redeeming feature was the set design; concentrating on it kept me from killing myself. "},{"Title":"A disappointing movie","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I worked on this movie as an extra.  I was one of the smokers on the deck of the Dez (or however you spell the name of the tanker).This movie was very disappointing.  With all that money they surely could have made a better movie.  Save your money and don't see this movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is all wet","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I worked on this movie as an extra.  We were on the deck of the old tanker. Although there was some creative work on this movie in the end it was rather uncreative and failed to exploit an interesting concept.  I want to be proud of the movies I have been in, but this movie does not make me proud. "}{"Title":"Hard Work Paid Off","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There was no inflated ego at work here---this to the very first person who gave their opinion at the top.  Do you think making this movie was just a joy ride to try and see how much money could be blown?  I think not!  Kevin Costner had to finish this movie when the cowardly director pulled a juvenile fit and gave up.  He put in his 110% like he always does.  I saw this movie in a packed theater, with lines wrapped around the building to get into the stadium seating theater to see it.  The crowd loved it.  I saw it in one of the worst summers I ever had in my life.  It made me laugh and have a great time. Kevin Costner is a great actor and makes every movie enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Sinks Deep Under the Water.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A friend once told me that if the North Pole was to be melted, Earth would become nothing but a huge ocean.  That was probably the purpose for WATERWORLD, a movie possibly inspired by that theory.  It tries to be the greatest movie ever made and then it becomes nothing more than a laughing stock for the sad and lonely.  This film has awful special effects, a pointless story and a ridiculously huge budget (it was the most expensive movie ever made at the time of its release).  A pitiful excuse for an epic masterpiece.0 out of 5 "},{"Title":"BEWARE","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is what I call disappointment. I've seen 'Waterworld' a few years ago and I still believe that this is one of the worst high budget movies ever made. It's not entertaining, there is no suspense or action, there is nothing interesting in it. And Costner... I never liked him (although I appreciate his parts in 'Dances with Wolves' and The Untouchables') but this is probably his worst act ever. You shouldn't watch this film, even if you have nothing else to do.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing beyond belief","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I echo the sentiments of the reviewer who feels shorter after seeing this movie, and I urge all to avoid it.  I saw it, thankfully, for free on TV, and did not enrich the producers in any way.  I love good post-apocalyptic fiction.  That made me doubly disappointed in this movie.  While spending money (or even without spending much), why not make a coherent, believable world?  Costner did the same thing he did in The Postman.  He took an interesting, fruitful premise and killed it with humorless acting, self-aggrandizement, and a need for too many action shots.  (The Postman, BTW, was originally a *wonderful* book by David Brin.  Now my memory of that book is tarnished by the memory of the movie.)How, we are left to wonder, could hardened mortals survive without the Mariner or the Postman to guide them?  A much better use of one's time would be to sit for a couple of hours and imagine What would life be like in a water-covered world?  I guarantee that this will provide better ideas than the entire creative talent of this movie did. "},{"Title":"Bas as it gets","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, there are bad movies that know they are bad and end up prettydecent. Then there is Waterworld. This movie is bad because ittries to be good but fails in all acount. First, the plot. If you have seen Road Warrior, you saw this movie.The same plot, the only differance was Road Warrior was new andfresh at the time of it's release and MUCH better.Second, the acting. Costner acts like he is made of wood.Hooper is so over the top, it is annoying. The rest of the cast iswell, either the sterotypical half crazy evil thug or I'm innocenthelpless target of the thugs. Third, the set and stage. It is terrible. How much rusted metal andtattered clothes do we have to look at/Fourth the plot and story. Where did they get all the jet skies? Howdid they keep them running? Where do they get fresh water? etc?Now, i like an action movie as well as anyone, the Road Warrior forexample. But this movie tries to take itself serious and is nothingmore than a formulistic story with bad acting. Sink the movie andwatch Road Warrior instead.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever, yeah!","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bad movies amaze me. Nothing can be more fun in the Saturday evening than settling in my favorite chair with a couple of beers and a remote, then finding a really bad movie and enjoying it to the full extent of its stupidity. I love finding plot holes in lame scripts, predicting cliched lines of cartoonish characters, and making fun of lousy acting. To me, Waterworld was just what I needed. I laughed and I cried for 2 1/2 hours. After the final credits rolled I booted up my laptop and logged on to IMDB with the intention of writing a praise to this masterpiece of bad-movie-making. I thought the fun was over. Wrong. In the user reviews I read this, and I quoteStar Wars makes me laugh,Terminator-2 makes me cry,WATERWORLD makes me THINK.After reading this, I literally fell off my chair. Now, the Usenet acronym ROTFL has a whole new meaning to me. Damn Ukrainians and their twisted sense of humor.Rating 1/10, yeah!  "},{"Title":"horrible, awful, dreadful movie.  A must-see.","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so bad you expect to see Kevin Costner in it.  Huge budget exceeded by Kevin Costner's ego.  Memorable scenes include- Gas-powered jet skis waiting underwater for our hero.  Hello!  Internal combustion engines need air!- An oil tanker propelled by a bunch of people with oars.  Scotty, give us warp 10!- Said oil tanker blown up using a conveniently placed and open vent.Add to that bad acting, bad directing, bad editing and you have one of the worst films ever.  Almost makes you want to see Robin Hood or Dances With Cows. "},{"Title":"Waterworld doesn't live up to expectations","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"14 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this movie yesterday for the first time.  I had always heard how much was spent on the making of this film.  All I have to say is...AHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!  What a horrible movie!!  The opening scene with Costner is probably one of the worst in film history.  I hated this film.  Looking at nothing but water is very boring.  The special effects were bland and even worse in the final shots over a blue screen.  (You know which shots!)In the end, I really didn't care if Costner made it to land or not.  His character hates everybody and then magically changes in the next scene.  Too much was wasted on location than on actual special effects and acting.  Two thumbs down, way down. "},{"Title":"This movie subtracted from my personhood.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"26 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dances With Wolves is my favorite movie.  Waterworld is my least favorite. You can now understand how troubled I must be, having been so betrayed by Mr. Costner.I watched Waterworld with some friends in a theater.  We didn't know anything about it going in.  Coming out So, what did you think? I didn't like it much, actually. Me either, it kind of sucked.  In fact, it sucked bigtime. I'll second that.  Could you believe how stupid it was? No kidding, some parts were so retarded I almost vomited! Dude, I feel shorter.  Does anyone else feel shorter?. From that point on, all of us have had trouble sustaining relationships, keeping jobs, and passing classes.  I for one can only watch movies with the Olsen Twins now, I don't know why.  I'm dictating this review, because I forgot how to read and write.  I plan on filing a civil suit.Please, if it is not too late, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!  It will steal all your strength, and you will end up a useless invalid like me.  God help Mr. Costner and the rest of Hollywood so that they may never inflict this kind of tragedy upon civilization again.  Waterworld equals nerve gas.If you really want the details, here I go.  The whole plot is so scientifically inconceivable that there is no way to take it seriously.  The inconsistencies are endless.  Apparently everthing is terribly scarce, except for cigarettes and jet-skis, which are a dime a dozen.  Yet any plant or sheet of paper is worth a man's life, so the story goes.Script STINKS!  Acting STINKS!  Set STINKS!  Dennis Hopper's acting awards should be taken away for this.  Kevin Costner's name should be forever removed from Dances.  The only reason this movie deserves a 1 is Jeanne Tripplehorn.  She makes me triple-horny, but watch The Firm to see her.I swear, I'm going to end up in a group home if I keep thinking about this, but please, as my final request, don't let them do to you what they've done to me! "},{"Title":"weak....","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie could have been much better if it didn't have such a political slant to it. What is Costners' problem with Christianity? Every movie he makes has evil people with Christian names or ideals. I certainly understand trying to make a point with this, but Costner is so politically driven by his own out-of-touch ideology, that it gets in the way of making movies that we can all enjoy. Yeah, I liked Dances with Wolves. But Costners ego was sent into the stratosphere due to its success and hasn't made a decent movie since. Problem with this movie is that it was made during the height of the global warming scare that has been largely de- bunked and most reasonable people didn't buy most of the scare anyhow. If you paid to see this movie than I feel for you. If you haven't seen it, don't worry, you didn't miss anything. "}{"Title":"A solid 5","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The hype around this movie was the cost, it was the most expensive movie ever until Titanic came out (the single most overrated movie ever). The plot is full of little holes when you think of it. How did Costner evolve gills so fast? where is the dirt to grow tomatoes coming from? how does the plane, jetski's and other such devices still work? Plus, there has to be dry land somewhere as trees filter carbon dioxide and turn it into oxygen (sorry if that's a spoiler). Waves on the open ocean are huge, not like the calm waters in this film. I can go on, but IF you can suspend all that (a big if) it's a fun action movie (with a million and one clichés, but hey, it's Costner). If it hadn't cost so much to make no one would analyse it so much. Enjoy it for what it is. Plus Dennis Hopper is always a great villain, no matter what. "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" great film, reminds me of the afternoon matinées when we were kids...the reason it got panned is because the womens lobby and the politically corrupt crowd didn't like Costner having an affair with one of the island girls while on location and losing his marriage...she wrote a book, started a therapy group, and open a few successful restaurants...whatever...it's still a very entertaining film with great cinematography, and a really strong musical score...the score kinda remind sme of john williams in jaws...i bought the DVD and i watch it on a regular basis...never get tired of it...it's great for older folks as well as kids... that's rare these days... "},{"Title":"waste of time","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is as discussing as the scales behind Kevin Costner's hears and as discussing as his foots. Kevin Costner is trying to persuade us that he is a wild guy but instead of this we have seen a character to hit a woman in front of a kid. We have seen a character with a wrong behavior to the same kid. Surely there are some holes in this stupid movie which make it more stupid. 1. Kevin Costner urinates and his urine become water. Why not use this machine to make the sea to become water? 2. The map which shows the way to go to the island is in the back of a little girl. 3. No one can explain this map for many years but in a moment they explained it.I can not believe that some people find this movie good. "},{"Title":"Don't see this film!","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm gonna start off saying that this is the worst movie i have ever seen. The plot and summary make it look mildly good but its not. My reasoning dirt. For some reason dirt and paper are two of the most valuable things in this movie.I can understand paper but dirt. All you would have to do is swim down a couple thousand feet and grab a handful of the sea floor. Costner did it on a single breath of air. Which brings me to Costner. He is my least favorite actor. Honestly I've never met someone who thinks he's the best. His only good performance was in Dances with Wolves....good movie, but this is about waterworld. The whole plot is based on a map on a girl's back. And these smokers are trying to get it. Sounds like someone had a little too much of something before writing this. Take it from me, WORST MOVIE EVER MADE. trust me. "},{"Title":"There was a good side it was Jack Black's debut.","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Everyone ought to know by now that Waterworld was just another big, loud, obnoxious Hollywood cliché film. If anything, Dennis Hopper's villain Deacon was the really neat character in the movie - he had some great lines, and that fake eye was funny. But otherwise, it was just a precursor to Kevin Costner's next worthless epic The Postman.Now the movie's good part it was Jack Black's debut. He played the guy in the airplane. One has to wonder how it could be that through such a ridiculous movie such a neat career began. But we all had to start somewhere. So it's only because of Jack Black's presence - plus Dennis Hopper's characterization - that I gave this movie 2/10 and not 1/10. "},{"Title":"Is it a man?...Is it a fish? No it's Mad Mackerel !","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" That bloke who wanted to swap Miss J.Tripplehorn for a bit of crumpled paper,did he have a some front or what?And an Irish accent.How? If Ireland had sunk below the waves a hundred years earlier;unless of course the Ould Country got a Papal Dispensation?And what of Himself?Did he perish or is there a Vatican boat cruising the waters for eternity looking for people to repress?I think Mr K. Costner should tell us.After all,in Waterworld he tells us Oil is Bad,Big Business is Bad, Tobacco is Bad,Global Warming is Bad.Plainly if he wants our opinion he will give it to us.Presumably he lives in a non - carboniferous paper house,goes everywhere by bike and recycles all his waste matter whilst watching the forest of windmills on his golf course turning merrily.Or maybe not. He certainly is the man for pointing out the readily apparent and getting rich out of the proceeds.Dances with wolves was a case in point.Waterworld is another. The former was at least based on historical fact,even though it was hardly an even - handed account.The latter blatantly disregards the laws of physics,science and evolution.Charles Darwin would choke on his Darjeeling if he were told of our Kev's cute and convenient addendum to his Theory. None of this would matter much if Kev and the movie didn't take themselves so seriously.I'm surprised Mr D.Hopper was allowed to get away with stealing the show and suborning its high moral tone.Perhaps Kev never learned the lesson taught him by Mr A.Rickman whose similar anarchic turn saved Robin Hood - Prince of thievesfrom disappearing up its own sanctimonious quiver. Mr Hopper,displaying surely the most gratuitously white set of teeth on all the seven seas,(er,sorry - one sea now,isn't it)fortunately decides his part has no need of subtle gradations,and he alone is responsible for the one star I have awarded it. Without him,Waterworld would be so dull,self - righteous and preachy that Mr R.Attenborough would have been proud to have made it. "},{"Title":"Execrable!","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Quite simply the worst film I have ever seen... and I've seen a few stinkers in my time. More plot holes than a Swiss cheese. Patronising throughout, cliché-ridden, grossly insulting to the intelligence. This Costner ego-trip deservedly sank without trace to become the most disastrous financial failure in the history of movies to date. Confirmed my suspicions at the time that Costner was a vastly over-rated actor with an ego the size of Colorado. If you've never seen this turkey, do yourself a big favour and continue in your blessed state of being. Makes my skin crawl and my throat dry just thinking about how truly awful it is. Only wish I could have given it a -10 rating. "},{"Title":"Waterworld. Drenched in overblown self-importance.","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" You're all right. This isn't the worse film ever made. But it certainly ranks, and I DO mean rank, with some of the worst ever made. This is just another example of Kostner going Chaplinesque is his feeble attempt to display his lack luster acting ability. The man reads his lines like an automaton and has about as much screen persona as Gumby. And my apologies to that little green slab of clay. The whole premise is hogwash. Something like Ed Wood might have concocted during one of his pot induced daydreams or something. Great film? Great actor? OK, answer me this so what's Kostner been doing lately? Don't see or hear much about him anymore. Or is he locked up somewhere cooking up yet another epic of C.B. de Mille proportions? Locked up, now that's an idea. He should be locked up for doing a terrible impersonation of someone with talent. Schlock all the way with this one! "},{"Title":"**SPOILER WARNING** Water-logged and soppingly drenched","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This dog was billed as one of the most expensive films to make... Wow.  Is it too late to get their money back?  In fact, can I get my money back because I was naive enough to pay to see it on wide screen?  No?  Alas.  This is one of the most bland, nonsensical films I've ever seen.  Not only is the premise flawed and fantasy-laden (and not too good fantasy at that), but Costner's acting (?)is terrible.  This over-budgeted, over-burdened, hyperinflated futuristic tale has no morale, no point and damn little entertainment value.  The only credible performance is that of Hopper which reminds us of the days when he was on drugs.  Nothing seems to work.  But, the real mystery is, what cost so much?  They could have made the water scenes on Lake Tahoe, ala Indian Love Call, and rented an old mothball tanker on the Carquinez Straits and saved beaucoup bucks.  So, where did all the money go?  We know for sure, it wasn't spent on developing a story. "},{"Title":"I didn't know that the turkey is a seabird?","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just don't know... there's people here giving this movie 10 stars out of 10. I mean come on. Besides being totally clueless, it's actually devastating for the credibility of the IMDb ranking system.Sure, there's hardly any need for badmouthing this movie anymore, and frankly it's too silly to even hate. It's mildly amusing and a perfect no-brainer for that pizza/hangover-day, where anything activating more than two neurons is too complicated. It's a harmless turkey. It's entertainment. But it's NOT good film-making. It's a waste of money and time, from the set to the rented DVD. Wasting time can be wonderful sometimes, but there's nothing in or about this movie that calls for anything more than 2 stars. Tops. Take the ranking seriously, please. "}{"Title":"Waterworld","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a pretty uncomfortable version of what the world would be like in the far, far future, but it is a pretty good action adventure film. Basically the Earth is now covered in nothing but water, probably because a large meteor melted the ice in the Antarctic and stuff. Anyway, one of the many survivors left on the water covered world is Mariner (Kevin Costner) who travels alone on a boat. He only stops to get supplies at the floating cities that survivors have built. However he won't be alone for long when he somehow starts a little argument that starts people chasing him and his new companions. He is joined by Helen (the quite fit Jeanne Tripplehorn) and her daughter. The leader of the people trying to get them is Deacon (Dennis Hopper). Most of the film is finding out what Deacon is up to, chasing, and the main heroes finding the only remaining land on the planet. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Special Effects. Kevin Costner was number 93, and Dennis Hopper number 80 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Hopper was also number 49 on The World's Greatest Actor. Very good! "},{"Title":"Don't see this movie.","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I understand the entertainment value to this movie, and i did enjoy it when i first saw it around 10 years old, but c'mon, this movie was terrible. And i mean terrible. No redemption. Nothing. Costner was bad, the whole cast was bad, the storyline was terrible and drawn out; the only imaginable hint of good sense that i saw the director, writer, producers make was casting Dennis Hopper in. I think this was a wise choice, as he fits the bad guy role perfectly, and is pretty amusing to watch, even with the crappy lines he's given. Good actors sometimes can save the show, like Pacino in the devils advocate for one. Other then that, the movie drowned in its own mediocrity along with the rest of their watery world. 1/10, for the sake of Hopper. "},{"Title":"I watched for over two hours for that?!","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I never believed how many people I know could have hated a movie.  I was always scared to rent it or preempt any other programming I would normally watch to see Waterworld.  However, one night when I came home late and was awake due to insomnia, I saw it on the satellite and figured I'd give the movie a shot.  Wow!, what a terrible attempt to make a modern day epic.  I wasn't that the plot was poor or even the character development.  But the ending was terrible.  I felt like I had flushed precious moments of my life down the toilet.  If you are in the least bit curious about the move or feel like giving Kevin Costner a shot because you loved him in Field of Dreams, forego that option and save yourself from frustration. "},{"Title":"S--T","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  All I really need is ONE word to review this film. But IMDB rules mandate a minimum number of lines in order to be printed. So excuse me while I get my dictionary...Okay...here it is...s**t-verb. obscene 1)to defecate...noun 1)excrement  2) foolishness or nonsenseI trust that I've been of some minor assistance to you good folks in assessing your choices at Blockbuster this evening.  "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As Is Made Out","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The critics were right when they described WATERWORLD as  MAD MAX on water  but much of the other criticisms are unfounded . I agree that it`s one large dumb movie with so many plot holes and unanswered questions like why is dirt a commodity ? After all you can`t do anything with it except add water to it to make mud so why is it so precious  ? And if the world has been under water for so long then how are the bad guys able to pack so much firepower ? No matter how well maintained and well oiled a firearm is ( And it be impossible to do so in the marine environment here ) it won`t be functional after several centuries I`m sure .But I don`t want to put the boot into it too much . If you pick up your pop corn and switch off your brain it`s a spectacular and entertaining film with Dennis Hopper doing a completely camp star turn in an action-adventure that didn`t really deserve to sink the careers of Reynolds and Costner  "},{"Title":"How could this movie make so much money?","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With movies like The Shawshank Redemption out there languishing on the Money Tree, it is obscene that this horrible movie can make any more than $10 mill.  It's awful on so many levels, from the weak Mad Max 2 rip off script to the action scenes - especially that crocoshark thing.  Dreadful.  "}]