[{"Title":"An unfairly maligned interpretation","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"72 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  From the very first Shakespeare film (a silent version of King John, of all things), filmmakers have sought to impose their own unique visions on Shakespeare; in the case of King John, it was fairly simple (a scene of John signing the Magna Carta, which isn't in Shakespeare's play). Ever since, Shakespeare adaptations have faced the difficulty of remaining true to the greatest writer in the history of the English language while bringing something new to the table; filmed plays, after all, belong on PBS, not in the cinema.Luckily, the minds behind this adaptation of Richard III is more than up to the challenge. To be fair, putting the movie in an alternate 1930's Fascist England doesn't serve the sort of lofty purpose that, say, Orson Welles' 1930s updating of Julius Caesar (intended to condemn the Fascist governments in Europe at that time) did. What it does do is allow the filmmakers to have a lot of fun. It's not necessarily more accessible -- the Byzantine intrigues and occasionally confusing plot can't be tempered by simply moving the setting ahead 500 years -- but it's definitely more entertaining. There's just something inherently amusing about Richard sneaking off for a pee after the winter of our discontent speech (still rambling on as he, ahem, drains the main), or giving the my kingdom for a horse! bit while trying to get his Jeep out of the mud.To be sure, the Fascist England shown in the film isn't very convicing -- from OUR historical hindsight -- but this isn't our world, this is a world fashioned from the imagination that just happens to look like our own, just as Shakespeare's were. You can't criticize King Lear for its faux-historical setting any more than you can criticize this film for the same reason.The complaint registered by a previous commentator -- more or less, if you're going to move Shakespeare to a new period, you need to be true to that period -- is utter bollocks, really. After all, it is inherently untrue to have people running around speaking Elizabethan dialogue in the 1700s, 1800s, 1900s, etc., so if you try to remain true, you end up stripping away the dialogue -- the very essence of Shakespeare. I agree with the even more controversial Shakesperean theatre director Peter Sellars in that words are not what makes Shakespeare great, but rather his characters and ideas. But Shakespeare communicated those through his words, and if you change them, it's not Shakespeare anymore. The same commentator pointed to Branagh's more faithful interpretations as a counterweight to this film, yet Branagh's Hamlet is not only set in the 18th century but in a country that looks nothing like 1700s Denmark, even though the characters refer to it as such.The complaints about McKellen's hamminess are equally unfounded. What are they using as their basis of comparision? Olivier? Olivier's Richard makes McKellen's look positively restrained by comparision. Richard is egotistical, bombastic, and prone to spouting lines like thine eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine. I have little doubt in my mind that Skakespeare did not intend Richard to be played straight -- indeed, if Shakespeare had any concept of what we call camp, he was probably thinking of it when he wrote the play. From this point of view, the silly little touches like the Al Jolson song at the end and even the newsreel of Richard's coronation fit in perfectly.As with most Shakespeare films, the plot has been streamlined -- nearly all of the characters are here, but scenes and speeches have been truncated and removed, but despite what some have said, these aren't fatal to the plot or the characters. Richard's seduction of Anne does seem to occur to quickly, but it's not a completely successful one, seeing how she lapses into drug addiction later in the film. Besides, Richard's evil has nothing to do with the fact that his inability to experience romantic love. Richard isn't a psychological portrait like Hamlet, he's a ruthless bastard, a piece of Tudor propaganda. When people praise Richard III (the play), it's not for its character depth.I notice I've focused more on answering the film's detractors instead of dilineating its merits; in a way, I guess this expresses how much I like it. The cinematography, direction, and acting are all top-notch. The sets are perfect, once you realize that this is NOT historical England -- the power plant subbing for the Tower is more imposing than the real thing could ever be, and the factory ruins that serve as Bosworth Field are certainly more interested than a bunch of tanks and Jeeps roaming around the open countryside. Shakespeare purists will, of course, hate it, but then they hate anyone who dares to put anything more than a cosmetic spin on the Bard, be it Welles' Voodoo 'Macbeth' or Brook's stage production of Titus Andronicus. For everyone else, read the play, then see the movie -- it'll help increase your appreciation of both. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly thought out, superbly played and totally gripping","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"60 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I'm not always comfortable with Shakespeare in modern dress, nor with Ian McKellen's apparent assumption of the mantle of Olivier and Gielgud. Neither did I think that anything could top the experience of seeing Antony Sher play the role on the 500th anniversary of the Battle of Bosworth.So after all the unfavourable comment, I was shocked to find this version comprehensively squashing all such reservations. It's brilliantly thought out, superbly played and totally gripping from start to finish.The updating to a non-specific inter war period is not just apposite but genuinely illuminating. The games McKellen plays with the changing techniques of warfare in the period, the rise of fascism, realpolitik and the undermining of royalty by the Wallis Simpson affair, push back the boundaries of Shakespeare on film in all directions.For example, at the very moment you're thinking that all this mayhem is a bit much in English period costume, the helmets change, then the uniforms get darker, the red flags appear and Richard's acceptance speech turns into an underground Nuremburg Rally - a stark reminder of just how deeply the country flirted with fascism in the 30s and just how short and steep the descent can be. Stanley's troops, crucially uncommitted, stood off overlooking the real Battle of Bosworth. McKellen's Richard has control of the railway network here, but Wing Commander Stanley denies him the all-important air support in a superb piece of updated analogy. Throughout, modernity is so carefully and relevantly overlaid on the plot structure that it becomes one of the great pleasures and achievements of the piece. Lots of surprises, not the least of which comes as the play's most famous line is perfectly re-engineered and delivered and lots of great players at the top of their form.McKellen, Scott Thomas, Broadbent, Downey Jnr and Annette Bening are all worth the price of admission individually, but there's hardly a flaw in any of the performances.I simply can't see what the detractors are on about at all. Really. An epic piece of work. Easily the best version on film. Easily the most thought provoking Shakespeare on film. "},{"Title":"Starring Richard III as A.Hitler, and A.Hitler as W.Churchill","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"31 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Shakespeare's tragedy set in 1940s war-torn England. As someone who loves Shakespeare, I grant a lot of latitude and respect to any person who can get these modern versions produced. The vogue now is to alter the time period, while still holding, generally speaking, to the original plot and language. As usual with the movies, its now done so often that traditional Shakespeare has become a custom more honored in the breach than in the observance. (forgive me!) This is ok, it takes the evil Richard III and plops him into the role of fascist usurper and dictator, during the notorious fascist period of England's history. I know, try and not overthink it. The acting and collection of performers are both first rate, and the film offers interesting moments for both the novice and expert Shakespearean student. There is one thing and it is what prompted me to even write this. If you notice during Richard's ascendance, a formal ball is thrown and a Vera Lynn type woman is shown singing a Glenn Miller type tune. You know you have never heard it, but yet is eerily memorable. I find out years later (today in fact) it is a Christopher Marlowe poem, clevely fitted to a WW2 sounding musical number. Somehow, its just real creepy and its in keeping with the mood of the entire movie. Upsetting and unnerving, with the evil spread just a little too generously over the characters. If you have a big blender, and throw in a copy of 1984, Richard III, and Godfather III, this is what you would end up with.  "},{"Title":"See Olivier's Richard III, then this one","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" There are two definitive film productions of Richard III - Sir Laurence Olivier's 1955 film version, which he directed and in which he plays the title role, supported by Sir Cedric Hardwicke as King Edward, Sir John Gielgud as Clarence, the delectable Claire Bloom as the Lady Anne and a host of other brilliant performers - and Ian McKellen's 1995 version, screenwritten by McKellen and director Richard Loncraine, in which McKellen also plays the title role.While the Olivier version is the definitive classic presentation of the play on film and should serve anyone who wants to see the play as it was intended to be seen (albeit the Colley Cibber adaptation), McKellen's adaptation captures the spirit of the play in modern context. The movie opens with the Lancastrians in their war room receiving word of Richard, Earl of Gloucester's holding Tewksbury by teletype, then soon their war room is breached by a tank, behind which swarm raiders in gas masks, one of whom slays the Prince of Wales and then the King himself, before removing his gas mask (one of the old goggle-eyed full-face models the Russians still use) to reveal himself Richard, duke of Gloucester.The scene shifts rapidly to a typical 1930s rich people's fete, complete with mellow-voiced torch singer and live orchestra, at which Richard III delivers the sun of York soliloquy as a toast to his father Edward and the assembled party - and then the scene shifts again to Richard completing the soliloquy to the camera, as he does throughout the film. The address to the camera is a little jarring - McKellen's smiling, evilly smirking delivery is a little over the top, what you'd imagine the Blackadder films would have been if they hadn't gone for laughs.But Ian McKellen carries the role off very well... his not-quite-sane, quite unbalanced and power-mad schemer Richard III is entirely plausible as a 1930s dictator-king in the central European mold. The uniforms shift from the standard British armed forces' khakis to the blacks and greys of Hitler and Mussolini as Britain slides into fascism under her scheming Lord Protector.The screen action is taut, visually compelling - even when McKellen bellows A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse! from a World War II Dodge weapons carrier/command car, the scene doesn't degenerate into incongruous, unintentional comedy, because by then the viewer is caught up in the tale of this wild-eyed sociopath who has just about run out of rope - and since the truck is axle-deep in sand, stuck, a horse is just what Richard could have used around then.There's just enough realism in the 1930's props to help with willing suspension of disbelief - no more. Military history buffs will not be happy. No matter. What is communicated very well is the senseless welter of fully-joined battle, fiery slaughter and Richard III's lashing out in senseless rage, eventually as much against his own men as the enemy.The Duke of Stanley's last-minute defection against Richard's forces in the final battle is all the sharper for Stanley being the commander of the air force (his loyalty to Richard III in the coming battle with Henry, Earl of Richmond seemingly assured by his young son's being held hostage in Richard III's war train) - so that the viewer no sooner hears the news of the defection in the play's dialogue than Richard's forces are strafed and bombed by Stanley's war planes as Richmond's forces swarm into Richard's assembly area, cutting the Ricardian army to pieces.Lots of interesting touches in the screenplay, such as Queen Elizabeth and her brother Earl Rivers (played ably by Annette Bening and rather indifferently by Robert Downey, Jr - who only manages to convince in the scene when he is assassinated in bed while submitting to the erotic ministrations of a Pan Am stewardess) playing their roles as Americans - using the homage to Wallis Simpson and her husband the Duke of Windsor (who abdicated his kingdom to marry Simpson because she wasn't only a commoner but a divorced American) to bring needed tension among the royals to the play. In case the viewer's a little too thick to realize that Downey's character is an American, not only does he lay the flat, nasal accent on thicker than Hell, but on landing in England, he steps out of an airliner painted in bright Pan-American Airlines livery, where he is met by his royal sister Elizabeth and her children. Bening's performance is more nuanced and sympathetic than Downey's - the conundrum of Elizabeth's brother being a Peer and obviously an American at the same time is just left out there. But before long, we're McKellen's willing co-conspirators and agree to forget this lapse.Maggie Smith as Richard's mother Queen Margaret is stellar in her portrayal of a mother torn between the remnants of love for her twisted, lethal offspring and mourning the rest of her family dead because they stood in Richard's way to the throne. Her delivery of Margaret's of the advice Elizabeth asks for on how to curse Richard (Act 4, Scene 4)QUEEN ELIZABETH O thou well skill'd in curses, stay awhile, And teach me how to curse mine enemies! QUEEN MARGARET Forbear to sleep the nights, and fast the days; Compare dead happiness with living woe; Think that thy babes were fairer than they were, And he that slew them fouler than he is!is one of the best-delivered lines in Shakespeare on film I have seen.In closing one compares McKellen's Richard III to Anthony Hopkins' Hitler in The Bunker - an eerie channeling of one of history's foulest personalities, so that one feels one's self in his foul presence watching the show. Masterful work. "},{"Title":"The update to WW2 era works well","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I think updating Shakespeare's plays to more modern eras can be a good idea, but attempts quite often fail due to modernizing of the original text into the current vernacular, adding modern slang terms and modern pop-political slants and such things. Happily, Richard Loncraine's version of 'Richard III' works very well, being set in a surreal WW2 era setting, more reminiscent of Terry Gilliam's 'Brazil' than London as it actually was at that time; an alternative world is suggested which adds a touch of nightmare-fantasy to the film.I think this sort of intelligent interpretation of the text, placed into the mouths of people we can relate to more readily than we do to Elizabethan personages, is valuable and helps people otherwise unfamiliar with, or daunted by, Shakespeare's strange language is a good thing. All of life is covered in Shakespeare's plays, and after reading them it becomes apparent that nothing new has appeared in the world since, as far as fundamental life issues are concerned, making them invaluable tools in the history of literature as lynch-pins for people trying to navigate the shoals of human quirkiness without succumbing to depression and despair at the human condition. For instance, when O.J. Simpson's trial was going on I kept thinking of Othello and Desdemona, a tragedy of passion and murder being re-enacted for millions on the television.Richard III is all about power and how it corrupts. Richard is presented as a Hitler-like character. It's an ugly story, yet the light of goodness shines through in the roles of the Duchess of York, Maggie Smith, and Queen Elizabeth, Annette Beining.The cast is superb. I was put-off at first by Robert Downey Jr's Anthony, Earl of Rivers, because of his very-American accent. But Rivers has just returned from overseas, and given the setting, he could very well have returned from a long stint in New York. Once used to this he settled in nicely with the balance of the cast. Beining's accent is less noticeable. She is a fine, well-trained classical actress and knows what Shakespeare is all about. In the end she is a powerful foil to Ian McKellan's riveting Richard III.The use of '40s swing tunes works wonderfully, I especially enjoyed the tune that accompanies Richard to his death, it's very funny, and horrifying all at once.Even if you don't like Shakespeare I recommend this film. It's a great story and the technical aspects of it are top-drawer. "},{"Title":"Justice made to Richard III","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Richard III may not have the all-encompassing understanding of uman nature seen in Hamlet or the grace and mastery of The Tempest, but for my money is one of the greatest plays ever written and certainly Shakespeare's most entertaining. It may be lacking in character development and psychology, but it more than makes up for that with a brilliant concept have the villain as main character and make the audience his playful confident. The concept is aided further by eminently quotable lines and one great scene after the other of scheming, fiendishness and confrontations. One of the few pieces of criticism you can successfully throw at Shakespeare is that his central characters are often meek or feeble. Not so here! Tudor propaganda this might have been (it quite grotesquely disregards historical fact in a few places), this is storytelling at its finest.Richard Loncraine's 1995 film places the story in a fictitious 30s England reminiscent of early Nazi Germany. The device serves to make the proceedings more accessible (if only marginally since the original language has thankfully been preserved). It also makes for amusing situations (Richard of York telling his monologue while taking a leak in a public restroom - my Kingdom for a Horse! bellowed from a paralyzed jeep) and serves as further proof of the Bard's timelessness.Beyond the structural and technical feats - and they are quite excellent without exception, including Trevor Jones underrated dark jazzy score - lies what should be our main concern the cast. Sir Ian McKellen as Richard is a Machiavellian wonder, blowing both Lawrence Olivier's rendition and McKellen's earlier work away. His fiendish creation is a joy to watch and root for, despite the increasing gruesomeness of his crimes. The byzantine plot demands that recognizable faces be cast in supporting roles and the characters are magnificently portrayed by eminent actors giving it their best and succeeding admirably. Maggie Smith, Jim Broadbent and Kristin Scott-Thomas are expectedly great, but the truly outstanding supporting performances come as surprises Annette Benning is all grief and fury, Adrian Dunbar is eerie yet very human as Richard's pet killer Tyrell and Nigel Hawthorne is incredibly moving as the meek Clarence. Even Robert Downey Jr. manages to hold his own against this impressive array of actors.All in all if you can appreciate the language (that only gets better with repeated readings/viewings) and have a thirst for fine acting, it would be criminal to ignore this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Shakespearean tragedy in 1940s Europe","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This film sets Shakespeare's Richard III in an alternative to WWII era England, where fascists and royalists maintain their own militias and play power games with kings and thrones. The first scene sets the tone for the entire film. A young officer is settling down to dinner with his dog chewing on a bone nearby. The building begins to shake and a low rumbling is heard. Soon enough, a tank erupts through the fireplace and stormtroopers charge in automatic rifles ablaze. Ian McKellan removes his gas mask and spouts a few lines of Shakespearean dialog.The action and the intrigue never really let up, as the film follows Richard's (McKellan) rise to infamy and power. Neither does the Shakespearean dialog. Somehow the cast manages to make the dialog fit the action and setting effortlessly.Richard III is jarringly strange - perhaps the most innovative of the recent Shakespeare updates - very well acted and directed. Although I recommend the film, I have to warn you - it's not for everyone. "},{"Title":"Exceptional performances enhance timeless themes.","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Many productions throughout the years have presented Shakespeare in updated formats in order to make his plays morecontemporary with varying results. This production is one of themost successful. Sir Ian McKellan's extraordinary performancemakes his character, although thoroughly self-serving, incrediblymagnetic. The film is enhanced by many other exceptionalperformances, most notably by Robert Downey Jr., Jim Broadbentand Kristin Scott Thomas. The setting makes the story morerealistic to modern viewers, which helps it to avoid the stiff, stagyquality seen in most productions of this work. MakingShakespeare more accessible to today's viewers withoutbutchering his amazing language is no mean feat, but this filmaccomplishes it handily. "},{"Title":"Original, Brilliant Richard","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is one of the movies you remember for a long time - and for all the good reasons. Transplanting Shakespeare in a different time and giving his historical plots a modern political sense is not such a new idea. What is really strong and works well here is the perfect fit between the characters as Shakespeare intended them and the background which is so different from the original historical one. Each one of the characters is both shakespearian as intended, a perfect citizen of the fictional time created by the director - a fascist England in the 30s - and more than everything else a human being sensual, hating and loving as only humans do.Perfectly acted, almost flawlessly directed, with very little overweight, this film is a feast for the intelligent spectator, a brutal, well-paced and expressive piece of art - and exactly as Shakespeare would have loved it, a mirror of his time, of our time, and of any time. 9/10 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"A Modern Classic","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" When it comes to updates of the plays by William Shakespeare, Richard III is probably the best of the lot. While it might seem like an unusual concept to take the classic play of deceit, betrayal, seduction, and cold-blooded murder out of the 1400's and into an alternate history 1930's version of England, the cast and production designs make that concept seem not only believable but so realistic you might find yourself wondering if this could really have happened if events had played out like they do in the film.Ian McKellen plays the title role, the youngest brother of the royal family of the York's, who is determined to take the throne at whatever cost. McKellen's performance is chilling to say the least. From the moment he is introduced in a classic introduction to the battle sequence at the end of the film, McKellen makes the character of Richard seem to be the most evil villain ever to grace a movie screen as he is able to literally become the character in the vast web of deception via acting like he has no interest in taking the throne. One can't help but believe that Richard could really pull of the deceptions that he's able to pull off convincing people not only the public but members of the royal family and nobility. The character's various monologue's in which his thoughts are spoken aloud, giving the audience a glimpse into the tyrannical mind of this would be king / dictator are a highlight of the film especially at the film's beginning in which if one had any doubts about how evil Richard is are very quickly dismissed. McKellen sells Richard and he grips your attention to where your focus is entirely on him, making the trailer line about Richard being the greatest villain of all time ring very true and it's a shame that McKellen didn't even get an Oscar nomination for his performance.Annette Benning plays Queen Elizabeth, the American wife of Richard's brother Edward. Many have complained about Benning in the role for various reasons including the fact that she is American and some question her acting ability. Benning, in my opinion, succeeds in making the idea of an American queen seem realistic and her acting talent matches up against McKellen in every scene the two are in together. Also keep in mind this is an alternate history, so an American queen of England isn't that unfeasible. Robert Downey Jr. plays her brother, Rivers. Rivers disappears about midway trough the film, but for the first half of the film, he is Richard's biggest enemy and his obvious dislike of Richard is evident in Downey's performance and the scene where his character meets his demise is shocking to say the least. Jim Broadbent plays the role of Buckingham, Richard's biggest supporter, with unnerving calm and his conniving attitude makes him almost as big of a villain as Richard. Kristin Scott Thomas is superb as Anne, the widow of one of Richard's victims who eventually falls for Richard and lives long enough to regret it. Her confrontation against Richard in a morgue towards the film's beginning stands out as one of the film's best scenes. Nigel Hawthorne's all too brief appearance as the plain and simple Clarence stands out as well, as does Maggie Smith's Duchess of York and John Wood's King Edward.The concept of being updated to the 1930's is no more evident then in the production design. There is no doubt that we are in the 1930's and the filmmakers appear to have gone to great steps to make it evident that this is very much an alternate history. As I am sure others have commented this England is not the England we all know and love. Instead, one constantly gets the feeling that we are instead in a Nazi version of England. Everywhere in the film, in the costumes especially, the aura of Nazi Germany can be felt. Virtually all of Richard's costumes are based off German uniforms of the Nazi era, as are the uniforms worn by his supporters in the film's final half. If anyone doubts the influence of Nazi Germany on this alternate history version of England, look at the rally scene shortly before Richard is crowned. It doesn't take a lot of imagination to realize that this scene is a case of déjà vu it is almost identical to the well known documentary footage we have all seen of Nazi rallies right down to the flags that, while containing a boar instead of the swastika, still makes one think that they're in Nazi Germany.The film's opening sequence with the classic sight of a tank crashing trough a wall and the film's final battle sequence also add to the feeling of this being in the 1930's. And to everyone out there who has commented about the red stars on some of the tanks here's why if you knew about the war of the roses you would know that red was the color of the rose symbolizing the Lancaster family and that the white rose, seen on many of Richard's troops in the finale, was the rose representing the York family.Also, Trevor Jones score is a must hear. The beautiful song at the beginning of the film sells the idea of the 1930's very well. The score, while at times going out of the 1930's, does the job of keeping the feeling of tension throughout the film and is another example of the talent of Trevor Jones.Few films have the power to hold the attention of a viewer from beginning to end, especially when there is a large amount of dialog. But with the performance given by Ian McKellen, production design, battle sequences, and the score by Trevor Jones, Richard III easily counts not only as a must see but as a modern classic. "}{"Title":"An excellent adaption.","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" -Probable spoilers-This is the first adaptation of Richard III I've seen, and I loved it. Transferring the play into the 1930s allows it a modern(ish) anchor that most Shakespeare adaptations fail at, giving it a better sense of authenticity rather than leaving it blowing in the historical wind. The curious mix of the 1930s setting with the fascist influences and the Shakespearean language gives it a fantastical, almost Brazil-like atmosphere, and both the drama and the war scenes are very well handled - it's hard to forget the opening image of a tank crashing through a wall.As well as this, the performances are excellent, McKellen's Richard emphasising both the animal rage already associated with the character, and the charm that Richard possessed (he was in fact a well-liked king, until the rumours began to spread about the princes in the tower). Jim Broadbent and Annette Bening also deliver stand-out work, as the scheming Buckingham and the elegant Queen Elizabeth, and all the supporting cast make their mark - in particular, Nigel Hawthorne as Clarence giving his ...broken from the tower speech, and Robert Downey Jr. arriving drunkenly on an airplane.On the whole, this film is a great translation of the play, and certainly one of the most enjoyable Shakespeare films out there - 9/10. "},{"Title":"wonderful,great looking","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I am surprised how many people seem to hate this film. I am not a Shakespeare expert,but I love history and the 1930s and 1940s are my favourite period,so I love the way the our odd Royal Family is shown in this film,we know that members of the royal family were pro fascist in the 1930s so why not update the original story. The locations and the production design are great and the acting is impressive throughout. As for the comment about the murder in bed,it seems like a good plan to me,if you were busy with a flight attendant you are not going to notice an assassin under the bed. If you have not seen this I urge you to do so,you can watch it as a war movie or as a version of the play. "},{"Title":"Delightful contemporary turn of a classic piece of literature.","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  When I see how wonderful this Richard III is, it immediately makes me question what in the world has Kenneth Branagh been doing all these years? Certainly nothing as imaginative, as provocative as this.Deprived of Shakespeare as a child, I have been forced to catch up piece meal through film. Al Pacino's Looking for Richard gives attention to Richard III, from a far different perspective, but both that film and this agree that it has all the key elements of great drama evil ambition, betrayal, rivalry.The casting is tremendous with Ian McKellen (from his own stage play) and Kristen Scott-Thomas in the leads-thankfully there is no Kenneth Branagh to be found. And is this guy Jim Broadbent any good, or what? For my money he steals every scene he plays in Little Voice, he's subtly brilliant here in a lesser role. Only Annette Benning seems a little overmatched in her portrayal of Queen Elizabeth, but that's hardly surprising.The accessibility of the current version, the setting in 1930's Fascist Europe, gives the story a vibrancy that is present from the first frame to the last.Challenging, fun, and educative-far more than most films deliver. I highly recommend.  "},{"Title":"superb modern translation","Date":"5 January 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" SPOILERS Every year the Royal Shakespeare Company produces some wonderful performances of the bards plays. With an entire catalogue of actors, the company has produced some of (if not all) of Britain's best actors for decades now. One of these actors is Sir Ian McKellen, and one year while touring as Richard III, Sir Ian had the idea to write a modern twist on the tale. Relocating the story of the evil, disfigured king to a fictional 1930's Fascist Britain, McKellen has produced a sublime piece of cinema with top notch acting and some great cinematography.In 1930's Britain, the House of York is on the throne. Led by King Edward IV, the family are happy and content. That is, all except Edward's crippled brother Richard (McKellen). With eyes on the throne, Richard will kill and scheme to get what he desires the most.The play of Richard III is perhaps one of Shakespeare's most well known plays. Used at the time as propaganda against enemies of the Tudor Dynasty, Shakespeare corrupted the public view of Richard so successfully that to this day his lies about Richard resonate in History discussions.Relocation of the story of Richard from it's original time frame to 1930's Britain was a masterstroke by Sir Ian McKellen. Using Nazi style clothing (McKellen even wearing a Nazi uniform for the majority of the film), banners (replacing the Swastika with Richard's Boar) and military processions, McKellen has created a twisted past. This Britain, this Fascist land with it's royal family in their clothes of the era, is a disturbing place which sticks in the mind long after the end of the film.Another novel approach to the story is the notion of certain members of the family being American. Designed to represent the social climbing, the idea works brilliantly, with Annette Bening being the best of the American's involved.There are problems with this adaptation however. Whilst both minor, and with good motivation, they do ring true. Firstly, the dialogue is trimmed by half. Whilst necessary to prevent the film becoming a four hour epic, it always feels like a minor tragedy when people begin to amputate Shakespeare's works.The second problem with McKellen's work is to do with the soundtrack. Whilst the idea of getting a Marlow poem and setting it to 1930's music is an absolutely wonderful idea, it does ruin the end of the film. At the beginning we hear the music and we forgive it as it sets the scene. Come the final few scenes of the film though and the music ruins the mood. The jolly beat of the tune is unnecessary and destroys the tone of the conclusion. In effect it would be like something with a reggae beat playing in the background as the main hero died in a love story. Basically, whether good music or not, it is an inappropriate choice for the moment in time.There's minor awkward flaws in Sir Ian McKellen's Richard III, but with so many outstanding acting performances, and some stunning use of the time era, these flaws are forgivable. Whether as good as older interpretations of the story or not, this version of the tale is completely underrated and well worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!! But traditionalists be warned...","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I just rented this again for the 4th time.  Maybe I should just buy myself a copy. It's among my top five movies of all time and perhaps my favorite Shakespeare adaptation.  It's stunning, brilliant, and beautiful. If you like your Shakespeare with every forsooth and thee and thou spoken by actors poncing around in doublets, you'll want to avoid it.  If you're a bit more daring, rent it.  For the unbelievably gorgeous costumes and sets.  For the modern fascist spin that gives the whole thing disturbing contemporary relevance.  But most of all for the performances--from McKellan's mesmerizing turn as Richard to Nigel Hawthorne's sweet and simple Duke of Clarence.  Even the smaller roles are perfectly cast. I enjoyed Adrian Dunbar's sadistic assassin, Domenic West's dashing Richmond, and Robert Downey Jr. as the playboy Earl Rivers.  Annette Bening, I must say, is terrible as Queen Elizabeth.  Completely unconvincing down to her wandering pseudo-aristocratic accent.  I keep imagining her betters tittering with embarrassment every time the lesser-light Bening exited the stage.  A minor flaw, however, in a stunning movie.  Rent it.  Again and again!  "},{"Title":"A brilliant film which offers fresh insight into both the play and some of the worst moments of the 20th Century","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" As I said in my review of Laurence Olivier's 1955 film version, Richard III is my least favourite of the Shakespearean plays with which I am familiar as I don't think that its language and exploration of themes are on the same level as his best work such as Hamlet or Macbeth. When it came to the Olivier film, I think that he forgot that he was a great actor and director while he was making it as his performance is too over the top and hammy and his direction is pedestrian. He failed to live up to the high standards that he set for himself on both fronts in Henry V and Hamlet. Thankfully, this is a far, far superior version which has served to increase my appreciation for the play. As with most Shakespearean films, it makes changes to the play, the Bard's longest after Hamlet. It only incorporates about half of the text, conflates several characters, cuts out others and reorders some of the events. At only 100 minutes, it's a very fast paced film.Of the eight Shakespearean films that I have watched this year, this is the first in which the lead actor was not also the director. However, Ian McKellen did play another important behind the scenes role as he and the director Richard Loncraine wrote the screenplay. Loncraine does a wonderful job in the director's chair. The film has a great atmosphere and I love the cinematography. The film takes place in an alternate history fascist version of 1930s Britain. This is an excellent creative decision as Richard's rise to and consolidation of power is highly reminiscent of the Night of the Long Knives and, on the other end of the political spectrum, Stalin's Show Trials, given that he frequently uses trumped up charges to get his enemies out of his way. In the visual sense, many of the costumes are obviously based on Nazi uniforms and the scene in which Richard's accession is announced looks like something out of Triumph des Willens. On an even simpler level, Richard has a moustache! In reality, Elizabeth Woodville belonged to a minor aristocratic family and was the first commoner to become queen. In the film, she is depicted as an American socialite reminiscent of Wallis Simpson and she and her brother Lord Rivers are looked down on because of it.As the title character, Ian McKellen is absolutely remarkable. While Olivier's Richard was too obviously villainous, McKellen portrays him as a Machiavellian manipulator who skilfully moves all of the pieces into place to secure his accession to the throne without ever tipping his hand. He uses guile and subtlety to achieve his ends, playing the role of a loving brother to Edward IV and Clarence and a loving uncle to Edward V and the Duke of York. As in real life, it's not the villains who wear black hats and twirl their moustaches that you have to worry about; it's the one who take a more subtle approach, at least initially. In private, however, he relishes his status as a villain, delivering his soliloquies to the camera with a smirk. He even jumps for joy after he asks the Lady Anne, the widow of Henry VI's son the Prince of Wales whom he murdered days earlier, to marry him.The film has a very strong cast overall. After McKellen, I thought that the strongest performer was Annette Bening as his sister-in-law Elizabeth Woodville, who has a large role in the film as opposed to the character's fleeting appearances in the Olivier version. She is a very strong woman who, in one of the film's best scenes, openly accuses Richard of murder and refuses to allow her daughter Elizabeth to marry him. Bening is more than a match for McKellen in their scenes together. Another strong female character is Richard's mother the Duchess of York, whose role is merged with Henry VI's widow Queen Margaret. She grows to despise her son as the film progresses and his villainy becomes all the more apparent. I have to admit that I've never thought of Maggie Smith as highly as I think of other British actresses of her generation such as Judi Dench, Vanessa Redgrave or Glenda Jackson but she is excellent in the film. Kristin Scott Thomas has less screen time but she excels in the aforementioned scene in which Richard proposes to her, delivering a wonderfully understated performance in contrast to Claire Bloom's caterwauling in the 1955 film. Jim Broadbent, in particular, and Tim McInnerny were cast against type as Richard's lackeys Buckingham and Catesby but they're both very good. Nigel Hawthorne is downright brilliant as Clarence, who is blind to his brother's true nature until it is far too late. He particularly excels in his monologue in the rain on the roof of the Tower of London. John Wood is excellent as the easily manipulated king Edward IV who trusts the wrong brother. One thing that is quite funny about the film is that Maggie Smith plays McKellen, Hawthorne and Wood's mother in spite of the fact that she is not only a mere five years older than McKellen but five years younger than Hawthorne and four years younger than Wood! Bill Paterson, Donald Sumpter, Jim Carter and Edward Hardwicke (whose father Cedric played Edward IV in the 1955 version) are all very effective in comparatively small roles. The weakest link acting wise is Robert Downey, Jr. I don't think that Shakespeare is really his forte but he's quite good. It's certainly not a disaster on the same level as Keanu Reeves' performance in Much Ado About Nothing.Overall, this is a brilliant film which offers fresh insight into both a 400 year old play and some of the worst moments of the 20th Century. It's a shame that McKellen and Bening didn't receive Oscar nominations for Best Actor and Best Actress. "},{"Title":"Richard plays all around him like pawns on a chessboard as he fills his desire for power.","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Spoilers Don't read if you don't want to know about any characters death in advance. First off, I don't know a lot about Shakespeare. I don't know how loyal this film is to his original script, and thats not what I was looking for when I was watching. Honestly, I'm one of those who have 'old language' issues when I go see a movie. Indeed, I didn't even know the story of Richard III when I first saw this. Despite this, I loved this movie. Ian McKellen plays a deliciously evil man on his way up the royal ladder. To start, he kills the King, then while the queen sits at his coffin, comes to confess to her. In an performance dripping with slime, he claims his love for her was so great, he had no choice but to kill her husband. His speech oozes as he convinces her that if she doesn't accept his love, he'll kill himself. Sounds like something from Melrose Place, I know. His character only gets dirtier as he then kills, or manipulates others to kill all those around him. Ian plays Richard as a man who enjoys the nasty things he does, and I enjoyed watching him worm his way. Annette Bening is fantastic and Robert Downey has one of the best deaths I've seen on film. The clothes and sets add to the movie perfectly. Instead of kingly robes, class and pageantry is displayed with slick uniforms and cigarette holders. The wartime setting is the perfect background and gives this classic story a modern feel. "},{"Title":"A Bloody Shakesperean Soap Opera That Improves With Age","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" When I first saw this adaptation of Richard III, I didn't care for it. I hated the way Shakespeare's dialogue is chopped into bits and scattered around randomly. I thought the period details were crudely overdone. (Must every character smoke cigarettes in every scene?) And I just couldn't picture an aging, feeble Ian McKellen as a brutal rampaging tyrant like Richard III.Over time, though, I've come to appreciate the little things. The amazing supporting cast and the sexy background moments, like Robert Downey's fling with the stewardess that ends like it's Friday the 13th! And the happy ending for Richmond and young Princess Elizabeth.And by the way, it's not one moment, but the whole character arc for Lady Anne (Kristin Scott Thomas) who falls under Richard's spell and gradually fades away into a swoon of almost living death. The way she's always in the background, taking pills at one moment, then gulping down liquor, then at the end actually injecting herself with drugs in the limousine, you sense how she just wants to forget everything and fade into sweet oblivion. Yet you also sense she would have loved Richard if he could have shown her any kind of human feeling. Kristin Scott Thomas is perfectly cast as the exquisitely frail and helpless beauty. "},{"Title":"Despite Compelling Aspects and Amazing Acting, It's Not Shakespeare","Date":"21 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" King Richard III didn't live in the 1930's, and William Shakespeare didn't write in the 20th century. This historical figure lived in the the late Middle Ages, and Shakespeare wrote in the very late 16th and early 17th centuries near the end of the Renaissance. To snatch an historical figure 600 years out of his historical context and a corresponding play 450 years out of its theatrical and artistic context I believe loses the entire point of Shakespeare's original play. Taking bona fide masterpieces of theater and setting them down into another period is certainly in vogue these days, and victims have included other masterworks, including those by Wolfgang Mozart/da Ponte and even Richard Wagner. It is a practice I question, if only to say they simply are not the original works as intended by the artist-creators. They may be compelling and interesting but exist as a new work with elements of the original but they are NOT equivalent to the original. In this case, Richard III is set in the early 20th century during the period when the Nazis ruled Germany.Now, certainly any artist is free to do whatever he or she wishes with a play or opera which is in the public domain. But just because these things can be done, the question is whether they should be done, or at least to acknowledge they are fundamentally altering the original. Unfortunately however, this practice of contextual re-appropriation for lack of a better term is often rationalized in such a way to make it more real for contemporary audiences. Again, that's fine, but it is a morphing of the original work into something else. Making Richard III into a European Nazi-sympathizer of the 1930's is reshaping Shakespeare's original vision into something quite distinctive from a 16th-century interpretation of a 15th-century historical figure. The bottom line no matter what it is, and not matter how well it works on its own terms, it is not really Shakespeare anymore. Now granted, I am not saying it should never be done, but it is not Richard III as conceived by William Shakespeare.Consider the following Could Tennessee Williams' A Streetcar Named Desire be transferred to early Colonial America? Or how about Neil Simon's The Odd Couple set in Elizabethan England, with Oscar as a tavern owner and Felix as a cobbler? Gilbert and Sullivan's The Mikado could be easily set in a host of other eras, such as the Middle Ages or even Antiquity. Or maybe a film version of Mark Twain's Tom Sawyer, keeping all the dialog, but set in the ghetto of New York in the 1970's. Again these morphings could possibly work on their own terms, but they wouldn't be Williams, Simon, Gilbert-Sullivan, or Twain anymore. They would be something else, and I think something would certainly be lost by placing them outside their contexts. Part of what makes them rich and appealing has to do with their original eras. Funny, though, no one would dare do this to Williams or Twain, but Shakespeare, Mozart and Wagner are constantly being re-contextualized. Maybe for myself after watching this film is that I never saw King Richard III of England. I saw a new character possibly inspired by Richard III but not Shakespeare's Richard III. Richard III lived in the late Middle Ages. He didn't have access to machine guns, tanks or telephones. He wouldn't have understood the terms fascism or communism. And he certainly would not have been smoking a cigarette. And to add one further point, there are a myriad of films set during World War II. Is it really necessary to take a Shakespeare play and put it there as well? As it is, there are not as many big-budget productions of Shakespeare plays produced after 1970 set in their original context as their should be, barring the wonderful BBC productions. There are plenty of films depicting Europe before, during and just after the Nazis.Because I prefer my Shakespeare, my Mozart and my Wagner produced in ways more closely adapted into what the authors had intended, which includes their historical context, I am not a good judge of this kind of material. Richard III to its credit may work on its own terms. But the use of the original Shakespearean language for a setting in the 20th century doesn't make much sense to me, and I don't really see the point. West Side Story, which was Romeo and Juliet set in 1950's New York, is a perfect example of how Shakespeare can be updated without messing with the original. Instead of the actors saying lines in Elizabethan English, new dialog was written which was contextually more appropriate for the mid-20th century, particular white gang members and Puerto Ricans in New York City. I think I would have preferred a newly written work with the plot inspired by Richard III rather than thrusting Shakespeare's blank verse across several centuries and putting it where it really doesn't belong. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the Olivier version","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" First the good the movement to modern neo-fascism was interesting, the twist on many of the speeches was fascinating (which is one of the pleasures of re-doing Shakespeare - viz. the interpretation), McKellen is great, and most of the supporting cast is solid.What I didn't like as much some of the choices regarding what dialogue to keep and what to discard. Losing some of the opening soliloquy was unnecessary and a crime to Richard III fans. Benning and Downey Jr are not good in this - I like them in other films but here they sounded as if they were reciting lines that they had carefully memorized - very unnatural. But mostly where I think this falls short of the Olivier version is in the believability of Richard as a charmer. Olivier makes you believe that Richard could fool people. In this version, Richard is so blatantly evil that nobody could be deceived by him. Maybe they aren't supposed to be in this version but Richard III is one of the all-time great villains because he could charm people (a la Hannibal Lecter). Not here. "}{"Title":"RICHARD III  A filmed adaptation","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a filmed adaptation of Shakespeare's Richard III. Film has different constraints than stage, not the least of which is time. A three or four hour theatrical performance can be divided with an intermission for audience comfort and concentration. A stage production can get away with hinting while a film has to re-create verisimilitude. A stage production strongly suggests 'as if' --hence actors taking a bow after the performance--while a film must mean this is it, the film actors wanting to convey a death actually occurred.So in film lots gets lost in translation. But in this adaptation of Richard III in a fascist state, the sense of Richard giving himself over to total evil is not lost. Richard III is not Lear, or Othello, or Macbeth, or Brutus. These others are brought low by their humanity, by their human aspirations. From the get-go Richard plans on murder to become ruler, he announces to the audience that he will murder to get what he wants, and he stops at nothing to murder people who are in his way. The film doesn't miss this part of Richard.And for me, the final scene of Richard falling into what looks like the fires of eternal damnation made the movie worth the price of admission. The model of Richard III in fascist 20 century is not the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, not even Vidun Quisling who betrayed Norway to the Nazis. The model of Richard III is Adolf Hitler. The fact that Richard III has a sinister mustache to match Hitler's sinister mustache could not have been lost on the principals of the film. Richard III was a real historical character; Shakespeare derived his characterization from Sir Thomas More's The History of King Richard the Third. Thomas More--the Man for All Seasons. Thomas More painted the blackest portrait of Richard III, a portrait only now being questioned, but in Shakespeare's day, Richard III was Villain personified.Hitler, like Richard III, was no fiction. Hitler's totalitarian state realized the death of millions of Jews, the death of millions of Russians, the death of European society. The German state had been turned over to the forces of evil as state policy. So Richard III,--Hitler--falling into the fires of eternal damnation seemed a fitting conclusion to those fascistic machinations.Many commentators of this film, film being democratic while theatre is elitist, seemed at a loss as to where to go for Shakespeare. SIGNET CLASSICS provides an excellent paperback resource with the play reproduced in Shakesearian English with footnotes to interpret the more obscure words Shakespeare might have used; plus every play has several interpretive essays to help guide the reader in thinking about the play. FOLGER Shakespeare LIBRARY from Washington, DC provides a similar service of paperback editions with each scene interpreted in modern English, difficult vocabulary defined, prints dating from the age of Shakespeare. PBS has filmed each and every Shakespearian play in its entirety; but again PBS provides a film of a stage performance and there are still niceties of film that stage can't reproduce; for example, the camera focusing on one person's face despite others being on stage.We live in a day and age which seems to have no moral constraints upon it; as Cole Porter might say anything goes. Richard III--this filmed adaptation with that final scene of Richard falling into what could be construed by the audience as the fires of eternal damnation--reminds the audience that there is accountability and punishment for behavior. And Richard as a doppelganger for Hitler brings that message home. "},{"Title":"More than History","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Placing one of Shakespeare's history plays in another specific historical period is always a bit of a risky thing. Such a ploy more frequently works better on stage than on screen &#x96;our suspension of belief being somewhat more liberal in a theatre than in front of a screen. Often the transfer in time is to a generic future historical setting, with a bit of this period and a bit of that. Sometimes this works, sometimes it doesn't. The reason I think placing this version of Richard III in the 1930s works so well is the faithfulness to that conceit, which is carried through impeccably in every detail, though never in a forced or laboured way. It is a clever, often witty, adaptation of Shakespeare's masterly examination of one man's relentless pursuit of power &#x96;and has both elegance and a style of its own aside from the play it is based on, and a healthy respect of Shakespeare's glorious language and characters.Perhaps the language is what may deter some people from fully enjoying this, though I would argue that it merely demands paying a little more attention to what is being said than when watching a normal film. Contrary to what many may think, Shakespeare's language is not difficult or obscure &#x96;quite the opposite&#x96; but you do need to listen to it! Here, of course, you are helped by having some of the finest actors around, with not only great command of that language, but the ability to present clearly defined yet complex characters, so that we are able to keep track of who is who in the web of family connections and intrigue. The film is much shorter than the play (Shakespeare's longest), and does away with some characters and combines others into one figure. This polishes the narrative somewhat, but does not take anything vital away from the unfolding tale. I do, however, recommend going back to the original play if you enjoy this film, because it will give an even broader appreciation of the story. And what a story!Centre-stage (or centre-screen, in this case) is Ian McKellen as Richard. It is surely his finest screen performance, and is certainly the one that really made me appreciate his work when I first saw the film upon its original release. Like Olivier before him, his Richard is a performance perfected through countless performances on stage in the role, and with devilish charm he milks each ounce of scheming, determination and wickedness from his scenes. Yet, unlike Olivier, he also shares with us a certain clumsiness and even pathos, which though it does not excuse in any way his actions does give us some understanding of why he has become the grotesque figure he is.Of the other performances I particularly like Jim Broadbent's take on the Duke of Buckingham &#x96;his beaming face has eyes of steel, and he seems to be silently scheming, listening, and judging in every scene in which he appears. Anette Bening also does a terrific job and makes more much of her part than is written. But all the actors do wonders in conveying their own particular angsts and concerns. Seeing the film again now, I only wish it was longer and we saw even more of some of them.Finally I must applaud the designers of the production &#x96;both visual and aural&#x96; who have created a totally believable alternate English setting of the 1930s. It is both familiar and alien at the same time &#x96;which is what makes the film's central idea so chilling That such a thing could have happened in England at this time as it did in Germany and Italy and Spain. Shakespeare may have been writing about the 15th century, but the scheming of despots, hungry for power, goes on and on and on.I rate this as one of my favourite Shakespeare films! "},{"Title":"classic play in new settings","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The classic William Shakespeare play is reimagined with the world of WWII marrying a British monarchy. The rebel York family fights to put eldest son Edward (John Wood) onto the throne. His army is led by his youngest brother Richard (Ian McKellen) of Gloucester. After winning the war, Richard maneuvers his older brother Clarence into the Tower. Then he woos Lady Anne (Kristin Scott Thomas) after killing her husband and her father during the war. Edward is ill and Richard spreads the rumor that Queen Elizabeth (Annette Bening) is the one who had Clarence killed. He schemes to take out anyone on his quest for the throne.It's fascinating to hear these classic lines being spoken in new settings. It's refreshing for fans of Shakespeare. For others, it doesn't make Shakespeare automatically accessible. The production is well made and the acting is superb. The hunchback is gone though. This is an intriguing exercise. "},{"Title":"It's a fantastic war film with brilliant performances and set pieces, and is a very welcome addition into the Shakespeare realm.","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" How many times have we seen a version of Shakespeare's 'Richard III'? Probably more times than we can count. In 1995, director Richard Loncraine and Sir Ian McKellan (Gandalf the Grey) wanted to adapt 'Richard III' into a modern film. And since McKellan already was in the stage play, which he helped get off the ground, this match made in heaven seemed like the perfect fit. McKellan even served as a big consultant and writer on this unique adaption of Shakespeare's work.Over the past twenty years, a lot of Shakespeare enthusiasts and followers have expressed negative reviews of this film, because it is not true to Shakespeare's work. Even in college, I remember discussing with my fellow film and theatre peers why this version of 'Richard III' is so good and unique. Most people seem to forget that the real Richard III was alive more than a century before Shakespeare came along and started writing about him. This tells me that Shakespeare was in the game of entertaining and captivating his audience, rather than tell something of historical fact from top to bottom.First and foremost, most movies are here to entertain us, and if they're based on true events, which most films are these days, there are usually some part of this realistic story that actually happened. However, a lot of these films or stories have been embellished and created to entertain us. If we really wanted to adapt the real life story of Richard III or even just take the exact story from Shakespeare's words, we'd be in front of a stage or screen for hours and hours on end, which is why most adaptations we've seen have excluded many scenes and characters from the play.This 1995 film does that, but plays out like a cohesive WWII film with the same overall characters from Shakespeare's mind. It's impressive feat and film for sure with stellar performances from McKellan as Richard the Duke of Gloucester, Robert Downey Jr., Annette Bening, Jim Broadbent, Maggie Smith, Kristin Scott Thomas, and a young Dominic West. This film takes place in a fictional fascist England, where Richard (McKellan) is on a destructive path to destroy almost everything. What is so interesting about this film is the strange social and political climate it instills that happened during these years, as it doesn't quite go with Shakespeare's original vision or even history.But that's the point here. 'Richard III' is a creative adaptation of what some veteran Shakespeare scholars wanted to portray for a modern audience. I know it's weird, but I'll compare 'The Texas Chainsaw Massacre' to this. That iconic horror movie was based off a couple of real life serial killers, specifically Ed Gein. In order to tell a story of something that might have happened in actual history, an indie filmmaker decided to take elements of these true events and turn it into a crazy family in Austin, Texas, but still showed some of the facts of this killer's life.It made for a brilliant film that still scares audiences today. This 1995 version of 'Richard III' is far from the 1955 version that starred Laurence Olivier, but it still stands on its own. It's a fantastic war film with brilliant performances and set pieces, and is a very welcome addition into the Shakespeare realm. "},{"Title":"useful","Date":"3 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" more than an innovative adaptation of the Shakespeare's play, it is an experience. an exercise of memory, a lesson of history, an admirable work who presents slices from a WWII in a special manner. story about power, it becomes testimony about the illness of a century by each of its dictatorship. story about tyranny, it is a warning and remarkable tool for remember the universal message of Shakespeare work. the cast, the music, the image - all is perfect. in few moments , the only problem becomes the forced context for the Shakespeare words. but the situation is saved by the spirit of play. more than an eccentric adaptation, great performances, it is pure history lesson. few scenes - strong and touching - are necessaries proofs. "},{"Title":"A fun take on a classic","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I would not call this the definitive version of Shakespeare's Richard III due to its relatively brief length, but it is one of the best film adaptations of the play, if only for Ian McKellan in the title role.McKellan brings devilish glee to the part of Richard. Whether he's manipulating, murdering, or seducing, he's never boring to watch. That he has photos taken of the bodies of his victims adds a macabre touch to his villainy.The move from the 1480s to the 1930s was an unconventional but brilliant move on the part of the filmmakers. The story adapts well to an alternate fascist England. The sets, locations, and costumes are all well-suited to the pre-WWII period. The music is fabulous, evoking 30s jazz and adapting the classic sonnet Come Live with Me and Be My Love to a Depression-era love ballad style.If this film has a fatal flaw, it's the running time. 100 minutes is not enough and makes this feel more like a Cliff Notes version of the story than the real thing. The supporting parts are perfectly cast, but their parts are all so cut down that we don't get to connect to them the way we do in the longer 1955 Olivier version. The only supporting characters who get to leave much of an impression are Anne, Elizabeth, Edward, and the Duchess of York. Everyone else is barely there long enough to make much of an impression on the viewer.Nevertheless, this film is a lot of fun. The 1930s setting is well-realized and McKellan is great. But I still believe the Olivier adaptation is the superior film. "},{"Title":"I thought it was excellent...","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Granted, this Richard III is not for everybody due to the updated setting. However, I am not one of those who says that any adaptation that doesn't stick to the original setting and such is immediately rubbish. I do find that approach unfair, and have always thought considering that we are talking about different mediums here that adaptations should be judged on their own terms. Because on its own terms, this Richard III is excellent, not as good as Olivier's film but then again it is always a tough act to come up with something equal to film as amazing as Olivier's.The only things that I didn't like so much were that Edward's speech being cut meant that John Wood had literally nothing to do and Rivers' death scene for me didn't make sense. Also, Robert Downey Jnr's role is small and important, but at the same time I did find him too American and this jarred.However, the updated setting I had no problem with. As well as the fact that it's clear what the period is, the sets and costumes are beautiful and evocative, and Richard's entrance in a tank through the wall is incredibly dynamic even for a film adaptation of Shakespeare.Trevor Jones' music fits perfectly with the mood, haunting, poignant and tense all in one. The song set to Christopher Marlowe's words at the ball surprisingly likewise. The dialogue is as ever brilliant, of course there are cuts which is necessary considering the running time, but the dry yet inspired delivery of well I'm not made of stone really stands out. It was very effective at how Richard looked into the camera as if talking directly to the audience, this did help us to engage with the characters and the story. The story is daringly told and compelling, with a powerful and hilarious if not quite epic final scene and the touching morgue scene.Richard has always been a controversial yet enigmatic character, and Ian McKellen plays him superbly. He gives the character humour and charm yet also treachery and menace, and does so in a mesmerising way. Kristin Scott Thomas is a moving Anne, and Annette Bening is a fully-realised and sympathetic Elizabeth. Maggie Smith commands her scenes in whatever scene she appears in, and Jim Broadbent's Buckingham is wonderfully sly. Adrian Dunbar is effectively eerie and ruthless as is Tim McInnery, and Nigel Hawthorne affects as Clarence. Donald Sumpter's Blackenbury is nice to spot.All in all, an excellent Richard III if not for all tastes. 8.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Don't fear Shakespeare","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" An anachronistic performance of Shakespeare's play, using most, if not all, of the lines from the original. As I understand it, some characters have been combined, but that's the nature of adaptations.It's basically the same play, in other words, only the settings and the costumes are from the 1930s/40s. I think that helps make the play less distant, though I don't have any firm evidence to back that up. Also, there are some fantastic performances here. Ian McKellen is wonderfully villainous as Richard. And if you want to see Robert Downey, Jr. stabbed in the back while in the throes of passion, if you know what I mean, this is the movie for you.One last thing I've both read and seen performances of multiple Shakespeare plays, and I would definitely recommend watching a performance, if you can, because this performance made it much easier to see all the Tudor propaganda that Shakespeare stuffed into the play (Richard is a hunchbacked, crippled sociopath who murders his way to the top and tries to marry his niece, while the Duke of Richmond, the future Henry VII, is a really nice guy whose heirs will, according to Shakespeare, bring peace to England; also, Richard is associated with lots of Hitler-esque paraphernalia). I enjoyed it very much. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable spin to Shakespeare's Richard III","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Now I have heard it said that the beauty about Shakespeare is that you can take it out of the setting in which the original play was written in, place it in a new setting, and it will still be a brilliant play. Now this is something that I do not necessarily agree with, namely because while up until the 20th Century this could be the case, the world has changed and a lot of the dialogue simply does not fit. Now the events of this film are set in the 15th Century, however the film itself is set in the 1930's. This in itself worked well (and as I argue, made for a very original film) but it falls apart at the end when Richard, after his jeep is bogged, cries out 'a horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse'. This, personally, does not really make any sense on the modern battlefield (not that horses aren't used, back in 2004 or 2005, I can't quite remember when, the capital of Kyrgistan was stormed by men on horseback), however I really do not want this minor problem destroy a good film. What this film is doing, is taking the story of Richard III out of the historical content and simply turning into a play about a tyrant.Now, it is debatable as to whether Richard III was actually a tyrant. He was the last of the Plantagenet dynasty, and was deposed at the battle of Bosworth field, after Henry Tudor defeated him and claimed the English throne for himself. This was considered to be the end of England's medieval period and brought not only stability to the country, but also ushered her into the Modern Era. Beforehand, England has just come out of a 100 year war with France (on the losing side) and this sent the country into civil war (the War of the Roses) in which the houses of Lancaster and York fought over the English Throne. The beginning of the play has Edward assume the throne after his predecessor, Henry VI is defeated in battle, however Edward is not on the throne for long and after he dies his son, Edward, takes the throne with Richard as Lord Protector. However, the barons vote to give the throne to Richard, and the crown prince and his brother then disappear.What is not clear is whether Richard was actually responsible for Edward's death and his children's disappearance, and whether his took the throne through manipulation and stealth (something which had been happening since the close of the 100 years war). What Shakespeare does though is turn Richard into a villain. It appears that Richard's deformity was a creation of Shakespeare, and the rumour that the princes were murdered in the Tower of London is also said to be of his creation. In fact, it is suggested that the princes simply vanished from public life after Richard was crowned.One might raise the point that the princes were imprisoned in the Tower of London. While these days the Tower of London is seen as a prison, back then this wasn't the case. The Tower, along with numerous other castles, were originally built by William the Conquerer to protect his newly conquered realm, and later reinforced by Edward III. The Tower of London in Richard's time was simply another castle, and it was only after this incidence that it inherited its reputation. It should also be remembered that in those days royalty, when imprisoned, were held in the castles, but not in the dungeons as we imagine. Castles were luxurious (and the Tower of London was no exception) and while one may have been imprisoned, imprisonment meant that one simply could not leave the castle.Another thing that stood out with this movie was how Richard came to the throne. We have the nobles and barons all pressuring him to take the throne, and in the end he relents. However, this film (and I suspect Shakespeare as well) manipulate this to make it appear that it was all a part of the plan between Buckingham and Richard. However, once Richard is on the throne, he becomes even more wretched and corrupt, in then end killing children and rejecting his friends, until he is left alone on Bodsworth Field. It is funny that when he does cry out 'a horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse', he really did not have a kingdom left to give. He had already lost. As for the horse, well if you led an army and you lost your horse, then you were in trouble.It is a shame that this film is very difficult to come by because I really do like this movie. I found it original, and the setting in the 1930's with Richard taking on a fascist mantle upon assuming the throne worked very well. While fascism did not exist in the 15th Century, and while Richard was strictly not a fascist, he was a tyrant (and least as the play portrays him) and to put him in the uniform of a fascist simply adds to the impression of tyranny that the play creates. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The 1995 film is a masterpiece. I'm not familiar with Richard Loncraine, the director, but the cast includes such luminaries as Ian McKellan, Annette Bening, Jim Broadbent, Robert Downey, Jr., Kristin Scott Thomas, and Maggie Smith.McKellan adapted the play to a modern England where it has become a fascist state. King Richard is a kind of Hitler, and the wars are fought with modern equipment. We are sucked into McKellan's version so completely that the anachronisms between the language and the time don't matter. McKellan is excellent as the mad would-be dictator, and the rest of the cast is lifted to his level. As with all Shakespeare's work, I recommend reading the work before seeing the movie. I'd suggest a copy of the Folger's or Arden editions (either or both probably available from your local library for free) with explanations of the more obscure words and phrases. The language of Shakespeare is beautiful, and the cast here is equal to the words.McKellan is a superbly evil and maniacal Richard as he murders his way to the throne, and his death is one of the best on film. He nails the role; he nails the look as a sordid, dissolute tyrant.This adaptation is similar to July Taymore's adaptation of Titus Andronicus to modern times in her 1999 film Titus. Taymore and McKellan have both done excellent jobs of introducing modern elements into classical tragedies from Shakespeare. They showcase the incredible genius behind the works, still relevant today.A reminder that this film is an adaptation and that McKellan rearranged scenes, removed characters, and rewrote dialogue. I have not seen Olivier's Richard III, but it gets high marks as the best on film for the true play, not an adaptation. "}{"Title":"A Truly great understatted film for the time it was directed.....","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" ....understand the left (marxist-leninists) always love films that depict the 'evil' with a khaki uniform and the hardware in tow - i.e. 'Hitler'is such a 'lock' to embrace the college kids. What secured my affection was the remark (mind you truly Shakespeare) when Annette Benning replied to 'Richard's' (Ian McKellen) inquiry as to what she thought of him i.e. What thinkest of me madame? Her laser reply Thou art a bottled spider! We have today in 2013 some 18 years hence the reality of a world continuing into the 'abyss' and mind you, not a moment of pause as the patricians ignore the free fall - (abortion, gay gay all over, SEIU, the usual entitlement idiocy) this is all Richard III is about. No - not the clutter and self induced suicide of the antagonist but the wrecking of decorum to slate the thirst of licentiousness and most of all for 'power'.This is what tyrants loathe the most - use of satire to magnify the con - remember that great Jack In The Box TV ad some 12 years ago? The condescending monarch commenting on the sandwiches presented to him? Peanut butter! and the scullion daring to say Where's the butter? with the reply SILENCE! "},{"Title":"Plots have I laid...","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It's unfortunate more people don't know about this film and what a treasure it is. In fact, I think I almost relish when people are not aware of a small film like this, because I can introduce it to them. A similar small, great film that people have never heard of is Glengarry Glen Ross. I am a Shakespeare fan, and think updating the period to the modern era should have made this more accessible to the general populace, but unfortunately it didn't register with them.Everyone knows the plot--about a deformed man with an insatiable lust for power who is able to overcome his physical handicap with a silver tongue (hmmm, I think I met some of these people before...).There are many superlatives about this film--the cast, the cinematography, the music--but what can't be said of Ian McKellan's performance? He was simply amazing, and seemed to have a devil of a time in his quest to reach the throne. The scene when he's walking the hall of the military hospital after successfully wooing Elizabeth is hilarious. How he wasn't nominated for an Academy Award I'll never know.The cast is worth mentioning, such a great compilation of actors Maggie Smith, Jim Broadbent, John Wood, Kristen Scott Thomas and of course Nigel Hawthorne. The cast also included two Yanks Annette Bening and Robert Downey jr. I liked Downey's inclusion more than Bening's, since Bening's reading of the lines sounded well, just like that.Broadbent is great as Richard's willing accomplice and Adrian Dunbar is also excellent as another willing participant in Richard's evil deeds.This is a must-see for all Shakespeare fans. "},{"Title":"A Worthwhile Adaptation","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Most versions of Shakespeare plays that attempt to bring a classic story into a more modern setting fail. This film is a rare exception.Sir Ian McKellan plays Richard III with such dead-on artistry that it was hard to shake off the impression that he really was a power-hungry cretin with a hunch. Furthermore, Richard is usually played as either so evil the audience can't stand him, or so pitifully desperate that his plots and schemes don't seem plausible. But McKellan portrays him on the fine edge of the sword; evil enough to be repelled by his actions, but sly and funny enough to almost root for him.Of course, part of why one begins empathizing with him is because he's surrounded but the shrill Annette Benning, who's not close to being McKellan's equal, and other characters that give the audience excuses to believe that they don't deserve to live. However, that simply adds another dimension to the story that is often ignored in varied productions of the play.It's a slick, stylish film that sucks it's audience in, even in the most loathsome moments. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare set in an alternate fascist England of the 1930's...spoilers","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  RICHARD III is set in an alternate England of the 1930's. RICHARD III is a pseudo Hitler and his empire is a fascist police state. This is the setting for a contemporary version of the classic play. I like this concept. One thing that was neat was that the asides to the audience were left in the film, giving it a stage feel. The opening hook before the title sequence was shall we say... breathtaking for a Shakespeare film. The neat thing about most shakespeare plays is that they can be set in just about any time period a film producer or director sees fit. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys a modern twist on classic plays.  "},{"Title":"An absolute powerhouse","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"    Ian McKellan is stunning in his role as Richard the third, reincarnated for the early 20th century.  If you want to update a Shakespearean play, this is how you do it.  The story will shock you sometimes, but not as bad as the critics have mentioned.  It is a very visual film, and the cinematography and art direction are incredible.  The performances range from good (Robert Downey Jr) to absolutely brilliant.  Ian McKellan literally possesses the screen as Richard III.  The power of his performance is strengthened by the incredible updating of the Bard's play.    This movie deserved many more nominations than given by the academy.  Especially Ian McKellan (to see another facet of this guy's range, watch Gods and Monsters).  One of the top ten of 1995. "},{"Title":"Alternately brilliant and maddening.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Still a 'period' production -- just a different period. When Orson Welles moved 'Julius Caesar' to the 1930s, he used it to comment on events in Europe.  Why, in 1995, a 1930's 'Richard'? Richard-as-proto-Hitler is not exactly a new insight -- see, if you can, Peter Hall's 'Wars of the Roses' (1963) where Ian Holm perfectly captures the ranting Hitlerian style in the speech to the troops and is, as always, brilliant.  All that said, I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this version, due mainly to the great cast.  Using American actors to play the parvenu Woodvilles was especially good.  This is fun for those who already know the play well, as is Pacino's semi-documentary. We don't need another full-dress Olivier version, do we?  "},{"Title":"A horse, a horse - or is it a jeep, a jeep?","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Please forgive me, Shakespeare perfectionists, but for me and the other several million people who did not see the original stage production, this is an opportunity to see McKellen strut his stuff, and bring this play to life in an excellent and gripping way. This is a MOVIE, and would have suffered if some of the pace wasn't adjusted accordingly. As it was, the adaptation worked magnificently - what a super villain that Richard was - eh? Knocks Blofeld into a cocked hat anyday. Who wants to steal nuclear warheads when you can rule an empire by lying through your teeth? Who needs a tank full of killer sharks when you've got a bath of soapy water? Get out of your rarefied rooms and let Shakespeare shine on into the next millennium. His plot embarrasses most hollywood scriptwriters with its excellence (and he's far cheaper). Superb.   "},{"Title":"One of the better Shakespeare adaptations","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Richard Loncraine's fantastic production of Richard III is easily one of the best Shakespeare adaptations I have seen, and this one even betters the Olivier version of Richard III done several decades before.Loncraine moves the action to 1930's England and parallels the rise of the scheming Richard to that of Fascism across Europe in the same period, most notable in the costuming and army props that chillingly resemble Nazi paraphernalia.Ian McKellen is a fantastic Richard, snide and scheming but not entirely unsympathetic. Despite his vile actions, I found myself rooting for him, despite his inevitable downfall at the end.The screenplay makes the action comprehensible in a way that Olivier's version did not. Through all the intrigue, betrayal and double-crosses it is entirely clear what is happening and why. Much of the text has been cut and some of the characters merged in order to do this but, nevertheless, it's impressive feat.Maggie Smith, Jim Broadbent, Kirsten Scott-Thomas and Nigel Hawthorne deliver well-rounded performances in the chief supporting roles, and there is even an American element plausibly worked in through the presence of US actors Annette Bening and Robert Downey Jr.It was released some time ago now but get it out while you can. It's a treat. "},{"Title":"Bad guys have all the fun.","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Looking around my new university's awesome video collection (a plurality of which is Shakespeare adaptations), I came across the 1995 version of Richard III, with Ian McKellen in the title role. I'd heard about this film before, and I had a few hours to kill between Roman Civilization and English Literature, so I watched it in one of the viewing booths.I think it's my second-favourite Shakespeare film, after Kenneth Branagh's Henry V (incredibly, this mid-90s Shakespeare adaptation does not have Branagh in it). The story is set in an alternate-history fascist 1930s Britain, where the Wars of the Roses are being fought with tanks and aircraft. The war ends in the opening scene, when Richard crashes his tank through the Lancastrian HQ, and shoots Henry VI and Prince Edward right in their foreheads.Aside from the obvious updating of the timeframe, the plot is kept basically the same, with a lot of dialogue cut, and a few characters excised (most notably Queen Margaret (some of her dialogue goes to Maggie Smith's Duchess of York) and some of Queen Elizabeth's relatives).There are two notable changes, though. The first involves Henry, Earl of Richmond (the future Henry VII). In Shakespeare's tetralogy, he's sent overseas by the Lancasters to keep him safe in Henry VI, Part III; whereas in the film he appears to be a young Yorkist officer of good standing (he dances with Princess Elizabeth), who only leaves England midway through, after Richard's reign begins. The director also makes Princess Elizabeth of York, who never appears in the play, an actual character. She appears in all of the scenes with the York family, but never speaks, since Shakespeare wrote no dialogue for her; after she marries Richmond (which the film moves to before the final battle), she gets a single line appropriated from another character in the play. Until then, I was imagining that she was mute.The whole film is about Ian McKellen's performance; of all the other actors, only Jim Broadbent (the Duke of Buckingham) and Maggie Smith can really match him. That's not to say anything bad about the rest of the cast, including Nigel Hawthorne (Clarence), Robert Downey Jr. (Earl Rivers), and Annette Bening (Queen Elizabeth); McKellen is just that good. "},{"Title":"Some people make movies, others have their visions realized","Date":"4 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Ian McKellan's Richard III is possible one of the greatest visions of the play to be presented. Set in the 1930s, the Yorkists are clearly aligned with the Nazi/Fascist movement of the era and yet at the same time the Bard doesn't seem out of place at all in the setting.Indeed, McKellan's script is excellently written and the director, Richard Loncraine, has done his best to turn an ideal script into an ideal representation of history's greatest villain. The movie is not just a production of the play, it is a real world, a very real world.Unlike Branagh productions which, while excellent films, retain a certain aloof quality that remind us we are watching Shakespeare, Richard III seems perfectly natural. And the stellar cast, some brilliant actors who deserve top billing that willingly took smaller roles, is certainly a credit to the film. And everything in the movie is meaningful in some manner, from Queen Elizabeth clearly being American, even to Clarence being a photographer. In fact, the movie is so well done that you'll have to watch it at least twice to catch all the little details they've put into it to make it a better movie.Now, certainly this film has some drawbacks. It is not the most accurate reproduction of the play. Certainly some of the most famous scenes are intact but in order to give some perspective this movie clocks at one hour forty four minutes compared to Branagh's unabridged Hamlet which is around three and a half hours long. In respect to the written bodies, Richard III is longer then Hamlet, virtually the longest play Shakespeare wrote.As such, this film is not the ultimate Richard III on film. It is, however, the ultimate vision of recreation on film. While this movie is perfectly capable of being enjoyed on its own (who can resist the sinister Tyrill who always seems to be present before misfortune befalls one of Richard's enemies?) as part of a study of the play, it is somewhat faulty. Some may interpret this as a poor adaptation. On the other hand, you may not wish to start with this film. Select a more accurate representation of the play, such as the Olivier version, or even better read and/or see the play performed on stage, then watch this film. It is, as I have said repeatedly, enjoyable for non-Shakespearephiles but knowledge of the play will be tremendously useful in watching this film.Overall, an excellent film that I hardily recommend to anyone, be they Shakespeare fan or not. "}{"Title":"A Shakespeare Adaptation With Hair On Its Chest!","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I have to say that I am not into theatre enough to have seen many Shakespeare adaptations to compare this film to, and therefore may not be the most competent reviewer, but my gut opinion is that this is an overall excellent adaptation and a great movie to boost.  Wonderful acting, costumes and production, and the ideas of time - shifting Richard III. a couple of centuries forward to the 1930ies works very well.OK, the battle scenes could have been a bit beefier.  But that's the only criticizm I could think of. "},{"Title":"One of the best.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I love this movie! Sir Ian is a marvel as the title character, and the supporting cast does a fantastic job! The re-setting of the story in a fascist country works like a scary charm, the music and photography is all great. Overall a wonderful experience, and a lovely way to expose yourself or your children to the wonders of The Bard. "},{"Title":"Great story, great acting, great cinematography...","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" ... and the best opening scene i've ever seen. The setting moved to the 30s is brilliant. Great script. Acting is great and Ian McKellen is brilliant. The atmosphere is great. I voted 9. "},{"Title":"An astoundoing film with great art direction..one of the best interpretations","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  RICHARD III falls back on 1930's nazi/communist metaphors and is a tale of a civil war in ENGLAND between rival factions for the throne. Of note in this film is the strange yet, appealing art direction, the uniforms start out as traditional british then go to clones of NAZI uniforms in WW 2. The film substitutes horses for jeeps, tanks, airstrikes and is an upbeat retelling of a classic tale of ambition gone bad. I rather enjoyed this film, and enjoyed a role played by ADRIAN DUNBAR, he played a ruthless killer who at times would seem, had second thoughts about the things he had to do..like kill two kids. Many roles like his added to this film and did not detract from it. At times many of the buildings seemed derived from ALBERT SPEER or of SOVIET era design. The strength of this film is the broad cinematic canvas used to tell the tale. The film is part war spectacle, part intruige, and all shakespear. One more thing of note, the enjoyable ASIDES are left intact in the film. (This is unusual) It was almost as if one was watching at times a stage play on a much broader scope. The film's art direction leaned heavily on ww 2 era design and the 1930's and 1940's clothing sets etc. added to the films eye pleasing asthetic. (they definately did research) Something interesting though, was this a commentary on where England is heading now or a tale of alternate past?I wonder. While not teen/adult oriented like ROMEO AND JULIET (dicaprio version) this film is more HIGHBROW in it's delivery while the latest ROMEO AND JULIET had a mored moderen 20th century pop culture decadence which suited that film. The same audience for ROMEO might not like this version..yet, I liked both. I recommend this film for it's historical lok and it's entertainingly fun take on a classic play. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare doen as a alternate england of the 1930's ala FRANCO SPAIN or HITLER","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  RICHARD THE III is a great film. I have a hard time reading shakespeare...I have in school. I prefer to see it on stage or in movies. This film is set with a visual 1930's military fascist look, as if Mussolini had moved into WHITEHALL. The beauty of films like this and the Dicaprio ROMEO AND JULIET is that shakespeare can be adapted to almost any time frame and setting in history or cinematic fiction world for tha matter; depending on the production companies whims of course. This film is complete with the classic ASIDES to the audience seen in most stage plays. IAN MCKELLEN, out spoken gay rights advocate gives one of the best performances of his career. This film was something I was drawn to, so much so I intend on adding it to my collection. The approach it uses puts the play in a political and military context that is more modern. I suppose a gifted adapter could tell this tale in a alternate UNITED STATES about a evil/ambitious totalitarian president instead of king. This is the beauty of shakespeare, timeless tales that can be adapted to any setting. I have seen several on tape, stage plays done as westerns by civic groups. If you enjoy high art with a high brow british flair, I recommend this as being one of the greatest shakespeare films next to zefferellis ROMEO AND JULIET. "},{"Title":"one of the most watched films in my collection","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Richard the third is one of the most wickedly funny and entertaining shakespear plays and this adaptation is the best. Firstly the setting of england is so wonderfully near to reality but so tinyly distorted that you can watch it for the set alone (for example settting the tower of london in battersea power station was a stroke of genius). It has an excellent cast who are so good at portraying their characters in particular Jim Broadbent who portrays the sliminess of the Duke of Buckingham very well and also Nigel Hawthorn as the Duke of Clarence. In short it is a wonderful film which should be given far more credit than it is currently getting "},{"Title":"Slow?","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  How one can call this slow is beyond me it's by far the most imaginative and exciting film adaptation of Richard III around.  McKellen's interpretation of the character is the most unique and potent I have seen, striking a perfect blend between loathsome and captivating (which is what how Richard must surely seem in order to captivate the audience).  With a supporting cast containing the likes of Maggie Smith, Nigel Hawthorne, Jim Broadbent and Tim McInnerny, you can't really go wrong with this brilliant film. "},{"Title":"Giving the Devil his due","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  (Some Mild Spoilers)In all fairness, this film was neither excellent nor atrocious (as previous, conflicting commentaries have stated).  It is mediocre for many of the same reasons Olivier's critically popular 1956 version was.Most notably, Richard Loncraine has made the grave error of removing the character of Queen Margaret COMPLETELY.  The only thing dumber than doing Richard III without Margaret is doing Richard III without Richard!!!Sans Margaret, the dark sense of fate, destiny and curses fulfilled is obliterated.  Instead, it becomes the story of an ordinary madman who goes on a politically motivated killing spree.  Ho-Hum.The 1930's costumes are elegant beyond belief in what is, essentially a grand cinematic joke; a highly conceptual let's try it this way approach to a legendary play.  And, thankfully, the highly talented and prestigious cast is game.  Too bad that the supporting characters are shredded to such a threadbare and skeletal state that most of these exceptional actors are given bloody little to do!Example  What a waste to cast the great John Wood as Edward IV and cut the only speech of any significance that he has (Have I a tongue to do my brother's death?  And shall that tongue give pardon to a slave?)  With this speech gone, the character is left with a paltry dozen lines at best.  Wood deserved better.It is unfair to complain too much about McKellen's hamminess since the tongue-in-cheek nature of the whole approach demands a somewhat over-the-top interpretation.  On the other hand, to point out that Olivier was even hammier in comparison does not turn McKellen into the new Brando.As for the seduction of Lady Anne showing inconsistencies in Richard's character?  Loncraine filmed that scene pretty much as it was originally written.  Don't blame him.  Address your complaints to Mr. Shakespeare.The complaint about this film being untrue to its period is technically accurate but I also agree with its refutation that this film is clearly set in a fantasy world.  We already know this because England was never a Fascist state.  If we object to a building that is obviously not the Tower of London being referred to as the Tower of London, then we must also object to a man who is obviously not Richard III being referred to as Richard III.Ultimately, the film is clumsily done.  Omitting certain predictions but then carrying them out makes for a singularly unsatisfying entertainment. However, it was, at least, interesting to watch.  More than you can say for some previous interpretations of the play. "},{"Title":"Maggie Smith steals this great movie","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" In this version of Richard III the action has been moved to England in the 1930's. The move to this time period is flawless. While not as good as Titus (which is similar) this is a great film with fine performances. Maggie Smith as the Duchess of York steals this movie with her expert handling of Shakespeare. The scene she has with Ian McKellan (Richard III)by the stairs is amazing. Maggie Smith should have been a candidate for an Oscar for Best Supporting actress, a truly flawless performance. Annette Bening is very moving as Queen ELizabeth. Her best scene is in front of the building where her sons are being held prisoner by Richard. Krisitn Scott-THomas is riveting as Lady Anne. Ian McKellan is astounding as RIchard III. This is probably his best performance (even better than his performance as James Whale in Gods and Monsters.) THe costumes and sets are also expertly done. Richard III is a near masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Translation of Murderous Tale","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Fantastic translation of William Shakespeare's Richard III is both involving, dramatic and humorous as it manages to capture all the emotional highs and lows of the bard's murderous tale of megalomaniacal King Richard.Writers Ian McKellen (who also plays the King) and Richard Loncraine (director) work from Richard Eyre's stage adaptation to create an ingenious screenplay that translates sublimely to a World War II setting. The idea was brilliant, the final product, just as good. Thanks to the intelligent use of Shakespeare's observant dialogue and sharply hewn characters, Richard III holds us in a vice-like grip.McKellen's Richard is a hybrid of the loathsome dictators that dominated this new time frame (Hitler or Stalin), yet with much more charm and wit, and a sickeningly egotistical outlook. His performance is marvellous, and I for one have not enjoyed a villain so since Anthony Hopkins brought Dr. Hannibal Lecter to life or Robert De Niro so richly portrayed crime boss Al Capone. Supporting him is a very impressive, solid cast including Annette Bening as the distraught Queen Elizabeth, Kristin Scott Thomas as a haunted Lady Anne, the immensely enjoyable Maggie Smith as the Duchess of York (Richard's mother) and manipulative Jim Broadbent plays Buckingham. Also stars a sinister Nigel Hawthorne as Clarence and an apt American Earl Rivers played by Robert Downey Junior.These outstanding turns and the incisive script (which together make this film) are supported by Tony Burrough's lavish production design, Peter Biziou's classy photography and highly effective editing from Paul Green.Monday, June 23, 1997 - Hoyts Croydon "}{"Title":"A masterful restaging","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Ian McKellen not only does an excellent job with the nasty but tragic man who thirsts for power, but he also puts the play in an unusual but effective setting a fascistic, Hitler-style England in the 30s. The costuming, atmosphere, and cast are all top-rate. See this before you see any of the other, more traditional versions.   "},{"Title":"My Kindgom for a Horse (or at Least a Car)","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This dynamic adaptation of the Shakespeare play is reset in a kingdom that looks suspiciously like 1930s Germany and depicts Richard III as a ruthless fascist.The film looks marvelous, and it's got a great cast. Ian McKellen of course deserves the most praise for his performance as Richard, which he throws himself into with plummy gusto. But strong performances are to be given by all, including Annette Bening, Robert Downey, Jr., Kristin Scott Thomas and Maggie Smith. What I like most about the film is that it's very cinematic; it takes a stage property and actually ADAPTS it to the screen, rather than making a filmed version of a stage play.The my kingdom for a horse line gets quite a laugh in the context it's given here.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Richard III","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I really like the films where the main character talks to us/the audience like we already know them, and this is probably the first one where the main character is the villain. BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Sir Ian McKellen is fantastic as Richard III, he also helped produce and screenplay this well crafted film, based on the play by William Shakespeare. Richard of Glouceter is brought into the 1930s, during a civil war, and he has the evil intent to kill all in his way of becoming king of the British throne. It is all his sneering, clever manipulation, deception, lying and charm to all that know him that is getting him closer to his goal. He does get the crown, but most people will discover his evil intent and it will mean his deserved death. Also starring Annette Bening as Queen Elizabeth, Jim Broadbent as Duke of Buckingham, a scene-stealing (according to the critics) Robert Downey Jr. as Lord Rivers, The Madness of King George's Nigel Hawthorne as George, Duke of Clarence, The English Patient's Kristin Scott Thomas as Lady Anne, John Wood as King Edward IV, Dame Maggie Smith as Duchess of York, Jim Carter as Lord Hastings, Edward Hardwicke as Lord Stanley, Adrian Dunbar as James Tyrell, Dominic West as Henry, Earl of Richmond, Tim McInnerny as Catesby, Stacey Kent as Ballroom Singer and The Witches' Bill Paterson as Ratcliffe. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Costume Design, and it won the BAFTAs for Best Costume Design and Best Production Design, and it was nominated the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Adapted Screenplay. Sir Ian McKellen was number 4 on The 100 Greatest British Actresses, and he was number 5 on Britain's Finest Actors. Very good! "},{"Title":"A good attempt at an update...","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  OK, so the scenes and dress are updated to the 1930s but the language is not. OK, the line, I can smile, and murder while I smile, while spoken by the right character comes from the wrong play (it is actually from Henry VI Pt3, Act 3 Scene 3), but I still like this film and think it works pretty well. Don't expect to be able to follow Shakespeare's text while watching it it starts before Shakespeare's play; some scenes are moved around; and the numbers of characters are played around with somewhat (in some scenes there are fewer than in the original, in others more), but Shakespeare in modern dress but otherwise true to the original doesn't work as well for me.This is the sort of adaptation which gives those of us too young to have witnessed them pause for thought when we remember that the likes of Moseley and events such as The Battle of Cable Street are only recent memories and it isn't too outrageous to believe that something like this *could* have happened within the last 100 years. "},{"Title":"The glorious king of Shakespeare! (somewhat spoiler)","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Portrayed by Sir Ian, Duke Richard of Gloucester wants to be king and no one, not even family will get in his way!!!  This is a story of a VERY cold hearted man who will do anything to achieve power.  In this adaptation, he even has no interest in women!  This production even uses allusions towards Hitler at certain points.  Aside from having its hilarious moments at times, this is a superior masterpiece, particularly because of Sir Ian and SHOULD NOT be missed by true Shakespeare students and scholars!  "},{"Title":"This is just brilliant","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This film is a treat from start to finish.  I've seen and read a lot of Shakespeare, but this is going to be one of the defining versions for me. The Oliver version just doesn't compare.I just loved the way the film mixed the 1930s with the Elizabethan; for example the 30s-style version of a Marlowe's Passionate Shepherd (an Elizabethan hit Shakespeare himself quoted), which had a tune I can still hum, or the Plantagenet urinals.  And all that's just in the first scene! The updating was in my view fully justified.  Folks, we have to remember that the War of the Roses was, in Elizabethan times, seen almost in the same way we see the First World War today.  It was thought to be that horrible. Maybe it wasn't really, but that's how it was perceived.  Anyone who tries to perform Shakespeare's history plays in their original setting today has somehow to solve the problem of making a modern audience feel the same sort of horror, otherwise you just end up with a lot of people in funny clothes running around doing funny things.  I'm not saying you should never do ahistory play in the original setting; Branagh's film of Henry IV is a good example of how you can, and succeed.  But you ask too much if you just put the play on as if you were in Elizabethan England, and expect the audience today to be able to react to the War of the Roses as an Elizabethan audience would. The modern connection with fascism is also perfectly reasonable. Shakespeare's Richard is fascist, and so was the real King Richard III, whoreally did haul Hastings out of a meeting and have him executed immediately,and really did have the Princes in the Tower murdered.  This was shocking tothe Elizabethans; even Henry VIII could not have someone beheaded without atleast going through some sort of judicial or parliamentary process.  Howevermany modern audiences do not know this, and think it's just the sort of thing  they did in those days.  Setting the play in a fascist England helps usrealise how truly shocking Richard III's murders were.The film also gives us a chilling reminder of how narrowly England escaped from fascism (and I am English).  Fascism is not something uniquely German; it happened in Italy and Spain.  It could have happened in 20th century England.  If it had it might have looked something very like that, though  perhaps not with Plantagenet urinals.And yes, it is a pity so much was cut.  But that's reality; that's howShakespeare has been done from the time of Shakespeare on.  I certainly would like the film to have been twice as long, but you can hardly hold thatagainst it. "},{"Title":"A brilliant movie adaption of a provocative stage version","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  There isn't really much I can say about this film, beyond lauding the cumulative effect of the visual setting -- England between the wars, and a lurch into quasi-fascism, and making wonderful use of the architecture of the time as locations.  But it is a film version of a stage production, rather than a totally original adaption of Shakespeare's original. Shakespeare to McKellen by way of Richard Eyre.One interesting point is the way that Henry Tudor is depicted.  It's not just the different uniform style, though that is a large part of it.  The visual image is of a junior Naval Officer, from one of the less hidebound branches of the service, perhaps submarines, and the whole look put me in mind of pictures of King George VI, not as King but as the young man who was in the fleet at Jutland, blended with the daring young officers of WW2.It doesn't seem coincidental that the military headquarters in the opening sequence, almost WW1 in look, suffers a very WW2 attack. "},{"Title":"McKellen to the max.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Ian McKellen played the villainous Magneto in last year's hit ``X-Men,'' but the millions who lined up to see that movie have no idea just how joyfully evil McKellen can be. To witness the limits of McKellen's malevolence, you must rent ``Richard III'' (1996).It's a 1940-ish interpretation of the Shakespeare play, with England depicted as a fascist state awash in the blacks and reds symbolic of Nazi Germany. McKellen's Richard is the younger brother of King Edward IV, and scheming to become king by any means necessary.The movie has as high a body count as a slasher film, but Freddy Krueger seems saintly compared with the sadistic Richard. Also in the first-rate cast are Annette Bening as Queen Elizabeth and Robert Downey Jr. as her brother, an early, gruesome victim of Richard's plot.   "},{"Title":"Violence, betrayal, weapons, death. Ahh, the Bard!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I love these modern settings with Shakespeare's language. His plays are full of war, death, treachery and absolutely wonderful language. I recommend these films for those who claim the works are hard to follow. The plots fit anywhere, and it does not take long to tune the ear to the words. It's OUR language folks! I hope these movies keep on coming. Tanks, bombs, invasions of England, rebellion, over-the-top crowned heads. I do wish there was room for the sidelights like comic relief and little plays-within-the play, but I understand the need for trimming.See this and relish the excesses of the title role. "},{"Title":"I think it's a great movie, I saw it in '95 and was glad to see it again on the tv screen!","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" My comment has to remain shallow, as I am no native speaker of English. Nor can I comment on it in a professional way, e.g. whether or not the movie is true to Shakespeare's original text. But I am sure I heard his beautiful language all the time. I find the setting impressive, I wondered where they had found these ominous-looking buildings in and around which took place the final battle - was it somewhere in eastern Europe? Of course I shall try to find this out. the acting is wonderful - real and at the same time they recite Shakespeare's lines - I don't know how they do it; the casting is also fantastic. Well that's about it. It's a pity my tv screen is so small, when I saw it in the cinema in 1995, I was so much more overwhelmed by the images and sounds... couldn't quite experience that again.  "}{"Title":"Ingenious Resetting","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Sir Ian McKellan's portrayal of Richard III in this 1995 adaptation dominates the movie with supreme style and shocking wit.  Set in England during a supposed Fascist coup McKellan is compelling as the devilish villain hellbent on securing the throne at all costs.  Eliminating family members and supposed friends with relish and abandon shocks but I like others also found myself offering grudging admiration. The glamour, style, violence, sex and drugs will make Tarantino froth, alas no rock'n'roll but even the twenties swing music adds a fabulous contrast to the on screen butchery.  Acting by all the players is admirable but McKellan steals every scene with ease.  If only all Hollywood villains could be played as good (or bad) as this.    "},{"Title":"Makes the play come alive!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I think a Shakespearean adaptation excels when you come away understanding the text of the play better than ever. Placing the story within the 1930's timeline and likening it to Hitler's Germany really brings the parallels home. I also like the device of making the Queen and her family all Americans, just to differentiate. A perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, faithful rendition","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The best rendition of Shakespeare's tragedy I've yet seen - set in the thirties, as a reference to Hitler and the King Edward who ruled during that appeasement era.  Ian McKellen plays with gusto and style in one of his best ever performances.  The style and setting suits the play as if it had been written for it, and the script is superbly tailored to match.  If you have ever seen Edward III, then see this;  if you dislike contemporary Shakespeare then this should convert you. "},{"Title":"Flawed by two performances, but very worth watching","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Visually, the movie is arresting. I like stark, dramatic images, and this movie delivers them. Also, I think the screenplay adaptation is quite well-done, although events are so compressed at the end that there's a major shift in tone from relatively realistic at the beginning to terribly stage-bound at the end. The irony is that the realistic scenes at the beginning are largely interior shots, and the end of the movie is filmed out doors, on location at the famous disused power plant that featured so famously on the cover of Pink Floyd's Animals album. And the real reason that the events seem compressed and stage-bound at the end is that, after all, this is a play, and one that, in spite of its obvious brilliance, also suffers from some serious faults. Shakespeare's historical plays tended toward abrupt, abracadabra endings, often because to analyze things too deeply might carry unpleasant consequences for the author. Queen Elizabeth (herself a Tudor and granddaughter of the man who supplanted Richard) would have been angry with Shakespeare if he had strayed too far from the long-established Tudor line about the evils of the Yorkists, and Richard especially. So the ending is contrived and foreshortened.The performances are studies in contrasts. McKellen, Maggie Smith, Jim Broadbent, Nigel Hawthorne...in fact, most of the British cast as far as I can remember, carry off their roles exceptionally well, and there are no bad performances among them. The two unfortunate casting choices are Annette Benning and, to an even greater degree, Robert Downey Jr. I've never particularly cared for either of them, although in the right role they have at least limited abilities. These are not the right roles. Every line is delivered with a wooden, empty quality. It's clear that neither of them had any idea about how to approach their roles. Expressions, mannerisms, emphasis, accent, tone are all exaggerated and wrong. The movie comes to a screeching halt every time either one of them is on camera. The only shot which works for either of them is when Downey descends the steps of a plane and climbs into a limousine...tellingly, he doesn't say a word. In that single shot, the American swagger and presumption that the filmmakers were implying works for them.Any other complaints I might make about this movie are mere quibbles, especially in the context of the colossally bad performances from the Americans. The movie is still highly watchable, in spite of them. I've watched it probably half a dozen times, and I'm sure I'll watch it again. Certain scenes resonate The opening scene, the meeting between Richard and the assassins, Gloucester in the prison, the party rally, the meeting of the privy council. These scenes are flawlessly done, to my taste at any rate.As to the quality of the adaptation from Shakespeare's original, I think that's a matter of taste. I'm no professional scholar, but I have read all of Shakespeare's plays, and I've read Richard III at least three or four times over the years. I've seen it performed on stage and in film several times as well. And I've read quite a bit about the Wars of the Roses and the Tudor age. This film is certainly a stretch from the original play, and certain things (as others have pointed out) don't seem very credible, such as the accusation of witchcraft. But these historical anachronisms don't bother me. Politicians use empty accusations and false charges to maneuver themselves; that much certainly hasn't changed. Mostly, I'm interested in an enjoyable movie experience, and overall this film provides it.It's just a pity that the movie can't be redone with more suitable actors to replace Benning and Downey. "},{"Title":"Modernization with no credibility","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I just watched this awful movie on Swedish television, and I can't understand how so many reviewers can praise it. It doesn't matter how splendid the actors are if the setting isn't believable. It is in general very difficult to modernize historical plays/movies/novels, and in this case, the result was disastrous.Moving Shakepeare to a fascist pre-WWII England in the way it was done here just doesn't work. Apart from the superficial features with clothes, cars, trains, tanks, flags etc, there was no resemblance at all to fascism or the politics of the pre-WWII era. In the 20th century, you simply can't have noble families who, obsessed with lineage, fight for the throne, neither in a Western democracy nor in a fascist state. This was typical for the feudal society Shakespeare wrote about; to move this to the 20th century creates nothing but a strange anachronism without any credibility. Instead, the noble families should have been transformed to political parties, or classes, or some other more modern type of groups fighting for power. And the so called fascism should have been depicted by letting us see how society was affected on a much deeper level, not just this superficial kitch with uniforms, flags, tanks, etc. If you don't think you can do this without being faithful to Shakespeare, then you should refrain from it rather than doing it in this poor superficial way.I give it two stars, and that's being kind!Erland Gadde "},{"Title":"One of the worst Shakespeare adaptations I've ever seen!","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"   From the moment Ian McKellan (one of my all time favourite actors) began the famous opening speech in a ridiculous Winston Churchill drawl, I was appalled. Half way through the speech, which should NEVER be delivered to an audience, he wandered off at a tangent, omitting essential details about his plan to set his brother up as the murderer of King Edward (Plots have I laid. Inductions dangerous / By drunken prophecies, libels and dreams / to set my brother Clarence and the king / In deadly hate the one against the other. etc). When the action moves on to Anne's Set down your honourable load speech at her husband's funeral we find that there's no one else to set down anything as she's alone in a morgue. I mean, I'm all for changing things around a bit, trying something different, but there's a limit to how much people should muck around with the few stage directions that Shakespeare indicated. Next, and most heinous of all, the language has been screwed up. Example, Lady Anne is supposed to say Foul devil for God's sake hence and trouble us not / for thou hast made the happy Earth thy hell / filled it with cursing cries and deep exclaims. The lines that the excellent Kristin Scott-Thomas is compelled to deliver are Foul devil for God's sake hence and trouble ME not / For YOU have made the happy Earth YOUR hell etc. It is an insult to Shakespeare and to the intelligence of anyone watching this film to assume that we won't understand the original language.It was at this point that, in danger of being unable to overcome the desire to put my foot through the screen, I switched of this terrible production. I tried switching back a few times (I know the text well enough to just dip in without losing the plot) but the film's total lack of respect for Shakespeare continued to make me see red. Although it's years too late to actually see the stage production, if you want an idea of the respect and love with which this play should be treated, I suggest you read Antony Sher's brilliant Richard diaries The Year of the King. The preparation of the RSC's excellent production of this masterpiece is a far more compelling read than sitting through this bastardised film version.AVOID IT LIKE THE PLAGUE! "},{"Title":"Loncraine can smile, and murder Shakespeare while he smiles","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  (SPOILERS AHOY!!!  Inasmuch as one can spoil one of the most famous plots in literature.)Everything you have heard about this movie is wrong.There was nothing wrong with the idea of setting RICHARD III in a 20th-century Fascist state; while I have never seen much good  in moving Shakespeare's plays out of the setting for which they were written, it can be done without actually harming the story.  Branagh has done it twice, with outstanding results in MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING and reasonably good results in HAMLET; Jerome Robbins and Robert Wise also did it with WEST SIDE STORY.  And Richard's Machiavellian maneuvers should have lent themselves well to a Fascist backdrop.But if you insists on moving Shakespeare out of his element, you must at least be true to the new setting you have moved him to.  And it is instantly obvious that the setting of this RICHARD III is not 1930's Britain, or any other Britain that ever existed.  Loncraine's crime was not so much that he updated Shakespeare but that he didn't update Shakespeare enough.  You cannot keep dialogue that states that Clarence is being taken to the Tower of London, and then show him being imprisoned in what is obviously not the Tower.  Richard is shown accusing his enemies of witchcraft; this made perfect sense in Shakespeare's time, but to hear it out of the mouth of a 1930's fascist dictator is ludicrous.  Possibly most bizarre is to see Richard's British tanks as they lumber off to the battlefield, clearly painted with the red star of the Soviet Union!  Nevertheless, RICHARD III could still have been a good movie, but for several other miscues.  The shavings from the plot twist the tale into a stupid mess.  In the play, Richard's evil springs in large part from his inability to experience romantic love.  Here, he so easily and expertly seduces Anne (Kristen Scott Thomas) that his initial complaints that he cannot prove a lover are impossible to believe.  Loncraine and McKellen have deleted the reference to the prophecy that G (George of Clarence) will kill Edward's heirs, so Edward's orders to imprison Clarence make no sense.  Then Edward signs a pardon which will spare Clarence from the death penalty.  Richard intercepts the pardon and burns it to a crisp.  This makes Tyrell's mission to murder Clarence a useless and stupid risk, since in the absence of the pardon Clarence would have been executed by royal order anyway.Much has been made of Rivers' death scene, where an unknown assassin stabs him through his mattress as he cavorts with his lover.  This is, firstly, the most ridiculous way to kill someone ever devised (suppose your target rolls over, or the lady gets underneath him?).  Secondly, the scene is stolen directly from FRIDAY THE THIRTEENTH (and don't even think of using the words homage and FRIDAY THE THIRTEENTH in the same sentence).  If Loncraine must steal, one would think he would at least steal from *good* movies.  Less derivative, but just as stupid, is the murder scene of the young prince Richard, where Tyrell smothers the unfortunate boy with a red silk handkerchief.  I kid you not.Reports of the acting have been greatly exaggerated.  Ian McKellen, who is capable of much better than this, is shockingly hammy as Richard.  He has two notes gloating evil, and thinly disguised gloating evil.  Not the slightest bit of motivation or depth of character have survived from the play.  Equally hammy is Annette Bening as Queen Elizabeth Woodville.  Robert Downey Jr. as Rivers is more acceptable only because all the lines he is given call for extreme emotion.  We do get some pretty good supporting performances Maggie Smith is imperious as Richard's mother, and Jim Broadbent is perfect as Buckingham.  Nigel Hawthorne's Clarence is convincingly mild-mannered and good-tempered; you know from the start that such a genuinely likable man hasn't got a chance against Richard, although he seems rather incongruous when one remembers what an arrogant, treacherous bully the historical Clarence was.  While John Wood's role as Edward is thankless, he is perfectly cast and made-up to resemble McKellen.  However, Dominic West's Richmond and Kate Steavenson-Pane's Princess Elizabeth are mere ciphers, and their romance is the most anemic ever to be filmed in soft yellow light.The ending of this film is pure farce, containing one of the worst staged battles I have ever seen, where Richard's HQ, apparently undefended by any sentries, is attacked by complete surprise, soldiers crawl away from cover rather than toward it, men try to destroy buttoned-up tanks with machine gun fire . . . oh, forget it, I can't convey how stupid this scene is.  And amazingly, Loncraine comes up with a final moment even dumber and more cliche than Shakespeare's.  After duly following the ancient movie rule that the bad guy must always climb the highest structure in sight when the movie is nearing its end, Richard deliberately throws himself into a pile of burning rubbish, with an inane Al Jolson song playing in the background just to underscore how completely anticlimactic this whole affair has been.  Hmmm, Ian McKellen throwing himself into a pile of flaming rubbish; isn't that a perfect metaphor for this entire movie?It is telling that so many of the lovers of RICHARD III are detractors of Branagh.  Almost all Shakespeare directors today (emphatically including Loncraine) seem determined to see how far they can substitute their own story for the Bard's original story; whether the new story is any good is completely irrelevant, so long as it is the director's story and not Shakespeare's.  Branagh, by contrast, is concerned chiefly with using every technique in his power to enhance and vivify the original story, to make it everything it can be, rather than replace it with something else.  Alone among modern Shakespeare directors, Branagh is not trying to hog the stage from the original author.  And yet it's Branagh who is accused of egotism.  Go figure. "},{"Title":"Fine film with a James Cagney ending","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I could have done without the extreme on screen violence (in the play it all takes place off-stage) but other than that I found the performances to be fine all around and all elements true to the rather cock-eyed world in which the film is set. (Of course it doesn't exactly resemble the real England of the'30's. It is a world all its own and that's the point.) I didn't have time to read all the comments, so I don't know if anyone else noticed that the final moment of this film is a direct steal from James Cagney's violent end in White Heat right down the words top of the world. The only thing missing was the mother complex (Cagney's words were actually, Made it, Ma! Top of the world!) This was another reference to the 1930's. "},{"Title":"Long Live the Fink!","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The film version of the Royal Shakespeare Company's 1992  production of Richard III is a masterful retelling of the classic Shakespearean tragedy, updated to the 1930s.  In this version, Richard of Gloucester is a general who manipulates and murders his way to the throne, transforming the seat royal into a fascist dictatorship.  Sir Ian McKellen has the role of his career here, with stellar supporting performances by Jim Broadbent as the Duke of Buckingham, Nigel Hawthorne as the Duke of Clarence (Richard's brother), and Kristin Scott Thomas as Richard's wife Anne.  The sets, costumes and music are also spectacular.  The only reason I do not give this film the full 10 stars is that, having seen Sir Ian on stage in 1992, I can imagine it being even better than it was. "},{"Title":"Stunning and brilliant revisionist Shakespeare.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  As sacreligious as it seems, I keep coming to the conclusion that had he but had the chance, this is the story of Richard III as Shakespeare would have written it.  The rich visuals, the seductive perversity of Richard, and the militaristic triumph of the finale are more exciting and (admittedly impossible for Shakespeare) accessible to the modern audience.  I would kill to make a movie this perfect.   "}{"Title":"Excellent cinema version!","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I have enjoyed Richard III in three versionsthe present Ian McKellen version, the BBC, Olivier, and an Al Pacino movie Looking for Richard which has bits and pieces of what might be a great play, but is really a movie about doing the play. Olivier delivers a great performance; the BBC version deserves credit for being a complete version with an excellent, slimy Richard; but for an evening's pleasure, Ian McKellon's work is best.I normally don't care for modern dress versions of Shakespeare, but this one was transformed to 1930's England quite satisfactorily. The opening scene, with the Yorkists celebrating their victory has a woman singing what sounds like a 1930's song until you catch the lyrics and realize that it is Raligh's Passionate Pilgrim to His Love (If these tokens thy heart may move, then live with me and be my love). Nice touch!The courting of Anne takes place in the morgue, a more believable setting for us in the 20th (oops, 21st) Century where courting is not the public ceremony it was in Shakespeare's day. In fact, the delivery of Shakespeare's lines seemed so natural to me that I thought I was seeing a movie and not seeing a 16th century play; the melding of the language, action and emotion was that complete for me.Generally speaking, Shakespeare's lines have been cut to allow the camera to work its magic. While some has been lost, much is gained cinema-graphically speaking, and the marvelous realization of character that we love in Shakespeare is retained and realized in a masterful performance by McKellon. I enthusiastically recommend it! "},{"Title":"the good and the bad of this 'Richard'","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Well, this is a curio.  Ian McKellen's screenplay and Richard Loncraine's direction take as their starting point the National Theatre production of Richard III, staged in 1991 and directed by Richard Eyre.  This was a memorable, brilliant piece of theatre which used war themes to emphasise the scale of Richard's corruption and downfall.This film takes things one step further - not only introducing military-style executions, tanks, and the like, but also changing some characters to be Americans out of synch and out of place in the English court.  Did this change work?  Well, no.  Making Robert Downey play a bloke called Earl Rivers, sister to the cloying American Queen played by Annette Bening, you're asking for trouble.What's good about this film?  It is visually interesting and moves the Shakespeare plot along nicely.  It has a strong selection of thesps in its cast - kudos to Nigel Hawthorne as Clarence, Jim Broadbent as Buckingham, Maggie Smith as Duchess of York, Jim Carter as Hastings, and Edward Hardwicke as Stanley.  Ian McKellen is superb as Richard (but he was even better in the original stage production).The screenplay makes interesting reading and there is no doubt this is an interesting movie experience.  I was just disappointed that a wonderful theatre production couldn't have transferred to the screen with most of its character intact. "},{"Title":"Interesting adaptation","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Only Ian McKellen, right?  He conveys the necessary evil to a T, and the cast is wonderful.  All of the American actors were fluid with the dialogue, a lovely change from the recent trend.  But, speaking of that, McKellen pitting the nations against each other (white vs red rose), his setting, the scenes, are all like precise architecture.  The play uncut would run between three and four hours, so I can except, though sadly, what was cut.  But it is a great movie and worth seeing again. "},{"Title":"Watch this instead of Looking For Richard.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This Richard III set in England during World War II. It gives a fresh view on Shakespeare in a different setting. I have seen Hamlet in the same period but on stage. I wonder how if somebody though of put King Lear in a different time period? Someone already put Macbeth and recently Othello versions in the movies in different eras? By doing this it gives Shakespeare endless possibilities of ideas. I watched Looking For Richard a long time ago. It did not give a good understand of this play, but this version did. Do you yourself a favor skip Looking For Richard and watch Richard III instead.  "},{"Title":"A good combination","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Taken strictly as an adaptation of the play, you would have to wonder where the other half of Shakespeare's lines went.Taken as a play on a hypothetical fascist coup in Britain in the &#145;30s, you couldn't help noticing how they talk funny.But take it for all in all, it has to be said that it works better than some attempts to set Shakespeare in modern periods.  The intrigue that the play centres on is well suited to the era of dictators and military coups.  It even provides a modern explanation for the peculiar acquiescence of Lady Anne.  Ian McKellen predictably excels in the title role, a role as far as you could get from his recent one in Fellowship of the Ring.  "},{"Title":"A joy to watch, it fills me with mirth","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A previous reviewer says it best when he defended the play against its detractors instead of listing its merits.  This is one of the few movies that not only turns a Shakespearean work into a good piece of movie, but a great piece of Shakespearean movie.Okay, England was not under Fascist control in the 1930's...but the movie works on the supposition that it *could have* been.  Before and after abdicating the throne, Edward was known to be pro-Fascist, even meeting with Hitler once!  What if Edward had NOT abdicated, once assuming the throne he would have had an American wife?  Definitely something not welcome among England upper crust.While not pointing accusatory fingers this alternate history not only serves as a rough stereotype of Europe prior to World War II but helps to vilify Richard as one evil son of a ... you get the idea.  The use of Nuremburg-like banners and visual settings cannot help but associate Richard with Adolf.Elizabeth and Rivers are similarly given the alternate treatment by showing them as Americans married into the York family as opposed to the historical association with the Lancastrian houses.  Either way, it places a slight barrier between them and Richard.  Besides, who can resist Robert Downey Jr. shouting, I have too long borne your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs!  It make me quake as much as Keanu Reeves' British accent in Bram Stoker's Dracula.All in all, the essence of the play does come through  Richard is an evil man who is more than willing to destroy his own family and friends in his quest for the seat majestical.  Ian McKellan plays the role to the knife's hilt (ahem) and earns my serious respect for it.  If you can ignore the window dressing you are left with the heart of Shakespeare's works characters that make you believe they are real.  So what if the recent Romeo and Juliet had guns and cars...was the story still not about two lovers kept apart by fate?  (I am ignoring Troma's Tromeo and Juliet since Shakespeare was not written to include Lemmy from Motorhead...)I highly recommend this to my friends and anyone else in seeing one of literature's nastiest villains portrayed to his utmost.In fact...writing this review has made me want to watch it again so I am off to the DVD player! "},{"Title":"Shakespeare again updated to the 20th century...","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Ian McKellen adapts this strikingly original update of Shakespeare's classic play about the murderous king who kills his way up the family tree to get the crown. McKellen also stars as the wicked Richard in his version, set in the 1930s. A great cast of players supports him as he magnificently pulls off the part of the evil king. The dialogue stays true to the bard's script and McKellen's adaptation gives a new meaning to the famous line, A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse! Annette Bening does seem out of place. She and Robert Downey Jr., as her brother Rivers, apparently are supposed to be American, yet Bening occasionally slips into a weak British accent, which only confuses the matter. "},{"Title":"This ain't your Gramma's Shakespeare!","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  If you remember this play from studying it in your youth as being dry, dull, boring, and pretty much a waste of time if you like tension filled dramas, think again!  This is a Richard the Third that is mean, nasty, evil, and closer to The Godfather than you might expect.  Richard is sexy, he drives tanks, he shoots people, he manipulates events, he cracks jokes - he's everything your Gramma's Shakespeare wasn't. The setting is England, but this is far from a traditional treatment of the play.  It plays the what if... game by asking 'what if the Nazis won WWII and England was now a fascist, monarchistic state?  This gives us the great clothes, the cars, and the decorations that make the enactment so menacing, and therefore the story so effective to today's audiences.  To see a bunch of guys sitting around a courtyard discussing what the king will have at his coronation ceremony is pretty dull, but this version has a whole different under-tone to the scene, in the same way that the restaurant scene in the Godfather does. A brilliant performance comes from Sir Ian, but don't miss the others'.  Watch everyone; they're all worth it, as is the set, the cinametography, and everything else.  Excellence oozes from every frame of this one. If you are a Shakespeare Purist and can only see it done in a traditional way, you will probably think it's far too contrived.  But that's too narrow minded, in my view.  See it because you like Shakespeare, see it because you hate Shakespeare, see it because you have never heard of Shakespeare.  Just see the thing. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Shakespeare film of all.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Richard Loncraine and Sir Ian Mckellen created a well defined masterpiece with this film. McKellen tops even Olivier's great Richard and the setting (facist 1930s england) adds a familiar chill to the proceeding. McKellen has so much fun with his role that we as an audience are caught up in his ecstasy. The mood ,costumes and amazing score all contribute to making this film a must see. Supporting performances to mention are Kristin Scott Thomas' pretty but agonized Lady Anne, Nigel Hawthorne's doomed Duke of Clarence ,Robert Downeys' ill-fated playboy Earl Rivers, and Edward Hardwicke's sympathetic and steadfast Lord Stanley.Too many film makers update the setting of Shakespeare's plays without good reaon,Loncrane and McKellen's reasons are clear..and it makes the piece all the more powerful. This film is a Genuine Treasure ! "},{"Title":"Ian McKellen is amazing...","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is the most amazing and intellectual version of Richard IIII have ever seen. Ian McKellen is one of the best actors acting today. Really...he's better than Jack Nicholson --- and that's pretty good! Anyway, everyone should see this movie. It's a great adaptation with great actors who carry it out really well. "}{"Title":"Sour note","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The song I'm sitting on top of the world rang curiously false as I watched Richard fall into the flames.  Then I realized--Top o' the world, Ma! is Jimmy Cagney famous line at the end of White Heat.  Was this a deliberate hommage?  Or a last-minute sneer?Loved the decor. "},{"Title":"Ian McKellen, SuperNazi","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Richard Loncraine's Richard III might turn even the most vehement detractor of William Shakespeare into a born-again fan (and this is coming from a dedicated non-fan). Instead of stilted soliloquies and limited sets, we get a sprawling (if minor) epic that is in constant motion--from the sweeping remix of the Winter of our discontent speech to a finale in a shrapnel-ridden, corpse-strewn battlefield, the movie leaves little time for boredom. While the supporting cast is brilliantly chosen (even allowing such unlikely performers as Annette Bening and Robert Downey Jr. some fine moments), Ian McKellen's Richard dominates the film--a decrepit smooth-talker with a gnarled arm always shoved deep in his jacket, the performance swings between camp and credible venom with reckless abandon, and is very satisfying. The decision to transpose the late-16th century text into the 1940s (during World War II, and at the peak of Nazi decadence) proves an interesting fit; this historical familiarity makes the Bard's talky text far more tolerable. And for those who know Shakespeare as the master of extensive characters that are difficult to keep track of, Richard III (both the play and the film) are reasonably compact and easy to follow. If you regard the Bard as a distant high-school nightmare, give Richard III a whirl...it may or may not alter your perception, but it is an impressive modernization nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Relax, it's the good stuff...","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I recently caught just a small portion of this film in PBS. While I did not see it all, I saw more than enough to know what was most important&#133;McKellan is a great actor and like every opportunity I've had to discern, Shakespeare was genius personified. I am, though quite happy with what was unfortunately my first experience with this play, somewhat dismayed by what I found upon searching online for details about this particular film and the mention of other films of the works of Shakespeare. In my opinion, someone has missed the point. The genius of Shakespeare was his ability to transform the ordinary function of language in dramatic performances into brilliant jewels of insight, intent, and interest. What we are dealing with here, as consumers of the Bard's numerous and timeless works are works of unrivaled craft...true mastery&#133;of entertainment. Lest we forget, I shall remind all within reach of a keyboard that the writings of William Shakespeare were designed as entertainment and entertain is what they have done since his time and no doubt will continue. The problem is that his works seem to have been set apart by some (snobbery) to be above the reach of the common intellect. This is not only selfish but in error. Productions of works of Shakespeare that interpret and update (albeit often loosely) can only enrich all of those who witness them. Critics should not be so hard on companies and casts that attempt to bring these works to larger audiences just because they stray from the strictest interpretation or performance standards. The respect for the work is usually evident and a different take on words written with such skill is inevitable so relax and enjoy. The characters in this play were some of the most entertaining I've ever seen on film and their motives inspired string emotions. The words weren't all Shakespeare but the spirit was just as that of Hamlet, Titus Andronicus, Julius Caesar, eloquence and entertainment of high order. Richard III was well worth seeing and deserves praise as an excellent film. "},{"Title":"An Uninteresting Failure","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I am appreciative of film and Shakespeare both. The problems of transporting the plays, essentially minimal and cerebral, to moving images are daunting and I appreciate a novel attempt. Even if it fails, it is likely to fail interestingly. Of Shakespeare's plays, the comedies are about situations, the tragedies about ideas. Neither of those translates well to film. But the histories, lesser plays in my opinion, are about characters. Now, character exploration is inherently cinematic, a natural for the screen. especially with as many speeches to the camera, confidences with the audience, this play provides.So I went into this prepared, nay yearning to like it, even like its failures. I don't mind resetting, cutting and such. My favorite adaptation is Greenaway's `Prospero's Books,' to give you some idea of the slack I cut.But this simply doesn't work, either as film or as Shakespeare.There are interesting, even clever sets most of the time, but they are not used well. The battles, even the minor intrigues don't compel -- we always are distracted by the cheap staginess of it all. Some actors are good enough, some rather dreadful, but none of it works because the troop doesn't have a center. They could, should have relied on Shakespeare. But they didn't. Instead, there is a strange pastiche of camp, satire, earnest emotion. It is as if each actor had their own idea of the nature of the experiment, or joke and failed to tell the others.Someone, perhaps here, thought that if Shakespeare were alive, this is how he would have done it. Nay. He was first and foremost an actor, a skilled dramatist. He would have concentrated on story, on developing motivations, on conflicts, on duplicity. None of that has any citizenship here. He would never, ever pass off a tank blasting through a wall as a dramatic effect.All faults would be forgiven if the lead were sufficiently powerful to compel us, perhaps an early Wells. But McKellan just doesn't have the stuff. He can handle the language, such as he kept, but he lacks the projection, the charm Richard commanded. "},{"Title":"A re-staging nightmare","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is an example of how terribly re-staging of a play may fail. The original Shakespeare text with the new sets do not work at all, it almost seems like the crew has first made a movie about England in the 30's and then dubbed the movie to old English. The dialogue simply does not seem to belong to the movie. The only bright spot in the movie is Ian McKellen's performance as the horrifying Richard III. If you have ever read the original play, or seen any other, more traditional versions of Richard III, do not see this movie. This movie makes me wonder whether the movie crew wanted to make a tribute to The Bard, or an insult. "},{"Title":"A horse, a horse...","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Unless you are drawn in by post-modern revisionist Shakespeare then steer clear of this bomb. Richard III is not Shakespeare's greatest work but nonetheless it deserves more attention and less pseudo-intellectual indulgence there is no dramatic tension and the language---which is so crucial in Elizabethan theatre---is lost in the elaborate sets (which would have been quite good elsewhere), and the absolutely deplorable acting. Watch or read the play; do not waste your time with this one. It is not even interesting as a film---there are several moments where critical lines and situations are so mishandled or misinterpreted that they actually induce laughter... "},{"Title":"Perhaps ...","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The worst movie ever made. The pseudo fascist alternate history just did NOT work with Shakespeare. Horrible, horrible, horrible. Just truly nauseating to sit through. They wasted a lot of time, money and talent making this ridiculous movie. Ian McKellan is obviously a masterful actor, and does a ... job of trying to make this work, but even his skills can't grant a shred of redemption to this wretched mutilation of the Master. I sure hope he needed the money, because that's the only reason I could see ANYONE signing on for this. The sets looked like a well-done high school production, the dialog and acting was just miserably stilted, and no wonder, given the premise. Did I say horrible? I can't say it enough! "}]