[{"Title":"Bravo! to Snipes, Swayze and Leguizamo","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"58 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The main reason I liked this movie is because of the trios' performance. I think they did an excellent job. How could a man that did Roadhouse be in this movie? That's what makes it so appealing. And not only be in it, but do an amazing job. Snipes made me laugh my heart out, and Leguizamo had a dark undertone to his performance that reflects the hopes and dreams of many Latinas living in poverty. I also admire the intentions of this movie. It wants to bring a message without offending or turn off the audience it intends to deliver it to. Not an easy task, but at least it's an admirable attempt. I think some of the reviewers on this site are a bit too harsh on this film. It is a fun bubble gum of a movie. Watch it and enjoy it, and in the process if you come away from it with a little more of an open mind, I think it has done its job. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and full of Amazing Performances","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"61 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From its original conception, this film must have started as a riot. The premise of having three macho actors take on the roles of drag queens to put together a very funny and insightful comedy of the sexes must have appeared as an impossible task. In the end, the film works because of its tight screenplay and its well defined characters. Swayze, Leguizamo, and Snipes hold nothing back, making each character real and multi dimensional. There are elements of farce, hilarity, outrageousness, and some very daring moves from its three leads. With the help of a strong supporting cast that includes Stockard Channing, as a battered woman, the film moves along quite nicely.It's a fantasy with a firm hold in reality. The leads portray three human beings that must confront what society deals them, and in the film, they manage to make some of their dreams come true. Unlike other movies dealing with special types of love, such as Beautiful Thing and Big Eden where the ending perfectly matches the rest of the fantasy, this one faces reality and offers an interesting type of compromise. It's bittersweet, expertly interweaving both the possible and impossible.Leguizamo shines as the very caliente latina persona who lives dangerously and tries to fit in, in her own special way. Swayze is the classy one, who is not allowed to forget her true nature. Wesley Snipes' role borders on caricature, but he keeps it from crossing the line between farcical and ridiculous. They all do very good work with this very risqué and difficult material. It works out. "},{"Title":"Cross over movie in more than one sense","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"51 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I admit to being a little homophobic and i cringed at the thought of these stars in these roles( though not the case with Leguizamo- he always struck me as rather weird).My kids(12,13,13 and 18) on the other hand had no such prejudice. We were unanimous that it was one of the most satisfying and hilarious movies we had ever seen.They appreciated the multi layers of cinema in this movie as you would expect from kids weaned on TNT and dad's collection of oldies.It is seldom that you see so many characters developed to such a depth in such a short space of time.I counted no less than eight of them that we all could vividly recall- a real tribute to the writer. This movie was an education and a miserly score of 5.5 shows how unwidely entertained this membership is.See it. "},{"Title":"And Wheeeeeere is tha bodaaay???","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was HILARIOUS. Every time I'm sad or down in the dumps, I pop in this film to cheer me up. I thought Ru Paul and even Julie Newmar made excellent cameos. Patrick Swayze, Wesley Snipes, and John Leguizamo played believable drag queens, and they all did great jobs trying not to trip in their stiletto heels. Stockhard Channing was great too, as the abused wife who never gets to have any fun. The movie has a happy ending, and after the movie you find yourself accepting others for who they are.  "},{"Title":"A lightweight romp.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only bad thing about this film, as with most Hollywood films in which gays are depicted, is that it perpetuates the stereotype that all gays are drag queens. Still, Snipes and Swayze are fabulous, hilarious, and courageous to risk their testosterone-driven careers on such a romp. But John Leguizamo, as the drag princess, steals the show, no small feat considering the supporting cast includes Robin Williams, Stockard Channing, Blythe Danner, Melinda Dillon, Arliss Howard, and, of course, the statuesque Julie Newmar.Much has been made of the similarity between this film and Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, but each stands on its own for many reasons. Each presented superb casts in stories with obvious similarities. But oh the differences. Completely different approaches to humor, not to mention drag. Also, To Wong Foo is a more pleasant if somewhat more lightweight movie. The American audience probably had a much easier time with this one than with Priscilla. "},{"Title":"Loads of Fun","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Oh this movie is a lot of fun. Light, frothy, sparkling, shiny fun, fun, fun. So surprising to see such macho actors turn into attractive women---although, to me, in a lot of scenes with that short haired bob wig, Patrick looked like Jack Lemmon's character in Some Like it Hot. The plot of this film is very unrealistic and the town that they land in is something more out of the 1700's than the 20th century, but it is a funny film and also teaches us about tolerance and acceptance for and to others. I laughed so many times at this movie. It is a great comedy and wonderful entertainment. I highly recommend it. Some of these reviewers here who slammed this film really don't see or get the point in reviewing this movie looking for deeper meanings and criticisms all over the place. It is a light, funny comedy. It delivers and it is wonderful. "},{"Title":"Not what it seems at first.","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie about three drag queens, two of whom win a trip to Hollywood, is kind of the ultimate road picture. But the three male stars look better in drag than Bing and Bob ever did. I've seen it a couple of times, and never fail to wonder at the transformation of Patrick Swayze, Wesley Snipes and John Leguizamo into...well, drag queens. One of the best shots in this movie is at the beginning, when Wesley Snipes' character is walking AWAY from the camera. I wish *I* looked that good.I suppose there was a kind of freedom in making this movie, for them, because they were not playing a character that looks like them in *real life*. I started out watching because if the novelty, ended up being invested in the characters and liking the movie.And Blythe Danner is always good, in anything she does. "},{"Title":"Purely entertaining and very funny","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think Patrick Swayze was incredible in this movie.  For a male actor to make you believe he really is a female in mind and body is a large undertaking and he did this for the entire length of the movie.  I was entertained from beginning to end, and I also saw Priscilla and liked this just as much.  Robin Williams has a little cameo at the beginning that is hilarious, and Stockard Channing does a great job as a small town abused wife.  Great movie to watch on a weekend afternoon when you just want to escape and laugh! "},{"Title":"Much more than a light comedy","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is much more than a showcase for middle-aged actors to strut their female stuff. It's all about how men, even homosexual men, perceive women, as opposed to the reality of women and their lives.It's a trenchant though gentle and very funny lesson in gender politics. These actors are brilliant in their portrayal of all of the superficial attributes of women. Every time I see the movie, I'm amazed at their performances - and at the insight and depth of the text.This movie suggests the impossibility of separating the external gloss of femininity from its source - women themselves. And that women are not the sum of their feminine mannerisms, but whole people who are still too often subgugated by men.The drag queens are so much more female than any genuine woman they meet. But because they are actually men, they enjoy the power of their masculine gender to construct and control their lives that is unobtainable for the women. The 'girls' end up defending the real women in the movie in a way that is more 'gallant' than any Knight in Shining Armor. Their homosexuality fosters a compassion and understanding of the lot of women in a way that the 'manly' men in the movie cannot grasp. And perhaps the 'girls' end up with a more complete notion of femininity as well. I treasure this movie because I am so grateful for its message.This flip, light little movie really deserves close examination. Magnificent performances and real heart. Thanks from me too, Julie Newmar! "},{"Title":"Excellent Acting, Do-Good Movie","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"24 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie, probably about 9 or 10 years ago. At the time I remember being amazed at how absolutely feminine and lady-like Patrick Swayze was. I also remember that it was a nice story the wouldn't offend anyone.I watched To Wong Foo....again and once again I watched while Patrick Swayze turned himself into Ms. Vida Boheme and then throughout the rest of the movie I kept studying this character in all of the different outfits - complete with matching hats, shoes and gloves - that she wore and kept asking myself, How can that possibly be Patrick Swayze? The three stars; Swayze, Wesley Snipes (Ms. Noxeema Jackson) and John Leguizamo (Chi-Chi Rodriquez) we just terrific as drag queens who head out for Hollywood and end up in a small town when their car breaks down. he town is old and appears almost as if it were shot in black and white until the queens find some old 60's clothes in the dry goods store and then the town is transformed into a decorated masterpiece.The movie is fun and has a do-good message that is up-lifting. There are a lot of other actors with little important roles that make the movie. Stockard Channing has an excellent role and Robin Williams has a cameo that was great.Noxeema Jackson and Chi-Chi are really typical RuPaul drag queens in this movie but Swayze's character is such a lady that is difficult for me to even relate other movie images of Patrick Swayze (Dirty Dancing (Johnny), City of Joy (Max), Father Hood (Jack) and others) to this character. Perhaps if a Wesley Snipes fan or a John Leguizamo fan watched this movie they would have the same reaction to these actors' characters as I have had to Patrick Swayze's character - amazement and discomfort. "}{"Title":"Relentlessly Upbeat, But Not Risqué","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"26 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Maybe it's that I'm a little of a cynic, but the fact that the story of TO WONG FOO - THANKS FOR EVERYTHING, JULIE NEWMAR has an incredibly unoriginal premise but manages to look so wasn't lost on me. Or the fact that despite the fact that for some of the subject matter exposed here, nothing quite serious was made of it. Nevertheless, I will say that from start to escapist finish, the movie was fun, entertaining, and quite daring if for the presence of three macho actors effectively playing drag queens (and never allowing us to see them in any other form).Like I said, the premise of this movie has been done to death highly different people come to a small town (by accident), see the problems there, and manage in the course of their stay to get townsfolk to get in touch with themselves. It's a premise seen in such films as Pasolini's TEOREMA which had a different yet similar premise where a stranger gets inside a household and manages to somehow change every person there. Of course, that film was risky; this one, while featuring drag queens, is not. But my guess is that the intentions of the writer and director was not to attack social issues (such as spousal abuse, or Vida's estrangement from her family, for example), but to present them and move on because life is and should be a party.But this course is the movie's fault. That Vida Boheme, Noxema Jackson, and Chi-Chi Rodriguez, in getting lost and winding in a backwoods town where not only do they stumble upon Carol Ann (admirably played by Stockard Channing) who is being abused by her husband (in two particularly uncomfortable scenes, one played off-screen), but where Chi-Chi almost gets raped by the local roughnecks, seems like this should belong in something darker, not a comedy. The fact that on both occasions nothing is resolved (satisfactorily) points towards this movie's failure to step up to the plate, examine those issues, and make something truly revelatory. That what should have been a one-scene situation in which Vida Boheme whacks Sheriff Dollard unconscious is turned into a weak showdown in which neither of the drag queens comes out to make an appearance (like they would under similar circumstances; anyone who knows or has seen drag queens knows that they have little fear of cops or men in uniform and will knock them out easily) only makes matters more false whether or not these townsfolk were latently ready to accept change it is highly unlikely that it would have been played out this way. Why would Dollard even want to arrest these men in drag? It makes little sense but to force the issue that the people will stand up for Those Who Are Different. (And that among those people are the same roughnecks, now wearing pink and read boas? Something is wrong here.) And that Virgil just drives away once Dollard has been humiliated probably can be plausible in a non-verbal, more poetic sense, but again, this is not a poetic movie with suggestive images devoid of dialog, and the reality in spousal abuse is much different than what is left unexplored here. Also unsatisfactorily is the way ChiChi's budding relationship with the local guy (Jason London) is handled why not have him know she is a he and by doing so, take a huge risk that would strike the point home? Maybe it's timing. America isn't ready for men in drag and the chance someone might see through the appearance of femininity a man may have and go with their instincts. If Leguizamo's and London's characters would have hooked up it would have sent the message right onto anyone's lap. Building the gorgeous scenes between them as if to lead the viewer to believe they will become an item only to have ChiChi reject him is a total cop-out. TO WONG FOO is a movie that should have tackled these premises more upfront. It should have given all three of these men an actual sex life, real personalities. The closest thing that happens to romance is some shy flirting from Bobby Ray (Jason London) towards Chi-Chi, but even that is left flat after much exposition. The same way nothing else is said of Vida's familial relationship all we know is that there is an estrangement, but nothing else. And Noxema gets saddled with nothing else but to be there, say one-liners, and chat with an old lady about Hollywood. And this is also, precisely, what keeps it from being a richer movie which explores its characters instead of laying them out to pasture and later dressing them in boas and fancy dresses. To see a drag queen without her make up on is to see the man underneath; since we aren't given that chance here, this is drag-lite, in which all is at surface level, messages of love run rampant as house music plays in the background, and just as it started, it ends in a beauty parade.Kudos to Wesley Snipes, Patrick Swayze, and John Leguizamo for stepping out of their shoes and donning pumps and wigs. All are great, in equal measure. Snipes manages to channel a lot of Missy Elliott while Swayze might as well have become Brini Maxwell with a red wig. Leguizamo, though, is my favorite. While playing a close rendition of Rosie Perez with a good deal of Jennifer Lopez (pre J. Lo.; look closely and it's there), he gives his character a sweet dimension. These three are the ones who make this movie completely enjoyable despite these complaints that arise once the credits have rolled. Because of them I accepted the (pardon the pun) fairytale ending and its message of love and acceptance, and that takes guts and talent to make it work. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest and most endearing comedy's ever","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I wish people wouldn't keep comparing this film to Priscilla, Queen of the Desert.. OK so two drag queen themed movies came out a year apart - get over it!!. Priscilla was great but thats not what this review is about To Wong Foo is unique. It stands well on its own and i was lucky enough to be at its World Premiere in London where Patrick gave a talk about the transformation and how he got into the role. I think it was a stroke of genius to use actors we perceive as really butch. All 3 of them worked so well together. Adding Chris Penn, Stockard Channing and even the cameos by Ru Paul and Robin Williams just sealed the deal.At the time of writing (2008), 13 years on, it still makes me smile when friend quote lines from it. I hope one day this will be thought of as a classic of its time "},{"Title":"Why doesn't everybody LOVE this movie???","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie demonstrates how hilarious the life of a drag queen can be especially if your as serious as these characters. I know many people who are drag queens and haters go hate something else. They have a passion just like you and me and it happens to be DRAG. If you have some stickler on who these people are, get over it because they love what they do! This movie is cute, funny, and has some FIERCE outfits. I found the humor in this movie very truthful and sincere. Classic gay movie and makes you wanna get up and cheer for these people. I love how Chi Chi isn't a drag queen but a drag Princess. don't let anyone tell you this is a bad movie because it's is the complete opposite. You tell her Noxeema! "},{"Title":"To everybody involved...thanks for a great movie!","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out in 1995 with my twin brother. We do a lot of things together-we're twins. He was having some gender identity issues at the time (he is straight but was having a recurring series of dreams about becoming a woman) so we went to see this movie as a way of seeing how drag queens/crossdressers/etc. function. The movie was interesting from beginning to end. Seeing the three principal characters getting dressed and going to the contest was fun in itself. Seeing how they landed in a rural Nebraska town and stirring up the local womenfolk was even more interesting. I don't want to spoil any plot developments but I can say that my/our father would've been upset over not ENOUGH pepper being in the sauce! The film comes to a nice resolution and conclusion and we both came out of the theater with some idea of how he wanted to deal with the issue. He figured if all that work went into being a drag queen/transvestite he should just work through it and out of it (actually, when we got home he tried on some of my clothes, shoes, wig, etc. and he looked absolutely ridiculous...he hasn't done this since...I hope!). Back to the movie...it was a lot of fun and, at the same time, thought provoking. There are men that do this for an alternative lifestyle and they're comfortable with it. The aftermath-that the Academy Awards ignored Patrick Swayze for Best Actor, John Leguizamo for Best Supporting Actor, any of the ensemble cast for Best Supporting Actor/Actress or any of the technical people (Makeup, Costume Design, Visual Effects, etc.) shows that the Academy Awards often look the other way (at least Swayze got a Golden Globe nomination). Again, this movie was very thought provoking as well as being entertaining. I give a nine. "},{"Title":"Try to describe,and not use the word statuesque","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I LOVED this movie.We were at best buy,I saw it,and bought it on this simple premise-Patrick Swayze in drag.And it looked like a good movie. So I went home,popped it in,and literally laughed out loud.There's something in this drag queen movies,that makes it almost not offensive.I was afraid it would be bad,(We're Christian)but honestly,I wasn;t offended.The movie was so good,so sweet,so down right hysterical at times,I almost forgot Patrick swayze was a man.He could have easily blended into our church.The film starts out With PS and WS getting ready.That scene in itself is hysterical,because we see these rugged,masculine men-Putting on heels and stockings and makeup.WS,at one point,kicks his legs and squeals with delight.They go to the Drag queen of the year award,WS and PS tie,and ge to go to Hollywood.But when the littleLatin boy in drag is cryingthey decide to string him along,and they get stuck in podunk town.There's a Cameo from Robin Williams thats excellent,And the townswomen are so sweet.and Noxeema(snipes)Befriends a little 4'9,80 pound elderly women.Cant get any beter than that "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie of three Queens","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hilarious movie with great moments of supreme happiness. Great acting of all actors and actresses. In the middle of the desert three stars appear. The lives of many people take a dramatic turn with the coming of these visitors. The movie shows that it asks a lot of courage to be yourself but in the end it will pay off. Nice movie for a Saturday night. Or for during the week if you want to think about something else. Besides Patrick Swayze, Wesley Snipes great acting of John Leguizamo as junior-Queen Chi Chi. Especially the last part of the movie gives a lot of laughs when the Queens celebrate summertime with a strawberry show in the middle of the town. "},{"Title":"superb acting","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I personally think it was an over all great movie. Patrick Swayze, Wesley Snipes and John Leguazamo were great in this movie they all showed how easy it is to play a woman. I also think that Patrick Swayze made for a great looking woman. Wesley snipes looked OK as a woman. John leguazamo also made a good looking woman. I also loved the fact that Rupaul made a cameo in the beginning. I often wonder if the contest is real. I know plenty of people who would love to participate in it. This movie has opened doors for many drag queens to be open about them selves. I know quite a few drag queens who are more open because of this movie. Most guys tho do not make for good looking women but the two in this film that i mentioned do. So hope u enjoy and understand my review of this great movie. "},{"Title":"Cheers to Snipes and Swayze","Date":"4 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, this is actually one of my favorite movies. First time I ever saw Swayze was in Dirty Dancing. First time I saw Snipes was in Demolition Man. After seeing those movies, I never would have expected them to be able to pull this off, but they were amazing. I also never expected them to be man enough to not only be gay, but to be drag queens. They were fabulous. This movie was for every person who has ever had something in their life that made them unhappy. It was a total we will overcome kinda movie. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants a good laugh. I know a lot of people have said this movie only caused damage to Swayze and Snipes careers, but I totally disagree. This movie showed their vast ranges. I thought Swayze was a beat em up dramas kinda guy and Snipes was a blow em up action kinda guy, but this movie proved me wrong. Watch it. Enjoy it. Love it! "},{"Title":"A sweet sorta feel good movie","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I may be one of the few people who actually liked this movie. The story was sweet and warm. Okay it is not Oscar material, but the story makes its point. And for those 3 fine, masculine men to pull off wearing draws', dresses and drag, they deserve Emmy's. It was cute. I actually forgot they were men. But Wesley Snipes was the ugliest man ever! Patrick was the eptiome of elegance and grace. and that darn Chi Chi was cute as pie. Wesley/Noxeema was cracking jokes throughout the movie and he kept it live. But I must say one of the funniest moments was the argument between Chi and Vida. I mean, a sway back 3rd world............and a cellulite, fart, batty old.........I was dying laughing. I learned a thing or two about instant eye lifts and moisturizing. And lastly, Chi Chi, the little Latin boy in drag was the diva delicious bomb in the end!!!!!!!! OOOOooooh he was gorgeous and actually looked like a women. I have the movie and watch it daily with, The Others and The Golden Girls. I hope this was helpful. "},{"Title":"It's not about drag queens, it's about...","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie.  It's not about drag queens; it's about friendship, loyalty, integrity, and caring enough to make a difference.  Patrick Swayze is *perfect* as Vida.  Larger than life is just the right size!  "}{"Title":"How to steal a movie in heels","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To Wong Foo can't help but be compared to its Australian cousin Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, which came out briefly before it. Hollywood added the star power, but held back on originality. Don't expect the risks and unexpected moments of Priscilla here, but do expect performances you never thought you'd see by the first-rate cast, who steals the movie, in heels. Who'd thought we'd see an action hero like Wesley Snipes with muscle to spare, dress up in Halloween candy boots and miniskirt, and carry it off better than a runway supermodel?! Who'd expect Patrick Swayze to outdo a class dame in an elegant gown?! Who could imagine that John Leguizamo would turn from an uncontrollable duckling in messy hair and tacky wardrobe, into a glamorous diva winner of the coveted prize in the end? Watch for the cameo by Julie Newmar and an impressive array of other star cameos, lead by the best of all Robin Williams. New York staple drag performers have walk-ons too and among uncredited future stars, you can catch the first steps of George Costacos on film, among those not in drag. Memorable moment Patrick Swayze packing in a iron punch in a velvet glove, against a wife-beating husband. Priceless as ever Stockard Channing, whose scene in the red dress speaks for womens rights everywhere, not just the small town it takes place. To Wong Foo can be summed up in one scene, when the three leads choose a classy convertible that doesn't promise an easy ride, instead of a comfy, but drab alternative. "},{"Title":"I never liked any of these guys...UNTIL NOW!!!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I never thought that any of these guys could act until I saw this movie. They are very talented.  I have, since seeing this film, paid a lot closer attention to all of their work as actors.  They deserve a bigger credit than most of them get professionally speaking.  Snipes and Swayze are both known mostly because of their talents in action films.  I enjoy their muscles too, but MAN! Can they act or what? John L. is known for his comedy but he proves that he is crediable in a dramatic role.  I recommend this film for everyone that is into talent. "},{"Title":"To Wong Foo Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film is embellished as an American version of THE ADVENTURES OF PRISCILLA, QUEEN OF THE DESERT (1994) - which I think I watched more than 10 years ago and now my long-term memory fails me again) - however, certainly its lavish drag-queen attire exerts its utmost momentum to be both optically impressive and controversially sensationalistic as what PRISCILLA has managed to express. The stale countryside housewives dress-up-and-shine concoction is rather self-consciously embarrassing than thematically entertaining while the correlations between various characters is somewhat the thing in its favor, which is completely attributed to a more-than-ordinary cast, particularly Stockard Channing and Patrick Swayze's part, which conspicuously is the corniest one but the punch is potent enough to sense an empathy for them, and Snipe and Leguizamo are incredibly diverting in their muscular and exotically Latin frames respectively. The back story of our three drag-queens (or wait, two queens and one princess) are to a large extent sidelined so as not to hinder its over-optimistic comic vein, which for me could be a more arresting story than the feel-good edification of the inhabitants in a tiny rural town, nevertheless the antithesis is orchestrated with some heartwarming liveliness despite of the predictable turning point. The film merely tells a conventionally orthodox story with an unconventionally mores-defying disadvantaged group. Against its hilarious ethos, my mawkish sentiment prevails as it's hard to accept that both Swayze and Penn have passed away already. ps this is the very last film I have watched in 2011, wish myself and all my friends and lovers an upbeat mood during the whole 2012 and forget the bucket list! "},{"Title":"Great Fun, Brilliant","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie back in 1995 when it was released. At the time, all three lead actors were still quite contemporary. Seeing the three of them playing roles as drag queens was just classic (not to mention hysterical). It was/is also somewhat groundbreaking if you think of three Hollywood actors playing drag queens. The story takes redneck bigotry and homophobia head on, but in a fun way.I'm not going to pontificate on the film's message, but if you are a redneck or a bigot, you may not like it so much. If you have an open mind, there's a lot of fun to be had with it.If you enjoy this, I can also recommend 'Hedwig and the Angry Inch', and, 'Breakfast on Pluto', which go a bit further in dramatizing the issues and experiences cross-gendered people. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!!!!","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I vividly remember the advance publicity surrounding this movie and thinking Gee, these guys must really be comfortable in their own space not to even worry about any repercussions!. I love this movie more so because it was during this advance publicity that my own drag queen brother died; he was so thoroughly looking forward to seeing this movie. So from that standpoint, each and every time I see it, it is quite uplifting for it reminds me of him. Even more so, neither Wesley, Patrick, or John made a mockery of drag queens but reveled in playing them to the hilt. Of course, the highlight was RuPaul, as last year's drag queen beauty winner, emerging at the contest in a confederate gown! I could imagine the South just having a hissy fit at that! But the movie celebrates differences and is warm. Those who claim it had a weak plot and it wasn't this and it wasn't that simply need to get a grip. This is a classic example of being unable to see the forest for the trees. Of course there are movies with stronger plots, better direction, more intense performances BUT WHO CARES????!... If you want a nice uplifting movie that teaches a lesson that we, in 2003, STILL HAVE NOT LEARNED, then the lesson itself can NEVER be trite. When you forget our differences and concentrate on our similarities, you'd be surprised at the progress we make! This is a really cute movie with wonderful performances which lift the spirit and really does make one think. If you are looking for a literary masterpiece, go get one - this ain't it - it's better - it is simply fun, something too many lose sight of in their quest to appear pseudo-intellectual! Not to mention, the movie has loads of laughs! "},{"Title":"An Awesome Film!!!","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this on TV the night before we started filming my 'Pumpkin Man 2' movie, and I thought this was really good, and had a great storyline. It's always fun to see men dressed up as women. Patrick Swayze, John Leguizamo, and Wesley Snipes made awesome drag queens! Vida, Chi-Chi, and Noxeema are on a road trip to enter the 'drag queen of the year' contest in New York City. Their car dies and they must stay in a small town for the weekend. They befriend the locals, and soon become a big part of the town, until the Sheriff shows up and wants to arrest the drag queens. I love how everybody in town stick up for them. I highly recommend TO WONG FOO, THANKS FOR EVERYTHING JULIE NEWMAR!!! "},{"Title":"The Man's(Patrick Swayze)good looks have versatility!","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what else to say other than the fact that because of Patrick's handsomeness and excellent posture, he has managed to make Vida the most beautiful drag queen in the whole film! He must have practiced before he did the film by walking around with books on his head. He made Vida,herself statuesque! "},{"Title":"Loving you is easy because you're hilarious.","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every month I always have some movie fad, where I can't stop watching a certain movie. And last month it was Too Wong Foo, Thanks For Everything, Julie Newmar, which has actually lasted up to this month. Just shows how funny and great this movie is. The character that I most loved was Chi-Chi Rodriguez, what an attitude. I recommended this movie to every person I ever spoke to that is a fan of comedy and most told me they enjoy it as well. I wouldn't say this movie is for everyone but if you can handle the attitude you're in for the hour of your life. This movie must be watched by all comedy fans alike, except the younger generations, due to mild language and the misunderstanding that might occur. I love, LOVE, this movie. Especially since John Leguizamo was in it. I'll almost watch anything with him. Since each character has his or her own sparky attitude this film is fully recommended to characters alike. "},{"Title":"An Overall Good Film","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a child I didn't understand the drag scene nor did I fully understand how this wasn't completely a work of fiction until I grew older and discovered RuPaul's Drag Race. Looking back at the film I'm able to appreciate it more than before. At the age of 7, I received this VHS for my birthday and it became one of my all time favorite movies. The characters were well played and I loved John Leguizamo because he played in another favorite film of mine, The Pest. The movie was humorous, colorful, bright, and had it's sentimental moments. Overall, I really enjoyed this movie and look forward to watching it again. "},{"Title":"If I wrote a movie it would b this movie ..,.. amazing.....","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To Wong Foo is the perfect movie. I was like buzzing the whole time tbh, nd rooting so hard for the protagonists?? Vida particularly is EVERYTHING and every single outfit in this movie FRICKN SLAYS. I love how every time it looks like it's about to get scary everything works out okay ^) ESPESH WHEN NOXEEMA MAKES THOSE GROSS DUDES ACT POLITE, 3 AMAZING 5 me. The wardrobe killed me, and cameos from rupaul and coco Peru, hullo! The three girls were sickening, and even though it was p silly that they spent all day and all night in drag (who does that irl? No one lbr) I rly liked this aspect bc it made the whole movie so much more totally glam!!! Robin Williams was hilar of course, and the ending was like 2 much fun. The most inspirational movie ever, pls watch a thousand times with all ur drag sisters nd pals!! "}{"Title":"One word... Statuesque","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie! It is a fun feel good comedy and has a lot of great actors. This is one of the best movies about drag queens ever made! If you have seen this movie and didn't laugh then there is something seriously wrong with your sense of humor. This movie in 1995 when it came out was probably the first of its kind. I was gay child in the '90s and seeing this movie back then probably gave me a lot of courage and strength to be who I was no matter what others might say or think. It is a very inspirational one of a kind film and the trios of actors play their parts flawlessly. I recommend this movie to any young person who is faced with the adversity of being gay and/or a drag queen. "},{"Title":"Yes, Thanks for Everything","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With a movie I must have seen dozens of times back in the 1990s, but haven't since that decade ended, I've been meaning to revisit my favorite on-screen drag queens Vida, Noxeema and Chi-Chi for a long time. In fact, I had planned on watching this movie during the Super Bowl earlier this year (2013,) since I never watch that game. And what better movie to watch as all the butch action takes place on the tele? (Sadly, something else, no not the game, came up and I just recently thought of watching this again in September 2013.)To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar is one of my all-time favorite movies, hands down. I say that now, even though previously I remember just liking it a ton. This viewing re-sparked the magic, joy, love, dancing &#x96; to one of my favorite soundtracks and ear-to-ear grin I have watching this all over again. I truly loved this movie, the heart, the comedy, the tunes and the snappy one-liners.While the story ain't new, the twist is. Two drag queens and one drag princess travel across the entire United States, from New York to Los Angeles and when their car breaks down in Smalltown, USA, they must spend the weekend in order for the car to get fixed.At first, naturally, they're frightened to what might be considered a redneck, closed-minded rough town, but the very small community do take to them and likewise. They're considered angels for appearing out of nowhere and reenergizing the stalled town.This movie came out in 1995, just about the time when homosexuals (not to mention drag queens) were finally getting recognized, if just a little bit, by the general public as not as threatening as previously slated. Most movies, sadly, dealt with at the time AIDS and sadness for the homosexual community. This 1995 release was a breath of fresh queens with its lightheartedness, fun spirit and messages.Fast forward to 2013. While now even more of majority embraces homosexuals as human beings and more and more basic human rights are rightfully provided to the community, sadly, there is still a large bulk of close-minded people that would still slander a homosexual or worse. This weekend delay in the Midwest small town might be even worse than it was 18 years ago. The same reaction these ladies had in the movie in 1995 would be just as (unfortunately) relevant today.Sadness aside, this movie means a lot to me growing up, especially since I had, myself, just came out three years prior to this release. Again, with all the depressing and countless AIDS indie (or mainstream &#x96; Philadelphia) films, finally, there was a joy to latch onto and lift my spirits. It also helped me feel better about myself and in some instances, get up and dance. (Again, LOVE the soundtrack.)The movie was a fantasy, it's not to be taken seriously, with the exception of the messages and just put out there for fun. The cast, extras and cameos (ohh, Robin was divine!) were magical and perfect. I once read hundreds of well-known macho male stars wanted to fill Vida, Noxeema and Chi-Chi's pumps because they saw the value and the going-against stereotypes that had become. Luckily, they picked the perfect trio in Patrick Swayze, Wesley Snipes and John Leguizamo.I laughed out loud again with the ladies, recited most of the lines (despite the years since I've last seen this,) celebrated the lives of both Patrick Swayze and Chris Penn &#x96; which lives were cut far too short and it was painful to see them both in several scenes together, and yeah, I did get up and dance. "},{"Title":"hilarious!","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's worth to see this movie just to see Patrick Swayze, Wesley Snipes, and John Leguizamo in drag! This movie was a laugh riot from start to finish as the aforementioned actors try to make it to a drag queen competition and get stuck in a small town and one impossible situation after another. My personal favorites are the scenes with Robin Williams in it and the one where the cop in it (where he pulls them over) and his subsequent scenes. The final scene was great too. Overall, this movie has great lines too. Get this for the great DVD extras too-you will love them! They obviously were aiming for the star appeal-that worked too.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Half-road movie with a twist... Plus wow! performances","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is a comedy about three New York drag queens who embark on a road trip but, due to technical reasons, are forced to stay in a township - where most of the movie takes place. The title refers to a autographed photo of Julie Newmar that the ladies carry with them on their journey. Although the plot is uneven and many promising scenes are not entirely carried out, the trio - Wesley Snipes as Noxeema Jackson, Patrick Swayze as Vida Boheme, John Leguizamo as Chi-Chi Rodriguez - gives so wonderful and realistic performances that you easily forget that most of their fame derives from action and sci-fi movies. And their looks... as the year is 1995, then no digital tricks were available, so it was their natural talent and skills that are convincingly visible on screen. Apart from them, there are multiple pleasant cameo appearances, providing an additional value to the movie.Although the topic and depiction are not for everyone, the movie deserves renewed attention and show-time. All this joy, glam and personification let you mostly forget about the plot's shortcomings. "},{"Title":"Three convincing performances that makes the film an enjoyable romp","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What I love about this film is having three action men (Patrick Swayze, Wesley Snipes and John Leguizamo) in a completely different persona, that of drag queens. It could have been a disaster in anyone else's hands but with Swayze, Snipes and Leguizamo it works. I don't know if it reflects what being a gay man or a drag queen is all about. To me, it isn't offensive as other mainstream films who don't understand that world and who like to mock it.It can be a little too sweet at times but I think it also tackles subjects that gay men/drag queens have to go through- like getting acceptance from family/strangers and what everyday life can be like for them, the scene that illustrates this the most is when the Sheriff stops the car and Swayze is panicked as his driver's license has a man's name while he is dressed as a woman.I find it interesting that we see the drag queens in their environment at the start of the film where they are surrounded by people who are just like them and who accept them and then they are placed in a completely different environment they are not used to and we see how they are treated and how they fit into the community where they are unique among the residents.I think the three actors did a remarkable job. They all have a different journey in the town after they are forced to stay when their car breaks down. Patrick Swayze as Vida Boheme is so sweet and likes to help people but she has suffered heartbreak in her past with her family not accepting her for who she is. It is nice to see by the end, she is accepted by someone who loves her and who she loves.Wesley Snipe's character Noxeema Jackson is hilarious and delightfully bitchy. Her character starts off as a tough cookie who doesn't trust anyone as she feels they will stab her in the back but she goes through this transformation where she shows a vulnerable side to her character and opens herself up more and learns that not all people will abuse her trust.Chi Chi played by John Leguizamo at times can be very annoying but I liked how his character developed from the start of the movie being very selfish and really trashy and the end where he is more thoughtful of other people's feelings and goes from being a boy in a dress to a full fledged drag queen when he wins the competition in California. I laughed at the spats she would have with Noxeema, it was so funny to watch.On the whole, a very enjoyable and fun film that kept me entertained.Watch out for Robin Williams in an uncredited role at the start and Chris Penn as a nasty Sheriff on the trail of the girls. "},{"Title":"perhaps a unique perspective","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I did not think this was a great film nor even a good film, however, as a crossdresser myself (I dislike the terms 'drag queen' or 'transvestite'), it was refreshing to see the likes of Swayze, Snipes & Leguizamo play the parts of men with gender identity issues. Yes, there were some funny lines and the film was basically entertaining but it was not necessarily at the expense of Vida, Noxeema or Chi-Chi. Granted, much of the film was predictable as well and could have accomplished much more - there were many missed opportunities. But, to have men dressed as women, where they weren't portrayed as weird, sick or perverted was a step in the right direction for a world where gender identity issues almost always raise a smirk. "},{"Title":"wish there were more like this","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is definitely not as good as the adventures of Priscilla queen of the desert, but this movie certainly reminded me of that movie. The difference is as many have mentioned, the fact that this movie is much less courageous. I am glad there is a movie like this in the US, but there is a long way to go. I am especially happy about this movie because it is as close to a family movie as you will get if you are talking about drag queens.The acting is obviously great. I always complain of actors that have only one side to them. In this picture, you see that Wesley Snipes and Patrick Swayze have much more to offer. I also like that it gives hope of a time in the future in which sex will not be a variable with which people will discriminate. The movie is perhaps so safe that it will probably not change many minds. However, it also gives an idea of how easy it would be for us to be comfortable with one another.Oh, and don't get me wrong. Even if you don't like the subject matter, you will have fun. This is a fun movie all around. "},{"Title":"This movie is so much fun!","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie! It's silly, sappy, and has a good deal of fluff, but that fluff is used to tell a great story. For those who want a movie that is a realistic representation of life as a Drag queen, this is not the movie for you. I feel like the representation in this movie is similar to the way Mean Girls represents high school life. FLuffy and over exaggerated, but with some wonderful underlying wisdom and touching personal connections. This is a great feel good movie. I highly recommend it for a fun night in, relaxing on the couch!Also, it's lots of fun to see three such established actors in such nontraditional roles. "},{"Title":"My best cheer up movie","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A great story, with amazing actors.I have watched countless times and Would love if there was a number 2 movie done out of it, if you need cast I don't mind at all playing Vida Boheme or even Chichi Rodriguez.Would would think Wesley Snipes could be so camp? But what shocks me is how John Lequizamo can be such a woman?Anyway its amazing what small details can be introduced to a movie to make it so realistic, its great there aren't special effects and all that junk to make it more realistic than it actually is.Great work.Sometimes it only takes a fairy! "},{"Title":"IMDb writer is not fun","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you want to see a funny movie, This is the one to see !!! This is a movie to sit back relax and just enjoy while laughing your heart out.There should be more movies like this to have fun watching. The writer of IMDb has no since of humor at all to think that all movies have to be serious. Presila Quenn of the desert has nothing on this movie. The talent of the actors in the movie are fantastic. To be able to ask out and make you forget that you are looking at famous actors show you the meaning of the word acting.The writer of IMDb needs to find another job if he is not open minded enough to realize that Drag Queen is just a word? And in the movie it is a way to help straight people that are not use to the gay life style sit back and understand and enjoy is'nt that what movies are made for Mr.IMDb WRITER? For me the word Drag Queen in the movie means men that dress to have fun and live out their lives the way they want to without other caring.The importance of life making yourself happy. I am sure the actors had so much fun doing the movie. Acting with no fears. The magic of acting.Patrick Swayze and Wesly Snipes and John Leguizamo are unbelievable in their roles. When looking at the movie you forget that they are big actors and you fall into the excitement of the movie. John Legulizamo lets you have it as a Queen from New York and to think that that how they really are in New York.I just saw it 1 week ago and it was made years ago. I fill I really missed out on something not to have had the chance to see it when it came out.I only hope that the directer does others as funny as this. I am tired of going to the movies with movies that are to serious and mean nothing in the end. Everyone in the world needs to smile and to love life and all there is to enjoy.Do yourself a big favor and see this movie to see how right I am when you forget that you are looking at Wesly Snipes lets you have it with every movement he does and all he said. Listen to the street slang in the movie. Listen to what they say to one another. So to the point.This is anice movie for people to enjoy knowing gays and men that dress up. A fun movie. "}{"Title":"One of the best drag queen movie","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sincerily I think this is one of the best drag queen movie they have ever made! Yes, I admit it could be considered VERY VERY similar to the most famous Australian movie Priscilla The Queen of the desert but it surely cut a good figure!!! Never boring, it also includes some nice cameos played by famous persons, such as Robin Williams, Naomi Campbell and July Newmar herself. It's nice, wit, joyful and very well played, above all by the 3 main actors, men you would never imagine as transvestites,thanking also to their bodies, usually, so much masculine!!! They accepted a challenge and, in my opinion, they won!! WELL DONE BOYS!!! "},{"Title":"Wish there were more movies like this one","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Whoever had the wacky idea to take three hypermasculine action movie heroes and put them in drag deserves kudos.  For the movie based on their exploits to be entertaining and enlightening, well, there's no award for that yet but there should be.  As someone who knows transvestite and transgendered people, I truly enjoyed this romp through the fantasyland of drag.  I saw this movie five times in the theater and each time brought someone new - and every person I brought enjoyed it!  While in the theater, I overhead comparisons to the other drag film out at the time (Priscilla, Queen of the Desert) and on the whole, this film won out.  These comments came from blue haired old ladies, boys in a dress and full blown drag queens. Excellent performances from every member of the cast and writing that doesn't insult your intelligence.  Wish there were more like this one! "},{"Title":"Even drag queen movies know how to look at small towns without being mean.","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When we went to the theater to see this, we had no idea how good it was going to be. More than just a drag queen movie, it shows how the three drag queens in question are able to help the people in this small town. I will say that of the three cast members, Patrick Swayze looks the most like he can play a drag queen - but don't get me wrong, Wesley Snipes and John Leguizamo also do a great job.Anyway, this just might be the perfect kind of movie dealing with this topic. Many people have likened To Wong Foo Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar to The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, but I wish to assert that TWFTFEJN was actually better in that it showed how they help the people in this small town. Just great. Also starring Stockard Channing, Blythe Danner, Chris Penn, Melinda Dillon, Beth Grant, Alice Drummond, Robin Williams in a small role, and of course Julie Newmar (I'd never even heard of her before this). "},{"Title":"To Wong Foo, Very Funny and Entertaining","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie the other night on USA. I had seen it when it came out back in 95', and I have to say it was still a thrill watching three of the malest, manliest men in Hollywood play Drag Queens. They had women's mannerisms down to a T. Their movements, the twist in their walk, the hand jestures. Women really do that. They looked so cute and convincing. Now Pricilla, Queen of the Desert was a true adaptation of Drag Queen life and I personally knew some people who were and played dress up and they all prefered Queen of the Desert. It was still nice to watch though. I respect any man who puts himself in the shoes of a woman.   "},{"Title":"Spectacular","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think this is one of my all time favorites.  I love to watch it over and over again.  Swayze and Snipes are a hysterical!  If you haven't seen, get it and if you have seen it then I am sure you will love it as much as I do. Just to see Patrick Swayze and Wesley Snipes in drag is enough to see this once. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so good! I've loved it scinse the first time I saw it! There should be more like it! Everyone I show it to just falls in love with it! The three leading ladies were perfect for the parts they couldn't have found better actor..oops, actresses! >.< "},{"Title":"John Leguizamo was so good, I kept thinking he was Rosie Perez!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fun, harmless entertaining.  Nothing to get excited about, but it is amusing thanks to it's strange casting choices.  Any movie with Stockard Channing has to have some merit!  Swayze and Snipes are fun and Rosie Perez (oops!) is hysterical.  Leguizamo deserves a lot more recognition for his body of work. "},{"Title":"A great film in its own right","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My friends blast me because I like this film so much. It really is one of my favorites and I've probably watched it more than any other. Yes, it may lack the posh costumes, landscaping, Abba music, and outrageous ping-pong balls found in Priscilla, but why feel the need to compare the two films? The Aussies do know how to make great films. Muriel's Wedding and Strictly Ballroom can attest to that. Unlike the rest of my friends, I never thought of To Wong Foo as a Priscilla knock-off.The plot of three men traveling across country while learning more about themselves is about all that the two films have in common. If viewed closely, some might find that the message of To Wong Foo is far deeper on a broad social sense than that of Priscilla. For me, To Wong Foo packed a strong social messages throughout. Beauty in life can be found in the ugliest places. Believing in and accepting yourself so that others can do the same. The 4 steps to becoming a drag queen could be seen by some as steps to becoming a better person in general. Overall, the movie gives me a happy whenever I watch it. Life can often be a Snydersville. Both Priscilla and To Wong Foo should be praised for their main purpose. Shedding a little light and positive perspective on a lifestyle that is misunderstood, bashed, maligned, and anything but gay. Kudos to both films. Enjoy them for what they are - different vehicles traveling down the same road.  "},{"Title":"Wow!!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'd just like to say that i thought this film was very good and i also found it to inspire me in quite a big way. When i borrowed it on video from a friend she nearly didn't get it back. I just kept watching it over and over again.   "},{"Title":"An unexpectedly delightful movie with an inspiring ending","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The unusual cast of characters are well portrayed by the actors, particularly Patrick Swayze.  The subject matter and dialogue of the film are unexpected and quite moving.  The pathos underlying the plot adds to the impact the main characters have on most of the small town residents. "}{"Title":"A snazzy film fun, with a fine message and a moral purpose.","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of those rare perfect films. Casting is brilliant (especially Stockard Channing, who only gets better and better as the years go by--and she was always totally incapable of less than a fantastic performance). The general plotline of the movie is congenial, and the themes are fulfilling.In essence, the movie deals with the healing of broken people. (For other such films, see such gems as Batteries Not Included.) The unlikely angels? Three drag queens from New York City. The vehicle? Their car breaks down in a red-neck hamlet. Unlikely hijinks and dangerous confrontations lead to a satisfying finale.And Julie Newmar was never better! "},{"Title":"Watch the Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert instead","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm amazed anyone says anything good about this movie.  It will always be on my list of movies not just to walk out on, but run...and run fast to your nearest video rental store and get yourself a copy of the Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert.  After you watch that, you'll realize what a lame Americanized Hollywood rip-off To Wong Foo really is. "},{"Title":"Amusing or insulting?","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm truly torn on this one. For a turn-your-brain-off comedy it sort of works. But I have a hard time turning my brain off when such serious issues are implicated, and handled badly. Wife-beating solved by having someone else beat up the husband and toss him out? Small town folks so dumb? Homosexuals as the usual ridiculous freaks? Women learning how to be women from men? I found it all a tad icky, even in the midst of the celebratory atmosphere.I want to think the lead trio was trying to be nervy, but instead I'm left feeling like they were doing the equivalent of black-face, with all their flailing about coming off like yes massa. The storyline with ChiChi and the local young man is also a bit creepy- reinforcing the myth that gay men are trying to seduce straight men. When similar situations are handled differently, as in The Crying Game and even Priscilla, it is a completely different issue, here it just doesn't work.Snipes is painfully miscast. He is simply too muscle-bound, and then poorly made-up, to be at all convincing. And as others have pointed out, having them exist eternally in full-costume is just silly and unrealistic. And, frankly, a bit stupid- no drag queen I know would set off on a road trip in full drag through parts unknown without fearing for her safety.On the flip side, the movie insults anyone who lives in a small town. Men are dirty, wife-beating, potential rapists. Women are doltish, ignorant, and helpless. Middle America has its issues, but this reinforces a different set of stereotypes for a different audience.The over-all message of acceptance should, however, be commended. I just wish they could have done it a little bit better. I suppose it was trying to be a cartoon, but it creeps me out a little when the cartoon serves to reinforce old stereotypes about all involved.   "},{"Title":"The unsexiest drag film ever made","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was funny in spots, had a nice, happy ending, and starred some of my favorite people, including Michael Vartan, John Leguizamo, Beth Grant, Blythe Danner, etc.  I especially liked the awakening of the small town engineered by the Fairy Godmothers (I always like stories where someone builds something or makes something work--it's a surefire way to make me like a movie).  But for a story about drag queens unleashed in Middle America, this is about as un-outrageous as you can get.  It says something about the wide variety of people in the USA that some people think this movie is wild and crazy.  These three champion drag queens aren't portrayed as having even a hint of sexuality.  Even their drag personas onstage don't seem to have anything going on downstairs.  Patrick Swayze seems to be playing Pat Nixon instead of a flamboyant star.  The widespread acceptance they experience in the small town and the sunny ending are pure fairy tale--it's a shame they couldn't find any real fairies to star in it. "},{"Title":"Didn't age well","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Noxeema (Wesley Snipes), Vida (Patrick Swayze), and Chi-Chi (John Leguizamo) are three drag queens traveling cross country in an old Cadillac convertible. Only car trouble brings them to remote small town Snydersville.At the time, it followed The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert as a nice happy 'realistic' look at gay people. Watching it now, it all seems like shallow stereotypes. That's including the townspeople. None of it is funny. The wacky mannerism just adds to its fakeness. There is nothing special in this other than seeing a bunch of guys playing drag as if it's something special. "},{"Title":"A movie that makes you wanna become royalty.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Step 1) Put on makeup and wig step 2) Sit back with a bunch of friends step 3) Put movie in and press play step 4) EnjoyI think you truly have to get dressed up to enjoy this movie, it puts you in the mood to be someone you aren't, or maybe be someone you want to be.I give it PLOT - 5/10 (I doubt that would happen to anyone)Costumes - 10/10 (all I can say is FABULOUS)ACTING - 8/10 (Vita was bitchy, Chi Chi was stereotypical, and Noxema was perfect)DIRECTION - 6/10 (The movie jumped around, not enough detail to the other characters like carol ann, and bobby lee)CASTING - 10/10 (Stockard Channing was true perfection, getting the 3 most masculine men in hollywood to be drag queens was awesome, and the small town cast were true to life.)OVERALL - 8/10 (Dont miss seeing it at least once, with alot of friends. "},{"Title":"Pretty cute","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My sneering review of THE ART OF WAR began with my assessment of its star, Wesley Snipes, as a money-grubbing prostitute (in real life, not in the film - sorry, ladies). Upon further reflection, realizing that I really didn't have the knowledge to justify such a charge, and that in any case it probably shouldn't come from an anonymous IMDB poster, I decided to compensate by watching a film I'd heard good things about from my friends, TO WONG FOO, figuring it would probably warrant a positive review. Lo and behold, I was right.I'm not sure WHAT motive Snipes (and Leguizamo and Swayze) had for getting into this film, but I'll grant it certainly took nerve. Their performances are sometimes caricatured, but still too sympathetic to have kept their more homophobic fans from eyeing them suspiciously in 1995. I have to admit Snipes looks ridiculous, but he's quite entertaining, and Swayze and Leguizamo are downright alluring. Too bad they don't do drag more often.This film is often compared to PRISCILLA, QUEEN OF THE DESERT, a 1993 Australian piece that is superior in almost every way (except perhaps for the petty, stereotypical squabbling between the three bus travelers. That started annoying me). TO WONG FOO is clumsy and loud by comparison, but it's still funny enough to stand on its own. It actually reminds me more of CLUELESS (also released in 1995) than PRISCILLA; it has similar plot elements and the same kind of innocent gaiety.  "},{"Title":"A joyous romp","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Swayze and Leguziano are nothing short of brilliant in this unabashedly fanciful depiction of the drag queen circuit.  Swayze has an underestimated gentleness that he shrewdly blends with absurdist humour that clearly is conjured from within.  Leguziamo steals the film as Miss Chi-Chi Rodriguez. Stockard Channing is excellent as the dead-end housewife who befriends and is befriended by the trio.  Snipes tries gamely.  Although  out of his element, he still manages to give us some fun with his awkwardness with the whole thing.  On the whole, not deep, but it doesn't need to be -- it's just fun. "},{"Title":"While not totally accurate, still fairly entertaining","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, OK, I know, this movie does NOT depict drag queens, their lifestyle nor the gay, lesbian, and bisexual community in an accurate light.  But, please remember, this is a movie, and movies are usually meant to entertain. IMHO, this one does, but on a superficial level.Yes, Wong Foo commits horrible larceny by ripping off the fabulous Priscilla, but how many other movies/screenwriters/directors have done this in the past?  Yes, Priscilla has a better plot, cinematography, and costumes, but Wong Foo is not that bad.  Yes, there are plot holes, yes the dialogue is horrible, but I still crack a smile during the scene in which Vida and Noxy dress up the ladies in the 60s clothing...who wouldn't?In closing, watch the movie if you want to spend a little time escaping from the drudgery of everyday life...if you want to spend time in the world of real drag queens, rent Priscilla.Endnote  Watch for Robin Williams cameo as John Jacob Jingle Heimer Schmitt...the BEST scene in the movie!!! "},{"Title":"Funny, sweet and amazing transvestite performances!","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Admittedly I'm not that hard to please but my taste in film does pretty much run the gamut and this is still one of my favorite movies; not only because Patrick Swayze, Wesley Snipes, and John Leguizamo turn in such convincing performances as drag queens but because their characters are so lovable and quirky. So what if the plot is a little far-fetched and silly - just watch it for all the great one-liners and wonderful mannerisms these guys have perfected, and if you suspend your disbelief you'll enjoy the story too. Robin Williams makes a hilarious cameo appearance early on, and Blythe Danner and Stockard Channing also turn in good performances. Favorite line - Larger than life is just the right size! "}{"Title":"A true gem of a show, makes you feel better for having seen it.","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A happy combination of perfect casting and perfect performances by the most unlikely drag queens imaginable.  The unprogrammed appearance by Robin Williams was frosting.  This is a picture that, after you have watched it, you can really say, Why doesn't Hollywood make more  pictures like this? The villains are buffoons and get what they deserve, and the heroes(heroines? Whatever)triumph magnificently.   "},{"Title":"Funny and moving...","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Miss Vida Boheme (Patrick Swayze) and Miss Noxeema Jackson (Wesley Snipes) are the proud winners of a New York Drag Queen contest.  After the event they bump into Miss Chi Chi Rodriguez (John Leguizamo), who is very upset that she hasn't won the contest.The two drag queens are convinced to take Miss Chi Chi with them to compete in the national drag contest however; their prize for winning the local one was only two plane tickets to Los Angeles.  They decide to give up their plane tickets and travel by car so the three of them can go.On their way to Los Angeles, they encounter Sheriff Dollard (Chris Penn), who pulls their car over because one of their rear lights is out.  When he asks to see Miss Vida's license, she obviously tries her best to get out of it without having to show the license, bearing in mind the name on her license is Eugene and drag wasn't exactly an acceptable thing in Middle America back then.  The officer takes Vida to one side and starts trying to get fresh with her, believing she is a real woman.  When he reaches up her dress and grabs a hold of her manhood, he suddenly finds himself shocked and flat on his face unconscious in the middle of the road.The three get out of there pretty quickly as they do not really want to face the wrath of an embarrassed sheriff who is sure to want to arrest Vida for rendering him unconscious.  They manage to get a little further until their car breaks down.  Now they are stuck and their only way forward is for Chi Chi to try and hitch a ride.A nice young lad, Bobby Ray (Jason London) pulls up to pick up Chi Chi at the side of the road and is quickly convinced to take her two friends with him too.  He takes them back to his home town, a very small town where everybody knows everybody.They meet Carol Ann (Stockard Channing) who allows them to stay with her and her husband Virgil (Arliss Howard), who is planning on fixing their car however, it will take a couple of days to fix it because the parts are not easy to get hold of.   So now they are faced with a very small town of people, who believe they are real women and they have to keep the act up for three days.  Who knows what kind of reaction they will get if they are found out.Sheriff Dollard is soon on the hunt and is determined to find them and bring them back dead or alive to prove to his fellow officers that they were really men in dresses and he wasn't knocked out by a woman.  He starts his search and it will only be a matter of time before he does eventually find them.Whilst staying at Carol Ann's place, they discover she is the victim of regular domestic abuse, at the hands of her husband Virgil.  After tolerating it for a little while, Vida decides enough is enough and fuelled by the nasty comments thrown at her in an argument with young Chi Chi, she decides to do something about it.  Virgil is thrown out; Carol Ann is now able to be herself and the four start to build a friendship.It doesn't take long for the rest of the town to join in and soon enough, the whole town has been brought together by these three mysterious girls that just appeared.This film is wonderful.  It puts out a message to the whole of the world about how drag queens should be accepted as ordinary people and how everybody in their own right should be able to dress how they like, see who they like and be who they like.  It shows that anyone, no matter how they chose to dress or who they chose to sleep with, can do good and bring people together.Patrick Swayze is relatively funny and surprisingly quite good in drag.  Wesley Snipes is amazing in his role, very funny, very witty and fantastic in drag.  Stockard Channing shows once again that her acting skills are never wasted and plays a very important part in the film and John Leguizamo portrays the part of young Chi Chi very well.This film is one not to be missed.  It is funny, meaningful and educational.  It's well made and even quite moving in some parts.  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and would recommend it to anyone! "},{"Title":"Very Under-rated Fabulous Movie","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is not enough words to say how well this movie was put together. Being from a small town, the entire movie does reflect life more so than most people want to admit to. But getting thru all the wife beating, dumb country people pilferage, the movie reveals life as a drag queen to a T. (not that I am one) But I have several friends that are.If you are homophobic and closed minded like some who like to review gay themed movies don't watch it. If you want a fun filled never ending energized comedy, then watch it! You won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Swayze, Snipes and Leguizamo are so statuesque!","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar is a dramatic comedy that follows three drag queens to a small po-dunk town on the way to the Drag Queens of America contest. In the middle of nowhere, the cross-dressing beauties teach each of the townsfolk a little something about life.  Not only will this movie make you laugh until you spit Pepsi out of your nose, but it will also make you cry...and think about how wonderful the world really is.Patrick Swayze, Wesley Snipes and John Leguizamo perform well as the main characters of the film.  The script is cute and quite well-written, and the costume design and make-up is fantastically off-the-wall!  To Wong Foo is a movie that portrays a very meaningful message, and it should not be missed.  See it today!*Celt*    "},{"Title":"Recommended to those who personally object to this life.","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The realization that rural areas sway away from films and individuals in Too Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar, this made its adaptation real and inviting. I related to this film, even though I'm considered spiritually adept. My feelings didn't run wild, they stayed with this movie, keeping a focus to only go where your character has taken you. No pity needed, no bashing, no hinting of unusual, just an honest reaction to the characters first impressions as a group and as individuals.  "},{"Title":"A really fun movie.","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I did'nt think I would like this movie since it's theme did'nt appeal to me. When I saw it, I quickly found out that my preconceived notions of it were wrong. It was really a fun movie and the three stars did an excellent job of portraying the drag queens. The supporting cast was excellent also. The depiction of the style, character and feel of the backwater country they land in was well portrayed by all the actors and settings. I have not seen the Priscilla movie and can't comment on any similarity. Let's just say that To Wong Foo was entertaining and fun and in a way..sort of escapist. John Leguizamo was so great as Chi-Chi. This guy is incredible and I hope he gets the recognition he deserves one day. Swayze and Snipes were also great..and overall it's difficult to say which really shined. What I did like about the film was that in spite of the bizarreness or other aspects of the drag queens' behavior..there were morals interjected.We see Chi-Chi almost doing a selfish and dangerous thing...that is..taking advantage of a kid and then realizing what she (he) is doing and letting go.We also see the compassion for the battered housewife and how society should abhor such things and concentrate on these, rather than the antics of what we might perceive as silly queens..Finally, the town realizing that these are human beings, albeit different and living life in their own ways; accepting them with the realization that beneath the exterior, they have hearts.. While not the best comedy...it had many laughs and as I've said...it was entertaining. "},{"Title":"Attitude is Everything","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  From the outrageous movie poster to the outrageous motto, Attitude is everything, comes an outrageous story line about two drag queens in New York who win a trip to Hollywood.  So they get a hold of an old Cadillac and they drag (pardon the pun) an aspiring drag queen, Chi-Chi along for the ride.Of course the car breaks down in a small town in the middle of nowhere and the three are left with their wits, their wigs, make-up and dresses.As if this isn't bad enough, now they have the homo-phobic Sheriff Dollard on their tails.With a script like this, one would expect a lot of potential for non-stop laughs and a lot of surprises.  I was expecting perhaps a 3 Stooges in drag type of script.Unfortunately, I was disappointed.  The movie just didn't deliver what it should've delivered.  The storyline was great, but the delivery of the story line was weak. With a White, a Hispanic and a Black together, there could've been some inter-racial humor thrown in to keep the laughs going.  But this was another opportunity that the producers of this disappointing movie failed to act upon. "},{"Title":"A Rocky for drag queens","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To Wong Foo--Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar could best be described as Rocky for drag queens.  It's not much better.  It's not much worse either. "},{"Title":"Funny and harmless","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are several funny moments in this movie, and it appears all involved were having fun while making it.  There are plot holes as big as the sky, but they are forgiven because everyone in it is so good.  Patrick Swayze turns in the best performance, and John Leguizamo was born to wear a dress (at least, some of the time).  "},{"Title":"Swayze gives a surprising performance as a drag queen.","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you have ever hung out with drag queens, you know  they really act like that.  Swayze and Snipes are great as the catty little crown winners of a New York City pageant.  Who, as the winners, travel to Hollywood to compete in the Drag Queen of America pageant.  Prior to leaving, they meet Leguizamo.  Who is a downtrodden drag queen who never does nothin' right. Swayze and Snipes adopt her and let her come along on the car ride.  The rest is a fun filled ride into the lives of 3 drag queens as they travel across country.  I too, felt that Swayze would break into song at any moment, but that would have been fine for me.  If you enjoy a good laugh at ridiculous things, then this movie is for you.  I must say that seeing Swayze as a woman has forever changed the way I will look at him.  He will not be the bouncer type anymore, I will only see Miss Vida Bohem. "}{"Title":"Very convincing!","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie just this afternoon, and let me tell you something, these guys are great women! LOL They even walk like women, and all three manage to look feminine enough that it's not too obvious. But, the most convincing *I* think is Wesley Snipes. He makes a very convincing woman, it's funny! Good for an early movie, I really do enjoy seeing actors we all know in there younger days. It's interesting to see how much they've changed, or how much they've stayed the same. Lots of plot holes, but it doesn't matter. I think this movie is absolutely cute. Loved it!Christian "},{"Title":"brillant, sexy, girlie, funny and so lovable","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I adored this film, its the kinda film u would never get bored of, it has great actors and story line, great wonderful film what more can i say 10 outta 10, 100 % great. its a one off.fair play to u all "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely fabulous. It's funny and sweet. All three main characters are played wonderfully, with an outstanding performance by John Leguizamo. He frickin' cracked me up in this one!!! It's a movie that gives glory and hope into being yourself and not being afraid to have a little fun every now and then. Great film! Watch it! "},{"Title":"oh DARLING!!!!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hehehe, i loved this movie! It made me laff soooo much! I couldn't believe the line up when i saw it!All i have to say about this was that it is simply fantastic! I loved the story line and altho i'm sad to admit, it is all pure fantasy, but most people live in a fantasy world nowadays  and well, this is one movie where i wish i could live in this fantasy! To be accepted like that with no problems? Wow, thats pretty good that is!I've watched this movie something like 5 times in two weeks and i still think that its kewl 0= I usually get tired of movies after a while, but this i haven't! It does help to be queer to watch this movie, but the girls will love it and the guys will think whats the point? But for me, the point is that its a kewl movie about acceptance and also the four rules to becoming a drag queen LOLCheck it out, if u like this stuff then u won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"A pathetic cash-in attempt on a brilliant Australian movie.","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What do you get when you take a critically acclaimed, visually stunning and generally memorable Australian film (Priscilla Queen of the Desert) and cross it with a bunch of greedy Hollywood executives? To Wong Foo.Priscilla is a movie that is beautiful to watch - from the sweeping outback shots to the Academy Award winning costumes - coupled with an engrossing and believable story.To Wong Foo, thanks for Everything is a sad cash-in on this movie - an attempt to bring it to the lowest common denominator of the large US market. It takes so many of the elements of Priscilla and does them poorly. From the irritating and skin-deep caricatures of drag queens to the weak and unbelievable plot, this movie attempts nothing new and achieves nothing worthwhile.If you like the premise, then watch it done properly - get Priscilla instead.   "},{"Title":"Whitebread","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I continue to be amazed at films that portray risktaking but that take no risks  themselves.The genre this time around is the `Music Man' type strangers end up in town somehow  and end up with mutual endearment. Usually it is bank robbers (`Trapped in Paradise,'  `Happy Texas'). Here it is drag queens. But their queenness, though often mentioned,  doesn't figure much in the story. What's the star here is the sort of honest wisdom that  Whoopie Goldberg often bludgeons us with.Too bad. Film is inherently a bunch of folks dressing up and finding characters within. So  when you make a film about guys dressing up TO find characters within, there is  inherent potential for something interesting. But you have to be edgy, take risks and be  intelligent. None of that here - this targets a sweet comedy, more `Like It Hot` than  `Priscilla.' Except for the unfulfilled promise of the reference a mopvie about a  photograph.Would be a complete waste of time were it not for three actors trying hard. All are  serious folks John Leguiziamo, Blythe Danner and Melinda Dillon. There's a little bit of  Latrec in John's work and a little bit of redheaded otherworldliness in Melinda's. Blythe  has the self-referential duties here a film character obsessed with film characters. She  was obviously intended to be the fulcrum for matters of identity, bleached out by test  audiences and meek funders.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"It was a drag","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Outsiders breathe life into, and inspire an isolated, ignorant community -- a plot line that's been used a thousand times, sometimes with great success. Unfortunately this isn't one of them. I simply didn't care for any of the characters -- they were mere caricatures spewing forth one-liners, rather than complex, developed characters.  Comparisons with Priscilla are inevitable -- Priscilla moved along with a joyous bounce backed by a mindlessly entertaining soundtrack, whereas too often Wong Foo simply plodded along. It wasn't a terribly movie, just terribly mediocre. "},{"Title":"Funny, But Another Vehicle For 'Alternative' Lifestyles","Date":"12 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is very entertaining, fun, outrageous....and sick....another pathetic comment on what filmmakers think is cool. If you doubt that, just watch the final 20 minutes again. The people who wrote this script just had to get in their ultra- Liberal agenda in big-time that it's okay to have deviant behavior, that those who oppose it are all ignorant, narrow-minded cretins, etc.Too bad they had to insert all the cultural beliefs because the film, comedy-wise, is a winner. It's funny and to see Patrick Swaze, Wesley Snipes and John Leguizamo all dressed as women, and talking and acting like them. There were a number of funny lines.This is a film that is good the first time you see it, but on a second look - once the shock of seeing three manly guys act like wannabe-women wears off - the agenda comes through and the film is not so funny. It turns out to be just another vehicle to promote an alternate lifestyle. "},{"Title":"Behind every great man, there's an even greater woman.","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Born in 1961 in England, Ms Kidron first started training in the British Television Industry at an early age, she ran away, from home? at the age of 17. She then took up a job as a stripper before taking up photography and winning prizes for her efforts, while still being in her teens. By 1988, she had firmly started her career in movie making with Vroom, starring a young Clive Owen. During the filming of To Wong Foo Ms Kidron was heavily pregnant, it was Steven Spielberg who was to continue filming, due to insurance, if she had the baby before the end of filming. You also have to remember that the Production Company, Amblin Entertainment, is very much a Steven Spielberg Company.Awards and Nominations do not come short for Ms Kidron, while winning several for her Direction on her television work Oranges Are Not The Only Fruit, To Wong Foo had the nomination for the GLAAD Media Award, for most Outstanding Film. To follow, it was nominated for Best Performance for Patrick Swayze and Best Performance for Supporting Role for John Leguizamo for the Golden Globes Award, all during 1996. The writing here is very witty and intelligent, done by Douglas Carter Beane, if its ones liners that you are after then this is the movie for you. Very funny and the delivery is perfect. This writing style could be on the same parallels of a good Carry On movie. The conscious plot is very basic, the three lead roles are driving across America, after two have won a Drag Queen competition in New York, and first prize being automatic entry to the Drag Queen of America in L.A. While driving, their second hand Cadillac breaks down, leaving them stranded for forty-eight hours in a Ghost Town, with only minimum of inhabitants. The local town folk of Snydersville seem to have never ventured out of their own back yard, physically and mentally. This is not a story of quantity but of quality, the plot may be basic, but it's the subconscious plot that truly makes this movie what it is. The longing of Love, friendship and acceptance through ignorance and prejudice. This is where Big City meets Small Town and is a clever example of both, in the end, needing each other. To show that even at polar opposites both can still open each others minds and emotions. To Learn. To Experience. To Connect. The sub plots are excellent, practically the character Sheriff Dollard, played by the late Chris Penn (1965 - 2006), and his hilarious homophobic antics for spiteful revenge. Is that the late Quentin Crisp (1908 - 1999), we see sitting in the China Bowl as one of the Pageant Judge's? I think it just might be.Yes, this is a well-scripted movie that deals with Culture Clash in a very humorous and sensitive manner that should entertain, delight and enlighten. "},{"Title":"A good intro for the world.","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, so a lot of people try to look at this from a particular perspective, but the fact is that overall it works quite well. True, MOST drag queens don't dress in drag 24/7, though some do. Also, the explanation that it says men=violence and need to be beaten and women need to be pampered ignores the straight men in the end sequence (watch it and you'll see if you pay attention). (Note that these comments work best if you've read some of the other rather short-sighted comments on here.) Fact is, unless you're in gay society, you will probably miss a lot of the overtly sensitive issues, and can instead realize that it is supposed to be a statement about accepting people and understanding that everyone can contribute something to their lives. If your purpose is to get people to see a glimpse of what gay society is like, you probably won't like this movie. However, if you appreciate the idea of having people dig a little deeper than where they already are and think about things from a different point of view to understand where others are coming from, then you will likely get a good vibe from this one. If you're reading this, you likely have more than a passing interest in possibly watching the movie, so take it from a straight WASP-y (though open-minded) man, it's an important lesson in understanding the people around you and getting a bit outside of yourself. "}{"Title":"Engaging curiosity","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My Fair Lady it's not. Its moral issues are canned and predictable. But the casting and performances are interesting. Patrick Swayze is enchanting, invisible really... And Blythe Danner earns her salary by giving a flat character nuances. It's always nice to see Alice Drummond, even though she seems to be stuck in the same character film after film. Recall her catatonic in Awakenings? The score alone buoys the spirit of the film, which is friendly, inane, watchable. It's on cable this week (5/13/05). Good to add to your movie vocabulary, as it's unlikely we'll see three such strong actors in drag again anytime soon. "},{"Title":"To be taken at face value","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I know there are a lot of comments about how the film doesn't take certain issues seriously, etc., etc., but I think that it has a good reason for it - it's just not necessary!  Things don't always have to be perfectly pat and politically correct to be entertaining.  This movie set out to make people laugh, and it certainly made me do so.  I didn't stop to think about how unrealistic it was - it's Hollywood!  One is supposed to suspend reality briefly and enjoy what's put in front of one.  Or at least take it with a grain of salt (or a spoonful of sugar, or...).My recommendation - don't take the film seriously.  It doesn't take itself seriously, just for what it is a funny movie about big men dressing up like ladies and the results therein.  Laugh a little! "},{"Title":"HiLarious","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie took me by surprise and had me laughing a lot. Wesley Snipes, Patrick Swayze, and John Leguizamo did excellent jobs on being women. The best part though, i have to say, is the strawberry festival thing when Swayze asked what strawberries were.. Strawberries are red... ha.. funny. "},{"Title":"What happens when...","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What happens when night creatures like drag queens decide to put two fingers up at destiny and dare to live out in the open? And what are the consequences of the arrival of such larger than life creatures in a godforsaken hole of Middle America? Well, the good news it that they're going to be rather positive!Three New York drag queens (in fact, in one them is still a debutante and this will be her initiatory voyage) head for Hollywood in a vintage convertible Cadillac that break down in the middle of nowhere after these ladies have 'killed' a narrow-minded, forward sheriff that was turned on by the leader of the group, the 'white' one-the two others being described as a 'negress' and a 'gypsy' (in fact, a latino) by the police officer. Finally, the trio is forced to spend the weekend in Thingumabobville, spare parts for an old Cadillac being not readily available.The folks there are as grotesques as the drag queens themselves. At best, men are good fellows afflicted with stuttering (castrating mothers are everywhere it seems), and at worst, husbands that are quick with their hands. Women present a more complex personality, but of course, their minds were deaden by the above-mentioned. It looks like they were desperately waiting for a fairy godmother to blossom. Fortunately, our drag queens are equally at ease in this role and will solve all the ladies' problems by waving a magic wand (actually, this magic wand effect will include some more prosaic kick ups in the backside of male pig chauvinists).To say that this community will never be the same after this colorful hurricane is a euphemism. Thingumabobville will be changed forever, it will be humanized and, above all, its more deeply anchored prejudices (among others, homophobia) will be washed away. The folks will eventually form a league against the vengeful sheriff, pathetically searching these men who took the liberty of wearing women's clothes. The old farmer, to whom the sheriff points out that the Founding Fathers certainly didn't have in mind that kind of liberty when they wrote the Constitution, retorts 'I'll tell you something about our Founding Fathers They wore fabulous wigs!'This quote epitomizes the light, frivolous and yet efficient tone used to tackle delicate issues and militate in favor of tolerance. Therefore, it would be a shame to resist enjoying such a pleasant movie.  "},{"Title":"No good nonsense","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm gay and drag-fan, and this movie wasn't any good! Impossible to think that men like Snipes or Swayze, would be or COULD be famous/awarded drag-queens. And if they are drag-queens, why are they always dressed as women? So that most of the people think that they really ladies. These two points annoyed me so much, that I couldn't enjoy the movie at all. Even though it had some moments and it gave me few laughs. The story was so naive and stupid, that I wouldn't call it story at all. Sometimes I think that only reason for this movie was to show people how extra-ordinary is to see studs like Wesley Snipes or Patrick Swayze in girls clothes. By the way, John Leguizamo looks ravishing in drag. No wonder the country-boy fells in love with him. I would *wink* 5/10 "},{"Title":"Laughed so hard","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this on a night when I really needed some amusement - and it's not easy to make me laugh when I've got a lot on my mind - I laughed so hard at this movie I nearly fell off the sofa - it is sooo funny. It would have been worth the entire price of a theater ticket to see Kurt Russell put on nylons! And John Leguizamo is amazing! I *have* seen Priscilla, Queen of the Desert - this is better. The actors do a fine job in their roles, and carry them off with the right level of gravity. The storyline is almost typical for a peripatetic road pic, but the characters make it worth watching. Watch this when you want to laugh - it's worth it. "},{"Title":"Pretty tame all things considered","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having won the local finals of a drag queen beauty contest, Vida Boheme and Noxeema Jackson win their plane tickets to New York for the national finals. However, Vida takes pity on the young queen Chi-Chi and convinces Noxeema to sell their tickets and buy a car so they can all go to New York together. On the way they get lost and encounter an abusive sheriff, who Vida has to knock out.  They flee the scene but their car dies in a small town.  As they try to fit in until parts arrive for their car, the sheriff starts to track them down.Starting out quite daringly with an entire conference hall full of drag queens, this film quickly gets tame and rather uninteresting.  The opening scene is quite daring and made me, as a straight man, feel a little uncomfortable (which is fine), however it doesn't manage to keep this up and sinks into a rather well worn tread of outsiders coming to a small town and changing it for the best (and being changed by it).  The plot doesn't care that it's characters are drag queens - it only uses this to shape the direction of the `change' and to act as a plot device.  It is still an OK film but it doesn't really do anything special and, in fact, lets a lot of interesting elements slip to one side and be handled rather shoddily.Most notably, Carol Ann's relationship with Virgil is very interesting but is badly sidelined until Vida gets involved.  This section is also where the best acting occurs - Channing is good but it is Howard's insecure bully that I really wanted to see more of.  Swayze is good and makes quite a good drag queen.  Snipes never, never looks like anything other than Wesley Snipes in a dress - he is a rubbish queen and gives a poor (if brave) performance. Leguizamo is OK but is really just doing the usual OTT hamming that has become so very wearing at times.  London is bland and Penn is not that great despite having the funniest scenes (walking round with a list of `places homos would be'!).Overall the film is `flaming' and it takes most of it's humour from that without ever really trying to develop characters beyond the drag queen stereotypes of finger snapping and neck wiggling.  The interesting, more dramatic and serious sides of the film are poorly handled, making them slightly pat and only being used to involve the drag queens in some way. Mildly amusing and is maybe worth a look for the stars in drag, but really I was disappointed. "},{"Title":"Timing is everything, thanks John Leguizamo","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Just saw this move again.  Its a flawed, but sometimes entertaining hour and 49 minutes.  Swayze is convincing in his drag queen persona when he's just a drag queen, but I don't get any insight into his charachter by the perfunctory allusion to his background.  It doesn't work.  He doesn't give the charachter enough depth in his portrayal to make his ostracism from his affluent family a germane inclusion in the story.  Neither the allusion to his family, nor Swayze's performance leaves me with a better understanding of Vida Boheme's crusade for the underdog.  He is just too schmaltzy. Snipes is okay, and sometimes has his moments, but I don't see his whole heart in his portrayal of Noxeema Jackson.  His fretfulness in the scene where the three are seeking a hotel room contrasts too starkly with the scene where he grabs the balls of the redneck and forces the hillbilly to greet ladies properly.  I'm not convinced his character has gone through any transformation to make this action credible. Leguizamo is not only convincing, but also gives a whole hearted performance as Chi Chi.  (And deserves to win the drag queen contest as she does in Hollywood.)  Where his role falls apart is in his giving up his knight in shining pickup truck.  But this is a problem of the story and script. As to the wife beating subplot; it was unnecessary and too schlocky a portrayal of an important issue to have been included in this story. Neither the husband nor the wife were more than cardboard cutouts.Finally, with the exception of Leguizamo's performance, the timing is just not right in much of the film.  It has lags in the delivery of lines and the editing of scenes that just shouts someone not paying attention! I gave this film a very generous 8 because the story had potentail, and I found it, despite flaws, light entertainment.  But my vote of merit would be 6. "},{"Title":"I LOVED IT!","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie shows just how talented and versitile Patrick Swayze is.  He is great in a romantic movie!  But, he is very funny in a comedy as well.  I thought that the three divas worked great together.  I have been a BIG Swayze fan for years.  Dirty Dancing was wonderful!  In my opinion, Patrick is a very sensual man and a great actor! "},{"Title":"NOT a remake!","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is unfair to compare this movie to Priscilla, and it is an outright falsehood to call it a Hollywood remake of Priscilla.  Priscilla and Wong Foo were being filmed at more or less the same time, and the fact that both are about three drag queens taking a road trip is pure COINCIDENCE.  When the producers of Wong Foo found out about Priscilla, they delayed its release so both movies wouldn't be out at the same time.Yes, the characters in Priscilla have more depth and are less cartoonish than those in Wong Foo, but Wong Foo is surprisingly good considering it's Hollywood, and Patrick Swayze makes a *fabulous* drag queen!  Wesley Snipes, on the other hand, was quite out of place; I think Denzel Washington would have made a much better Noxeema.  John Leguizamo had done drag before, so his good job was less of a surprise than Patrick's.  (And no, John Leguizamo was and is NOT a macho action-movie hero!  I was surprised to find out he's straight in real life.)So, please judge Wong Foo on its own merits.  Pretend you've never even heard of Priscilla. "}{"Title":"Better than most, but still a pale imitation.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  We've seen this so many times before--a truly entertaining foreign film will gain some attention in this country, and then Hollywood will decide to adapt it and make a movie that isn't anywhere near as good.A rip-off of The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, Wong Foo just doesn't measure up.  Still, it isn't that bad the supporting cast, especially Stockard Channing and Alice Drummond, are solid and fun to watch, and the story is sufficiently entertaining to keep you involved.  And it's always nice to see a drag queen beat a wife-beating, bigoted redneck to within an inch of his alleged life.If you've got a lot of people and nothing to do on a rainy night, by all means, rent Wong Foo.  Just make sure you view the original first. "},{"Title":"Misfiring camp comedy","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  So what do you do? The Australians produce The Adventures ofPriscilla, America must reply! Only the reply is cliched andunoriginal. You can get only a limited amount of laughs fromdressing up tough guys Swayze and Snipes in drag, some of thecomedy hits the mark, but for the most part it stutters along at anuneven pace. Leguizamo is the stand out as the drag queenwannabee, the best lines, and the best make-up. This film is alittle shallow, perhaps tamed for the American audience, and itdoes not pack the vibrant punch of Priscilla. Yes it preachestolerance and understanding, but we've heard it all before, andsaid with meaning. "},{"Title":"Sometimes, things just go Wong!","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" On the plus side, this film has a wonderful cameo by Robin Williams and Patrick Swayze proves he could successfully step into the lead role of any regional production of Auntie Mame. After that, one can pick this film apart piece by piece. But here are a few of the film's major problems 1) Drag queens do not dress in drag 24/7. And certainly they do not sleep in drag. Drag is a costume, something worn as part of a show, an alternate identity. In fact the film would have been more interesting if we had got to know the characters in their everyday life as a contrast to their drag identities. But placing the guys in drag and keeping them there keeps them safely in the realm of a sight gag. The characters are not people, they are extented jokes. 2) This is a film about how gay men make the world nice for heterosexual lovers. This would have been truly ground-breaking if it had been about the romantic lives of this trio, not just portraying them, literally, as fairy godmothers who come to work romantic magic for straights. 3) The film is sexist. The trio come to this small town and teach men how to show respect by beating them up and solve all the women's problems by giving them self-esteem inducing makeovers. Men are villains and get violence; women are victims and get pampering. And, of course, gays earn the right to be fabulous. Wouldn't it be interesting if someone made a film where women are taught to respect men and men were pampered their way to self-esteem? That'll never happen. Sadly, Wong Foo truly thinks it is being bold and original, but every step of the way it falls back on clichés and tiresome stereotypes. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have watched this movie.. not once but.. many times since it came out. It's just incredible seeing Snipes wearing a dress.. talk about a huge biceps! Well it's unbelievable ..but Snipes played his role quite good.. I mean go girlfriend! He is the woman.. in that film! And the voices.. oh my God..they probably took some lessons on that one, you know Swayze has a very deep voice and what about Wesley.. I don't know how they solved the problem but they DID!;) Just..see the movie and you'll know.All in all.. three drag queens stuck in a small town trying to go to a very important drag queen meeting.. I really enjoyed the whole I am a strong man in a very tight dress wanting to be a DRAG QUEEN thing going on in the picture. It's worth renting this..sit down and watch it..but don't be scared by the looks of those three )! "},{"Title":"One of my favorites ... however not to be taken too seriously","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To Wong Foo is a great movie. It has comedy, drama, romance (if you can call it that) and alot of attitude. However you can not take the movie too seriously as it does not portray what a Drag Queen is properly. They do explain correctly in the movie at least that a Transvestite is a straight man who, for sexual kicks, dresses like a woman and then just goes to a bar to socialize. A Transexual is a man who feels he is a woman inside and must live his life as a woman 100% of the time - sometimes even having a sex change operation. *** DRAG QUEEN When a GAY man has WAAAY too much fashion sense for one gender - HE is a DRAG QUEEN - ok now basically what this means is that a drag queen is a gay man who has no desire to live his life as a woman. The Drag Queen is basically just an entertainer. You will rarely catch a drag queen in sweats and curlers. It is all about the fashion honey. Lip sinkin' to songs and dancing your glamerous A** off! In To Wong Foo they stay dressed up in Drag the whole movie. Noxeema even acts surprised when finding out Miss Vita's name is really Eugene. So the movie is not realistic but then again who cares? It is a hilarious movie filled with glamour and glory! If you have not seen this movie yet - DO!Smooches - Miss Ambrosia Devine - Drag Queen ) "},{"Title":"A short review of a cute flick...","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A very cute film, but Adventures of Priscilla was better. Still, there's nothing wrong with Wong Foo, I enjoyed it. It just didn't stick with me when it was over. "},{"Title":"To Wong Foo, Thanks for Nothing","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After the unexpected success of the Australian film The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, someone decided what movie audiences really needed was a much blander and more sanitized American version of the same thing, and To Wong Foo, etc. is the result.Patrick Swayze, Wesley Snipes and John Leguizamo are the less talented actors playing gentlemen in drag this time around, the story is much less involving, and the whole thing is pretty much less of everything that made Priscilla good. A crucial difference between the two films is that in the former, the actors didn't give self conscious performances; they weren't winking at the audience and saying, isn't it funny that three recognizable actors are playing men in drag. But that's exactly how the three actors in the American film play it, and since we can't take the actors seriously in roles they're not taking seriously themselves, there's not much to invest your time or energy in.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Mediocre acting. Nice story. Bearable film.","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had never seen this movie in the 5+ years that it has been out but always wanted to. I had expected each actor to play his usual roles but was disappointed to see them downplayed. For example John Leguizamo isn't his usual crazy self and I don't think Snipes was all that tough in personality as he could have been. This movie seemed rushed. The ending was worthwhile. If for any other reason you should stay away from this movies to not attain a bad taste in your mouth for any of the cast members. These are a bunch of statements intended to show the grave severity of not playing roles that you are most commonly associated with. "},{"Title":"i'm sorry, i didn't like it","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie after I had seen Priscilla a few times. It's not nearly as good... I don't know if they were trying to rip off a better film or not, but it didn't work. To Wong Foo was so cheesy... and it seemed unfinished... Don't bother seeing this. Watch The Adventures of Priscilla instead. "},{"Title":"Once again, Hollywood waters down somebody elses culture for profit","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This horribly unoriginal, unimaginative and un-funny movie is another example of the Hollywood tradition of glomming on to marketable innoventions of non-traditional cultures, watering them down, and spinning them out for a profit.There is absolutely nothing realistic or honest in these fake screen drag queens. Drag is gay. Straight people in dresses pretending to be women is not drag! I can't say this strongly enough. The most disgusting, dishonest thing about this movie is that Hollywood will point to it to prove how hip and without prejudice they are. This movie is to gay culture what Gone with the Wind was for black culture.Watch Priscilla Queen of the Desert if you want to see drag queens through gay eyes. To Wong Foo is drag for scared straight people and on top of that, it's a stupid movie. "}{"Title":"its good!!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i enjoyed this film because i am 14 and have a childish sense of humour and think its quite funny seeing men dressed up as women and I'm sure a lot of people do, (i only think this when people are doing it for a laugh so no offence) especially if those men are very big stars that have played Jonny Castle in dirty dancing! but there you go.I love all the characteristics the men have when they become women like the change of voices and the movement etc... i think its hilarious and i think many other people will to! so if you see it in a rental shop i'd pick it up and give it a go!no-one will hate it i don't think! So if you want to see Wesley Snipes and Patrick Swayze in a dress GO 4 IT! "},{"Title":"Men in Dresses.... What's not to like?","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the first time i saw this movie, i was shocked. i couldnt believe that these were actors, wearing dresses, and looking better than i did! but this movie really is great. its funny dialogue delivered by drag queens with major attitudes. this is really recommended to anyone who has a loose sense of humour. "},{"Title":"America's answer to Priscilla, Queen of the Desert...","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Flabby feel good drag queen comedy features Wesley Snipes, Patrick Swayze and John Leguizamo as three drag-pageant contestants traveling cross-country to the show by car, getting stuck in a backwater town and turning the hayseed residents around on their overalls. This movie's comedic/sentimental vision of Bumpkinville, U.S.A. plays like a Hee Haw valentine, and its idea of drag artists is to put muscular guys like Swayze and Snipes in dresses and then ask them to defend themselves with fisticuffs. Very depressing...as is Swayze's bland performance. Leguizamo is colorful and has some amusing moments, but the sub-plot with Chris Penn as a wronged policeman is excruciating. In the end, it's just a slightly flamboyant sitcom, with the standard put-downs and dumb gags, redeemed slightly by scattered laughs. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Did somebody say Priscilla?","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why watch this obvious rip-off from the great australian movie Priscilla...? Why can't the american film companies stop doing remakes of foreign movies. Do we want to see Wesley Snipes and Patrick Swayze in drag when we can see Terence Stamp and Guy Pearce? I don't THINK so.... Skip this movie and rent Priscilla instead. "},{"Title":"Distressingly awful","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Upon seeing the trailer, I felt that, quite possibly, this could be the worst movie ever made.  Seeing it confirmed my suspicions and then some. This is the most poorly conceived idea and story line ever.  The one positive I can say is that it's so bad as to have considerable comedic value at times.  Everyone involved should probably do a serious career reassessment. "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be a colossal waste of time.  It is three-quarters into the movie before you realize there is a plot, and not much of one at that. If I were a woman I would be offended - three guys teach women how to be better women.  Not much entertainment here. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dreadful comedy about three drag queens (Wesley Snipes, Patrick Swayze and John Leguizamo) whose car breaks down in the middle of a tiny little town in the Bible Belt. They have to stay a few days before it's repaired. Naturally they bring the town to life and all its citizens.*sigh*What a stupid movie. For starters NONE of the guys (with the possible esception of Swayze) look good in drag--Snipes in particular is frightening--yet they have the ENTIRE town convinced they're real woman! And, even though they're all performers, we never see them once perform. The film is also very condescending. The characters and situations are annoyingly predictable and the movie goes out of its way to make all these characters as inoffensive as possible (so not to offend anyone and assure the PG-13 rating). This was only made because the Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert was such a huge hit. Rent Priscilla instead--it's MUCH MUCH better. Poor Julie Newmar deserves better than this. I give it a 1--wish I could go to 0. BTW, Newmar does a cameo at the end. "},{"Title":"drag-queens and their stab at fame","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I couldn't stand this movie, sorry but it's true, it is a direct ripoff of The Adventures of Priscilla Queen of the Desert (1994) and TRYING desperately to ride its coattails into success, which it fails to do. It has TERRIBLE acting from all the actors involved and is more based on what people think gays and cross-dressers are rather than trying to be more serious. They've taken some of the most butch people they can lay their hands on and tried to gay them up ... not cool, not cool at all, don't even bother watching this movie, if you want to see a funny drag-queen film, see the above mentioned Priscilla, it's well worth it, whereas this is not. "},{"Title":"A disaster!","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A disaster of a movie. A typical and pathetic attempt at making an American cover version of a classical foreign film. The original, The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert an Australian movie about three drag queens who drive an old bus halfway across the Australian desert to perform at a casino in the middle of nowhere is perfect and hilarious and wonderful, so why on Earth the producers of To Wong Foo... decided to make this half thought through calamity is beyond my comprehension. This movie should be avoided if at all possible. Go for the original in stead. You will only be disappointed by this copy. "},{"Title":"Ed Wood eat your heart out","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While Ed strived to make bad movies, the director of this piece of crap actually thought they were making beautiful cinema. This is without a doubt the worst movie of all time. I say this with conviction and a vast background knowledge of film. I am a filmmaker and have studied and taught film production and scriptwriting. I could write essays on this film but see no need. All that need be said is -10 out of 10. I want my money back. "}{"Title":"To Wong Foo, Thanks For Nothing !","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"10 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How can I put this nicely.  I hate this movie. I loathe it.  Andthis is unusual for me, because I can get some enjoyment out ofmost movies, and I will usually give anyone the benefit of thedoubt.  I appreciate creativity and originality.  I admiretalent and intelligence - whoops! wrong movie!.  These awfulcharacters,spawned of a brainless script, are so sickeninglysweet. Even the tarty John Leguizamo character  unfortunatelydevelops a conscience in the tradition of the best Americanfamily film - which by the way this is not!    Call me picky -but it's just impossible to buy this concept.   OK - here's thedeal 3 drag queens in full regalia and being pursued by the law,suffer a car breakdown in a small rural American town, wherethey are promptly adopted as guardian angels by the townspopulace.  Fine!  Now, where is the humour?   Where is the bite?(think Priscilla - so much of which is ripped off, but with nopanache at all)  Where is the style, that may have lifted thisslightly above the dross that it is?   These glamour babes areso goody-goody that you could be forgiven for thinking you hadstumbled into some Mary Poppins Twilight Zone. And I have toadmit, there were several dreadful moments when I was just surePatrick Swayze was going to burst into song, and with a fullorchestra blazing away in the background, start skipping downthe street.  Actually his performance and characterisationparticularly nauseated me, what  with his Little-Miss-Fix-Itcharacter, breezing into town and sticking her nose intoeverybody's business and solving all their problems.   Verytrite in every respect, and superficial beyond belief.  Only theintellectual giant portrayed by the usually flawless StockardChanning, has the slightest inkling as to the original gender ofher new friends.  As for the rest of the town - are we tobelieve that these simple country folk are too unsophisticatedto recognise a big burly man in a dress?   Let's face it,Patrick Swayze and Wesley Snipes are built like footballers, andputting a dress on them, no matter how well tailored, no matterhow fabulously colour coordinated,  does nothing to disguisethis simple fact.   Most irritating moment of all - PatrickSwayze declaring the day a say something hat day   Pass methat airsick bag !!  Quick !!  "},{"Title":"Man, how I hate movies about men who dress up as women!","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What's worse than a movie starring Patrick Swayze? A movie starring Patrick Swayze as a transvestite. I didn't like The Birdcage too much (neither the original, nor the remake) and I hated Tootsie. Films with men dressing up as women (or the other way round) are NOT FUNNY!!! Not to forget that it's impossible for anyone to mistake Dustin Hoffmann for a woman and even fall in love with him! But wait! I should be ranting about To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything! Julie Newmar (great title, huh?!). Not even Wesley Snipes can save this mess. It's just a complete and total let down and on top of that not very respectful towards gay people. If you want to see a nice little comedy about gay people watch Le placard starring Daniel Auteuil and Gérard Depardieu.P.S. Okay, Some Like It Hot would be an exception as it is a funny movie with men dressing up as women, but that's the ONLY exception I'll make. "},{"Title":"Stale, Unfunny and Unoriginal","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Turgid, way overblown, boring, predictable hodge-podge of three drag queens touring across rural America. The only thing this flick has going for it, is to see its two action stars donning HALSTON hand-me-downs. Gads, even on that bizarre level, the curiosity wanes after a few minutes.The acting is so-so, and the characterizations turned in are of a one dimensional variety. The sweetness of Swayze's character is so syrupy, the rating should come with a cautionary label for diabetics. Snipes is the gum-smacking, sarcastic queen. Leguizamo (who has done some excellent work on gender roles in various cable specials) is buoyed to the stereotypical, Spanglish speaking queen role. The whole movie comes off as a cheap, Hollywood rip-off of the Australian hit, PRISCILLA QUEEN OF THE DESERT (which it is).   "}]