[{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"63 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was ten, and even then I liked it. The script itself housed very funny one liners, particularly form Spacey's character. But I was amazed at how fast the film itself moved. In the first, you are following these scientists going to Africa to find a virus outbreak. Next thing you know, you're watching a helicopter go head on with a plane.First comes the acting. Dustin Hoffman is stupendous as always, Rene Russo plays Robbie with realism, Kevin Spacey makes for a good humor man, Cuba Gooding Jr. pulls off the green man trying to earn respect, and being a bad-ass at the same time. As always, Morgan Freeman is wonderful. Any role I see him in is a role I remember. He's always different, too, neigh does he ever repeat in characterization. Sometimes he's funny, sometimes he's incredibly serious. Last but not least comes Donald Sutherland, one of my favorite actors to date. He can jump into the shoes of any character, including the general trying to protect a secret he knows he shouldn't. One actor whom I particularly enjoyed watching was J.T. Walsh. It's a great shame he died, I liked all his stuff from Breakdown to Pleasantville. He is only in Outbreak for about five minutes, but he has one of my favorite monologues in the history of film. He commands attention as he speaks.Next comes the story itself. A very to-date story. A one all can relate to because it could very well happen. A virus from Africa makes its way here and begins infecting all, without a cure. I liked that there was a hero aspect in Sam Daniels. he was the tracker, the hunter, the curist. Coupled with the story comes the dialogue. Rich, under-appreciated, funny, and serious all wrapped into one. As I said before, the monologue for Walsh is brilliant. Many lines are etched into my mind, and are often used in conversation. Too bad no one knows what I'm saying.I'm a bit surprised this film didn't bode too well with audiences. Mayhap they didn't want to see what could happen, who knows? My only complaint is character endings. You insinuate what happens to McClintock and Ford, also Sam and Robbie, but we don't ever see Casey again. I could infer that he dies, but he could very well have survived. I wish there was a way to know.Finally comes Wolfgang Peterson's remarkable direction. I've been a huge fan of his movies since this movie, including Air Force One, Enemy Mine, not much for Perfect Storm, but his upcoming Ender's Game should be good.At the end, I felt a certain sense of relief and wonderment. But I have to say the soundtrack is rather exquisite. I have always liked James Newton Howard, and though the cd is short in time, it's a time I cannot forget. Particularly the end theme when it's chopper vs. plane time. What a song, keeps me in suspense every time. I like songs that are taken for film trailers as well. It's still too bad not a lot of people know about this movie.9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"With a cast this great, it HAS to be good...","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"36 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was everything that many action thrillers are not.  For one, the action really was thrilling at times.  The story was well written and directed, and for a film that wasn't really over the top by action movie standards, there were many tense moments to enjoy.  But what struck me the most was the cast.  I mean, this is about as good a list of actors that you will ever find in one movie, and they all deliver, just as you would expect from all this talent.  It's truly one of the most exciting movies that I've seen in some time.  "},{"Title":"There always has to be a disease, doesn't there?","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"37 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Outbreak isn't any kind of masterpiece, but worth seeing nevertheless. Portraying the army trying to contain a deadly virus brought by a monkey smuggled into the country, the movie seems especially relevant, what with bird flu and all. A particularly disturbing scene takes place in a movie theater, when a person coughs and the camera follows the particles catching on everyone's lips as they laugh, unaware of the fate that awaits them.The always dependable Dustin Hoffman plays as intense a role as ever as the colonel in charge of trying to control the virus. Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey and Cuba Gooding Jr. also play their roles very well. Donald Sutherland's menacing looks are perfect for the kind of character whom he plays. All in all, Wolfgang Petersen directs another good one here. "},{"Title":"imperfect, but entertaining","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hoffman is a U.S. Army doctor who specializes in disease control, and is burdened with personal problems following a recent divorce. He and his research team have their work cut out for them when they're assigned to try and contain a new, terrifyingly deadly virus that's made its way from Africa and caused an unprecedented epidemic in a small U.S. coastal town. It's a race against time as they try and locate the host animal carrying the virus, as well as save the lives of the town inhabitants before his Army superiors can carry out their own agenda. Suspenseful, well-crafted thriller is not always surprising, but it is believable and acted with conviction by a dynamite cast. *** "},{"Title":"Intrigue,  action and suspense film about a deadly and rapacious virus spread in the air","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When a disease in Africa is found , extreme measures are necessary to stop a rapacious epidemic , as dinky Colonel Sam Daniels (Dustin Hoffman) of the United States Army Medical Research Institute for Infectious Diseases is sent to discover it . When he reports back to his chef officer General Ford (Morgan Freeman) and tells him that they should put out an alert on this disease but the General that since the disease is so far away and not airborne that it can't possibly reach the U.S . However, a monkey from that part of Africa was captured by a man (Patrick Dempsey) and brought the USA and tried to sell it but when the person he tried to sell it to rejected it he released it. Col. Daniels wants to look into it but General Ford denies his request so he turns to his estranged ex-wife (Rene Russo) , who works at the Center for Disease Control or CDC to look into and they discover it's the African disease but since it kills very quickly, Col. Daniels feels that it's been contained until another outbreak and learns the virus makes the bubonic pest look like a cough . The virus expands rapidly in the air like a common cold but the Army superiors have an agenda to their own . Meanwhile Hoffman must contain the virus that's somehow made its way from Africa to the USA and the events go awry . But military intelligence (Donald Sutherland) have other plans to avoid deadly virus in which a sub-continent the size of America may be consumed and decimated . Suspense thriller with plenty of action and intrigue about a deadly virus is spread in the air . The pictures results to be a metaphor for AIDS panic in the same way that 50s extraterrestrial films mirrored fears of Red Menace . The story shows the scientific methods by which such viral ills are identified and tracked , including touches on the ethical problems as germ warfare , elimination of infected and several others . Nice performance for all-star-cast as Hoffman , Russo , Morgan Freeman as a good general , Cuba Gooding Jr as intrepid official expert on helicopters , Kevin Spacey as helper and many others . Appears unjustly uncredited T.J Walsh as US President , Dale Dye and Lance Kerwin . Colorful and appropriate cinematography by Michael Balhaus , Clint Eastwood's usual . Stirring and adequate musical score by James Newton Howard . Good direction by Petersen who does have its thrilling moments , most of them in the first half , though the second half degenerates in a superhero movie in which Hoffman turning into an one army man -almost caricature and barely credible- against the military intelligence represented by nasty Donald Sutherland . Wolfgang Petersen has directed very good films since his beginnings in Germany with ¨The Neverending story¨ and ¨Das Boot¨ ,after that , he emigrated US where realized ¨Night of shattered crystals¨, ¨Enemy mine¨ , and the successful ¨Air Force one¨and ¨The patriot¨ , though his last film was a semi-flop , the remake ¨Poseidon¨. Rating  well worth watching , better than average . "},{"Title":"Good Dramatisation of a Very Real Threat","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With a deadly virus spreading like the Flu in the town of Cedar Creek, Military and Civilian Viral Specialists Dustin Hoffman and Rene Russo, are caught up in a race against time to discover a cure for this Microscopic Menace, known as Motaba. This isn't the first time that the virus has struck, but last time out is was hidden from the public and remained in the hands of the Military, as the perfect Biological weapon.Desperate to keep the Weapon Safe, Morgan Freeman and Donald Sutherland, will stop at nothing to protect it, even if that means killing innocent Civilians.With the cast already mentioned and support from Kevin Spacey and Cuba Gooding Jr. the film is packed with fine acting performances, and enough thrills and tension, to show us exactly how serious the threat of this weapon is, and the lengths that people goto, to preserve it.Very realistic in content, this is turns out to be a fine Dramatisation of a very real threat.8/10 "},{"Title":"Well Made Film","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Outbreak (1995, Dir. Wolfgang Peterson) It's 1967 and there's a deadly outbreak of 100% mortality rate virus in Motaba River Valley, Zaire. The Valley is destroyed to prevent the virus from spreading, but 27 years later, the virus finds its way over to the USA aboard a monkey. This time though, the virus has evolved and is now airborne, as Col. Sam Daniels (Hoffman) races to not only prevent a virus epidemic but to prevent the destruction of Cedar Creek by the corrupt Maj. Gen. Donald McClintock (Sutherland).Great acting from its talented cast and superb storytelling make a well made film which hooks you into waiting for the final outcome. Story doesn't focus on the effects of the virus, but rather the hunt for the cure, which makes a far better film.You want a hotshot scope-jockey, fine, but, frankly, I'm hurt. &#150; Maj. Casey Schuler (Kevin Spacey) "},{"Title":"Brilliant stuff!","Date":"17 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Personally this film is in my top 10. It is a real treat of a movie to watch which not only acts as pure entertainment but also a deeply involving film which involves great performances and some real thrilling moments. It all starts with the wipe-out of an African village due to a deadly virus. However the virus is transported to the US by a small monkey which is smuggled by boat. The film then tracks along as more and more people get infected and the virus mutates making it airborne and more of a threat. It spreads like the flu The actors involved are Dustim Hoffman who as usual does an outstanding job. Rene Russo is used well as a love complication. Kevin Spacy is brilliant as the doctor with a sense of humour. Morgan Freeman and Donald Sutherland seem to be having fun with the material and things get interested when they clash at the end. The film, although thrilling at times (e.g a spectacular helicopter chase and an attempt to break out of the quarantined town) is extremely emotional as it does follow a few people as they are diagnosed with the virus. However, this is where the film also goes downhill a bit. We are expecting to see the chaos and mass panic of a virus infected town. However things seem abnormally calm, and I got fed up of main stars getting infected just to add to the pressure to Dustim Hoffman's character.But overall this film is brilliant, I strongly advise everyone tries to watch this. it isn't everyone's cup of tea but is still a brilliant film which I will treasure and keep in my top 10. "},{"Title":"If the story had been more believable, this would have been a very good movie","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"31 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Next to big volcano's erupting, hurricanes and other twisters, diseases are an excellent source of inspiration for the creators of disaster movies. Why? The answer is quite simple. We all know that diseases like Ebola and AIDS haven't always been among us, but that they were present somewhere on this planet. We don't know how it suddenly finds us, but it does. And since most of us are very scared of the unknown and we can be pretty sure that not everything has been discovered yet, movies based on this subject can be quite believable and scary.When a new deadly disease is discovered in Africa, Colonel Sam Daniels of the U.S. Army is sent to investigate it. As soon as he returns he warns his boss, General Ford, that they should put out an alert on this virus, even though it is far away from the USA and not airborne. General Ford refuses, since it is contained and unlikely to show up. But what both men don't know is that a monkey, carrying the deadly virus with him, has been captured and is being shipped to the USA, where a man who works at the customs house takes it and tries to sell it to a pet store. But when the sale isn't closed, the man doesn't know what to do with the monkey and releases it in the woods near a small town in California. A few days later the man collapses and dies in Baltimore and at the same time a new outbreak is starting in that little Californian town. Colonel Daniels, his team and his ex-wife will do anything possible to find a cure so they can save the population from being bombed by the military, but what they don't know is that there may have been a cure all along...Overall the story of this movie certainly isn't bad, but sometimes I started to find it all a bit too much. A new disease that mutates, that's possible. The army that wants to know more about it, there is nothing new about that. But than talking about military conspiracies, a president who wants to bomb his own people... that one I really didn't buy. And that's too bad, because I'm convinced that this could be a very powerful movie, if only they should have left out a couple of elements. Still, that's about the worst thing that I have to say about this movie. The acting for instance is OK. With people like Dustin Hoffman, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, Donald Sutherland,... they have found themselves a very nice cast, which may well be the best reason why you should watch this movie, even when you aren't a fan of disaster movies (like me).But not only the acting looks OK, so does the direction. With a man like Wolfgang Petersen, I immediately have some high expectations of course. He's the man that gave the world the ultimate submarine movie Das Boot and that always makes me hope for the best. Even though this movie never reaches to that extremely high level, it sure is better than average. The man still knows how to create the necessary tension and how to keep you interested. So, if it hadn't been for the not always so effective story, this movie would have scored very high on my list. Now I give it a 6.5/10 (which certainly isn't bad). "},{"Title":"OK but never gets near its potential because of all its weaknesses","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"52 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When a deadly virus decimates an African village, the US authorities attempt to draw a line under the incident and take the line that a reoccurrence is unlikely. However, a monkey has become a carrier for the virus and has reached the US. When Jimbo Scott smuggles the monkey out to sell to a pet store, he is infected and spreads it to others. Eventually the local town of Cedar Creek becomes overrun and the US form a barricade around the town. With the politicians planning the destruction of the town to stop the virus spreading, Col Sam Daniels and his team race to find some other way of stopping it.Whether you viewed in back in 1995 or now, where the threat of viral attack doesn't seem so unlikely, this film should be gripping on the basis of the material. At points it does have good moments but generally this generally suffers from trying to do too much and having a script that cannot control its subject. For most of the film the virus is almost a concept rather than a real threat and it talks a lot without really delivering. Even when an entire town is quarantined and dying, it all remains very calm where really it needed fear and panic to seep into every character and every scene. Sadly it doesn't do this and the film bogs itself down in personal infections, squabbling ex-partners and so on &#150; did we need the main characters to get the virus? Wasn't it enough for an entire town to be dying and for the world to be at risk? Anyway, at the midpoint the film suddenly becomes an action movie with helicopter chases and a plot that can best be summed up as 'catch the monkey'.Even with this section, the flaws are rife &#150; the action bits are OK but it seems unlikely that finding a monkey somewhere in the US would be a more complicated task! This is not to say that it isn't entertaining because it just about manages to be enjoyable enough, but nowhere near the potential that this had. Part of the reason is a plot that struggles from logic gaps and a lack of intelligence and urgency. The lack of intelligence comes from the film completely ignoring the moral complexities that come with such a situation &#150; the film ignores the fact that bad things may need to be done to stop the virus and instead just paints good guys (save the people) and bad guys (bomb the people). The lack of urgency comes from the failure to really make the virus a threat; really I needed Cedar Creek to become the US in miniature &#150; having everyone calm didn't do it for me and I needed more than just two cars making a break for it. But then the writing generally isn't up to the task and the heavy dialogue is pretty average at best with clichéd lines and far too much 'personal' stuff between the main characters.Even the main 'bad' guy is a fudge as it just paints everything black and white.Another reason that this doesn't live up to its potential is the sheer numbers of faces in the film. Hoffman makes a strange action star but he does OK with what little he is given. Russo is no good at all and happily has little to do but deliver the personal 'involvement' that the film cannot manage to deliver any other way. Gooding is pretty good in a semi-action role and Spacey has some good lines before he too becomes a cheap emotional device. Sutherland gives a by the numbers performance as he has nothing to really work with, but Freeman is more interesting because he does. It's just a shame that this talented cast were not used better in this film. An aside that was interesting to me was that Dale Dye has a minor role in the film while also serving as military adviser to the film. He is an interesting man because his career has grown from adviser to being a reasonable actor to becoming a writer, producer and (recently) a 2nd unit director &#150; clearly a motivated and talented man who it would be interesting to listen to talk sometime.Overall the potential is there but it is unrealised. The cast are great on paper but have nothing to work with in a script that delivers average dialogue, no real characters, no moral ambiguities, no real involvement and no sense of scale or threat. It does have some pace at times and it has enough 'OK' moments to be worth watching maybe once but I was annoyed that the potential of the material alone was missed. I think the film can be summed up by the ending &#150; one minute we have an exciting helicopter stand off and the next we have a pay-off that is so lazy and so simplistic that I was actually visibly annoyed by it. Passable entertainment if you are in an undemanding mood but it never even gets near the potential it had.  "}{"Title":"Boring And Disappointing","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Get the producer of PLATOON and the director of DAS BOOT to cast Hoffman , Freeman , Sutherland , Gooding Jnr and Spacey in a thriller about a killer virus and you`ll have a sure fire blockbuster hit . And OUTBREAK  was a major hit at the box office but does this make it a good film ? In my opinion - no . Despite having an all star cast and massive budget and despite the very good pre titles sequence OUTBREAK  is a bad movie.The main culprit for this debacle is Dworet and Pool`s script , it`s far too talky . Too much time is dedicated to talking about the virus and not enough time is shown just how awful the virus is . It`s made worse by the fact that when people do talk ( And boy they never stop talking ) only banal words come out of their mouths   Oh my gawd  is very popular as is  Gawd dammit  and not forgetting  Gawd help us all  as they realise time is running out . Undoubtedly the most disappointing aspect to the script is when the town is put into quarantine , there`s no real attempt on the part of the screenwriters to bring moral ambiguity or blur the edges of right and wrong with this scenario . With a few rare exceptions the citizens comply with directives . Despite being an extremely unpleasant film THE CRAZIES made far better use of this speculative plot and its moral consequences unlike here where Donald Sutherland is the bad guy because he wants to firebomb a town to stop the virus spreading . If you were in his shoes what would you do ? Would you be a bad person for firebombing the town in order to save the world from the virus ? Ah but there`s a plot device that does show Sutherland`s character to be the villain of the piece so out goes any intelligent subtext as to what would be the right or wrong thing to do in such a situation .So just to sum up  despite its great cast and production team OUTBREAK is nothing special and at times feels like an overblown TVM    "},{"Title":"Shoddy","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some historyColumbia outbid Warner Brothers for the film rights to the non-fiction book The Hot Zone, and got to work on a script entitled, Crisis in the Hot Zone.  Warner Brothers shrugged its shoulders and decided to make a competing killer disease film NOT based on the book; and so they got together a script, director and cast as quickly as possible in the hopes of getting Outbreak to cinema screens first.  After a brief tussle Columbia realised the fight wasn't worth it, and backed out.  Crisis in the Hot Zone was never made.Probably a pity, for Outbreak shows every sign of being conceived in haste.  For a film about one of the most terrifying scenarios available - the new Black Death - it's surprisingly unfrightening.  Try to remain calm, is the tag-line.  You won't have to try very hard.The screenwriters - and let's not blame them, since I suspect that they had but a single weekend in which to write it all - sprinkle the film with tiresome clichés I won't bother to mention - not that this matters very much.  The real problem is that things are done just too easily.  By the end of the film Dustin Hoffman is leaping tall buildings in a single bound - which just makes us feel that the buildings couldn't have been so high, after all.(A side point why, yet again, is the United States the only thing that matters?  The same new killer virus is already on the loose in Africa and could strike without warning elsewhere - why doesn't this worry anyone?)Basically this is another movie killed by undue haste.  The director does his job reasonably well, the dialogue is uninspired but not clunky, and Dustin Hoffman has enough charisma to keep us interested in his character, at any rate.  It's not really a bad movie.  But Warner Brothers has slapped up any old thing and called it a taut thriller - and it certainly isn't that. "},{"Title":"It could/should have been so much better...","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I actually enjoyed Outbreak from the start although form the first few minutes you could tell it's a B+ movie at the very best.However the enjoyment diminished dramatically when the good old fashioned Hollywood recipe of the one man army/hero who ignores laws, regulations, procedures, and simply does what comes to his head prevailed.It did not come as a surprise because it seemed rather odd the fact that you have a VERY GOOD cast (Hoffman, Sunderland, Spacey, Gooding) and whilst I was holding the case at the DVD retailer I noticed the complete lack of press appraisal&#133;or at least there's none in the UK packaging of the film. It might seem an unusual thought but it is very true.Apart from that it was enjoyable in the very mild sense of the word. Another example that proves how good ingredients (director + cast + storyline) do not always make the perfect recipe. "},{"Title":"Scary subject matter parlayed into popcorn thriller","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a medical scientist doing research on Ebola-like virus isolated in an African village, Dustin Hoffman is miscast but still personable and ingratiating; after Hoffman's Col. Daniels is taken off the assignment and the virus invades the United States, he learns some hard truths about how our government is run. Serious material gets turned into commercial entertainment; those hoping for a more intellectual or subdued approach on this topic will be disappointed, for the film is designed as a thriller for the masses and not as a docudrama. It's well-produced and gripping, yet one wonders how seriously the filmmakers are actually taking it. Supporting cast is strong, particularly Cuba Gooding, Jr. as Hoffman's assistant. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Such wasted potential...","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What started out as an apparently well-researched thriller became, through the power of over-the-top acting, action movie gimmicks, some pretty gruesome makeup, plot holes, and very confusing and alarmingly inaccurate ideas about viruses -although maybe the '90s are to blame for that -such a silly movie. So silly.Even so, I watched this 2-hour-plus movie until the end, and I see how it could have become a masterpiece through the right script edits. But alas.It's still a thousand times better than Contagion, though. A million times, possibly. "},{"Title":"Whoever Decided To Turn This Into An Action Thriller Made The Wrong Choice","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I chose to rent this on the basis of its very strong cast. Headed by Dustin Hoffman and Morgan Freeman (who also do well) the movie also included names like Rene Russo, Kevin Spacey, Cuba Gooding, Jr., and Donald Sutherland. With names like that I had to assume at the very least that the performances would be strong. For the most part they were, although Sutherland came off as a little bit flat in the role of General McClintock - which I think had less to do with Sutherland and was more the result of his character being too one dimensional. Otherwise the cast was fine.The story revolved a virus that originated in Africa in the 1960's and was finally spread to the US by an imported monkey released into the forests of California. The disease spreads as far as Boston, but is more or less contained in the small town of Cedar Creek, California. The disease is obviously a threat, and there's a race going on to find a cure for it before it spreads throughout America and maybe the world. Hoffman played Col. Daniels - an Army doctor trying to figure this out; Freeman was his friend and superior Gen. Ford.When the focus of the movie was on the fight against the disease, this was pretty good. I might compare it a little bit to the more recently released Contagion. The disease in that movie seemed far more threatening, but that movie got bogged down in medical jargon and turned into a lacklustre medical mystery. Outbreak avoided being lacklustre and didn't seem to be trying to impress anyone by using big medical terms. I found the fight against this disease more gripping than the battle in Contagion. The two movies also share a similar plot point about the motives of the government.Where Outbreak fails is at the point that it chooses to become little more than an action thriller (basically the last 30-40 minutes) which eventually gets reduced to little more than an extended helicopter chase. That was well done, but it went on far too long and after a while I just wanted to get on with the story. It's a big problem when you find the last half hour of a movie to be rather dull. And yet, up to that point it was doing a pretty good job with its basic story, and, frankly, I enjoyed watching this more than I enjoyed watching Contagion. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Not worth it-a farce of the military and American public health system","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As both an officer of the US Army and a student of medicine and public health, I was appalled by the number of mistakes and inaccuracies in Outbreak.  It started off great-I thought it was going to be an excellent movie (along the lines of Richard Preston's book The Hot Zone).  Boy was I disappointed!  It turned into a laughing matter-from soldiers trained in medicine somehow becoming fighter pilots in mere minutes, Chinese sailors all of a sudden being able to communicate with Americans, and a fight among high-ranked military generals.  Oh, and don't forget that they somehow had the ability to create an antiserum to a deadly hemorrhagic virus in an hour. Amazing!  Aside from the ridiculous nature of some of the actions, there were many scientific inaccuracies and the plot really ends up going nowhere. It is a predictable and disappointing flick-I wouldn't recommend it to anyone, past the first hour. "},{"Title":"Disease Is Bad.....Very Bad!","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Outbreak is a very good, intense movie on what would happen if a virus were to go rampant. This movie connects well because of recent world news concerning the Ebola virus and in that regard, the film is downright scary. One thing the film did was make sure I develop some healthy habits. That being said, this a fast-paced movie that has an incredible cast and a story that is well-written. My only qualm about the movie is the helicopter chases near the end, as I don't believe they fit the overall story arch.Wolfgang Petersen's film is about how a fictional disease from Zaire called the Motaba runs rampant in a small California village. Now Colonel Sam Daniels and his CDC helpers must contain the virus before the virus spreads beyond the town's border.As mentioned before, the film has a very talented cast. It's surprising how many Oscar-winners are in the cast. Dustin Hoffman does very well as Sam Daniels and the man who wants to save the lives of the sick. Rene Russo likewise does a good job as Sam's estranged wife and co-worker. Morgan Freeman is excellent as Sam's boss, the man who is stuck in the middle. We also get great supporting turns from Kevin Spacey and the villainous Donald Sutherland.Overall, Outbreak is an excellent movie that raises the question what if? If any town gets an outbreak of a deadly virus, would the government and the military take the same course of action as they did in this film? No matter which way you look at it, it's a very scary thought. The film, along with 2011's Contagion, are two worthy films to watch if you want to be scared the unconventional way. Because trust me, this film is scary because it could very well happen in reality. As for filmmaking, this is a very intense, well-made film. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Warning Sign but still entertaining","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Outbreak is what you'd get if you combined Toxic Skies (2008) with Warning Sign (1985). It's a typical disease panic movie, but in this particular scenario the United States army is willing to cover things up to the point of killing millions and not offering health care. A monkey is spreading the disease, a capuchin monkey smuggled from South Africa to the States by a slob named Jimbo. Jimbo's girlfriend catches it, so does a whole movie theater full of innocent people, and the next thing you know everyone from senior citizens to infants are dropping like flies. Two disease control doctors, feuding over their divorce, have to work together to save the country from the epidemic.This was a decent movie, but a heavily exaggerated scenario. It mimics Warning Sign but on a much larger scale. The soundtrack was great, the acting wasn't bad, and I hate monkeys so the horrible animal wandering the streets with the disease was pretty creepy to me.I also recommend The Happening (2008), The Omega Man (1971), Toxic Skies (2008), The Andromeda Strain (1971), Warning Sign (1985), Dawn of the Dead (1978), The Crazies (1973) and Threads (1984). "},{"Title":"Great cast in a good movie","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Whilst far from perfect 'Outbreak' is solid entertainment. A lethal virus is transported to the United States via an African monkey host. The U.S. Army Medical Research Institute for Infections Diseases and the Centre for Disease Control are two Federal agencies headed by an ex-husband and his former wife rush to stop its deadly spread, while figures in the military are prepared to go to extreme measures to prevent it's spread. I saw this movie in the cinema in 1995 with my then girlfriend, and we both enjoyed it, but for some reason, I have never watched it since. Dustin Hoffman is an actor who will rarely sell you short (not pun intended) he is fantastic in everything I have seen him in, from 'Marathon Man' and 'Kramer V's Kramer' or 'Mr Magoriums Wonder Emporium' and 'Tootsie' or his Oscar winning turn in 'Rain Man'. He is always a delight to watch, and the fact that he teams up with Morgan Freeman, made it a must see. Freeman, for years prior to this, could do no wrong in my eyes (From 'Driving Miss Daisy' and 'Glory' onwards through 'Prince Of Thieves' with Kevin Costner and 'Unforgiven' with Clint Eastwood. And whilst it would be a while before he actually played God. The man was amazing in everything he did.) Any movie became promising, just by having his name in the cast.Rene Russo was here too and she was establishing herself as a top actress after good performances in 'Lethal Weapon 3' and 'In The Line of Fire'Kevin Spacey squeezed this movie in, inbetween 'The Usual Suspects' and 'Seven' Cuba Gooding Jr has a good role too. Also worthy of note is the actress Michelle Joyner has a touching/sad/tragic subplot. The actress has a bit of a career as the tragic supporting character in movies. She's the woman in the opening sequence of 'Cliffhanger' with Sly Stallone as well. Then there is Donald Sutherland as the villain of the peace. I have been a fan of Sutherland's for years. He is another actor I will always watch. Sure the movie has a few plot holes, and it leaves a lot of loose ends as the credits role. But I was so hooked throughout the movie, I'm more than willing to overlook a few flaws. "}{"Title":"Virus/CDC/Military, put into blender, out comes this movie","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In a jungle war camp deep in Africa, an outbreak of a deadly virus has occurred. After getting a sample, the doctors promise to bring back help. Only a plane returns with a massive bomb that obliterates the entire camp. Now in modern times, there is another outbreak in the area. Colonel Sam Daniels (Dustin Hoffman) is sent in to investigate. His ex-wife Roberta Keough (Rene Russo) is leaving to work at the CDC in Atlanta. Then a monkey is caught, transported to America on a freighter, and the virus starts to spread.It seems like they got all the material from the CDC and whatever other publications they could get their hands on. Then the writers put it in a blender, and give the resulting script to director Wolfgang Petersen. It's not really compelling or thrilling as a story. And the resolution or the climax of the movie is as hokey as it could be. Dustin Hoffman tries a little bit of an action hero scientist type. He's not good in the action role, but he is good as the cerebral type. The movie keeps trying to be an action movie, but it never really works as such. "},{"Title":"Deadly Serious Subject Infected With Hollywooditus","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There they go again. Hollywood that is. How Dare they make another Hollywood Movie? There's hardly ever a Flinch to take a Deadly Serious Subject and load it so Full of Bull that it comes out as nothing more than a Money Maker. So, that's why they do it all over again.Once again, Discerning, Thinking, Audiences have to put up with an Overstuffed, Saturated, and Ridiculous take on the most Thought Provoking of Topics. You see, the Premise of the Discovery of a New and Very Clever Virus that Mutates and Mutilates at Warp Speed, isn't quite Enough for the Money Men to Bank on, so they Gather an All-Star Cast, a Proved Director, and a Popcorn-Friendly Script, Puff it Up and Wa-Lah, You're off to the Multiplex. Ca-Ching.To be Fair this is a Watchable if Disappointing Disaster Movie that has Moments of Dread and some, if not Enough, Creepiness to make You Think more than once about Washing Your Hands and Stocking Up on those Pump Bottles of Anti-Everything Disinfectant. It's a Bet that when the Scientist figures out that the Whole Town became Infected Starting at the Movie Theatre, there were some Uncomfortable Moments in the Real Movie Theatres where this was being Screened.Overall, if Expectations are Low and a Clichéd, Bloated, and Overproduced Nail-Biter is Acceptable, there are some Shallow Thrills to this Concoction. If a Thoughtful, Intelligent, Fact-Based Story is what You want, try Elsewhere. This is Hollywood Ham. "},{"Title":"Was this film supposed to be based on Robin Cook's novel?","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Correct me if I am wrong, but I thought this film was based on the novel by writer Robin Cook. Well, the title is the same and there were Outbreaks of E-bola Zaire, but there the similarity ends. Reading the book I was reading an entirely different story. While I enjoyed the movie tremendously, I was disappointed to see how much 'artistic license' was taken with the writer's material. Robin Cook turns out a real, sit-on-the-edge-of-your-seat, page turner, but movie makers seem to enjoy butchering his material. For those whose comments included negative comments about wanting to read his books (Mortal Fear was another movie with similar comments), I say, read the book, you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Okay with a beer and a pizza","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of those superficial movies with (feared) mass catastrophe, with the cliche memories from the past, the good, the bad and the ugly characters etc etc. Also the classic American-people-this-American-people-that crap which may not annoy you Americans but makes a movie UNBEARABLE for the rest of the world. Cliche guy who is the best but has a problem with his superiors and cliche divorced couple who rejoins in the end. Generally, only for those seeking an average to good no-brainer action movie. Call the pizza delivery half an hour before, you don't wanna start watching this film with nothing to eat. "},{"Title":"The book (The Hot Zone) was way better.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Outbreak is a movie that bases itself lightly on The Hot Zone, which was a best seller about the outbreak of the Abolla Virus in the Southeastern area of the U.S. The Strength of the movie lies in the intellectual conflicts between Dustin Hoffman and Donald Sutherland. Hoffman is an excellent actor and pulls off a great job as a military doctor/scientist/colonel who tries to cure the infected residents of a small western town. Sutherland surprises me with his best role in years as the Colonel in charge with containing the disease in the town and keep it from spreading. Of course, the military have investments in this disease that help the nation's defense, so Sutherland has other plans for the town than Hoffman. Due to the realistic probability of this problem, the ideas and opinions of both Hoffman and Sutherland bring about a great debate and good dialogue scenes. Sadly, that is about all this film is worth. The story is quite predictable and throws no surprises. The script writer did a poor job of including the supporting characters, which in this case was even worse because they wasted the abilities of Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey. I like Cuba Gooding Jr., but he still continues to play the same Cardinals receiver from Jerry Maguire every chance he gets. I've always thought that Rene Russo got roles because of her looks and this movie only keeps me in that belief, as she continues to be an average actress who does nothing but disrupt the character who she is romantically tied to. If you're with company and like to debate for fun, this could be a nice movie to watch with friends at home, but basically this film never reaches its full potential. I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worse than I expected","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There's a marvellous book called The Hot Zone It's a true account of what happened when monkeys were brought into Washington D.C. from Africa - who were carrying the deadly ebola virus. So, I thought that's what the film Outbreak would be about. It wasn't - all Wolfgang Peterson had to do was put Richard Preston's book onto celluloid.He didn't Instead, he made a film that had all the tension of a broken rubber band. I would have thought a man who made the excellent film Das Boot (The Boat), would have equitted himself better. An opportunity missed. "},{"Title":"A competently made thriller","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" An Ebola-like but (naturally) even more lethal virus nearly wipes out an American town (with the help of the army), but Dustin Hoffman grabs the monkey (the primary host of the virus) by the neck and produces a life-saving anti-serum in no time, saving the world and his marriage, as well (thanks to the fact that his soon-to-be ex agonises a little more patiently than the others).It sounds pretty dumb, but thanks to the decent script, the fine actors (you can rarely go wrong with Dustin Hoffman, Kevin Spacey and Morgan Freeman), the good pacing and the simple, but effective direction, Outbreak is actually a satisfying thriller that remains semi-plausible throughout and never gets boring. That's saying a lot, because most films in the genre are unable to keep up the tension and lack even a dash of realism. Outbreak does grab your attention, outlines a realistic scenario, and keeps you on the edge of your seat till the end.Unfortunately, the last third of the film is drenched in the usual clichés &#x97; world-saving hero vs. pigheaded, war-obsessed military commander, deus ex machina supplied in abundance, mandatory happy ending, etc. &#x97;, but the competent execution ensures solid entertainment for the whole two hours. And with the climate change and the terrifying prospect of deadly diseases spreading to territories previously considered 'safe', the topic remains as relevant as ever. "},{"Title":"great cast but standard movie","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really really amazed by how many stars played in this movie, it's great to see that... Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, Cuba Gooding Jr., Patrick Dempsey, and Donald Sutherland, all of them in a movie?? I never imagined that... The story itself just usual like the other movies that tells about the end of the world... And the ending itself just standard, a little disappointing I think, because it just looks like this movie just want the main character not dead, they're not telling how the other people that sick can be cured so easily like that... But overall, I should give a thumbs up to Wolfgang Petersen for having so many stars, especially Oscar winners, in this movie... "},{"Title":"a killer race to disease of pandemic catastrophe","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" so we have a film that the virus is the star but the cast is superb carrying a deadly virus that had no known cure so deadly that it causes severe bleeding and liquefies internal organs, killing within 3 days. with The film cast includes four Oscar winners Dustin Hoffman, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey' and Cuba Gooding Jr.. so in 60s in Zaire In a valley called motaba valley where a river was there were little monkeysThe virus kills everyone wipes out Motaba River Valley so with the army dropping a Hugh fireball bomb in order to get rid of the..Extreme measures are necessary to contain an epidemic of a deadly airborne virus. But how extreme, exactly? so in order to study the virus we in a laboratory in fort detrick study all disease where see .27 years later, there is another outbreak in Zaire in 1994, there is another outbreak in Motaba River Valley. At the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID), located at Fort Detrick in Maryland,.Dustin Hoffman plays a feisty virologist Colonel Sam Daniels is doing research on the Motaba virus, and so is his ex-wife Roberta Keough, who works at the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta, Georgia. A monkey carrying the Motaba virus stows away on a boat illegal carried for a pet shop owner jumbo played by a young Patrick Dempsey gets sick from being in contact with the monkey and because it airborne the the virus spread rapidly so when doctors don't know whats going the call every one Rene Russo plays acharacter called Robby Keough as love interest to Hoffman's character she study all these diseases she is given a good script a another young cast member Kevin Spacy is brilliant is a doctor with a wicked sense of humour but the two main characters who have their finger on the trigger literally they play off each other Morgan Freeman and Donald Sutherland seem to be having fun with the material and things they are the good and the bad but the two Morgan Freeman and Donald Sutherland seem to be having fun with the material and things get interested when they clash at the end. The film,is thrilling (e.g a spectacular helicopter chase and an attempt to break out of the quarantined town in California two generals there's going to be conflicts as when one finds away to help people they clash as when Cuba gooding character major salt helps out with Sam's ideas they have to evade every one and anyone to get what they want including get in the way of direct orders gets on board with and get interested when they clash at the end. But overall this film is brilliant, I strongly advise everyone tries to watch this. it isn't everyone's cup of tea but is still a brilliant edge of the seat "},{"Title":"A classic disaster movie which is mostly down to the top notch cast","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm a big fan of disaster movies, this one is a classic mostly due to the outstanding cast attached (Donald Sutherland, Dustin Hoffman, Kevin Spacey, Morgan Freeman, Rene Russo, Cuba Gooding Jr.) and an (almost) realistic story.It's a decent movie for the most part although does get a bit hokey and over the top where the government conspiracy angle is concerned. I enjoyed the virus story a lot how it spreads, finding the host, tracing the origin. The movie theatre scene with the man coughing is scary, as we watch the little microbes float through the air infecting the entire audience. I've thought about that scene many times over the years. Patrick Dempsy was a surprise here, playing Jimbo the young grunge dude who steals the monkey.The cast is fantastic with Hoffman as the lead expert on contagious diseases trying to stamp out a killer virus in a small California town. Russo plays his soon to be ex-wife and Spacey and Gooding both work under him. Hoffman does pretty well as the action hero, his scenes with Cuba and are good as they steal a helicopter and they're on the run, good chemistry. Morgan Freeman is a General caught in the middle, trying to cover up the fact that he and Donald Sutherland bombed the hell out of an African village in the 60's to halt the same disease.Sutherland's character becomes too much, almost comical towards the end in his sublime efforts to stop Hoffman from finding out the truth and to complete his (personal) mission of eradicating the infected town. This was too much. Still a good movie, scary and for the most part well done.8/23/15 "}{"Title":"Contagion","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wolfgang Petersen directed this thriller that stars Dustin Hoffman as Col. Sam Daniels, who is doing research on the lethal Motabe virus that once decimated a valley in Zaire. Patrick Dempsey plays a smuggler who unknowingly brings in a monkey that is a carrier of the contagion, and starts a new outbreak that Daniels tries desperately to contain and cure, while two generals(played by Morgan Freeman & Donald Sutherland) disagree sharply on how to fight this threat, whether to use martial law or not, or to destroy the area it is in to stop it spreading, even if it means killing thousands of civilians... Exciting film with good performances and direction, even if it does at times seem overly melodramatic. "},{"Title":"A crisis movie with a government conspiracy","Date":"18 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A deadly disease strikes a town in Zaire and the Americans decide that the best way to deal with it is to napalm the town, which they do. Thirty years later the disease surfaces again and this time it gets to the US and infects a town in California. The disease is originally not airborne, but it has mutated and thus a deadly disease is wiping out the area and threatens to destroy the world. The other catch is that the US government is hindering people from finding the true nature of this disease.Outbreak is a crisis movie. It deals with nature rising up and destroying humanity. Even though the disease is artificial, it has mutated and thus it is nature taking revenge on the world. The movie though turns our attention towards the evil that is the government. This is an anti-government movie, of the type that have arisen now that the cold war is over. The government is always considered to be over invasive and a government that is too big and efficient is capable of great evil, as is seen in this movie.This movie is a big budget fly heaps of military equipment in front of the camera. The plot is straight forward and there is no real twists. Though we are not supposed to know that the disease is manufactured, it becomes quite evident quite quickly that it is. The movie though works on resisting government authority and following our moral rights. Our instincts, according to the movie, are right, and not that of the government. Thus this movie advocates the anarchic philosophy that humans are basically good creatures and only the existence of government makes us evil. I say bullpiddle to that.Governments may be invasive, but they are here to create some order in a world that will collapse into anarchy without them. The government is in fact a unifying force that prevents us from killing each other. Even though there is a high murder rate, without government this would be much greater. Also, what we have here is only temporary. We must treat the world like a holiday, or a journey back home that is to be with God.Outbreak, on the otherhand, is an enjoyable movie, but not one to take too seriously. "},{"Title":"I remember this film so long ago....","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wow I remember this so long ago....Rarely has there been such a collection of acting talent in one film -- Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, Cuba Gooding Jr., Donald Sutherland . The subject is the prospect of a deadly virus showing up and getting imported into a dense population and spreading so quickly that the whole country could be wiped out if left unchecked. Hoffman, Russo, Spacey, and Gooding play the doctor detectives while Freeman and Sutherland play the military leaders with a 30- year-old secret to protect. In a role perfectly suited to him, Hoffman must disobey orders to get his mission done.Critic Ebert gave a complete and accurate review. Although some things are very difficult to accept, like making large quantities of antidote on the spot, in the field, from an infected monkey, the suspense, action, and realistic acting held my attention to the very end. Good, thought-provoking movie. The DVD sound and picture were fine. "},{"Title":"Has anybody seen this monkey?","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A monkey virus threatens the world as it rushes out of control. But this virus didn't reckon on Dustin Hoffman and his plucky sidekick (Cooba Goodling Jr) wading in and kicking some seriously contagious butt!There are some minor flaws, or at least a couple of  things that I find a little odd1) Dustin Hoffman hijacks a television station and holds up a photograph saying; `has anybody seen this monkey?' America is a big place, and there must be dozens of similar looking monkeys. To be honest, all monkeys look the same to me, so I'd have been no help.2) My sister used to be a scientist, and she said that there was not enough blood in such a small monkey to make enough antidote for everyone. To do that, they'd have needed a monkey the size of a rhino. If the monkey had been the size of a rhino, then I'm pretty sure that I could have recognised him.Hundreds of people die in an unpleasant manner, the army wants to blow up the town and general mayhem ensures. Of course, there's nothing like a nationwide epidemic to relight the fires of love and save marriages, so it's not all bad. Even the monkey survives, at least I think he does, but I haven't seen the film in a while.So if you've always wanted to see a bizarre movie hybrid of; The Satan Bug, Blue Thunder, Dunston Checks In and Love Story, then Outbreak is your best bet. If I had my way I'd replace all child actors with monkeys, especially after watching Moonwalker.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but fails to deliver","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While 'Outbreak' is a thoroughly entertaining film, there are too many holes in the plot for the film to be completely convincing. While the acting is good from all concerned parties, one gets the sense that the director, Wolfgang Petersen added too many unnecessary scenes to the film in an attempt to satisfy a wider audience.The first half of the film is excellent and the film develops at a rapid pace leaving the viewer on the edge of their seat wondering how this very promising film is going to play out.However, the second half is disappointing as the film relies on predictable and superficial ways of pleasing the viewer, like the helicopter chase and the catching of the monkey.After watching the film, I thought it was good but it could have been a lot better had the director in the second half of the film focused more on the panic and terror that is created by the virus and how this fear manifests itself with the people. Instead we get a formulaic aerial chase, the good guy versus bad guy scenario and one wonders why when the film didn't really need this as the film has enough substance to carry it without these cheap devices. "},{"Title":"Watching this will kill more brain cells than any virus.","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" For years I avoided this film like&#x85; well&#x85; the plague. My inner critic informed me that it was just more Hollywood pap purpose built for the guileless and those less discerning. I should listen to my inner critic more&#x85; Sam Daniels (Dustin Hoffman), Casey (Kevin Spacey) and Saul (Cuba Gooding Jr) are a team of highly trained (and Oscar winning) army scientists. When they identify that an extremely lethal and highly contagious virus known as the Motaba strain has somehow made it to the continental United States they immediately relay news of the threat up the line of management. Only it seems that for some reason the powers that be &#x96; among whose numbers are Billy (Morgan Freeman) and McClintock (Donald Sutherland) &#x96; ain't listening, despite all the evidence, scientific graphs, diagrams and powerpoint charts that practically demand to the audience that they should.By the way all of the above have perfectly legitimate army ranks, but in a film this silly I like to refer to them as Sam, Billy and co&#x85; Sam thinks that this new virus is reeeeeelllll bad, he tells his ex Robbie (Rene Russo), who is now a civilian scientist. Robbie initially ignores him just as Billy did, but when some gooey, pus-filled evidence oozes his way into her view she becomes more sympathetic to his claims, yet even with the mounting body count Billy and his superiors stubbornly dig in their heels, place their fingers in their ears and sing la-la-la-la-la-laaaaaa to drown out the facts &#x96; even when a small town in *gasp* heartland America becomes threatened by mass contagion.Sam, Saul and Casey show up and start dispensing with both assistance and claims that things will only get worse to anyone who will listen &#x96; which appears to be no-one. Billy arrives on the scene to demand no more talk about this bizarre cover-up, and a cast of mostly good (and in many cases award winning) actors wallow in this mediocrity for another 90 minutes of ennui.As Sam and Saul go to increasingly great lengths to solve the case and find the cure things get altogether nonsensical, especially once they realise the 'carrier' is a tiny illegal immigrant monkey from Africa, lost somewhere in one of the 50 some landlocked states.As the virus mutates, morphs and generally becomes more aggressive, the 'management' spout speeches and assorted tripe with buzzwords like 'quarantine', 'containment' and 'eradication', and even if Cuba Gooding Jr said Show me the monkey! I wouldn't have been surprised.Alas he didn't, as it might have given me my one and only chuckle in this interminably long and exponentially sillier dross. Another clichéd button pusher purpose built to scare the gormless and all too trusting.I recently watched Daylight, another carefully calculated Hollywood built manipulator designed to provoke a response. But that was actually quite well done, a thousand times better than this microscopic bug driven crap. So instead of saying I'd rather watch Daylight a dozen times rather than this I'll say I'd rather watch any of Sly's crappier films a dozen times than this again&#x85; OK maybe not 'Stop! Or my Mom will Shoot'&#x85; Final Rating &#x96; 4.5 / 10. If you can't guess that I think this film sucks by now I don't know what to tell you. So instead of a neat summation I'll merely add this fun fact Kevin Spacey rocks the worst dyed wig of any actor I think I have ever seen in this movie. "},{"Title":"Get down with the sickness.","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Motaba virus in Outbreak is a particularly nasty agent&#x97;far more virulent than Ebola&#x97;which arrives in the US via a cheeky little monkey illegally imported from Zaire. As the disease makes itself known, rapidly infecting a small Californian township, army scientist Colonel Sam Daniels (Dustin Hoffman) and his crew must try to find a cure before despicable general McClintock (Donald Sutherland) carries out his plan to firebomb the area and its inhabitants.Being something of a germaphobe, I find Outbreak to be a genuinely scary movie, depicting the horrific scenario of a deadly viral epidemic hitting small-town America; the mere idea of microscopic bugs that can enter the body unseen and liquefy the internal organs really gets under my skin (pun intended), and if such a virus did hit the civilised Western world, I don't fancy the chances of Cuba Gooding Jr. cooking up a batch of anti-virus in time to save our collective ass.Extreme liberties are taken with medical facts and the film is pretty implausible at times, with a traditionally sappy happy Hollywood ending, but it still manages to be hugely entertaining nonsense Director Wolfgang Petersen effectively feeds on his audience's paranoia, depicting 'Joe Public' succumbing to the illness in the the most innocuous of places, most notably in a movie theatre (a scene that really made me want to cover my mouth when I saw it on the big screen); he also shoehorns in a cool conspiracy subplot&#x97;a government cover-up&#x97;making this perfect fodder for those with overactive imaginations. The film also packs in some big-budget blockbuster thrills, including a spectacular helicopter chase scene followed by a tense mid-air finalé, and even manages a few lighthearted moments amidst all the misery and death.It would be easy to berate Outbreak for being formulaic mainstream tosh, and many have, but if you can put logic on hold for a while it can be a whole lot of fun.7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Good for a disaster movie","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Outbreak is the star-studded story of an infectious disease expert for the army (Dustin Hoffman) who is fighting a super-deadly, fast-moving virus which his own employer seems to have had some role in creating. It's done up in classic Hollywood disaster movie style, which means the audience shouldn't get too hung up on realism. No, this virus's spread isn't depicted in a realistic way; no, this is not how the CDC and army would actually go about dealing with a new infection and no, the president isn't going to blow up thousands of Americans to keep a super-weapon safe. That's all Hollywood disaster movie stuff.You've got to just sit back and enjoy it for what it is big dumb disaster movie entertainment. As such, Outbreak is pretty good. The story is about an incredibly complicated topic (disease pathology) but it's presented to the audience in such a way that everyone can follow the plot without a problem. We see the history of the virus and the film is at its best in these parts, giving us a front-row seat for the spread of a deadly virus, a topic that should be of great interest, even if it's a morbid curiosity.The movie seems to try too hard to not be a medical drama, not just eschewing realism, but making much of the story simply a half-baked military conspiracy movie rather than the medical disaster movie people paid to see. This is it's main weakness, as a minority of the plot is actually about the virus, as it spends so much time dwelling on corrupt generals and the boring romantic back-story.Outbreak is weakened because it tries to be three or four different kinds of movies when really the only thing it approaches doing a good job at is the disease outbreak plot. This movie isn't exactly bad, but it is so watered down that the overall work is generic and pedestrian with only occasional hints at an original, compelling movie. "},{"Title":"With a cast like that it should be decent...","Date":"13 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...and it is. It's nothing earth shattering, but as enjoyable as you need for an evening in. The plot was predictable (this is disaster thriller territory) a deadly virus, that kills within hours, has somehow made its way from Zaire to the US and there is a race against time to stop it. Generally I thought the plot twists were plausible, although I'm sure some could disagree. The script seemed pretty good to me. Maybe that was partly down to the quality of cast brought in to say it.Dustin Hoffman, as always, did a good job although covering ground more typical of Pacino. I also thought Kevin Spacey was also worth a mention but the ensemble as a whole worked well.The direction was also successful with a good mix of suspense and emotion. I did think at the start, however, that the cinematography looked a little dated and the music sounded like it was written 10 years earlier. Although the overarching plot seemed facile there were some rather surprising action scenes involving military helicopters and bombs which I found quite absorbing.Overall a solid thriller made work by the successful acting and character formation. "},{"Title":"A uncredited performance of a lifetime","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie and the depiction of the astrocities of the beginning of a worldwide deadly epidemic, but midway through this movie there was a performance that I have to give a salute to and that was of J.T. Walsh's chief of staff that literally knocked me down it was so utterly mind blowing and explosive.  I think if J.T. Walsh was in this movie a hour longer he would've definately won a oscar for that performance. You can even see the other actors around the table , out of character look at the performance with a deep inspiring look. I just went by this movie and thought of that performance and would like to ask the makers of that movie why oh why couldnt you let J.T. in that movie long enough? He was fabolous!!! Dustin Hoffman, Cuba, Renee and even Dempsey in a small dinky role shines in this movie, I liked how Dempsey looked getting off the plain and motioning to the kid on the plane in that sick ailing manner. But to some point it makes me think of how no matter how much of a actor, poor or great you are, there is one role that any actor in the world, can perform and Dempsey who made a bunch of trash really displayed acting ability in this movie. J.T. Walsh played in a lot of crap but also a lot of spectacular movies but in that small little role, him and Dempsey were really my favorites and made Freeman, Hoffman and Gooding in their roles throughout the film just look average of what they usually display on screen! Anyways a salute to the late J.T. Walsh and Patrick Dempsey, I hope more achieving roles like this fall in your path!!! 8/10 "}{"Title":"A taut thriller","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Outbreak echoes The Andromeda Strain in that both movies are suspenseful thrillers dealing with killer viruses. Dustin Hoffman is great as the intense scientist risking it all to fight the bug and Rene Russo and Cuba Gooding Jr. both providing strong supporting characters. Outbreak never lags and keeps the tension going. Bottom Line Although not the greatest movie ever made,it's still a worthy addition to your shelf. Worth watching every once and awhile. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, but also deeply flawed","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Mostly very good, with a couple of caveats.  The Dustin Hoffman-Rene Russo romance aspect was a little forced, but OK.  Excellent exposition on emerging diseases, including the opening credit sequence which shows the various bio-safety levels.  Too bad the ending wasn't so strong  You don't find the carrier animal, and then have enough antibodies to save a couple thousand already sick people THE NEXT DAY.  One can only imagine what kind of committee came up with this nonsense, but they obviously have little regard for being grounded in something related to reality.   Ah well. "},{"Title":"Taut & Suspenseful","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Outbreak is far from a horror film, but it stands as one of the more frightening films I have seen in the past few years. The notion of a deadly virus entering the United States and wiping out towns in a matter of days is frightening in my book.Outbreak tells such a story, and does it pretty darn well, even if the last twenty minutes are a little bogus.The deadly Motaba virus has found its way to the U.S. via a monkey that contracted the virus to a pet owner. Soon the virus becomes airborne and is infecting everything in its path.Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman, Cuba Gooding Jr., and Donald Sutherland are all terrific in this film, which was extremely well-directed by Wolfgang Peterson. Definitely give this one a look.Grade A "},{"Title":"My memory is failing me","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading all the positive reviews of this movie I'm starting to wonder if I saw the same Dustin Hoffman/Rene Russo movie called Outbreak that everyone else did.  Or else I'm cynical and impossible to please.  I remember the house filled with peals of laughter when the little girl sketched the infected monkey and Dustin actually found it from her drawing. I remember thinking that Donald Sutherland must have signed for this movie because he needed the cash to put an addition on the house.  I remember a totally implausible ending with heroes all around and romance in the air. And now I'm thinking that I haven't seen such a good-bad movie in ages, and I should rent it again for dud night.   "},{"Title":"Morgan Freeman and Cuba Gooding jr","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In this all star cast Wolfgang Petersen film, Petersen demonstrates his Hitchcock influence in his style of directing which he also uses in 'Shattered', unsuccessfully. However, the casting was successful in the sense that it brought Morgan Freeman and Cuba Gooding jr together, as well as Dustin Hoffmann, Rene Russo and Kevin Spacey. "},{"Title":"Not a horror, but Scary indeed.","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's rare to find a movie that doesn't involve topless teenages getting chopped up or Freddy haunting your dreams but still the story will haunt you.  This is the case for Outbreak.  Although the movie isn't a horror flick I still find myself a little scared when I watch it.  Why?  Because it's a story that can possibly happen.  Viruses are deadly and ones that are this deadly have popped up in the world before.  Think of the Black plague.  This story takes a look at a new deadly virus that could possibly wipe the world out in a matter of days.... and the measures people in charge will take to stop that from happening.  What a great story!The cast in this movie do a great job of portraying the very important characters.  Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Kevin Spacey, Cuba Gooding Jr, Morgan Freeman and Donald Sutherland all work together to tell a great tale.  The movie starts off with a bang and builds to a very exiting climax towards the end... which is what all good movies do.  This one doesn't fail in being a good... no, scrath that... GREAT movie.  I suggest that if you readers have not seen this, then rent it soon... because you never know what can happen in the future.  Maybe a virus will get you... and you will never see it.  Who knows. "},{"Title":"A Viral Drama","Date":"13 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Outbreak is an interesting look at dangerous deceases and presents an interesting What If-scenario that works like a well written comic book. The film has an edgy though not decisively dark and desolate look to it, but it treats the subject-matter with appropriate seriousness and doesn't resort to cheap thrills or creating levity with comic reliefs. The films depiction of Decease Control and military efficiency is rather impressive.The films only downsides are the obvious solutions. Depicting the African Village being destroyed at the beginning of the film creates a plot-device that I personally considered unnecessary. Though it's good to keep informed about what your government is up to the simple antagonising of military officers feels like a cheap move, though one which the film makers thought was somehow necessary to tell the story. The main culprit, the monkey, is revealed from the very beginning creating a rather frustrating experience for the audience who can more or less see the climax towards which the film is already headed.Despite its weaknesses the film does good with what it has. An excellent cast backed up by good side-role performances from such actors as Cuba Gooding Jr. and Kevin Spacey. Dustin Hoffman is the likable but firm main character faced up against Morgan Freeman and Donald Sutherland. The final climax still works visually, even if it is a little over the top.Outbreak is an interesting and an entertaining film at the same time, a tough balance to pull off. "},{"Title":"Entertaining with good cast and misused potential","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I started to watch this movie I was expecting a movie about a virus and it started out as one, but then it turned into another military movie. By all means a good one though.A highly deadly and contagious virus breaks loose in a little town. The government will do anything in it's hands to stop it from spreading, but some certain ranking officers sees the potential for a biologic weapon.The story starts out all right with the thrilling search for answers by doctors and I was hoping it would stay that way. But, as time went by they military theme of the story got more and more involved and at the end it turned out to be just another military movie and that had me a bit disappointed. While it started out as something that could be original and different it turned out to be something we've all seen before. The characters are good. They go well together and you get to know them. There are a nice mix of different types of characters and relationships so they can add humor, dramatic elements and everything they want and make it work.Dustin Hoffman, Renee Russo, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, Donald Sutherland and Cuba Gooding Jr. This movie features a bunch of good actors and none of them are having a bad day. They fit their characters and portrays them well. There are nothing else to say about the cast other than excellent. The supporting actors delivers as well. The acting is the best thing about this movie.The cinematography is OK. It's pretty casual, nothing too daring or out of the ordinary. Simply good shots, with good composition and lightning. It captures this movie well and that's what it does.When it comes to effects, the make-up is very good. They don't overdo it, it's believable and it looks good. There are some other CGI explosions that don't quite meet today's standards, but it's good for 1995 and then there are the real explosions that looks good. There are some pretty nice chopper flying in here. It's quite impressive, tense and well captured.The score by James Newton Howard is good. It's really tense in the action scenes and really moody in other scenes. It supports the story and works quite well.Outbreak is a entertaining movie, but nothing too original. It's cast is great, but the story nothing special. They don't use the outbreak for what it's worth, but pollute it with all this military stuff. They don't use the full potential. Never the less it's a entertaining movie and it's fun to watch the cast and how well they work together. "},{"Title":"Decent enough movie, but purely mild entertainment","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  6/10Not a bad movie at all, its just one of the movie where there is something missing. The 'Outbreak' is an epidemic that was supposed to be contained by a clear up by the military. Dustin Hoffman plays the lead role as a scientist that enters these areas and tries to gather the truth and to shut down any possible threat of the disease spreading. The film sort of meanders at times, and you know what's coming a mile down the road. Hoffman is fairly good, and Morgan Freeman also gives a fair performance. Rene Russo gives an accomplished performance as she also plays a scientist who has recently split from Hoffman's character. The screenplay can be described as a little laboured and the movie genuinely has that feel of being just another Hollywood thriller. The result a little better than average.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre, with Kevin Spacey as the sole redeeming value","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  <POSSIBLE SPOILER -- not that anyone should care>There is really one  thing that makes this mediocre movie worth watching an awesome (as always) performance by Kevin Spacey as a member of the Army Medical Corps virus-hunting team.  Spacey manages to make a minor part very memorable and to give life to an underwritten character.  Morgan Freeman is also pretty good, but Dustin Hoffman and Rene Russo merely turn in competent performances. Donald Sutherland does the best he can in the stock character of the evil general.There are some scenes in this movie that are well made and actually powerful the medical team's visit to the plague-stricken African village, the chaos as the virus begins to spread through a small American town, the military's arrival in the town.  For the most part, though, the plot is too riddled with implausibilities to have any real suspense. Sure, the sailor who got infected and died on the journey from Africa just happened to have a photo of the monkey who was the carrier of the virus, taped right over his bunk! And the mother of the little girl who had befriended the monkey just happened to have her TV tuned to the channel on which Hoffman broadcast the photo of the monkey!  Not to mention the ludicrous melodrama of the ending.As far as gaffes go, here's my favorite.  Isn't it funny that everyone who gets sick in the movie looks really awful -- bleeding eyes and gums, big sores, blue and red patches all over their faces and bodies, convulsions -- except that Rene Russo gets only a slight flush, and never looks like she's suffering from anything worse than a mild case of the flu!  The filmmaker didn't even have the guts to spoil the female lead's good looks. "}{"Title":"A serious topic but a very Disappointing movie","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first half part was very interesting and I thought I was really watching a good serious movie. Later on I hated it when it became a war movie. I hated the love story, the helicopter chase, and the military stuff. In summary I hated all the Hollywood stuff in which a black hawk, a bunch of Rambo soldiers and a stupid love story can never be missing from the plot. Do not rent it unless you like silly movies just to give your brain a break. "},{"Title":"A germ of an idea","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Outbreak disappoints.  It starts out well enough as a medical thriller, and then, like the nasty virus of the plot line, it mutates, becoming a military thriller.  It gets sillier and sillier, complete with airborne chases and dueling testosterone levels, while the medical-thriller aspect is relegated to an absolute contrivance of finding the host animal--an African monkey at large in the California woods--almost effortlessly.  Major plot hole this critter is supposed to be a carrier for an airborne strain of the virus, which means the little girl who finds him should catch the bug, spread it to her mom, etc.  So why doesn't she?Other quibbles are numerous.  Dustin Hoffman is miscast in a Harrison Ford role in which Harrison Ford would've been typecast (whatever became of Richard Dreyfuss?).  And speaking of typecasting, HOW many times can Donald Sutherland play a strutting, arrogant, villainous military brasshole? Renee Russo, too, plays essentially her Lethal Weapon 3 role in scrubbies.  Her character is recently divorced from Hoffman's, and we know, from their first tense scene together, that an eventual reunion is inevitable, a la Hack Screenwriting 101 an estranged couple MUST get back together if their estrangement is their defining--in, fact, their only remotely interesting--characteristic.The cliffhanging climax of Outbreak is effective, but it serves to underscore that what could've been a drama has turned out to be a melodrama. Outbreak is well-made for what it is, but what it is is pretty hokey. For a medical thriller that remains a medical thriller, rent The Andromeda Strain.  For a medical thriller that drops all pretenses and plunges head-first into apocalyptic horror, try David Cronenburg's Rabid. "},{"Title":"Good piece of 'hokum', if you can ignore the medical flaws.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A good piece of hokum, although it makes absolutely no medical sense. Lets put it this way, if a serum could be developed as quickly as all that, it would not make for much of a biiological waepon would it?If you suspend your grasp on reality it is a very entertaining film with good performances, especially from Donald Sutherland as the 'military nasty' "},{"Title":"I really liked it","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't sleep at all during this movie. In fact, it kept me very awake for two hours. I find that the action is good and the acting excellent. I've watched it a few times and never get tired of it. Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey all deliver terrific performances.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film in the theater in 1995 when it came out.  It took all of my will not to start coughing.The script, acting, directing, and production were quite good, but I can't say I truly LIKED this movie -- it was graphic and upsetting.  I did not leave the theater feeling good about life, the universe and everything; rather, I felt incredibly paranoid.  Of course, if this is the reaction the producers were after, then they succeeded, at least with me. "},{"Title":"Arguably the low point of Dustin Hoffman's career.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was based on some very intriguing source material a real life incident at an army medical facility in Virginia.  They took that story and turned it into this piece of over- written trash that is quite possibly the low point in one of the world's finest actor's career.  The climactic (?) scene where Dustin attempts to talk the pilot's out of dropping the bombs on the small town is a laugh riot (was this supposed to be a comedy?). "},{"Title":"Terrible, laughable junk","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A terribly predictable movie from start to finish.  The bad guys want to bomb a small U.S. city because of a plague there.  OK, right away, you know that the city will NOT be bombed.  We all know that's how movies work.  The innocent women and children are not gonna be blown up.  So there's really no suspense.  It's like wondering, hmmm, will James Bond die in this movie?  You know it ain't gonna happen!!  It's also one of those extremely unrealistic films where a soldier is given a direct order by a general and disobeys. He disobeys because Dustin Hoffman gets on the radio and starts pleading, oh please don't drop the bomb.  Honest, you don't have to listen to the general.  Let me tell you something as a 10 year combat veteran...you do not ever ever ever disobey a direct order, ESPECIALLY coming from a general.    This movie had more soldiers disobeying orders than obeying.  And Cuba G stealing helicopters.  Extremely unrealistic and it makes the military chain of command out to be a joke.  The city was saved, but Dustin, Cuba and Rene would be court-martialed the very next day in an easy, open-and-shut case. "},{"Title":"Good first half, then loses its way","Date":"4 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film has a gripping premise the idea of a deadly virus, with 100% mortality, getting loose in the United States. During the first half, the film is involved with first discovering the outbreak, at two different locations, then trying to track down how it's transmitted and trying to find the vector or host that brought it into the country. All the medical drama is engrossing, and the actors are excellent.Then it becomes a military cover-up story. We get some ridiculous helicopter combat flying, a bomb that's going to be dropped on innocent civilians to vaporize the town and eradicate the evidence, and Dustin Hoffman pleading to the flight crew over the radio to do the right thing and not drop the bomb. Even the military cover-up would have been OK if the storyline had been more plausible and not tried to make the ending an action adventure. It just felt like someone decided the movie needed an exciting ending and threw a bunch of nonsense in at the end. "},{"Title":"Great cast decent thriller","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie last night and I liked it but I wish they had done more with it. They took it small and kind of happy which is not what this topic should be about in my opinion. However the cast is great including stars like Dustin Hoffman and Morgan Freeman.This movie is about a doctor in the military who is supposed to control deadly diseases. A new deadly disease appears in Africa and he is sent to find out what it is. However a monkey has been sent to America that carries the disease. After infecting one guy the disease starts to spread like crazy killing anyone who gets infected. The doctor and his team are sent to cure it but he will soon find out that some people don't want that cure made and they will do anything to prevent its creation.This movie was a decent watch like I said though I think they should have done the movie on a larger scale. "},{"Title":"Should be titled 50 ways to get infected...","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Every seemingly conceivable means of getting infected by a killer virus is explored and shown in detail - from sneezing in a movie theatre to having a tiny cut in a lab suit to having water spat on you by a monkey.This monkey (don't ask me what sort - I don't like them!) is captured in Africa to be sold for breeding in the U.S. But it carries a new strain of a virus, one that had been identified thirty years earlier.This being a nice little actioner, everything that can go wrong, does. Only in the Movies is a very apt description - or is it? We've had the scare of bird flu since and if you let yourself think too much, well, don't!There's quite a cast - Dustin Hoffman, who is/was married to Rene Russo, Kevin Spacey, Morgan Freeman and Cuba Gooding Jnr. Oh, and Donald Sutherland crops up creepily as a military chief with a nasty streak. Unfortunately, Hoffman never looks as though he was ever married to Russo - they just look and sound poles apart, though after splitting up semi amicably at the start, inevitably (of course!) they end up working together against the clock and against the military, who have their own, more 'complete' ideas on how to contain the virus.It's all very watchable and director Wolfgang Peterson keeps things moving along nicely and with enough little details, some a little far- fetched, to keep up the tension. All in all, it's a neat way of packaging a medical and environmental action piece into an older family's movie and can be enjoyed by all except young children (there's some swearing). Oh - and there's some great looking make-up, which makes a lot of people look very unwell indeed! "}{"Title":"Monkey on the loose","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Loosely based on the best selling biological disaster thriller The Hot Zone the film Outbrake has to do with this killer virus that originated from out of the Motobe River Valley in Zaire Africa. The deadly Motobe Virus somehow traveled, inside the body of a South American white-headed capuchin monkey, to the US in an South Korean freighter.Before you know it the Motobe Virus starts to spread like wild fire ending up at the sea side town of Ceader Creek California infecting the entire population there! It's there at Ceder Creek where the local population, some 3,000 people, is kept from leaving town by the US Military and is targeted to be exterminated together with every living and breathing thing there. It soon becomes evident to US Army doctor of Infectious Diseases Sam Daniels, Dustin Hoffman, and his good friend Gen. Billy Ford, Morgan Freeman, that this virus is something that was developed in secret by the CIA With the help of Gen. Donald McClintock, Donald Sutherland. It's Gen McClintcock who in fact discovered the virus back in 1967 in a black-ops mission in Central Africa that he was in charge of! That's when he ordered an entire town in the Motobe Valley that included scores of American soldiers and mercenaries to be decimated by a BLU-82 15,000 pound fire bomb-or Dasiy Cutter-to prevent it from spreading into the neighboring districts!To the shock of everyone involved it soon become evident that this virus, unlike the one back in 1967, has mutated and become airborne making it ten times as deadly. It's Dr.Daniels and his hot shot helicopter pilot Maj. Salt, Cuba Gooding Jr, who doubles as an expert in the field of biotechnology science who are stuck, somebody got to do it, in saving the US as well as the world from this deadly and unstoppable virus. The person who's behind all this death and destruction Gen. McClintock is determined to keep his and his fellow military and CIA men involvement in the deadly Motobe Virus secret even from the President of the United States himself. They in fact plan to use it as a WMD, Weapon of Mass Destruction, in any future conflict that the US, in the open or secretly, would became involved in. Which would be considered a major war crime by the Geneva Convention, on the conduct of war, of 1929 & 1949.Getting back to the movie It's Gen. McClntcock determination to keep all this,the Genesis of the Motobe virus, under raps that he plans to wipe out the entire population of Ceder Creek! Which includes Dr. Daniels estranged and virus infected wife Robby Keough, Rene Russo, to keep the hard cold and terrible truth, of his involvement with it, from ever seeing the light of day. ***SPOILERS*** It's now up to Dr. Daniel and Maj.Salt to track down and find the on the the loose capuchin monkey who can provide an antidote for the deadly virus and keep the virus from not only spreading but also saving those infected with it who's rate of mortality is almost 100%! And on top of all that there's the soon to arrive, by a US Army C-130 cargo plane, the 15,000 pounds of deadly explosives Daisy Cutter bomb! That bomb under the orders of the now totally deranged Gen. McClintock has been ordered,to the C-130 flight crew, to annihilate the entire population, men women and child, of the town of Ceder Creek!A bit hard to take with Dustin Hoffman playing a part that you would expect a Bruce Willis or Clint Eastwood to play but he in fact does pull it off. There's also Kevin Stacey as US Army doctor of Infectious Diseases Casey Schulerdoing his part to save all of mankind from the deadly African virus. It's Dr. Schuler's tireless work in help finding a cure for the killer virus that ends up with him, accidentally tearing his anti-virus prevention outfit, becoming a victim of it. "},{"Title":"Similar film but without the intrigue!","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having just watched 'Outbreak' again on the TV, I was struck by the overall similarity with a 1963 British film, '80,000 Suspects' (dir. & prod. Val Guest, strng. Richard Johnson & Claire Bloom). Here a British town is struck by a smallpox outbreak during New Year celebrations and the struggles of a local doctor and his estranged wife to find the source. While there is a lack of military intrigue, the hospital and town authorities are cautious about a public scare. The film is somewhat dated, but then so are most of the British films of a similar age (British society has change dramatically in the last 50 years); it does cover, however, most of the themes in 'Outbreak' and is certainly worth a look if and when it turns up on afternoon or late-night TV. "},{"Title":"Why 'Outbreak' works so well...","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" because the support Morgan Freeman gives is fantastic - a totally underrated but outstanding actor - carries the film! There has to be more than convincing leads (Hoffman & Russo) to make a film believable. This is what Freeman always achieves in his flawless understated way in film after film. Why he does not make the highest paid ranks of Hollywood actors remains a mystery. Empire magazine once stated Freeman yields the highest box office return of any actor in the world against the production costs of making a film. The reason is clear, audiences appreciate those colourful subtle nuances he adds in every scene. His contribution usually appears effortless and is always entirely believable. Without doubt Morgan Freeman is an A-List star.The story itself has a definite edge - concerning a strange (man-made) lethal virus that escapes containment to emerge in an African village, apparently from nowhere, and all too soon the contagion spreads ferociously - however, at the time this movie was released such an outbreak occurred in real life - the deadly ebola virus in Africa! This curious coincidence made world headlines. Cynics suggested that the ebola virus had been deliberately let loose in some sinister real life plot to coincide with and help publicise this film! Surely not? The twofold plot centres on Hoffman's efforts as an epidemiologist doctor striving to contain the disease and prevent a pandemic; and the wider quest to determine the identity of the culprits who produced and subsequently failed to contain the military-manufactured virus. At first the fact that the disease originates from a classified disused bio-weapon isn't realised by medics, but when they do the US military (Freeman) naturally tries to cover this up inconvenient information from leaking in a sinister fashion - thereby placing the lives of Hoffman and Russo in great danger. This story works on every level, the script gives the leading cast material to showcase their top quality acting skills and whole film is a thoroughly gripping yarn. If thrillers are your genre you are likely to enjoy this tensest of dramas. "},{"Title":"My number 135 movie ( contains story + spoilers )","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ´Outbreak´ is my number 135 movie ( outta 750 about ). I do like it, because it has suspense, good actors and a great director ( Wolfgang Petersen ).The story  After Sam Daniels ( Dustin Hoffman ) found a virus in Africa and adopts preventive measures he is dismissed by General Ford ( Morgan Freeman ), since Ford underestimate the danger.  The virus is brought from Africa to a village anywhere in the United States. With the help of his wife Roberta Keough ( Rene Russo ), Sam tries to find the virus´ germ to create a remedy to the virus. They find out that the virus has been brought to the US by an ape, which has been brought to America illegally. But then General McClintock ( Donald Sutherland ) sabotages his work, because mcClintock just wants to extinguish the town...I think this is the worst Wolfgang Petersen movie I have seen. I liked Das Boot, The Perfect Storm and Air Force One more. Have I forgotten one ? Oh yes, In the line of fire was way worse. All in all, I rated ´Outbreak´ 8/10. I recommend it to anyone, because it is a kinda must see. If you have any question, feel free to ask them.  "},{"Title":"Really look into it.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's an exciting movie, and that's the whole thing about thrillers, they're supposed to hold you on the edge of the seat, you know what's going to happen before you even seen the movie, you know not every thing in the movie is realistic, including the dialogue, but why care ? The movie entertains, and that's what's important. "},{"Title":"Outbreak","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  So so film about the spread of a deadly virus and the medics who fight to put an end to it. Hoffman is the only one who looks uncomfortable here, while Spacey, Gooding and Sutherland are quite effective in key supporting roles.  "},{"Title":"Effective explosions and a virus lethal enough for everyone's taste","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first large scale/big budget thriller dealing with this subject. Dustin Hoffman surprises us big time by showing he's more than game when it comes to big screen heroism. A fine cast in an action-thriller that should give you just about your money's worth. "},{"Title":"And the truth is--this really could happen!!","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Outbreak attempts to show what can happen when a deadly virus can be left in an uncontrolled environment.  A deadly African virus is brought to the shores of America and starts to claim victims rapidly.  Dustin Hoffman and Rene Russo portray disease specialists who will use any means possible to find the host animal that brought the virus to America in the first place; then, they team up to convince the military that a cure does exist.  What they don't know is that there were military leaders that had developed the disease strain as a preventive military secret weapon.  These leaders are just as determined to keep their weapon intact.  When it appears that an entire town may be sacrificed in order for that to happen, Hoffman makes a last ditch effort to prevent the bombing of the quarantined town.  Great aerial photography and a wild helicopter chase through the skies. "},{"Title":"Better then I expected","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Outbreak started out with a bang so to say, the first scene was really strong. The movie is a what if-movie in the same sense as Dante's Peak or HMS Poseidon. However, it deals with viruses, unknown and deadly. The movie moves in a straight line from point A to B, events follow in a (seemingly) logical line and no obvious goofs were seen. There's suspense, deceit, a hero and heroic work to be done. I liked the movie, mainly for the way it showed how the military might handle a situation like this. Rent this one. "},{"Title":"If you've ever taken a science class....","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you've ever taken a science class, avoid this movie. It starts out alright but quickly devolves into Hollywood level knowledge of diseases and pathogens. It is an embarrassment. This movie had so much potential and fell so short. I'm sorry, but you just don't find a host, extract its blood, create a serum, manufacture hundreds of liters in a matter of an hour, and administer it to hundreds of patients. Things just don't work that way.With that said, there are more frustrating things about this film. For instance How did they know that the monkey was the host? They hadn't even drawn its blood yet. And if they were basing it off the picture they found in the boat, how did they know that the picture was of the host and not just some other monkey that the Korean dude had liked? It just doesn't add up and honestly it is very frustrating. The first 30 minutes of the movie are OK- the end is not.All the absurd science set aside, this movie STILL could have been a good drama. Do you bomb the hell out of a town with 2,600 people to avoid the possibility of more casualties, or do you remain humane all the way to the end of humanity? Do you murder in order to save others? Or do you just stand by idly? Instead of entering this murky territory, the film diverts the drama by having the protagonist miraculously find this host animal, extract its blood, and cure everyone in the town (including his wife) in a matter of a few hours.Huge waste of potential. "}{"Title":"Very Upbeat And Full Of Suspense","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a very good example of a very right combination of very right ingredients - great actors (Russo, Hoffman, Freeman, Sutherland, Gooding, Spacey), great scenery, excellent plot, strong effects, correct amount of suspense, decent idea behind, and very good music (big thumbs to James Newton-Howard). This is a very captivating movie, not without goofs or weaker moments, but it is made very professionally and very endearingly. The 2 hours are long usually, but not here - they fly fast I do recommend this good movie. Of course, we must realize this was never attempted to be a masterpiece, but this is a very decent example of a suspense medical catastrophe movie and it does not have all the unnecessary pathetic speeches or shallow characters. The balance is measured well and healthily "},{"Title":"Entertaining suspense-thriller that manages to be funny as well.","Date":"7 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Military Doctor/Virologist/Researcher Sam Daniels (Two-Time Oscar WinnerDustin Hoffman) finds out, there's an new deadly virus from Africa is been captured in a small rural California town. Now his team (Oscar-WinnerCuba Gooding, Jr. and Two-Time Oscar-WinnerKevin Spacey) comes to help Sam to find the host of the virus, including Sam's ex-wife (Rene Russo). But the virus spreads so fast that it kills civilians in the matter of hours and Sam's close friend, a colonel for the military (Oscar-WinnerMorgan Freeman) isn't what he seems to be... especially the colonel's friend (Donald Sutherland). Who's involved with the operation as well. Now Sam and his colleagues have to find an cure before there's an Outbreak throughout the United States and the Whole World.Directed by Wolfgang Petersen (Air Force One, In the Line of Fire, Troy) made an entertaining thriller with an surprising amount of humour. The cast are good in this film. Director Petersen has an certain eye for Visual Style in a few key sequences. It is one of those movies that makes you think if an Outbreak could truly happened and what would out government do ? It is certainly an scary situation that could happen, especially in this day and age.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The DVD has no special features. Outbreak was an modest box office hit, when it was release in the early spring of 1995 (The overseas Box Office was a much bigger success). The reviews were mixed as well. Outbreak is one of these films, you will be entertained to be watching in your own living room (especially if you have an great Home Theater system). Certainly worth a look. The late J.T. Walsh appears uncredited. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Outbreak is a good movie","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Outbreak cant go wrong since the two best actors ever act in it (Kevin Spacey and Morgan Freeman). Outbreak holds a great story. Outbreak could have been a better movie since they don't use the story as they could. Outbreak contains many great acting performances from great actors. Outbreak is pretty exciting but not as exciting as it could be. Outbreak is perhaps a minute or two too long. Outbreak still keeps you sitting on the edge of your seat most of the time. Outbreak changed my mind about Rene Russo. Outbreak is very well directed. Outbreak has a lot of details which makes it better. Outbreak has perhaps too many co-incidents which disturbs the general impression. Outbreak has a pretty flat production. Outbreak would have been a great movie with a more robust production. Outbreak could have made it in to top 250 if the story had been used better. Still Outbreak is highly entertaining and recommended "},{"Title":"Floating Virus causes Hoffman Angst","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There are a few plot points throughout this thriller that a viewer needs to suspend some disbelief for; everything happens at a pretty breakneck speed to entertain us in that pulse-pounding sort of way. A new deadly virus is detected in Africa and in the next scene is already spreading in the U.S. - as Dustin Hoffman warned everyone. He warned them! He's the only one who seems to give a damn as to whether hundreds or thousands of U.S.citizens will die in the next few hours. Hoffman's performance is a bit overwrought & frenetic; he's kind of an acquired taste here - but he does add energy to the already tense proceedings. Rene Russo's his ex-wife, whom he still bothers about maybe getting back together. Morgan Freeman's a general & Hoffman's boss, whom he bothers about not being honest enough or acting quickly enough. Fact is, Hoffman bothers everyone in this movie; I'm surprised no one purposely exposed him to the virus just to get rid of him.The origins of the virus date back to 1967; that was when, in one of the better pre-credits scenes ever done, a village in Africa was vaporized by the army to destroy the micro-bug. The order was given by Donald Sutherland's character, now a 2-star general. Sutherland's the other actor who doesn't make an easy fit here. His general is way too creepy and sinister; he can't wait to explode another bomb and vaporize another town. You get the sense that, far from forcing himself into such a necessary action, this general really enjoys the prospect of blowing up a community. Didn't anyone notice in the past 30 years that he's an obvious psychotic? Otherwise, this is a fast-moving thriller, highlighted by scenes of the army, in gas masks, taking over a typical American town (very similar to scenes from the TV mini-series The Stand the year before). JT Walsh has an uncredited cameo in one scene as a member of the White House asking to be convinced of the ultimate military action. Again, the frantic race in the final half-hour to stave off destruction asks a lot from the audience, but it does deliver some thrills. "},{"Title":"To close to the truth","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Last year I read Richard Preston's book The Hot Zone, which is a terrifying true story about the outbreak of the Ebola virus. When I found out that there was a movie made about this book I could not wait to see it. Although their were some differences from the book, it was still terrifying in itself. It just makes you think that anytime, a deadly virus like this can affect anyone. I would recommend this movie, or Richard Preston's book to anyone who wants to learn the horrifying facts about the world most deadly viruses. I recently learned that the Ebola virus may be affecting monkeys in Africa again. Hopefully this is not the case. From our past experiences we have learned more about the virus, and how to better deal with it. "},{"Title":"A scary possibility","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this in 1995, I had been working in health care for 4 years and was about to start nursing school. Almost 10 years later, this movie doesn't quite have the same impact as it did before - as we think more about the possibility of a biological terrorist attack now (it wasn't really thought of when this was made) and it sparked a personal interest in Level 4 viruses such as Ebola, Lassa & Hanta, the last of which has had outbreaks in both the U.S. and Canada. ***SPOILERS AHEAD***A hemorrhagic-fever-type virus, named 'Motaba', appears first in Africa in 1969. Two officers from the U.S. Army's Medical Research Institute for Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) are sent in to investigate. They are horrified by what they find, and the camp in which the virus appeared is bombed to stop the spread. 25 years after, the virus appears again, and Col. Sam Daniels (Hoffman) is sent in to investigate. An entire village has been wiped out by the bug, and Daniels reports this to his superior, Brigadier-Gen. Ford (Freeman). But Ford, who had been one of the officers on that 1969 trip, downplays the threat, stating that the bug is unlikely to show up in the U.S. Unknown to either man, the virus is already on its way to the U.S. by freighter - the host, an African monkey, is bound for an animal-testing lab in San Francisco. Through an under-the-table bribe, a young man named Jimbo Scott smuggles the monkey out of the testing lab. Scott becomes infected when the monkey spits in his face. At Cedar Creek, CA, Scott tries to sell the monkey to a pet store, where the monkey scratches the owner. Unable to sell the monkey, Scott releases it in the woods and gets on a plane for Boston. During the flight he becomes gravely ill and subsequently infects his girlfriend when he arrives. Soon, the two of them are admitted to hospital where Col. Daniels' ex-wife, Dr. Keough (Russo) of the CDC, examines them after being called in by the hospital physicians. At the same time, in Cedar Creek, ANOTHER outbreak is starting - from the pet store owner. The U.S. Army is called in to quarantine the town and keep the bug from spreading. But Ford's boss, Major-Gen. McClintock (Sutherland), the second man from the trip of 1969, is trying to keep the bug a secret so it can be developed as a weapon. And in order to do so, he persuades the President to authorize the use of a fuel-air bomb on Cedar Creek to stop the virus. Daniels, however, goes against orders and when he finds out what McClintock is up to, must race against time and locate the host before the bomb is dropped on the town.***END SPOILERS***I don't believe this was inspired by Dr. Robin Cook's book of the same title. It was more likely inspired by a book called 'The Hot Zone', which chronicled a similar outbreak of Ebola in an area near Washington, D.C. Another book that may have inspired it was called 'The Coming Plague', which tells true stories of several deadly viruses - Ebola, Lassa & Hanta among them. A book that came out afterward, called 'Level 4 - Virus Hunters of the CDC', written by a CDC doctor who investigated these lethal bugs, also bore some similarity. As another reviewer said, be afraid...one could get claustrophobic watching this!  "},{"Title":"Scientific, thought-provoking thriller exploring minor possibilities.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The sub-sub-genre of scientific/medical thrillers can be hit and miss. The main problem with a lot of these films is the fact that they are just plain boring. They are often blunt, unspectacular and brimmed with psychobabble and enigmatic material. These unwritten rules certainly do not apply to this absorbing and very realistic thriller. `Outbreak' is pure unpretentious entertainment. While it's not very dazzling and unsurprisingly one-tone, it holds your interest all the way to the satisfying climax. The sheer engagement comes from the belief that something like this could actually happen in the near future.But the main reason that this is so compelling is because it has a glamorous `easy-on-the-eye' cast. Dustin Hoffman is an appropriate lead, though this character is more than vaguely repeated in `Sphere' made in 1998. Donald Sutherland is downright creepy as the un-stereotypical bad guy. Rene Russo is well cast as Hoffman's ex-wife and the chemistry between the two always seems natural. While most of the characters are pretty much the same, its good to see that they aren't branded as run-of-the-mill stereotypes (There is no comic relief). Good solid support from the rest of the famous cast including Kevin Spacey, Morgan Freeman, Cuba Gooding Jr., Patrick Dempsey and J.T. Walsh. While the cast is good, they aren't exactly turning in performances of a lifetime nor are they giving it their all. Even a surprisingly good performance from the monkey (most commonly known as Ross's monkey `Marcel' on `Friends') as the host of the disease.There is nothing brilliant about the editing, script or directing styles, but it's still enjoyable no-nonsense entertainment. One thing this film will do is turn you off going to the cinema. Some things stand out amid all the un-complex material. For example, there is a very memorable quote towards the end of the movie. `General, with all due respect, f*ck you, sir.While it won't make any milestones in the history of cinema, `Outbreak' is a good, uninflated movie. If you want an easy-to-follow drama thriller then this is definitely the film for you, so I recommend it. My IMDb rating 6.6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A taut,nerve-wracking thriller","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Outbreak is a taut,nerve-wracking thriller.Wolfgang Petersen has proven himself one of Hollywood's most capable action/thriller directors,and with Outbreak he delivers a real doozy!A movie about a killer virus that makes Ebola look like the chicken pox and a military bioweapon conspiracy to boot!I first saw this movie during a Free HBO Weekend.It totally blew me away,so much so that I went out the next day to Blockbuster and got the VHS video.Dustin Hoffman.Rene Russo,Morgan Freeman,Cuba Gooding,Jr.,Patrick Dempsey,Kevin Spacey and Donald Sutherland all give terrific performances.I wish I'd seen this in the theatres. I can imagine the place going nuts when Dustin says to SutherlandWith all due respect,F**k You SIR!.Rent or buy this,you won't go wrong.10/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty good disease that liquidizes your organs movie","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  ***Starring Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman, and Cuba Gooding Jr.An ex-couple must stop a very contagious disease from spreading from the United States, to the whole world.  The disease is evil.  It will make your intestines, kidneys, etc. all liquidize, and after that you will die.  That's a lot of evil coming from a freakin' monkey.All the actors have fun (except when they die) and know how to make the movie well.  The movie is a tad too brutal, though.  I mean this is just very brutal, and it could've lived without the brutality. "},{"Title":"Good movie but hard to believe","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this movie so much that I watched it all the way through without wondering how much time was left in it. But it was hard to believe René Russo as a doctor with enough seniority to head up the center for disease control. Furthermore, the audience is also expected to believe that the young doctor played by Cuba Gooding Jr. happens to be an accomplished helicopter pilot, too. The process by which Dustin Hoffman and Cuba Gooding Jr. locate the host of the disease that threatens to kill everyone in a small town strains credibility at several points.  "}{"Title":"Scary if you think about it!","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When you think about the AIDS virus and all other deadly epidemics, this is almost real. Just think that a little monkey, becoming a pet to a little girl, and unknowing to her, the monkey caused a virus to spread around the US in such a quick time. Dustin Hoffman did an excellent performance. Great film. "},{"Title":"A truly awful film","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Outbreak is what I would describe as an extra-ordinary movie, full of badly directed extras doing incomprehensible things. Are we expected to believe that people in an infected area will become so enraged that they will attack their helpers for no reason? And the events leading to the outbreak are risible. A hospital lab worker who is so engrossed in a radio sport commentary that he puts his hand into a centrifuge without switching it off. An emergency department doctor who screams at his patients to get better. He'd die of nervous exhaustion in a week in any busy ED.What are all these great actors doing in this mess? "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"5 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was gripping from start to finish and is lead by an all star cast including Dustin Hoffman, Kevin Spacey and Morgan Freeman (to name a few). The film basically is about a deadly virus that initially plagues California and then spreads to other areas of America and Dustin Hoffman and his team of Army personnel have to determine who or what is causing it. This film packs a perfect blend of drama, humour and tension so it does have a bit of something for everyone. What elevates this film is its strong script, excellent acting (particularly Dustin Hoffman who has already proved himself to be a brilliant actor after his Oscar winning performance in Rain Man- a personal favourite film of mine which is definitely worth checking out if you haven't seen it). Another of the film's strengths is the interaction between the characters (the dialogue was great and never became dull) and I personally thought Hoffman and Spacey worked well together in this film. The only scene which didn't really ring true was the scene at the house in California where Hoffman and Gooding Jr send the little girl outside to coax the monkey out of the woods so that they could shoot it. What I couldn't understand is that they sent her outside with no protective clothing and no face mask (knowing or 'being pretty certain' that this monkey was the 'Host' which contains the virus). That seemed unrealistic to me. To sum up, Outbreak is an underrated film which deserves a much wider audience. This is an excellent thriller which is well worth your time. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"What should people do when an outbreak occurs?","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was great and very catchy. I watched this movie the other day for the first time and I really can't believe that I haven't watched it before.A deadly virus finds its way to the US and chaos is about to hit the citizens. People are killed very quickly when they get infected this virus and the military must find a way to stop it before it spreads on and creates chaos and panic.The story is very relevant to some of the 'outbreaks' we see to this day with both SARS, the bird flu, Swine flu etc, it shows how rapidly a disease can expand throughout the entire World. The movie has a great cast list and the story is very interesting, I was stuck to the television when this movie was viewed and I was not disappointed. It was great. "},{"Title":"A good disaster movie ruined by a twisted attempt to defile the military","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Starts out well, and features a pantheon of top actors. But instead of staying on the course of Man vs Microbe, we end up with a potpouri of twisted nonsense in order to turn it into another 'Evil Military' movie from Hollywood. That moves it beyond the intriguing entertainment of the subject matter and turns it into a rather stupid movie. First we have to believe that the Army has worked on this weapon for 30 years, then that a President is ready to firebomb an American town, then that two guys in a tiny helicopter can not only outmaneuver combat helos in pursuit but stop a bombing run by flying around in front of it. Only after it has all failed do the good guys emerge and arrest the evil general.Everything in the second half of the movie is predictable, boring, and preachy. A disappointing movie, ruined by a political agenda. Too bad, but one of many. "},{"Title":"Chaos at the highest emotional level, disturbing and frightening.","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The world grows smaller when a virus is carried to the United States by the illegal importation of an animal carrying an unknown virus strain.  The added element, government dabbling in biological weapons and cover-ups.  Follow the developing stages of study, identification, containment, treatment all in the most difficult situations.  Scary, frightening, enormously heart pounding.  A study in the awful realities, stupidity and genius of today's modern world yet gives a positive ending with knowledge of the good in some people and the fight they will enter to see right prevail.  I rate this a 10. "},{"Title":"Wolfgang doesn't let me down!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this was an excellent film, I found the story to quite entertaining and filled with just enough oo's and ah's to keep me interested.  I thought the story flowed quite well from start to finish without a boring moment.  This film is worth watching for the opening scene alone, that scene got my undivided attention.Wolfgang Petersen pulls off yet another excellent directorial effort with an all-star cast.  Dustin Hoffman plays his character very well and very convincingly.  Morgan Freeman has an interesting role as a sometimes good and sometimes bad guy.  Donald Sutherland plays a very good antagonist.  Cuba Gooding Jr. does an excellent job as always.  Kevin Spacey and Rene Russo also play their respective roles quite well.  And finally Patrick Dempsey (not a big part, but an important one nonetheless), pulls off a great performance as well.  There's also a small role played by J.T. Walsh in the film, he does a great job with his role.  Also, I have to mention the monkey, that little monkey did a fantastic job, cute little guy.All in all, I thought this was an excellent thriller/drama/action film, it even has a touch of comedy here and there.  I would definitely recommend this film to just about everyone, so if you get a chance, check this film out.  I really hope that you enjoy it as much as I do.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"it could happen","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a fairly decent movie about a lethal virus carried to the U.S. by a monkey. The virus replicates quickly, causing a national scare, and the military, led by Dustin Hoffman and Rene Russo, tries to contain it. What was most scary about this film was that I felt it could actually happen. Rent this one if you haven't seen it!*** out of **** "},{"Title":"One of the marvelous movie I have seen!","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It is an extreme case of virus, like the outbreak of SARS in 2003. It is realistic and I appreciate the writer's thought. This movie can encourage medical workers to stay strong even in awful and terrifying situation. The movie can also teach the audiences to be calm and careful at any time when handling a new, unknown, or dangerous object. I especially like the character, Dr. Sam Daniels. Not because he is the hero or the main character, it is all because his morale of never giving up and fighting for life. The way he works against the airborne virus also tells me the ideal character of Dr. Sam Daniels. He does things carefully and works with his fellows as an ideal team. He is patient and cares about other's feelings. He works for people, not controlled by orders from his superiors. Overall I appreciate his acting. He acts very realistic and I enjoy the movie very much. "},{"Title":"In these times we live in, this story is more than fiction...","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With the state of the world we are living in right now, potential possibilities of a film like Outbreak are ten times scarier than they were before. As I write this, there is a deadly virus spreading through China, and that simple thought alone makes this film frightening. It is a simple story, yes, but nevertheless a deeply horrifying and haunting one.It is about a simple virus/bug that kills humans within 24 hours of exposure by liquefying the internal organs. Not a pretty picture. The bug, apparently, is based on the real thing; an account of something similar can be found in Richard Preston's book, The Hot Zone. Our story opens thirty years ago, deep in Africa. A deadly virus has destroyed most of the inhabitants of a small, rural village, and American forces have been sent in to clean up the place. The marines offer peace, but instead send out a single airplane that incinerates the village with a firebomb. The implication of this act is that the virus is too deadly to just clean up. It is too strong. Their mission to wipe it out with a sweep of the area is futile. There is only one way to destroy it. And so they take the only way out they have. A bomb.And so we travel thirty years into the future, and meet US-Army-man Dustin Hoffman and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta-worker Rene Russo. As we come into their lives, we realize they have just been divorced. She's coming to his house to pick up their dogs. He gives up without a fight when he realizes he'll never win the battle.As we follow the disintegration of their relationship, we see scenes where an African monkey is being illegally imported into America. What we do not realize at first is that this monkey is the carrier of the deadly virus. But it becomes pretty clear pretty fast.The smuggler of the animal tries to sell it to a pet shop, but is told no. So, not knowing what to do with it, he releases it into the California woodland. But he is too late, because he has already been infected. (And, unlike most criminals in movies, we feel sorry for this smuggler, because he seems to be a really nice guy.)The smuggler takes a plane back to Boston, and feels nausea kick in. When he steps off the plane, he looks like he has a bad case of the flu--it almost made me feel drowsy and groggy watching him. He is flushed, sweating, trembling and almost too weak to stand. But this doesn't stop his girlfriend from kissing him before he collapses into her arms.Back in a small California town, a carrier of the virus sneezes and coughs and gags in a movie theater. We see him cough, and phlegm goes a-flyin'. We get a personal POV of the small speckles traveling through the air, where they curve around, drifting around distorted images of humans, and eventually the speckles get sucked into the mouth of a woman laughing, eating popcorn merrily, not realizing what has happened.Soon the word is breaking out, and General Morgan Freeman sends in Dustin Hoffman and his colleague, Kevin Spacey, to eliminate the virus, against the wishes of sinister General Donald Sutherland. Things don't go to plan. Soon, Hoffman contacts Russo asking her to start a nation-wide alert. She gets involved in the plot, obviously, but somehow it doesn't seem as contrived or unrealistic as some coincidence romances in films, where two people who knew each other back in high school and had a big crush on each other meet up again so we can see them make out while the world is in terrible danger.One of the strongest traits of Outbreak is its human side. The characters are deep, with emotions and characteristics. In most of the disaster flicks out there (i.e. Dante's Peak, Volcano), the characters are shallow freaks sent in to eliminate something we could never care about. But in Outbreak, the film takes time to set up a character side to the story, and this is part of the success this film has as a thriller.The other attribute for its success is its stunning creativity and sheer possibilities. Perhaps a few years back, when this film was released, the plot looked ridiculous and silly. But in times like these, things like this ARE happening, and this film will definitely open your eyes as to the danger and possibilities of such a plot.I especially like Peterson's filming techniques. My favorite scene in the film is the one in which the tiny speckles of the virus travel around the movie theater, unaware to the audience, laughing and giggling at the film. This could be a funny technique if it was not so startling. It really opened my eyes as to how many airborne germs can travel to other people. You may never want to be in an enclosed area again. And the scariest thing about it is how no one realizes what is happening when it happens. The girl who breathes it in through her mouth doesn't realize anything at first. But not only is that scene frightening, but the camerawork is amazing and original. It's definitely my favorite scene in the entire film.In all action films released these days, there has to be a final showdown. Good vs. Bad. Ridiculous or not, there has to be a showdown. The same goes for Outbreak.I'm not sure if I fell for the scene where Cuba Gooding, Jr. and Dustin Hoffman are being chased by two Army attack choppers and escape unscathed. I'm not sure if I believed the game of chicken between a huge bomber craft and a rickety old helicopter. But by then I was enjoying the film too much to let anything stand in my way of recommending it, which is exactly what I plan to do.4/5 stars - "}{"Title":"Awesome thriller from the master Wolfgang Petersen","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Wolfgang Petersen can do no wrong when it comes to the action thriller.  His penchance for realism is something that I really appreciate not to mention his attention to detail. Throw in an awesome cast (I mean Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman, Cuba Gooding, Donald Sutherland, and ,oh yeah, Kevin Spacey) and it doesn't get any better.  Anyone who has seen programs on the Ebola outbreaks in Zaire knows that it is a unique situation that touches all levels of human drama, Petersen does a wonderful job exploring all those levels in this great film.  Five Stars ***** "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"19 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was bad.... Dustin Hoffman was horrible in it. You don't care about the characters, the relationship between Hoffman and Russo was so cheesy and flat. If I heard Gooding Jr. say hang on colonel one more time I was going to lose it. I don't understand how Kevin Spacey could win a best supporting actor award for this movie when he was hardly in it. And I spent the entire 2nd half of the movie trying to figure out why Donald Sutherland was a bad guy. (Plot spoiler) His reason for destroying the town that is infected isn't plausible and it isn't like the rest of the country isn't going wonder why he decided to kill 20,000 residents of this California town, along with the Army doctors trying to find a cure. The whole infighting between Sutherland's character and Morgan Freeman was down right absurd. Also Cuba Gooding Jr. and Hoffman commandeer a helicopter and even say the aircraft has a range of 400 miles. Yet they're flying all over So Cal without ever refueling, unless they stop at a gas station since no airport would refuel a helicopter with two fugitives on board.I would avoid wasting 2 hours of one's life on this movie. I certainly wanted them back after watching it. "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS ALL THROUGH!DON'T READ ANYMORE IF YOU DON'T WANT TO KNOW!I really did not like Outbreak at all. Dustin is good in anything he does but I was really disappointed in this film. The movie is about a killer disease and Dustin must find the cure. Of coarse, there's a love story going on too. I felt this was a bit poorly done as a movie, which seems to focus on random people everywhere dying. Dustin is trying to save the day. That's it. Oh and the love story. Where's the tension? The sense of excitement? We all know he's gonna find the cure and save the day anyway. So in the meantime we are treated to numerous people dying and well-that's pretty much it. The ending is absolutely and completely Hollywood, very improbable, actually ridiculous. Dustin's ladylove survives but everybody else dies? Or ALMOST everyone, just as Dustin's sweety is about to go, in rides Mr. Hoffman with the cure. (Not to Hollywood). I guess I'm being a bit hard on Outbreak but I really was very disappointed in this. Hardly a thriller, I'm not sure how I'd classify this except a hopeless waste of time. I know that's REALLY harsh and many consider this great, and of coarse it had the wonderful Mr. Dustin Hoffman whom I adore, but despite this movie's appeal, I thought this then and I think this now I just don't get it. "},{"Title":"great premise but disappointing cliches; here's a good book...","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I eagerly anticipated seeing this movie, but I was disappointed by all the stereotypical movie cliches, such as the evil military general and the good-guy maverick researcher who wars against the system. Although I haven't read The Hot Zone, I highly recommend a book about a real-life Outbreak Fever The Hunt for a New Killer Virus by John G. Fuller, about the Lassa fever epidemic in  Nigeria during the 1970s. "},{"Title":"One of The Worst Movies Ever Made","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Clichés? Yeah it has clichés, but those are just a small portion of why this movie is so bad.I saw it 4 years ago, and I still cringe if I see a display box for it.There's actually a movie rip-off of this, not a remake, but a rip-off. Who would rip off this trash?...Unless of course it were stuck under your shoe? Man this thing, this movie, has plot holes.Doesn't Dustin Hoffman take his helmet thing off outside and NOT get infected? When there are clearly people ALL AROUND WEARING PROTECTION?!I remember something about a helicopter out of gas with Cuba as the pilot....and I remember hating it for lack of reason.And Kevin Spacey dies, right? Who kills Kevin Spacey anyway?Hell, I'll rate it...1 star. "},{"Title":"Sterile","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie about a serious problem, and it's just awful. It's filled with distracting subplots about separated spouses who we know will get together, inaccuracies galore, improbabilities, cuteness, a covert military conspiracy, helicopter chases, an endangered child. Two thirds of the way through, it morphs from a medical detective story into another action movie.Ridiculous. Not worth wasting time on. Infuriating, really, because the subject deserves much better treatment. I won't carry on about this, because I've already exhausted my spleen, so to speak, on Carriers, which is just as bad, even without bankable actors.Want to know how bad it is? A little monkey who is spreading the 100% lethal disease is accidentally brought to America. The virus spreads and wipes out thousands. But by the end of the movie, the little monkey is no longer a vector and a darling young girl finds it loose in her back yard. The monkey is now a cute monkey and the audience is presumed to be so stupid that they're praying nothing happens to the frightened, chattering, helpless, harmless primate. The thousands of deaths, the thermonuclear bomb, have been forgotten and we're dealing with a Walt Disney animal picture. These movies are even worse than they appear on screen. They provide a kind of fantasy solution to the problem of AIDS, which is the analogue to the Motorola virus, or whatever it's called. What we can't do in real life, we can always do in our fantasies, just as Rambo won the Vietnam war for us. If you want to waste two hours, don't rent this. Read Preston's non-fiction Hot Zone instead, or simply leaf through it. It's also available as an audiobook if you're subject to long commutes. It's far more tense, informative, and adult than this production which, I'm afraid, is liable to have the same effect on the mind that the deadly virus has on the human body. It turns everything to mush. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, the acting was excellent, as you'd expect from such top stars and the cinematography was good too, even if they did overdo the low-flying helicopter scenes just a little bit.  Seen it too many times to get excited about, thank you.The first jolt was to hear the words These are American people you want to kill.  I was horrified and would be very interested to know if American viewers were likewise shocked or if they even noticed this dreadfully racist comment.The main fault is that it was just so full of cliches.  Good guy/bad guy is really too predictable now.  The script just full of really obvious lines. It's time script writers started showing a bit of imagination instead of relying on the fact that these great actors have the greatest skill of all - to deliver a crap line while keeping a straight face. "},{"Title":"Amazing Cast, Stunningly Dumb Writing","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hard to believe that Dustin Hoffman, Kevin Spacey, Morgan Freeman, Donald Sutherland, Cuba Gooding Jr. and several more excellent actors could be assembled in a very fine production under Wolfgang Petersen's direction, all at the service of a script so utterly preposterous.  There's a lot of B-grade melodramatic dialogue here but it's the plot, with its myriad howlingly wild contrivances and nearly complete lack of internal logic, that's really shocking.  It starts off quite intriguingly but it just gets worse and worse as it spins off into a dramatic idiom where Buck Rogers would have felt comfortable in the 1930s. Personally I didn't buy into the idea of Hoffman as an action hero either, but that's more a matter of taste.  There's just no defending this writing though.  Still, you've really got to hand it to Morgan Freeman even with egregiously bad material his work never seems less than wonderful.  Spacey acquits himself rather well too, and I don't really blame Sutherland, Gooding, Rene Russo or JT Walsh for having to say the lines they were paid handsomely to say, but this is one of the great embarrassments of Hoffman's career, and really it's a mystery to me how a terrific storyteller like Petersen could have made it. "},{"Title":"Again, Petersen delivers the c**p","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You see, a monkey brings over a virus to humans, which will probably cause death to the entire American population (Whether or not it will cause global death is not important, this film is about America). Then the monkey disappears, and that's a bad thing because scientists need this monkey in order to make an anti-virus. How big is the chance they find this monkey?? 0.0 Do they find it? Of Course.Then there's the duff relationship between Rene Russo and (the always duff) Dustin Hoffman, a duff role for Kevin Spacey and a very duff role for Donald Sutherland, who plays the BAAAAAAD guy. Before Petersen made this film, he made the incredibly dull In the Line of Fire, after he made Air Force One (dull) and Perfect Storm (really dull).It's maybe not really clear yet, but my opinion on Wolfgang Petersen is that he is a director without any talent whatsoever. But he does seem to bring in the cash. Well good for him. Outbreak gets *(out of five)  "},{"Title":"Scarier than any horror flick -- and ultra-suspenseful","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" THE PLOT After a deadly incurable African virus is brought to a Northern California coastal town via a monkey, the military moves in to quarantine the village. While Dustin Hoffman seeks to find an antidote, the two generals in charge of the quarantine (Morgan Freeman & Donald Sutherland) strangely decide to annihilate the town. Can Hoffman find a cure in time? And, even if he does, can he stop the firebombing? I remember when Wolfgang Petersen's Outbreak came out in 1995; the idea just never interested me. Big mistake, because this is an outstanding picture. Although viruses are so small they're invisible, they have the potential to be the biggest monsters of all. Certain deadly viruses, if let loose, can easily wipe out an entire town in a mere couple days. This is the scenario in Outbreak. It could happen and is therefore realistic, which naturally makes the story more horrifying than most horror flicks or monster movies.But Outbreak is more than just a scary what-if story, the second half involves a military cover-up and is edge-of-your-seat suspenseful, all the way to the final minutes. It's like an avalanche that slowly builds momentum.Cuba Gooding Jr. is also on hand in a significant role as Hoffman's partner in the race-against-time. And, for those who care, there's a romantic subplot about Hoffman and his ex-wife Rene Russo. Will they get back together? The locations are magnificent, filmed in the coastal towns Eureka, Arcata and Ferndale, California, all in the extreme Northern part of the state, just South of the Redwoods and West of Bigfoot territory (i.e. Willow Creek). The African sequences were filmed in Hawaii.BOTTOM LINE This is top-of-the-line cinema -- equal parts scary, dramatic and suspenseful.GRADE A- "}{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" OutbreakThe hardest part of battling any infectious disease is wielding weapons tiny enough to exterminate the microbes.Fortunately, the scientists in this thriller only need a weapon large enough to kill a monkey.When a simian infected with an Ebola type virus is smuggled into the U.S. and stolen from an animal testing facility, it ends up on the black market.While the contaminated critter fails to garner any offers, it does manage to infect everyone that it comes in contact with.Now, it's up to a virus specialist (Dustin Hoffman) and his ex-wife (Rene Russo) to capture the host and create an antidote before the military wipes the quarantined community off the map.By offsetting its exaggerated storyline with paranoia inducing plot points, this star-studded supposition succeeds at entertainment through mass hysteria.However, a more realistic carrier of the deadly bug would have been a classroom full of preschoolers. (Yellow Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Could have been better, way better!","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" just like any movie with so many good names, it will be doomed to fail. The first half of the movie was deadly boring, just nothing although the topic would have been a creamy element for making it way much better. The very idea of an epidemic virus can scare the hell out of people and with names like Hoffman, Dempsy, Freeman, Russo, Spacey and Sutherland, the movie would have reached the summit, but unfortunately it did just the opposite.I didn't like the movie and it felt so sad that so good names like the prementioned had to go for waste like that! I can't even remember a scene that was good like with so many bad movies which would still have some good things about them. When it comes to this one, the only thing you will enjoy is seeing the faces of those big actors and start mentioning their names out loud in front of your friends,every time one of them appears; like ah here is Spacey and there's Freeman. "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What I loved about this movie was the flow. Sometimes it would be a little confusing when they would change locations and it was hard to follow the virus' journey. But the atmosphere created when the virus was present was just perfect. You really felt the fear that only comes with realizing that the mortality rate is 100% and once you got the virus, you'd die in a few short hours.I didn't really get that Donald Sutherland's character was evil until the end when he ordered the 'attack'. When Dustin Hoffman's character found out about the virus, that was when I started to doubt Morgan Freeman's character. It was fun to see Kevin Spacey's character, Casey, adding humor to a tense scene and listening to rock music on the plane. The action and the tension created in this movie is perfect.I think now I am very paranoid of public spaces...and monkeys. "},{"Title":"Accurate Science Movie","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie relates very well to Biology or Life Science. This movie shows the 5 different ways viruses are spread. It throws in the mutation process along with process of developing vaccines. The characters are well scripted. This is not a modern day blood and guts show. Instead it concentrates more on the role of science and doctors versus the morgue. The only downfall to this movie and using it for a school setting is the language. Nowdays, though, this probably is very mild. Definitely not deserving of a R rating. This movie also has some major actors/actresses in their early years. This movie is by far from awful. If you like blood and guts, then this movie isn't for you. If you like a show that doesn't have 5 different story lines this is for you.  "},{"Title":"Coincidences","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I find the following coincidences fascinating.Dustin Hoffman's role of Sam Daniels was originally intended for Harrison Ford. Ironically, Harrison Ford's character in Blade Runner (1982) was written with Dustin Hoffman in mind.Donald Sutherland plays a general to Dale Dye's colonel. Four years earlier in JFK (1991), Dye played a general to Sutherland's colonel.Do these directors do this sort of thing on purpose? If so, they are devilishly creative. If not, they are devilishly lucky.Yes, this movie tended to be predictable, but then you go to the movies to be entertained and Duston Hoffman and Cuba Gooding, Jr can certainly do that.I enjoyed it and have seen it several times on tv after seeing it at the movies. "},{"Title":"I really don't know exactly why, but it's in my top 20","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There's just something about this movie that really appeals to me. Maybe it's the all-star cast, which is about as long of a list of recognizable names as you'll ever see for a movie.  Dustin Hoffman, Renee Russo, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, Cuba Gooding Jr., J.T. Walsh ... I was scanning through the credits and saw that a blast from the past was in it, too  Lance Kerwin, of James at 16 fame.Perhaps it's the relentless pace.  This movie doesn't slow down very often, and for its genre, that's what you want  action, and lots of it.  But it has a heart, too, so it's not mindless, gratuitous action, which you could argue that Terminator 3 (which I liked anyway) has. It could be the subject matter.  Invisible villains (bacteria spores) are some of the most frightening, and with SARS and HIV rampant in certain areas of the world, it hits home.  Not to mention the impending threat of bio-terrorism.  The bug in this movie kills fast and completely  the perfect biological weapon.  Like the Terminator, you wonder how the hell they are going to stop it, even though you know they will and can probably guess essentially how.  It's compelling viewing, regardless.Or maybe it's just a combination of all the above, plus the heart factor I mentioned before.  You definitely connect with the characters in this film.  I've found that doing so is a must toward liking the movie.  If you are bored or disinterested in them, you're going to feel the same way about the movie.  Here, you like them all.  Even the villain, Major General McClintoch, isn't pure evil, just utterly misguided and jealous in guarding his life's work.  To me, this is the perfect Sunday night movie.  Plenty of action for entertainment without being something you have to puzzle over to get.  It feels pleasant throughout and yet has some terrific drama.  I know the final helicopter vs. plane scene was cheesy, but I don't care, I enjoy that showdown as much as any other scene in the movie.  A very good musical score and rock-solid directing further strengthen this excellent movie.  I *highly* recommend it.  Don't stress over the small illogical aspects (believe me, you can find them in just about every movie, especially action movies), just sit back and have some fun.  10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good movie, holds your attention.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Rarely has there been such a collection of acting talent in one film -- Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, Cuba Gooding Jr., Donald Sutherland .  The subject is the prospect of a deadly virus showing up and getting imported into a dense population and spreading so quickly that the whole country could be wiped out if left unchecked.  Hoffman, Russo, Spacey, and Gooding play the doctor detectives while Freeman and Sutherland play the military leaders with a 30-year-old secret to protect. In a role perfectly suited to him, Hoffman must disobey orders to get his mission done.Critic Ebert gives a complete and accurate review. Although some things are very difficult to accept, like making large quantities of antidote on the spot, in the field, from an infected monkey, the suspense, action, and realistic acting held my attention to the very end.  Good, thought-provoking movie. The DVD sound and picture were fine.  "},{"Title":"A more inviting option than boredom","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With a star studded cast, this film was  not only gripping, but also an entertaining  ride. How can one go wrong with a great  cast like this? I especially liked Dustin  Hoffman's performance, giving him an  appeal that felt more realistic than if it was  by some really huge name star. While this  was a Hollywoodized film in regards to the  editing, pacing and cinematography, one  could still see the beauty in this film. One  of those cool pseudo-action films I'll watch  whenever I get a chance or feel bored. "},{"Title":"Great disease movie","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I didn't know what to expect.  I was very happy that I saw this but it had a lot of thematic and freaky elements.  Dustin Hoffman and everybody else in the cast is really good and their performances were cool.  A bunch of big named stars in this made this disease movie work. It showed how good the army would do if they had a disease that had an outbreak and it shows what risks they would take. Overall the whole movie is really cool.  The acting was great and the direction is good, too.  Rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Keeps you engaged throughout","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A truly magnificent movie. Keeps you engaged throughout. With such a high powered cast, it was unlikely that the movie would fail on any count. I think Dustin Hoffman and Morgan Freeman were absolutely outstanding.The story is quite believable and raises highly thought provoking issues about the possible consequences of an epidemic. What lifts the movie is the realisation that these type of outbreaks can easily happen and how devastating their fury can be if they are unchecked or undetected even though for a short time period. 9/10  "}{"Title":"Best disaster-movie from the 90's","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Outbreak is in my opinion the best disaster-movie made in the 90's. Almost everything seams to work in this one. The actors, plot, effects, story and atmosphere are/is really good. Exciting from start to end. I also consider Outbreak to be more realistic than most movies in this category.(8 out of 10 from me) "},{"Title":"best of genre-tense-gripping-must watch movie...","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" some couple of days ago i watched it. i found it in IMDb review section n am always interested in watching animal horror movies n i found it..after watching it-its really best of genre n well cast-shot film.with natural acting.monkey deserves accolades plus curse from us..! movie also throws light on govt hush up tactics...tricks..!! overall a well made film.. it deserves more than 10 but i cant..! so 10/10.not only docs-specialists but even we prey that monkey should be catched brought back very tensefully...!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! go watch it.... "},{"Title":"Exciting and well-crafted","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Exciting, well-crafted viral/thriller is a credit to director Wolfgang Petersen and the intelligent screenplay. Petersen never allows the film to get bogged down with detail, nor does he take off on too many implausible flights of fancy. Throughout, the flick keeps the ideal pace.Convincing in lead roles are Dustin Hoffman and Rene Russo, with able support from Morgan Freeman, Donald Sutherland, the fantastic Kevin Spacey (love him), Cuba Gooding Junior and an amazingly strong cameo from the un-billed J.T. Walsh, who sadly passed away recently.Sunday, November 28, 1999 - Video "},{"Title":"Good premise, terrible execution.","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is a saying among film critics Good premise, terrible execution. This describes a film that has a good or interesting idea for a story, but what comes out is not as good as it sounds. That describes Outbreak to a T.There is an inherent fear in the threat of an outbreak of a deadly disease. It's a faceless killer, one that can't be stopped by conventional means. This makes an outbreak of a deadly virus more frightening than a serial killer. Unfortunately, the screenplay is so busy that it's hard to follow what is going on. Thus, we are spending more time trying to figure out what all is happening than being sucked into a terrifying story.In a small California town, there is an outbreak of a deadly virus. It's 100% fatal within 24 hours, and there is no cure. Now, a team of military doctors are sent in to try and stop it. But can they contain it?The cast is to die for Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Kevin Spacey, Morgan Freeman, Cuba Gooding, Jr., Donald Sutherland. It doesn't get any better than this, and all of them hold their own. Dustin Hoffman creates a credible sense of urgency, and Kevin Spacey is surprisingly effective as the comic relief. Cuba Gooding, Jr. is also solid because the role is within his acting capabilities (despite his winning an Oscar, his range is quite limited). Everyone else does what they're known for Morgan Freeman for dramatics, and Donald Sutherland to act creepy.However, script problems and directing mistakes nearly tank the project. The first part of the movie is clumsily handled and messy, and the last 20 minutes are overlong and overblown. The middle part is effective, mainly because the subplots are limited, and the action stays in one place. It comes a little too late, however.It's better than Panic in the Streets, but it is not the definitive disease epidemic movie by any means.My rating PG-13 for language and an intense situation and related medical gore. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, intelligent thriller","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was very entertaining and one of the most intelligent thrillers I have ever seen. The story revolves around a virologist who discovers a virus called Motaba which has similar effects to Ebola except they can't find the cure and it is a lot more contagious. The virologist played averagely by Dustin Hoffman must find the host animal so he can create antibodies against the virus. We watched this in class because we were studying microbes and I was enthralled by it. The action scenes are great and not randomly thrown into the movie and the concept is not full of 'too' many coincidences. Everything is convincing and the story is shown realistically. Great support cast from Morgan Freeman and Donald Sutherland as well as 'suprising' Cuba Gooding Junior. My only complaint is the dialogue which is plain corny but I can forgive Wolfgang Peterson because of his recent works on Troy and Posiedon which have great believable dialogue for when the story was set. Overall one of the best thriller I have seen! "},{"Title":"Adrenalin Flic","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film has a high power cast lead by Donald Sutherland, Dustin Hoffman, Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey.The most memorable part of the film is a beautiful and brilliant helicopter chase, filmed largely from inside one of the helicopters so, you, like Hoffman are thrown into vertigo and terror. I saw this on a small screen. This sequence would be overpowering on the big screen.Several times I dropped out of suspension of disbelief, for example when two soldiers managed to hijack a military helicopter and commute all over California without getting shot down.The most dramatic part comes when Hoffman tries to persuade soldiers to use logic rather than blindly follow orders. He uses some extreme techniques of persuasion. This might be taken as social commentary on what soldiers have done in Iraq just following orders. However, the film was made before the Iraq war.Sutherland plays a magnificent villain. I detested him almost from the first frame. "},{"Title":"SARS! Hollywood proved it's  foreboding ability again!","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just saw DVD yesterday because I read one Taiwan critic mentioned the plot of the Outbreak was really match like SARS situation! Again, since 911, another Hollywood movie forebode new disaster but the scene was set in Asia! Today's Taiwan news reported two cow pilots infected and it seemed bad news become more and more in Asia. There are selfish politician(China) like the role which Donald Sutherland performed, hiding the truth but can't stop the virus' widespreading. As we are onlookers for this movie, we knew the host is that cute monkey. But in real life in Asia, who is the host? By the way, which Hollywood movie is the next to forebode? What disaster?  "},{"Title":"Far better than expected","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  OUTBREAK is an absolute must see film. Since purchasing the movie, from God knows how long ago, I can't help but watch it over and over. And I am not even sick of it yet! Dustin Hoffman as Sam gives humorous lines that quickly become memorable and you can just feel his compassion and love. He is truly one great actor that is not to be forgotten. Kevin Spacey is a wise cracker and Cuba Gooding Jr. is an intelligent guy with a heart of gold. Morgan Freeman is far from his role in Driving Miss Daisy but he is a great guy wanting to do right. Donald Sutherland is the only one that sent a shiver down my spine. Thankfully, Colonel Briggs helps subdue the creepy feeling of Donald's character. It is an all star cast and a five star movie. "},{"Title":"So cool!!!! Dustin Hoffman all the way )","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Outbreak is one of the most fascinating movies I have ever seen, besides RAIN MAN. Everything captured my attention right away and it was at times a little scary. Dustin Hoffman was truly the best actor in this wonderful movie followed by Cuba Gooding Jr. This movie has it all. Humor, action, sci-fi, and one of the bst actors to ever appear on the big screen. Such a cool movie that I watched it again and again and was still surprised and tense at times. I recommend the movie to anyone. For those who wanna know it doesn't have a whole lot of cussing but is mainly rated R for the bloody stuff and the occasional F word. Go rent this. You won't regret it.love,me Carolyn "},{"Title":"Why Can't Hollywood Make Films Like This Anymore?","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In 1967, the Motaba virus is discovered in a mercenary camp in Zaire and kept top secret. Two soldiers order the camp bombed to cover up the discovery.Thirty years later, in 1997, the virus resurfaces in Zaire. Colonel Sam Daniels (Dustin Hoffman), a USAMRIID (United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases) virologist is sent to investigate. He and his crew gain information about the virus and return to the United States where he asks his superior, Brigadier General Billy Ford (Morgan Freeman), to put out an alert. Ford, who knows the virus is not new, tells Sam it is unlikely to show up.On of the hosts of the virus, a White-fronted Capuchin monkey, has been illegally brought to the United States. Jimbo Scott (Patrick Dempsey), an employee at the Biotest animal holding facility, steals the monkey and takes it to Cedar Creek, California, to sell on the black market. During the trip, Jimbo is infected with the virus.Trying to sell the monkey to a pet store, the owner, who declines, but becomes infected as well. Jimbo releases the monkey into the woods. Jimbo starts to show signs of infection while flying to Boston, where he gets off the plane and kisses his girlfriend, infecting her. They are both hospitalized. A Centers for Disease Control scientist, Robby Keough (Rene Russo) Sam's ex-wife, investigates. Jimbo, his girlfriend, and the pet store owner died from the virus. Robby finds that no one else in Boston was infected. While the techs at a Cedar Creek hospital run tests on the pet store owner's blood, one of them inadvertently reaches into a spinning centrifuge. The vial inside breaks, splattering the tech and infecting him. He later goes to a packed movie theater and exposes numerous Cedar Creek citizens to the virus. Sam learns of the infection and wants to be sent there, but Ford orders him to New Mexico to investigate an outbreak of Hantavirus to prevent him from learning too much about the Motaba virus. Sam disobeys the order and flies to Cedar Creek, joining Robby's team.Sam realizes that the virus has become airborne. At first, Ford orders Sam arrested, but after learning of the airborne mutation lets him continue. They find out about the pet store owner and believe that a host animal at the store may be carrying antibodies. Searching the store, they find a monkey; the monkey is already sick, but they contain and examine it. Meanwhile, a state of martial law has been declared in Cedar Creek, and the United States Army has taken control of the town to contain the outbreak. A mystery serum, E-1101 is introduced to those suffering from Motaba. Daniels wonders what this is and administers it to the infected monkey obtained from the pet store. The monkey recovers and Daniels realizes that E-1101 is not experimental, that it was designed to cure Motaba, and that Ford knew about the virus beforehand. However, the serum does not help the residents of Cedar Creek, since the virus has mutated. Several accidents happen Casey's (Kevin Spacey) protective suit tears when his air line stretches too far, infecting him with the virus. While treating Casey, his sudden spasms cause Robby to jab herself with a needle. Sam confronts Ford about the serum and learns about Ford's involvement in the African village. Ford admits he withheld information on the virus due to national security and its potential to be turned into a biological weapon.Sam learns from Ford of Operation Clean Sweep, a plan by the military to bomb the town of Cedar Creek, with approval from the President. Major General Donald McClintock (Donald Sutherland), who was Ford's partner in the African camp and was responsible for its destruction, plans to use the bombing to cover up the virus's existence to advance his weapon objective. To prevent Sam from finding a cure, McClintock has him arrested by implicating Sam as a carrier of the virus. This leads Sam and Major Salt (Cuba Gooding Jr.) to search for the host animal to save the town, Casey and Robby. Flying a helicopter to the ship that carried the host animal, Sam obtains a picture of the monkey and broadcasts it on the news, which a viewer realizes her daughter is playing with in their backyard. She calls the station, and Sam and Salt arrive at the family's house. The daughter coaxes out the monkey, which Salt tranquilizes. Learning from Sam that the host animal is captured, Ford delays the bombing.Returning to Cedar Creek, Salt mixes the monkey's antibodies with the E-1101 to create an anti-serum in time to save Robby but not Casey. Sam discovers Operation Clean Sweep is in progress and becomes aware that McClintock won't call off the bombing. He and Salt take it upon themselves to fly in the way of the bomber to stop it. With support from Ford, Sam is able to stay in the way of the plane long enough to convince the pilot and his bombardier that information was withheld from them. The bombardier detonates the bomb over water instead of the town.About Ebola It is classified as a filovirus. It has many strains Zaire virus (ZEBOV) which is the deadliest, Sudan ebolavirus (SEBOV) 50% mortality rate, Reston ebolavirus (REBOV) Level-4 organism which is fatal to pigs non-harazdous to humans, Côte d'Ivoire ebolavirus (CIEBOV) which is not fatal to humans and recovery period is about 2 weeks, Bundibugyo ebolavirus which has a 30% mortality rate.Although the incubation period is generally 5&#x96;18 days, it ranges from 2 to 21 days. Illness is characterized by the rapid onset of fever, malaise, muscle pain, headache, and the inflammation of the pharynx. Six days following vomiting and bloody diarrhea, individuals may develop maculopapular rash with bleeding at needle sites and bodily orifices.There is no known standard treatment for Ebola hemorrhagic fever. "}{"Title":"OUTBREAK didn't bore me. It was one of the best thrillers to come out of its time.","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" My Take An excellent, if somewhat cinematic, thriller. Not since Robin Cook's novels, has there been a more plausible, and sometimes frightening, scenario than in OUTBREAK. One, wherein the threat is pointed out to be the smallest thing on our planet, the virus. OUTBREAK is a different kind of thriller, and that's what makes terrific entertainment. It's not since films like THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN and COMA have we seen a disaster picture like this, and when it's finally here, it turns out to be a great one.The film opens in 1967, in a small military camp in Zaire, wherein a certain virus affects its wounded soldiers. The government finds a solution to wipe it out, which cost thousands of lives. The film reopens at the present day, on research Bio-genetics lab. Military colonel Sam Daniels (Dustin Hoffman) and his crew are investigating a deadly plague, the similar one back in 1967. Daniels wants to issue an alarm, but, with the usual reason of contradictions, his boss, Gen. Billy Ford (Morgan Freeman), even his ex-wife (Rene Russo) thinks he's too risky and paranoid. But of course, the virus reaches the U.S., carried by a small cat-sized African monkey. When the virus spreads in a small American village, the military takes on the problem with some striking realism. While Daniels and his crew search for a cure, a military general (Donald Sutherland) wants to air bomb the town, wiping out sick and dying Americans which may have a chance to get a cure.From the basic premise alone, OUTBREAK manages to be strikingly plausible. although played with a popcorn movie fashion, the film grips you from start to finish. The credit goes mainly to director Wolfgang Petersen, who dishes up some good amounts of thrills and edge, and of course his usual focus on detail. The performances by Hoffman, Russo, Freeman and the rest of the cast are terrific as well. Along with anything else, including the soundtrack, script and photography give terrific contributions of making a well-crafted film. Whether it's a popcorn film or a serious medical/military thriller, OUTBREAK didn't bore me. It was one of the best thrillers to come out of its time, with a terrific package of thrills, suspense and maybe a few laughs. Rating ***** out of 5.Movie InfoDirector Wolfgang PetersenCast Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman, Donald Sutherland, Cuba Gooding Jr., Kevin Spacey.Writers Laurence Dworet, Robert Roy PoolRunning time 127 min. Rated R for language and frightening images "},{"Title":"A Huge Letdown!","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Wolfgang Petersen's 'Outbreak' is a huge letdown. The problem with this 1995-hit? The writing isn't tight at most places, the performances are not very attractive and sadly not even the direction. Sure, it has some engaging moments, but they are few.'Outbreak' is about a virus called Motaba. It has the crust to spread majorly and can finish Man-Kind, until of course, you get the geniuses to work on it. Dustin Hoffman is the main Hero here, with some well-known supporting characters, who try to stop this unstoppable disaster. 'Outbreak' begins with a bang, the initial reels unfold with engaging moments. But the problem begins in the second half, it loses the pace completely. And even the much-hyped culmination of this disastrous virus comes out amateurish.Wolfgang Petersen's direction, at most times, lacks the bite. The Screenplay is flawed. Michael Ballhaus's Cinematography is passable. Music by James Newton Howard, has something to take home.Coming to the acting department, Dustin Hoffman is alright. He isn't in form at all, this time around. Rene Russo is superb, she enacts her part with flourish. Morgan Freeman repeats his act. Cuba Gooding, Jr. does a fair job. Kevin Spacey is sincere, while Donald Sutherland doesn't impress. Patrick Dempsey appears in an apology of a role.On the whole, 'Outbreak' fails to entertain it's viewer. It lacks the merits to keep you hooked from start to end. "},{"Title":"Every cliche in the book","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you dislike Hollywood cliches then stay away. NOTHING deviates from the painfully predictable.Why does a in principle good director with a in principle good idea for a script hire a in principle good cast and then kill it all in mindless cliches?? They are all there, I won't bother to mention them, think of one and it's there. Especially Dustin Hoffman's character is unbearable to watch and that's not good as he IS the film.If they had spend maybe 1000 dollars more on a decent script writer with just a few original thoughts it could have been a good film.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie!","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very good film! It has an all star cast which includes Donald Sutherland, Dustin Hoffman, Rene Russo, Morgan Freeman, Dale Dye, J.T. Walsh, Cuba Gooding Jr. Patrick Dempsey, and Kevin Spacey! The film has very good acting from all of the great and talented actors and most of the others are good as well! Hoffman was excellent and in fact this arguably could be his best performance! Sutherland, Freeman, Russo, and Spacey was as good as always! The performance by Gooding Jr. was very good! J.T. Walsh's brief role was played excellently! I think he put everything he could into it! It was really a fantastic perforce! The helicopter chase seen was awesome! It was incredible how it was filmed and its very intense! The music by James Newton Howard is very good! Good directing by Wolfgang Petersen! I noticed that Freeman and Spacey has been in two films together that I know of which is this one and Se7en! The characters are totally different in Seven than in this one. If you love the actors mentioned above and want see an action thriller about a horrible virus then watch Outbreak! Strongly recommended! "},{"Title":"ooops....","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I wrote another review about this movie, only, it was about OUTLAND, not Outbreak... (A little bit different, there) I wanted to write about the Movie Outland, starring Sean Connery, but accidentally clicked on Outbreak, instead....  (How embarrassing)  ANYWAY...... I do like this movie, also, it was a great acting job by Dustin, and Cuba.... not to mention, Donald plays a pretty good Dark part, also...The special effects were ok..., and overall, the movie was quite enjoyable....and very much worth seeing!You would probably like OUTLAND, also... lol  "},{"Title":"Great Sci-Fi movie","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One comment....  I'm soooo  glad they didn't decide to use laser pistols, and so on....  they made this movie very believable, and showed what might go on when you have a planet full of corporate miners with nothing more to do on their off-time then go to the corporate stripper bar (which, I might add, wasn't too bad!!) but you can definitely get tired of that sort of thing after a while...so, there's drug-induced psychosis!! (That's fun!!)  Then, add a new marshal who's been sh*tcanned from one place to another, and finally ends up on this rock, not exactly fantasy island, for sure.  Sean does a great job in his role, and I loved the doctor, she was one of my favorite characters!  The wife, and Paulie (son) weren't that great in my opinion...  the kid had no expression at all, just a stupid grin on his face... Bye daddy I love you..grin, grin (although he may never see him again)Overall, the movie was great and I think it was a very worthwhile movie to see, and to own on DVD.  "},{"Title":"Be Afraid.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A virus carried from an African monkey takes an amazing journey to infect a small U.S. town in this deeply disturbing and frightening film. The virus makes Ebola look like the common flu as it moves from person to person in a matter of seconds it seems. The fact that it is airborne just adds to its destruction. Wolfgang Petersen's typical intriguing screenplay and the top-notch performances from Dustin Hoffman, Kevin Spacey, Rene Russo, Cuba Gooding, Jr., Morgan Freeman and Donald Sutherland all add a real tension and fear in this surprising thrill-ride that will keep you on the edge of your seat until its finale. Somewhat simple story-line told near perfectly. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Over-hyped Insult To Anyone Of Intelligence","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"12 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I remember this film getting a lot of hype before it came out. You could see advertisements promoting it all over television for a few weeks. Well, I got sucked in and was anxious to see it, myself. As usual, it didn't live up to the hype. It wasn't bad; just not as good as I had hoped.One thing that turned me off was the typical government-is-the-bad guy storyline again. Holy smokes - isn't this getting a bit tiresome, especially by an industry which makes billions of dollars in this country? (Nothing like a grateful attitude and true patriotism - that's today's left-wing world of film.)'It's not good to kill the trees, says another eco-nut who traces the U.S.'s mistakes in attempting to wipe out an Africa virus. Of course, if the military had hugged the trees, none of this human carnage would have happened! Really? Dustin Hoffman, Kevin Spacey, Morgan Freeman, Donald Sutherland and Rene Russo are old hands at playing in slanted political stories. The left-wing slants in this film keep coming, just like the plague reverse-racism (a General who's conscience doesn't agree with his government is naturally a black man. The villain military guy, naturally, is the Caucasian. When have you ever seen the reverse? It's always the same in modern-day films. Look it up. In addition, we get more Hollywood clichés at the end with the typical overdone chase scene, which is so stupid I just laughed out loud at parts of it.Entertaining? Yes. An insult to anyone's intelligence? Oh, yeah! "},{"Title":"Very good movie!!!!","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Saving Private Ryan. Tom Hanks rocks!!!!!!!! WW2 rocks!!!! Very good movie!!!! Tom Hanks plays really good, all the other stars are grate too. Super effects and plot. It not much to say, but joust watch it!!!! I will recommend this very much!!!! But it is kind of bloody, if you know what I mean!!! But watch it, its a great movie!Saving Private Ryan. Tom Hanks rocks!!!!!!!! WW2 rocks!!!! Very good movie!!!! Tom Hanks plays really good, all the other stars are grate too. Super effects and plot. It not much to say, but joust watch it!!!! I will recommend this very much!!!! But it is kind of bloody, if you know what I mean!!! But watch it, its a great movie! "},{"Title":"Outbreak","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From director Wolfgang Petersen (In the Line of Fire, Air Force One), this is really good film with a deadly virus spread by a cute monkey. Basically somewhere in Africa many people have been dying of an unknown virus, and it Col. Sam Daniels' (Dustin Hoffman) job to make sure it does not spread any further. For now he investigating along with girlfriend Robby Keough (Rene Russo), Maj. Salt (Cuba Gooding Jr.) and Maj. Casey Schuler (Kevin Spacey) to find the cause, the speed, the impact, and the cure! The bad news is that he does not know what is causing it, and soon enough it spreads to America, and we know it is a monkey that is the cause/source. The virus pretty much makes your skin break up, melt kind of, and a lot of coughing and puking. Also starring Morgan Freeman as Brig. Gen. Billy Ford, Donald Sutherland as Maj. Gen. Donald McClintock and Patrick Dempsey as Jimbo Scott. With some action sequences, panicking, and a real bastard Sutherland, who thinks the situation will end if he blows up the town! Very good! "}]