[{"Title":"Dark humour or nihilism?","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Powerful movie that shows the nastier, more foul-mouthed side of Hollywood. Guy, played by Whaley, is a Hollywood rookie with no real experience but some lofty goals.  The movie charts his learning of the ways of Hollywood through becoming an assistant for fastidious big-shot producer Buddy Ackerman (Spacey), and his subsequent unlearning of the 'normal' moral values that apply almost anywhere else.  A remarkable performance from Spacey who is by turns searingly offensive, scathingly funny and (funnily enough) vividly human.  Making an audience feel for such a revolting character is a feat not many could accomplish, but Spacey's up to the task. Frank Whaley (possibly known to you through a bit part in 'Pulp Fiction') also turns in a very strong performance as the disillusioned young assistant who falls in love (or rather, in bed) with a female producer played by the sultry Michelle Forbes.  Spacey and Whaley's interplay in key scenes is riveting, and for the most part, the younger Whaley manages to stay out of Spacey's shadow.The movie's ending is quite unforeseeable, and its message can be construed either as darkly humorous satire against Hollywood, or as a nihilistic comment on the ways of mankind.  Judging by the not-so-humorous tone of the movie (though ludicrously enough it was marketed as a comedy), to me it feels like the latter applies.  Definitely worth seeing, even if only for Spacey.  8/10  "},{"Title":"For anyone who's ever had a vindictive boss - or a job at all, for that matter","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Swimming with Sharks was made right around the time Kevin Spacey was becoming a rising star - his name was becoming well known enough that he could help finance low budget movies. Along with The Usual Suspects he helped Swimming with Sharks get off the ground, and now ten years later (it was given wide release in 1995) it still holds up well as a very, very dark comedy.In fact, comedy isn't the right word. This shouldn't really be classified as comedy. It's not that funny. It works better as a dark satire - I expected something like War of the Roses, but instead I got a Tarantino version of Office Space (complete with torture, violence, revenge and mayhem!).Frank Whaley stars as Guy, a typical nobody who dreams of being a somebody. (Even his name confines him to anonymity.) When he lands a job working for world-famous producer Buddy Ackerman (Spacey), his future looks bright...until he realizes what he's in for.Spacey delivers the best performance of the film, yelling, screaming, and throwing hissy fits practically every time he's on screen. But he never pushes the limits. He's always believable as a self-absorbed, ego-maniacal, ruthless producer; the director claims on the DVD commentary track and documentaries that he based the character and many scenes on actual things that happened to him while he worked for unnamed producers in Hollywood. Joel Silver is rumored to have been the basis for Ackerman.The movie isn't great and never really achieves the amount of laughs I wanted but if you view it as a very dark drama-comedy you're more likely to enjoy it. I still found myself quite entertained and taken aback by how daring and unique this movie actually is - no one can condemn it for resorting to clichés. The ending is a punch in the stomach, I never expected it.Whaley is good at playing the over/underwhelmed everyman and the direction is OK (if just so). The best aspects are the witty script and Kevin Spacey's scene-stealing performance; together he has good chemistry with Whaley and the movie succeeds based on the actors' success in their roles. "},{"Title":"Why is this so enjoyable?","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Swimming with Sharks sees Guy (Frank Whaley) attempt to turn the tables on his abusive boss Buddy (Kevin Spacey), and while this makes the film simple and unoriginal in terms of plot, it is a cut above the rest thanks to the performances of its small cast.One would assume that we would root for Guy, the innocent graduate demeaned by his aggressive boss, but the way the film tells the story prevents us from empathizing with him (as does his awful haircut); knowing that he tortures Buddy physically for his mental abuse complicates our response, and puts us on Buddy's side, allowing us to enjoy the games Buddy plays with Guy. This is something that's made very easy to do by the acting. Kevin Spacey is typically excellent as Buddy Ackerman and is the most engaging character in the film, remaining funny and manipulative throughout, even while being tortured and held hostage, as well as handling the more serious emotional aspects of his character expertly. Frank Whaley is also brilliant, playing the overwhelmed lapdog who is eventually pushed over the edge by Buddy's abuse. Importantly however, despite his plans for revenge, he remains under Buddy's spell right up until the end, and is eventually broken.The film's conclusion further complicates our responses to both characters. The hostage situation revelations pull the audience between the impassioned-now-heartless Buddy and the desperate and confused Guy, but ultimately good does not prevail, and the shooting and Buddy's manipulation of the situation remove us from both characters as the film ends.All in all, Swimming with Sharks is an enjoyable film. The simple plot and small cast are compensated for by some fine performances; it's funny , well-acted, and definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"One of the best artistic commentaries on the professional world","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film would be worth watching just for Kevin Spacey's portrayal of the ultimate boss from hell, Buddy Ackerman, but there's also much more than that going on. Ostensibly a damning look at the inner workings of the film business, Swimming with Sharks just as accurately depicts any highly dysfunctional employer/employee/associate relationships, and that's a lot of them.But even more than that, there is a lot of mostly unstated philosophical material underpinning much of the film, some of it literal and some more metaphorical, such as the ending. One of the key lines of dialogue towards this end is Ackerman's, If you're not a rebel by 21, you've got no heart, and if you haven't gone establishment by 30, you've got no brain.Ackerman obviously has problems or he wouldn't be acting quite in the way that he is, but director George Huang and Spacey are also careful to show that Ackerman has a lot more going on than surface behavior--he's acting the way that he is purposefully, both to get his due now as part of the establishment and to coyly manipulate his young, meek and abused underling, Guy (Frank Whaley), along with everyone else he comes into contact with. His aim is to mold Guy in a particular way--a way that works even though Guy thinks that he's severely breaking form in the extended penultimate scene that's intercut with Guy and Ackerman's history.Huang shows professional relationships as consisting mostly of politicking and manipulation. That's true at every level--certainly even Guy is doing this. There is very little authenticity to anyone in their working relationships. That seems pretty accurate to me, unfortunately. It's notable that the one dream of authenticity in the film--Guy talking about moving to Wyoming with Dawn (Michelle Forbes)--is treated and dispensed with as an unreachable fantasy, and it's also notable (and is fairly literally pointed out in the film) that Dawn, the one character who tries to demand being more authentic amidst the shark infested waters of the professional world, basically never gets anywhere.In the highly metaphorical ending of the film, things remain manipulative, political and backstabbing, and in that climate, at least two out of three characters win. Huang seems to be suggesting that the professional world ain't likely to change any time soon, and that even if you try to change it or manipulate the game itself, you're likely to just get eaten up by it, processed by it and incorporated into it anyway. Again, I can't say I disagree with him. "},{"Title":"Spacey great as always","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Kevin Spacey, perhaps the finest actor on the planet, is brilliant as usual in his hilarious turn as Buddy Ackerman, one of the nastiest characters that you'll ever see anywhere on film.  Sure, the whole cast is great, but it is Spacey who really shines, and he is the reason that this film works so well. Watch this movie if you want to laugh your head off, or if you simply want to see a legend in the making at the top of his game, yet again. "},{"Title":"a misfortunate case of a great fim seen by a few movie buffs","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"29 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Today, when kevin spacey has enough recognition and reputation that won't be tampered even if he'll star on baywatch for the rest of his life - my praises won't mean much. spacey is a superb actor, no doubt about it. but for frank whaley, appearences in the right films (natural born killers, born in the 4th of july, pulp fiction) as well as a undisputable talent did not turn him to a reknowned actor - which only goes to show that no matter how good you are, in most cases success is a luck depandant variable. On with the movie, the story of an ambitious youngster who wishes to engage in a key role of the film industry and starts to work as an assistant for a completely manipulating, ungreatful, demeaning movie producer george huang(the writer and director) could come up with. the movie begins with guy (frank whaley) kidnapping buddy ackerman in his own house and concurrently whit guy's act of abuse to his hated boss, unfolds the story of a young kid with high hopes who was entangled both in the cynic world of his women loving, hair losing boss and in a relationship with a struggling movie producer - dawn (michelle forbes- now on homicide - life on the streets). the movie continues up to the point where guy has to decide which of those worlds to choose and now i won't add anything in fear of disclosing the end (and its unpredictable no matter which option you chose)the movie is a complete delight and all i can say is - this may not be the best film you ever seen but it will sure leave enough of an impression to more than justify the two hours of your leisure time.9 out of 10 in my scale  "},{"Title":"Hollywood's dark heart","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" From Sunset Boulevard (1950) through to The Player (1992), the dark side of Hollywood has given up juicy material for filmmakers looking to bite the hand that feeds. Not that there is any secret to be revealed here - pretty much everything you need to know about the soulless, spirit-crushing side of movie-making is contained in Raymond Chnadler's 1945 essay Writer's in Hollywood, which contains more horror than any of the celluloid parodies it has since inspired.Swimming with Sharks is the tale of innocent Guy (a freshly scrubbed Frank Whaley), whose monster boss is tinsel town king-maker Buddy Ackerman, a screaming, mood-shifting bully who dangles just enough opportunity before Guy to keep him on his leash. But payback is due, and comes in spades.It is all very dark and delicious, and Spacey gets to rip loose as the psycho boss, the joke being that it is his very lack of sanity and compassion that allows him to thrive in the business. Love interest is supplied by producer Dawn (Michelle Forbes), who allows Guy to stay grounded as he negotiates his way to the top. Dawn and Guy show us that even in Hollywood true love can conquer all - or can it? It is received wisdom that movies about movies don't travel very well. Swimming with Sharks is about delusion and corruption, and how much the human spirit can take. It just happens to be set in Hollywood, but Buddy Ackerman could be Gordon Gecko in a different market. Worth watching to see Spacey enjoying himself in a role where he gets to say pretty much whatever he likes, and does so with relish. "},{"Title":"Caustic, cynical examination of the inner workings of the film industry","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" While through the ages, many noteworthy motion pictures detailing the film industry itself have been made, the majority concentrated on a highly positive tone, portraying Hollywood as the organization which brought dreams to life, or similar self serving platitudes. However, in the early 90s, a new trend began to emerge - films which delved below the glossy exterior of Hollywood and began to expose more negative aspects of the industry. One would be hard pressed to find as fitting an example of this Hollywood introspective neo- realism as writer/director George Huang's semi-autobiographical (but hopefully only to an extent...) Swimming With Sharks - a biting, cynical look at the interior of the film industry which challenges the preconceptions of the industry and its bleak aims.Like Robert Altman's The Player, Swimming with Sharks offers a harshly critical commentary on the corporate moneymaking machine that is Hollywood, but from the opposite end the perspective of a low level assistant striving to rise in the ranks. However, similar to Altman's work, Huang's film dabbles with the notion of being a black comedy or darkly satirical take on the business end of the film industry, but ultimately lacks the acerbic wit needed to succeed on such a front. As such, while the occasional moment of darkly gleeful comedic insight may derived, for the most part, the film falters on attempted darkly ironic comedic moments which come across as too heavy handed to be truly funny. The film's main strength is in its strictly dramatic climax; its harrowing and powerful turn of events toying with notions of all consuming ambition and free will in a truly gripping fashion. Combined with a numbingly unexpected and chilling ending scene, the film's finale is easily its strongest point - enough so to carry the occasional botched comic moment from earlier in the film. However, Tom Heil's understated and affecting single piano score and the occasional moment of intriguing cinematography also add to the overall quality of the work. Kevin Spacey is the main pleasure to behold here as the film's main selling point, the boss from Hell figure Buddy Ackerman. Alternating between wryly funny, starkly powerful and disconcertingly human, Spacey, though disappointingly denied the ability to chew the scenery quite as much as one might hope for, easily walks away with the picture with his top notch work. Frank Whaley gives an adequate performance as the constantly put upon assistant who finally seeks revenge, though his character is given next to no development and Whaley lacks the engaging charisma needed to really sell the role. Michelle Forbes also comes across as disappointingly flat as an ambitious business woman caught between Spacey and Whaley, though she shines in certain scenes. Watch also for an early appearance by Benicio Del Toro in a tiny role as Whaley's predecessor. While it may falter as the black comedy it clearly wants to be throughout, the film excels as the harshly critical drama it becomes by the end. An undeniably maliciously enjoyable performance by Spacey keeps the film afloat, and while it may occasionally come across as lopsided or falling short of its potential, Swimming with Sharks keeps enough surprises up its proverbial sleeve to remain interesting throughout as a cynical treatise on ambition and the film industry which thrives upon it. -7/10 "},{"Title":"Delightful discovery","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was so depressed after watching The Men Who Stare At Goats that I actively sought out Kevin Spacey movies to help redeem my perceptions of him. I saw K-Pax last week, which was adequately engaging, then found Swimming with Sharks on the IFC. What a find! This low-cost(less than $1M) film must not have had a very big marketing budget -- it completely escaped me at the time -- but it's one of the best performances Kevin Spacey I've ever seen. An abusive, self-indulgent, arrogant boss in the film industry, his role easily translates into that of a recognizable evil boss in any field. Spacey nicely runs the gamut of expression from god-like to humbled. His once-idealistic assistant is played by Frank Whaley, who never really saw his full potential subsequently develop in his career but has had nice turns in Pulp Fiction and a number of high-production TV series. Whaley too should be commended for his ability to grow the character from a wide-eyed beginning his dream job, to a vengeful warrior out for blood. The film centers on the dysfunctional relationship between these two and is weak only when it attempts to introduce minor roles featuring Michelle Forbes (Maryann on True Blood) and Benecio del Toro (though these actors perform well with what they've been given). "},{"Title":"He who must be obeyed","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film just sums up what it is to be a flunky in Hollywood. Buddy Ackerman is your normal high flying film producer, from the sharp suits down to the aggressive approach to anyone below him. Guy is flunky who has the job of dealing with Buddy's every whim, and then there's Dawn Lockard who is stuck in the middle. With an explosive relationship between all of them, the film is set at the home of Buddy. Guy has taken him hostage, and is annoyed that Buddy has fired him. Set with a series of flashbacks starting with an appearance with Benicio Del Toro, it tells the tale of what Guy has had to put up with in working for Buddy and all the hell he was put through to get to the place that he was before being fired over nothing. Very under-rated film and Spacey is amazing. Also applause to go to Frank Whaley for his great conflicting work with Spacey. A+ "}{"Title":"The Player meets Office Space. The Inside Dope On Hollywood Off Of The Red Carpet.","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" by Dane Youssef Now here's a movie for those looking for an attack on white-collar corporate office life, the spinning gears of Hollywood. Swimming With Sharks seems to owe more than a little something to Dilbert. The movie is more about Corporate America than Hollywood. There are a lot of white-collar touches that apply to offices, cubicles and other such rather than the Hollywood spin machine. Like Robert Altman's The Player, this is one of those thrillers about people in the biz who are driven to the breaking point by how cruel L.A. can really be.The film's writer/director George Huang himself was a former personal assistant to some of the biggest names in Hollywood, has described the movie as 20% autobiographical. Much of this one is said to be based on his experience working for noted mega-mogul producer Joel Silver for Columbia Pictures. So it should come as no surprise what-so-ever that his first crack at film was his own life story.Surprise, surprise, huh? Well, more or less.Despite Kevin Spacey being the big name in this movie and him getting first-billing, Frank Whaley (Career Opportunities) is the star of this one. Most of anything with him head-lining is a sign of a bad movie (Cold Dog Soup and The Jimmy Show), but this is one of those where he shines because he's allowed to. He's not the most versatile actor, the best-looking or the most charismatic. He's had a rep as being something of the life-long bit player. But when he's given a movie, script and part which allows him any headway, he damn well manages to make the most of it.Spacey, being one of Hollywood's finest and renown, is able to pull off the screaming antagonistic drill-instructor and the restrained, tortured hostage here pitch perfectly. Whaley effectively plays the green, naive wide-eyed rookie to the Hollywood roulette wheel with his usual perfection, but when the other shoe drops, he doesn't quite pull off the scorned, disgruntled employee seeking revenge. His Jekyll isn't as convincing as his Hyde. He doesn't scare us. He never seems truly unhinged. Maybe that's why Whaley sticks to the youthful deer-in-the-headlights. Whaley doesn't really seem as demented and unhinged as he should in his captor scenes. He's best as a whipping boy--which is why he plays so many.1994 was the official year for Spacey. He got his breakout with the TV series Wiseguys, and made the big screen transition with worthwhile fare like his Oscar-winning supporting role in The Usual Suspects, The Ref, Se7en and this. Spacey monopolized himself in the '94 as absolute talent (my term).Benecio Del Toro, the Brad Pitt of Mexico (someone else's quote, believe me, I never dubbed him such) has a quickie cameo as Spacey's assistant who's given his three weeks' notice and is on the way out, making way for Guy. But not before giving Whaley some final parting words of wisdom. Protect his interests, serve his needs. What you think means nothing. What you feel means nothing. You have no brain. He yells all the time. It's a lose-lose situation. This job is a fast-track shortcut to the top and if Guy does right and keeps his mouth open wide to catch all of Buddy's crap, he may very well be someday on the same mantel as Buddy and his former assistants. Everything Guy'll ever need to know about his job, he learns on day one.Enter Dawn Locklard (Michelle Forbes of Guiding Light and 24), another powerful Hollywood producer who Guy doesn't have the best first meeting with. She doesn't show a lot of warmth, which explains why she's a producer.She herself is angry and cynical, and throughout the course of the film, we will see why. She eventually warms up to Guy and asks him out. Guy is stunned. But she needs Buddy on her side and is interested in him getting behind her new project. Guy sees this as an opportunity. Her new project for the studio, Real Life may just be Guy's window of opportunity. She seems to be interested in Guy because he's the most real thing she's seen in the Valley for the longest time. But does she really feel something for him or is she just using him? Is Buddy two- faced and back-stabbing or is Dawn? Guy no longer knows what's real and what's what? Although when Guy starts to show some spine after a lot of Buddy's tantrums, the payoff is almost evenly matched with the faux-sugar scene. Buddy gets to emotionally, verbally (and at times, physically) abuses Guy (and apparently all his assistant's) on every possible occasion. He also gets to skewer just about everyone who crosses his path.Swimming With Sharks is no featherweight comedy for a slow night about a bullying boss like the trailer lead you to believe. It's a film which deals with white-collar office comedy and torturous drama. Shifting from a lightweight comedy to a torturous thriller. It's sort of schizophrenic thing. We're laughing heartily one minute and horrified the next. A lot of time, this one keeps us guessing as it criss-crosses from Buddy torturing Guy to vice-versa.But there's a lot (maybe too much) about this one that rings too-true to life. A lot of moments filled with the harsh insights and disillusioned truths that one learns from living an uncharmed life. And so there's illuminating light and lessons, as well as laughs. Not to mention some great heavier moments where ugly secrets about Buddy and... well, surprisingly Dawn are revealed.The plot is over-developed and the ending is more poetic than anything else. But most of the movie really does work and really does sticks with you... like all the great ones do.--Hoo-Ray For Corporate Hollywood, Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"When I began to REALLY like Kevin Spacey","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thought Spacey was rather one-dimensional as an actor, but this began to change my mind, as reinforced by his outstanding multi-dimensional work in K-Pac, among others.This movie probably means more to Hollywood insiders who have to try to cope within the system than the rest of us (we've all had jerks for a boss, right???). But intentional, demeaning, unrelenting abuse and sadism? Is that really the norm in Hollywood? Take a bow, Kevin, for making it believable.And there are nice twists and turns throughout to keep viewers off-base. The only negative I had was towards the end, which seemed to have way too much on-going dialog to support the intense situation. "},{"Title":"Very bitter but Spacey is excellent","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Guy is the latest in a long line of personal assistants to Keystone Pictures executive Buddy.  However he quickly learns that he must put up with a torrent of abuse and unreasonable demands.  After a year of this he is pushed to the limit and decides to take action &#150; however if Buddy is unreasonable what does it take to make it in show business?A dark, cruel satire on the business called show.  Director writer Huang spent 6 years in Lucasfilms and Columbia so this is very bitter and real.  However it manages to be funny and very dark.  The plot is told in flashbacks and is very dark.  The end is depressing for those of us who believe that Hollywood isn't all egos.  The plot does have weaknesses though &#150; Buddy going for a film called Real Life is pretty unlikely but this is a minor flaw.The main strength here is Spacey.  His nasty energy is great and it's impossible to look away when he's onscreen.  However when he's not there the film sags a little.  Whaley is very good and the mousey personality suits his looks.Overall it may be a little hard to watch because it is a very bitter tale from Huang, however Spacey is a master and delivers a performance that shows why he became famous. "},{"Title":"Frank Whaley is a surprise......","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" and quite good in this role; I had not seen him in very many movies, prior to this. I became an avid fan after this movie; he is a very honest and self-effacing actor (Quite a rarity, these days!!!).Many other reviewers have accurately stated the portrayal of the Hollywood studio system;Spacey's character (who is excellent, of course). So I will delve more into Whaley's character.Guy is climbing up the ladder, and anyone who has worked in an impersonal corporate environment will relate, and find humor in this; the scene where Benicio del Toro tells him to take up smoking; (You'll need it in this place)....also the scene where Kevin Spacey demands that Guy ...keep up to date on any hair replacement products....There are many great lines, depicting the superficiality and insane pettiness in many offices.Michelle Forbers portrays a producer, whom Spacey has used before; (Get your pretty little butt in my office...Spacey says to her); today that may cause a lawsuit in the corporate environment;but it is what he was surely thinking; if not worse.One of the more pertinent scenes is when Michelle Forbes is asking Guy ....Why do you take his s - - -; and Guy responds that.... movies have always been his reference point in life; he remembers his first kiss, etc., according to fictional characters and stories. I think this was a very interesting point, and could have been more developed into the story. Psychologically, many people relate to fictive personalities more than real ones; and it has been theorized by many media psychologists that even soap operas help people in everyday life.Finally, Guy does get his revenge on Buddy, which I'm sure many of us have fantasized about; getting revenge on a vindictive boss/employer. "},{"Title":"Fun for a while, but seriously flawed","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  (minor spoilers, but they're mostly about theme.)Tone, tone, tone. That's the problem with Swimming With Sharks. A black comedy about revenge? That's what the box seems to indicate. A drama about losing one's soul in the Hollywood machinery? That's what the ending seems to say. In this case, doing both just doesn't work, not for me, anyway. The movie cruises along fine as a dark comedy in which the boss from Hell (Kevin Spacey) yells just one too many times at the young assistant (Frank Whaley) who happens to let loose his inner psycho. Then suddenly, there's this dramatic turn that comes out of nowhere, and dousing paper cuts with lemon juice and tabasco (don't worry, you'll understand) doesn't seem so much fun anymore. Sometime around this point I began to feel sorry for Kevin Spacey's character, which I don't think was the director's intention. And the ending is a complete mess.  I don't buy it, and from having read many of the other comments, I'm not alone.  "},{"Title":"Well-played, but way too uneven ...","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yes, the performances (especially Spacey's--mesmerizing) were excellent, but the film suffers simply because it does not know what it wants to be.  Both halves are well-done, but placed side-by-side it almost seems as though two separate films were hastily meshed together by an overworked film editor. The comedy is far too light to stand aside overly dark torture scenes, although Spacey does a fine job in turning what is essentially a caricature of a tough boss into a multi-level (and very stirring) performance.  I do, however, have to agree with some of the posts on this board--Spacey's motivation in the last scenes is indeed very difficult to comprehend.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing - Maybe Because Of The Build-Up.","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" One man's opinion-- About 15 minutes into the film, Frank Whaley's interpretation of Guy began to irritate me much like, say, paper cuts. The *constant* stammering, the *constant* downcasting of eyes, the *constant* facial ticks began to grate. Yeah, I understand that Guy is considered a farm boy from upstate New York but nothing led me to believe that he could go from a doormat to a cold-blooded killer during the course of, basically, one telephone call;-- BTW, if you're going to be a cold-blooded killer, knock off both of them;-- I liked Kevin Spacey's interpretation of Buddy. Absolutely despicable...but a possibly fun guy (no pun intended) to go have a beer with;-- Mr. Del Toro's performance was breathtakingly hilarious;-- Did not - for one second - believe the relationship between Guy and Dawn. Hollywood Producer (I'm holding my right hand very high in the air) dating laundromat-using Assistant (I'm holding my left hand very low to the ground);-- I am the absolute worse at guessing the endings of movies (Bruce Willis was dead throughout the whole film? Really?) but I guessed this one almost immediately. I'm no Einstein but it appeared obvious to even my peanut-sized brain that the corpse in the beginning of the film wasn't Buddy. And then once a strong female lead was introduced...;-- Did I mention that Frank Whaley's performance irritated me?;-- Finally, Pulp Fiction was recently on cable and Mr. Whaley's performance - for what it's worth - was stunning. So much so that I went to IMDb.com, looked him up, found out what else he had appeared in and - through the miracle that is Netflix - rented Swimming With Sharks.Once again, one man's opinion.Oh, I should mention that I'm an idiot, I don't understand movies, I make doo-doo in my pants, I shouldn't be allowed to reproduce, I am a ___________ (fill in your own insult!).Tim "},{"Title":"Never apologize, it's a sign of weakness.","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Billed as a comedy, Swimming With Sharks rarely came close to that description. It's really a biting satire on corporate greed and climbing the industry ladder literally on the backs (and bodies) of others. I never had a boss from hell of Buddy Ackerman's dimensions, but probably came pretty close. I recall a closed door argument between a company vice-president and one of his subordinate directors, and the underling was no guy/Guy like Frank Whaley's character. You could hear the two yelling at each other across the office before the thing settled down. Fortunately it was so early in the morning most of the staff wasn't in to work yet, but it was quite the show for anyone there.Kevin Spacey excels in an early starring role as the sadistic Buddy Ackerman. The thing is however, he exhibits a disconcerting aura of warmth and humanity at times that runs counter to his normal behavior. His is not the role model they talk about in business school, in fact it was almost refreshing to hear his diatribe about having to work one's way up instead of expecting to start at the top with an expectation of entitlement.You know, for some odd reason I had the impression that Guy was going to shoot Dawn (Michelle Forbes) instead of Buddy, seeing as how he had already endured a year of Buddy's vengeful and abusive behavior. It comes as a shock to most viewers, but if you're going to take a film like this to it's limits, it only makes sense that Guy was going to ensure his career path by going the extra mile. It's called having a job to kill for. "},{"Title":"If You Ever Worked in Hollywood, You May Relate to this Fantasy of a Minno Getting Revenge on a Shark","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Because the Hollywood industry is saturated with those who dream of being on the inside, some people at the higher levels abuse their positions of power. Some of these regard themselves as the equivalent of demi-gods or priest-like figures, guarding the gates of the temple of the film/entertainment industry. They expect to be worshiped or at least revered, allowing the initiated to pass through. Those who are given a chance to become initiates are sometimes subjected to a kind of hazing process in which the poor initiate is subjected to the whims of the high elites.Kevin Spacey plays Buddy Ackerman, the perfect Hollywood shark, a studio executive who believes everything he says and does should be viewed as gospel by those who work under him. Guy (Frank Whaley) is his new assistant, or better stated, his new whipping boy. Guy is greener than an unripe tomato, replacing Rex (Benicio del Toro) of whom Buddy says is a good for nothing mongoloid on the first day. But before the first day is over, Guy realizes that this is going to be long term abuse.Spacey makes the perfect vain studio executive. One of the best aspects of his performance is that he wavers between seeming reasonable than flying into rages which would give your average wolverine a runs for its money. He berates Guy for giving him the wrong artificial sweetener. He throws books and papers at him. Even occasionally food. He even makes his assistant embark on impossible tasks, such as destroying every single copy of a Time Magazine issue which contained a scathing article about him. Ackerman's motto is You are nothing. You're opinion means nothing.As book ends to the narrative, we flash to another part of the story Guy has kidnapped Ackerman and has tied him. He's torturing him as payback. But the abuse is not the only reason Guy wants Buddy to suffer. As bad as Guy's mistreatment, the worst aspect is the executive's habit of taking credit for the deeds of others. In a poignant scene, Ackerman pretends to praise Guy to another executive, but Guy realizes it was false.A very interesting film, mostly for those who have either worked for or been associated with ego-maniacs. The movie industry is chock full of people who believe they are above everyone else because of certain successes. This gives some of them license to abuse others, particularly because so many desire what few positions are available. As Buddy himself says Life is not a movie. Good guys lose, everybody lies, and love... does not conquer all. "},{"Title":"Not satisfying... as a comedy anyway.","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought the movie tried to do too much.  Keeping this vague enough to not reveal any spoilers... I thought if the entire movie had been a comedy, like the first half, it could have been truly hilarious.  If the movie had been like the second half, we could have had a really good, serious tragedy.Instead, the first half (and the fact that the movie is billed as a comedy) sets us up to be in a lighthearted mood and to want to see bad things happen to Kevin Spacey, and then the second half makes him sympathetic and brutalizes us in our vulnerable state into feeling bad for him.Overall, I finished watching the movie pretty unsatisfied about everything. The hilarious punch-line I was waiting for at the end of the movie never happened and instead I was made to feel guilty about rooting for Whaley's character in the beginning.To be fair, the movie might be a completely satisfying and worthwhile experience if one goes into it knowing that it isn't a straightforward boss-bashing comedy.   "}{"Title":"Just to correct the previous guy","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The agent is Buddy Ackerman played by Kevin Spacey. The writer/director is George Huang. This movie is my opinion is brilliant and has some great dialog. I really feel that it's not a comedy but a dark, twisted look into the scathing world of how twisted the film industry is. I hear Joel Silver (whom the Buddy Ackerman character is based) really is a nightmare. I have never met him, so I can't write first hand. From this movie, I never want to. I think that Guy's level of what he can take and what he results in doing is something we have all thought of doing. I think this film is extremely cathartic and very interesting. I highly recommend. "},{"Title":"Dark but well acted","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Swimming with Sharks was an earlier work of Spacey and perhaps one of his better efforts in acting. Many of his other roles are rather sedate and reserved such as KPAX or Se7en, but this one is more like his role in the Negotiator. The mark of a good actor is his ability to competently act in any genre of film and Spacey has this ability. The rest of the cast was also very good in their roles making the film good for viewers. The film is about cut-throat movie producer Buddy Ackerman (Spacey) who brutally indoctrinates his assistant Guy (Whaley) into the world of film making. Most everyone really wants to see someone put the tyrant Ackerman in his place. Guy can only take so much though. By the time the film ends, the viewer is thankful but surprised. "},{"Title":"I'm speechless","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Oh my gosh. Woah. This movie is a RUSH man! I read reviews with almost all of them saying it dragged in the middle. DRAGGED? No way! This movie had me laughing, squirming in my chair, and feeling sad all at the same time. A rollercoaster, a complete ride. And the ending! eek That was probably the one ending I DIDN'T even consider. Wow. What a great film.One comment I would like to make real quickly on a personal note. I am a Kevin Spacey fan, and when you think you've seen it all, you just watch some of his movies. I hadn't seen this movie yet and I had heard from other fans that it was a favorite, so I was a little worried about it meeting expectations. Never doubt this man's ability!Ok, so let's talk about Buddy, shall we? Well, I don't think there is anyone on this earth who could see this movie and not realize how great of an actor Kevin Spacey is. I just don't. This performance is so unique, not just of Kevin's roles, but of almost any role. At first, Buddy's just funny. And I think he remains funny throughout the film. But he also gets progressively more evil and demeaning. This character is one that you would just want to... well, torture. And so I can see where Guy is coming from. Then, there is something else. Something I think only Kevin could manage to bring to this role- sympathy. Maybe no one else felt it, but I sure did. I felt sorry for Buddy. A wild thing to feel, I know. But somehow Kevin just plays with your emotions. He makes you feel sorry for the biggest jerk ever. Because you realize as the movie goes on that Buddy might not have ended up that way had Hollywood not been like it is (at least this theoretical Hollywood.)This is where I think this movie is totally the biggest bash on Hollywood ever made. It's just so revealing of how everyone is striving for their own thing and will do whatever it takes to get there. It's such a horrible attitude! It's what made Buddy like he is and in the end it's what drives Guy to resort to killing Dawn to climb the ladder. A question. Do you think that Buddy knew what Guy was going to do in the end? I think it's obvious that Dawn didn't, but what about Buddy? Let me make some comments on the ending of this movie. There are several possible things that could have happened as I see itGuy kills Buddy- Buddy wins, Guy goes to jail Guy kills Himself- Buddy wins, Guy is dead Guy doesn't kill anyone- Buddy wins, Guy goes to jail and his career is ruined Guy kills Dawn- Buddy wins, Guy wins, Dawn is deadSo basically, Guy could have picked a scenario in which he owned up to what he did, or accepted punishment, or just ended it for himself (not saying that's right). But instead, Guy picks the one way that he can escape scott free. No matter what Guy did, Buddy was going to win. Either by going back to his job or by ruining Guy's life or both. So he decided he would compromise. He would take an innocent person's life for his own good. He listened to Buddy. He let that scumbag get inside his head! (Like I said, Buddy is scum, but I do feel sorry for him because he has had some things happen to him which have made him think that being nice always make you lose.) What do you really want? Buddy asks him, time and time again. I think the end makes us realize, he wasn't asking what Guy wanted of him, but what Guy wanted for himself. He says he wants Dawn. He says he wants love, a normal life. He says he wants respect. But in the end, are those things what he really wants? No. Hollywood, the glamor and appeal of it has gotten to him just like the hardened men and women who went before him. He no longer really cares about being respected or loved. He cares about getting ahead. So what was Guy's mistake? I think his mistake was wanting the one thing he wanted. What did Guy want? He wanted to be Buddy. And in the end, he was. "},{"Title":"Great Acting by Kevin Spacey","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Found this film very entertaining and at the same time, it made me very upset with a Boss that would have driven me crazy. I doubt very much if I would have taken that kind of abuse, no matter what the salary was or how much I wanted to be a success in the Hollywood as a producer. Kevin Spacey( Buddy Ackerman),The Tower of Babble,'02 did such a fantastic job of acting his horrible part as a boss, you were convinced he was a real person. Frank Whaley,(Guy) A Good Night to Die,'03, was the poor slob who started out his new career under the wonderful supervisor, or Boss, Buddy Ackerman. Guy has no one to turn to except a very sexy and hot looking Michelle Forbes,(Dawn Lockard), Perfume,01, who befriends him in more ways than one in bed and guidance to stand up to the Big Boss. Excellent film to sit back and enjoy, don't miss it. "},{"Title":"A film that explores the dark side of Hollywood","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Swimming with Sharks is the 1994 cult comedy about a young, naive, starry-eyed, kid called Guy, (played by Frank Whaley.) who dreams of making it big in the world of Hollywood producers. But before he can get to the top of the studio he will first half to pay his dues, and that means being the lowly assistant to cruel egotistical producer Buddy Ackerman. (played by Kevin Spacey.) And Guy quickly learns that it's going to be the most miserable part of his life, because Buddy is incredibly demanding, constantly changing his mind, and show's no mercy even for the slightest mistakes. But as Guy begins to adjust to his new lifestyle, he begins to fall in love with another producer, Dawn Lockard. (played by Michelle Forbes.) And as their relationship develops, Guy slowly becomes more and more frustrated with Buddy until he finally decides to get revenge.Swimming with Sharks fits right in with other 90s films like Office Space, Fight Club, and Falling Down. Films about how working class males were not satisfied with were life had got them and resort to desperate measures to change it. Swimming with Sharks takes a very comedic approach to this subject, but at the same time a very dark one. Kevin Spacey nails the performance of Buddy Ackerman perfectly, but then again it's Kevin Spacey, what would you expect? I can't remember the last time I saw a character that was as vicious cruel and heartless as Buddy Ackerman. This gives every scene in the film an underlying tension because you never know when Buddy will lose his temper next. A lot of Buddy's dialogue is great as well. The scene were he compares Guy to other objects in the office might be the best in the whole film. Just because of the clever writing and vicious performance.Unfortunately towards the end of the film, they try to get you to sympathize with Buddy, and while the idea for it makes sense, (Buddy had to pay his dues as well, and now as he says in the film, it's my turn to be selfish.) it really comes off as incredibly forced. I get that Buddy was supposed to be a good guy that was turned bad by the Hollywood system, but the way the execute is so out of the blue and melodramatic, that when they first started doing it, I thought it was a joke. Another problem I have with the film is that the other two leads seem so weak when compared with Kevin Spacey, don't get me wrong neither of them or bad, and Frank Whaley is able to pull of his character fairly well, and has some good line delivery. But on a whole the other leads just aren't anywhere close to Kevin Spacey, which makes them seem a lot worse than they actually are. The film also jumps the shark, (pun intended) at the end, it goes way over the top and its themes get kind of muddled in all the pointless melodrama, but luckily it's able to bring them back for the very final scene of the film.But overall I would say Swimming with Sharks is a pretty solid film, it has its weaker parts, but none of them are bad enough to ruin the film. Swimming with Sharks has become a cult comedy, in the same way Office Space has become one. Both films resonated with audiences at the time, and for a good reason. Swimming with Sharks is a film that portrays greed and the harsh truths of the world in a funny way. Which is something that you don't see a lot of in films. 6.0/10 "},{"Title":"Space Case","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" American Beauty, Usual Suspects, Seven, Glenn Gary Glen Ross and L.A Confidential may have all been better films. Yet bar none have a better performance by Kevin Spacey than Swimming with Sharks.The Ref gets honorable mention if just for this one line when Spacey tells his his mother off..You know what I'm going to get you next Christmas, Mom? A big wooden cross, so that every time you feel unappreciated for your sacrifices, you can climb on up and nail yourself to it.Method acting 101/'On screen transition Spacey does this a lot, and almost effortlessly. Not many actors, in one shot, can go from a calm demeanor to a raving lunatic...then back again as if possessed by some alter 'evil i.d'.This movie made a debacle of human emotion -and then crapped in its coat. It callously spits on empathy so that when, finally, little is offered ... it's effortlessly enough to lure a viewers trust back to his characters game; this time for rear entry. This is The Devil Wear's Prada on crack. Bravo! "},{"Title":"How to get ahead at work!","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really thought that this film was good.Kevin Spacey plays a film executive(Buddy) but he is also the boss from hell. He treats everyone below him with complete and utter contempt - in particular his new assistant (Frank Whaley) Guy. He thinks that he is teaching Guy valuable lessons on how to get ahead in the film world but how much humiliation, abuse and insults can a human being take before before they snap? Well Guy does snap and Buddy all of a sudden is on the receiving end of the abuse........I'm sure that we can identify that we have all had less desirable bosses in the past and it does give me some satisfaction that payback is given to those bosses - even if it is only in the movies!  "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The key to enjoying this movie is not to be fooled by the box. Hysterical is not the word for this movie. Yes, there is enough black humor for the film to qualify as funny, but this is not a slapstick comedy. This an experiment in dark shades of the human psyche that will make you squirm in your seat. See this movie if you like Robert Altman movies. See this movie if you liked Hurly Burly or Glengarry Glen Ross. Then you will think this movie is funny. But don't go looking for Adam Sandler or Jim Carrey. They don't live here.(exception to the Jim Carrey rule) If you liked The Cable Guy, then this might be the movie for you. "},{"Title":"3.5 stars","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Buddy Ackerman (Kevin Spacey) is a Vice President at a major Hollywood studio, and Guy (Frank Whaley) is his new assistant, replacing Rex (Benicio Del Toro). Buddy treats his assistants like dirt (for example, telling Guy at one point that some pencils are more important than he is), but Guy puts up with it because Buddy's assistants (including Rex) all move on to bigger and better things. The one other significant character is a producer named Dawn Lockard (Michelle Forbes), who also abuses Guy when they first meet until she finds out that he works for Buddy, which she knows is bad enough.The story is actually told in flashback, from when Guy has taken Buddy hostage, in a scenario somewhat reminiscent of Nine to Five. But while that film is a fairly conventional comedy, this film is a pitch black comedy, and is not for all tastes. What makes it all work is Kevin Spacey, who you can really believe is a monster given how well he inhabits the Buddy character. The writing, by the director (George Huang, who was once such an assistant himself), is also very good, and apparently is real enough that many people have thought that the Buddy character is based on their bosses, even though he is really a composite of many people.Seen at the San Francisco International Film Festival on 4/24/2002 following an interview and lively question and answer session with the star, who chose this film to be screened. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but overrated (minor spoiler)","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I guess I expected a little more humor in this movie, plus, the movie ran a little too long up to the point where Frank cracks.  The acting was fine, but the story line just didn't grab me the way I thought it would. 6/10. "}{"Title":"Highly underrated, well acted drama","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Frank Whaley & Kevin Spacey turn in amazing performances in this fantastic. Spacey draws you in and Frank Whaley is impressive as a young apprentice learning exactly what it takes to make it in Hollywood. Great story with 2 great actors! "},{"Title":"Nihilistic, funny, and a great finish.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I keep reading people saying this was marketed as a comedy.  That must be a recent thing because when I picked it up I had only heard it was a dark condemnation of the Hollywood 'Dream Factory', with funny BITS from Kevin Spacey.  Whatever amoral scum chose to sell Swimming with Sharks as a workplace laughter riot should be force-fed their pink Sweet'n'Low till artificial caramel comes out of their noses.  Brilliant performances from all the cast, and yes, Spacey plays funny-conniving-vicious-lying-butstillahumanbeing so well you'll wonder what ever happened in 'Pay it Forward'.  The ending is so dark it takes your breath away, especially with the simple but incredibly powerful music used to top it all off.  It may be to dark for some, but come on everybody, thats personal choice.  This is still one of the most funny, worrying descriptions of how economic machines can chew you up and spit you out with all your beliefs and hopes stripped away.  That this film has now become victim to the system through its marketing as 'Hilarious' makes complete sense, because after all, who wants to see 'Real Life', that would be a real drag.  This film has said it all people. "},{"Title":"The Success Story.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  God I wish this movie was released after American Beauty.  It would have blown the critics and the movie goers away.  Amazing film, from an independent film writers status.  It was an absolute dream.  George Huang should have gotten a best directors award for this. If any of you have ever worked in Hollywood, you would know.  Kevin Spacey's portrayal of a powerful corporate cutthroat is, for lack of a better word, perfect.  The twist ending was astounding.  I loved this film. Even better than that of American Beauty or Usual Suspects.  That's a 9 on my list. "},{"Title":"Very interesting dark satire of a Hollywood executive from Hell eventually corrupting the new guy!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a hard film to rate, but I give it 7 of 10 overall for holding my interest. I had to watch the ending twice to fully understand what I saw. The DVD is fine, but being a 1994 movie it does not have 5-channel surround sound, and the extras are very limited. On the surface the story appears to be about Buddy. However, it is really about his assistant and the transformation he makes.CAUTION -- SPOILERS FOLLOW --This is a perfect role for Kevin Spacey as the executive who looks at every transaction as a zero sum exercise. Someone has to WIN, and someone has to LOSE, even though his personalized plate says WIN-WIN. That is part of the satire. Buddy always wants to win, and his personal assistant is there for only reason -- to help him win.The story is told in flashback form. Fairly early we see Buddy apparently held hostage by his abused assistant, and a series of flashbacks explain how he came to that state. Ultimately it was a phone call that early in the movie we only hear part of. Buddy had accidentally patched his assistant into a call which included the assistant's girlfriend, who on the phone agreed to go over to Buddy's place for sex. Finally faced with Buddy tied up and bleeding in his chair, and his girlfriend standing nearby, Buddy insisting do it, go ahead, you know what you have to do,, and we hear a gunshot followed by a blank screen.Turns out he killed his girlfriend, Buddy corroborated a concocted story that the girlfriend was torturing him and the assistant shot her to save Buddy. As the movie ends, we see the equivalent of the assistant having sold his soul to the devil, who in this film is Buddy. He has REALLY become Buddy's servant, but has been promoted and is on his way to the top. Sacrificing everything he once held to be good and true, for fame and fortune in the movie business.I must admit that it was pleasant to watch the assistant get revenge for the totally abusive way Buddy treated him, but the overall message, even though it is satire, is a difficult story to warm up to. Still, I suppose there are people in all businesses who sacrifice part or all of their values to get ahead in business.  Come to think of it, I used to work with several of them! If this film had been made with the same message, and had not relied so much on foul language throughout, I probably would have rated it 8 or 9. Resorting to only curse words to convey an emotion is the sign of weak script writing. "},{"Title":"Good movie, lame ending","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  *****WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD*******If you have ever worked for a manipulative, evil boss, this is your movie. It plots the torment and revenge of one nieve personal assistant working for a Hollywood big shot.I liked the movie's tone and constant movement between the present and past. However, I honestly think the ending was lame. ***SPOILER IS COMING******While I respect the ending as non-Hollywood and more provocative, I honestly think the Hollywood-zied ending where Guy shoots the correct person would have been more satisfying. I found myself angry that Guy would sell out so quickly and become Buddy. While the ending is interesting, it is disappointing. However, all in all it was a good movie.  "},{"Title":"Very dark, dark, dark black comedy.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have a close friend that owns a video store. For the past year he has begged me to watch this. Finally, I did. When you first come out of the gate it seems slapstick in a sense. You laugh at Frank Whaley's antics and his reactions to Spacey. Of course Spacey is on(is her ever not?). As the movie progresses though, you see the truth behind this movie. Showing the dark side of Hollywood and those who do whatever they can to get it. I'll liked the movie quite abit. I just had a hardtime deciding if I felt Whaley's character had come full swing enough to act as he did in the finale. Just didn't really see him going off the deep end. In fact, unless we had been seeing the flashes of him with Spacey hostage, I would have never seen it coming. He took most everything in stride. I would highly recommend this for viewing.  "},{"Title":"And you thought your job was rough...","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Just be glad you don't work for Buddy.  No lighthearted, Office Space fun here, but excellent performances.  Kevin Spacey can do more acting sitting still than 99% of the rest of Hollywood can do under any circumstances. His performance is masterful and well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Satire or real?","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Having actually worked for a control-freak, manipulative, boss from Hell, this film is an all too real depiction of what it is really like.  The boss character accurately depicts exactly how a obsessive control freak boss acts.What is really scarry (if you have never worked for one) the form of revenge depicted could really happen!!!  They will eventually drive you that crazy. This film is a must view for anyone considering a job with a dispicable, controlling boss!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've seen this movie many times and I got to say that it is really, really good. Drama, thriller and comedy - all in one. Generally I like all about Swimming with sharks - actors, script, funny and interesting story. But most of all I love the end of the history. Amazing and unexpecting! That is exactly what I like in movies. That is exactly what you watch movies for! Anyway, if you haven't seen it yet do it as soon as possible. You won't regret it! "},{"Title":"the real Hollywood","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A naive assistant to a film producer turns on his human monster boss after months of abuse.  Entertaining black (very black) comedy-drama suggests that success in Tinseltown comes at a terrible price. (Rating A) "}{"Title":"The boss from hell gets jacked up.","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Kevin Spacey is excellent as Buddy, the most impossible boss ever.  Anybody who's ever worked in a corporate office (or most anyplace else) has either had or known of a boss who were just as horrible.  Buddy was so reprehensible that I could barely feel any sympathy for him, even after he revealed an incident from his past that may have contributed to his current foul attitude.  I have to say I had sympathy for hapless Guy until the very end, which I will not give away here, but will say that it left me with a creepy feeling. "},{"Title":"The Player meets Office Space. The Inside Dope On Hollywood Off Of The Red Carpet.","Date":"9 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" by Dane Youssef Now here is a movie for those looking for an attack on white-collar corporate office life, the spinning gears of Hollywood. Swimming With Sharks seems to owe more than a little something to Dilbert. The movie is more about Corporate America than Hollywood. There are a lot of white-collar touches that apply to offices, cubicles and other such rather than the Hollywood spin machine. Like Robert Altman's The Player, this is one of those thrillers about people in the biz who are driven to the breaking point by how cruel L.A. can really be.The film's writer/director George Huang himself was a former personal assistant to some of the biggest names in Hollywood, has described the movie as 20% autobiographical. Much of this one is said to be based on his experience working for noted mega-mogul producer Joel Silver for Columbia Pictures. So it should come as no surprise what-so-f**king-ever that his first crack at film was his own life story.Surprise, surprise, huh? Well, more or less.Despite Kevin Spacey being the big name in this movie and him getting first-billing, Frank Whaley (Career Opportunities) is the star of this one. Most of anything with him head-lining is a sign of a bad movie (Cold Dog Soup and The Jimmy Show), but this is one of those where he shines because he's allowed to. He's not the most versatile actor, the best-looking or the most charismatic. He's had a rep as being something of the life-long bit player. But when he's given a movie, script and part which allows him any headway, he damn well manages to make the most of it.Spacey, being one of Hollywood's finest and renown, is able to pull off the screaming antagonistic drill-instructor and the restrained, tortured hostage here pitch perfectly. Whaley effectively plays the green and naive wide-eyed rookie to the Hollywood spin machine with his usual perfection, but when the other shoe drops, he doesn't quite pull off the scorned, disgruntled employee seeking revenge. His Jeckyll isn't as convincing as his Hyde. He doesn't scare us. He never seems truly unhinged. Maybe that's why Whaley sticks to the youthful deer-in-the-headlights. Whaley doesn't really seem as demented and unhinged as he should in his captor scenes. He's best as a whipping boy--which is why he plays so many.1994 was the official year for Spacey. He got his breakout with the TV series Wiseguys, and made the big screen transition with worthwhile fare like his Oscar-winning supporting role in The Usual Suspects, The Ref, Se7en and this. Spacey monopolized himself in the '94 as absolute talent (my term).Benecio Del Toro, the Brad Pitt of Mexico (someone else's quote, believe me, I never dubbed him such) has a quickie cameo as Spacey's assistant who's given his three weeks notice and is on the way out, making way for Guy. But not before giving Whaley some final parting words of wisdom. Protect his interests, serve his needs. What you think means nothing. What you feel means nothing. You have no brain. He yells all the time. It's a lose-lose situation. This job is a fast-track shortcut to the top and if Guy does right and keeps his mouth open wide to catch all of Buddy's crap, he may very well be someday on the same mantel as Buddy and his former assistants. Everything Guy'll ever need to know about his job, he learns on day one.Enter Dawn Locklard (Michelle Forbes of Guiding Light and 24), another powerful Hollywood producer who Guy doesn't have the best first meeting with. She doesn't show a lot of warmth, which explains why she's a producer.She herself is angry and cynical, and throughout the course of the film, we will see why. She eventually warms up to Guy and asks him out. Guy is stunned. But she needs Buddy on her side and is interested in him getting behind her new project. Guy sees this as an opportunity. Her new project for the studio, Real Life may just be Guy's window of opportunity. She seems to be interested in Guy because he's the most real thing she's seen in the Valley for the longest time. But does she really feel something for him or is she just using him? Is Buddy two-faced and back-stabbing or is Dawn? Guy no longer knows what's real and what's what? Although when Guy starts to show some spine after a lot of Buddy's tantrums, the payoff is almost evenly matched with the artificial sugar scene. Buddy gets to emotionally, verbally (and at times, physically) abuses Guy (and apparently all his assistant's) on every possible occasion. He also gets to skewer just about everyone who crosses his path.Swimming With Sharks isn't a featherweight comedy for a slow night about a bullying boss like the trailer lead you to believe. It's a film which deals with white-collar office comedy and torturous drama. Shifting from a lightweight comedy to a torturous thriller. It's sort of schizophrenic thing. We're laughing heartily one minute and horrified the next. A lot of time, this one keeps us guessing as it criss-crosses from Buddy torturing Guy to vice-versa.But there's a lot to this movie (maybe too much) about this movie that rings true to life. A lot of moments filled with the harsh insights and disillusioned truths that one learns from living an uncharmed life. And so there's illuminating light and lessons, as well as laughs. Not to mention some great heavier moments where ugly secrets about Buddy and... well, surprisingly Dawn are revealed.The plot is over-developed and the ending is more poetic than anything else.But most of the movie really does does work and really does sticks with you... like all the great ones do.by Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"Great insider's story","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've seen tidbits of this film, and since then, I was looking forward to see the entire movie. Finally I got the 2005 DVD version and saw the film in its entirety. The movie is about ruthless overbearing Hollywood executive producer and hapless assistants who serves him. It's bit shocking that this sort of thing goes on in that industry, but I've heard that the story is modeled after Joel Silver and since it was written by an insider, I believe some if not all of the story being told here have roots in reality.The movie had very limited showing (few theaters in NY and LA) when it was released in 1995, so most of us probably never seen it in theaters. The 2005 Lions Gate DVD release which this review is based on is very good, as it contains surprising amount of bonus material with comments from the producers, director and the actors, and for us who've never seen it in theaters provides satisfying viewing experience.This movie should be better known as a cult classic, since it is a great movie, and very original in concept. It's a portrayal of underside of Hollywood's movie making industry, and the crassness of the people are depicted with humor (when people take themselves so seriously, you can't help but to laugh at it), but also shows the very real cruelty of people who controls Hollywood. I guess that's the whole point of this movie. The movie hits the point in that it shows how intoxicated people with power will be with their own power, and it may not be as obvious, but a watered down version of this story goes on all over the world in our lives. If it were written in that vein, I think the movie would have had wider appeal and it might have been with the ranks of Taxi Driver and other movies that brought under dog's life to our attention.I hope another version of this movie be made this time not as such personal experience of a single man, but as universal truth about people who have been terrorized by their bosses and the way things are in our world in general. No one has taken this theme to this extent in the past, so cudos for the writer/director and producers of this movie. One of the must see movie in our life time. "},{"Title":"Brilliant back stabber of a movie","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" To me this was Kevin spacey's finest hour in comic terms - his line delivery and nasty character are a mouth open performance and i loved it! Couldn't stop laughing at the abuse he gave his new understudy Frank W. I was also scared as an audience member every time the newbie opened his mouth...I wanted to shout at the screen and yell - No, you'll only get your ear bent by Buddy!! It is a shame that this film is not so universally shown and known - i think the writing is as sharp as the acting and actors - Micheele Forbes, Benicio del Toro (Yes him) Spacey and Frank Whalley - all appear in fine form and also the ending (which i will not give away) is an amazing twist - true Holloywood! I'll stick to my day job! "},{"Title":"God I miss the early-nineties version of Frank Whaley!","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This guy (Mr. Whaley) never gotten enough credit for being the renowned thespian that he is. This guy's been in about 45 movies since the late 80's, including some lead or near-lead roles, and I bet he still walks down the street in relative anonymity to this day.He's always been believable in everything I've seen him in (from roller skating with Jennifer Connelly's chest in Career Opportunites to his small role at the end of School of Rock). And who can forget his classic 'Big Kahuna Burger' scene in Pulp Fiction with Sam Jackson? Well, Frank does another stellar job as Guy in Swimming with Sharks, holding his own against a first-rate performance from Mr. Spacey. The movie sails along nicely, including the lovely Michelle Forbes as the alluring Dawn to keep it from becoming a total sausage fest. It appears they threw in a far-fetched Hollywood Ending which I don't think ever happened after watching the DVD extras, but I won't ruin it for you. Check it out the next time you've had a crap day with the boss. "},{"Title":"Fantastic.","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the first ever film that i saw of Kevin Spacey. The moment i finished watching it i wanted to find out more about the guy. He is outstanding in this film where he stars as the pushy boss that go's too far and makes Frank Whaleys life a living hell as a P.A.The film follows Whaley's character (Guy) throughout his days at the office to the eventual breakdown and confrontation with Spacey (Buddy). He breaks into his home and gets his revenge on a years worth of slavery and abuse given to him by Buddy.Add to the complications we have the love interest of course. Playedby Michelle Forbes (very very good in this film). The film boils down to an excellent and powerful ending that i really wasn't expecting. Well worth adding to your DVD/VHS collection.8. out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Wow...","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a film! Kevin Spacey is superb in this, how did he not get an oscar? because this is certainly up there amongst his best! The film itself had me hooked from start to finish, it's gripping, funny, slick, stylish, intense! lol i went through all the emotions! Ooh and the region 2 dvd can be brought for just £5! what a bargain! ill certainly be adding it to my film collection. If you haven't seen it, then do so! you won't be disappointed.8/10 "},{"Title":"Shut up, listen and learn (possible spoilers!!)","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There I was treading water, awash in a sea of banality before American Beauty came to my rescue and gave me the kiss of life, restoring my faith in the motion picture. Little did I realise that a relatively unknown Indie film called Swimming With Sharks, was circling my local video store long before American Beauty had ingrained itself in our collective psyche. I must confess, I only picked it up off the shelf because I saw Kevin Spacey's name on the cover - the hallmark of a great film. Besides which, the subject is one that I can closely identify with, having myself been an underpaid, overworked runner in a film company. Though I have never had to endure the same nightmarish ordeals as Buddy's downtrodden assistant, Guy, I have poured enough tea and coffee to put me off a career in film.Spacey gives a tour de force performance as the ruthless Buddy Ackerman, an egomaniacal Hollywood producer who is so demanding, so unbearable, it's hard to imagine lasting a day in his company. Enter Guy (Frank Whaley), a young film school graduate with vague aspirations of making it in the movies. But by the end of it, his priorities have changed so drastically that he has become everything he once despised.Much like Nicole Kidman's Machiavellian weather girl in the pitch black comedy, To Die For, Buddy will do whatever it takes to be successful, even if that means humiliating Guy, crushing his spirit, calling him a 'worthless piece of sh*t' on a daily basis, and a great deal of back-stabbing. But Guy shows great resolve in the face of such adversity and learns a thing or two about surviving in a 'kill or be killed' environment.Spacey's genius is finding pathos in Buddy's sadistic, cruel nature, so that by the time the audience gets to hear the reasons behind this façade, we almost feel sorry for the bastard! Whaley gives an equally impressive performance as the underdog, and the friction between these two characters is at once funny and depressing; of course, it's depressing to those who've never experienced it, and funny to those who have. This movie is not for the faint of heart, so if you're the kind of person who broke down in tears at the end of Titanic, then perhaps you'd better take a handful of valium before viewing.Guy's breaking point comes when he suspects his not-so-innocent girlfriend, Dawn (Michelle Forbes), is sleeping with his boss. Without wanting to give too much away and spoil the fun, I'll just say this Buddy gets his comeuppance in a series of flashbacks that culminate in the mother of all revenge scenes. However the ending is quite unexpected, and sends out rather a chilling message about the price we pay for success.Swimming With Sharks reads like a veritable assault on the film industry, exposing its dark underbelly of corruption, exploitation, manipulation and betrayal. I think that this will be quite unnerving to those who have only ever considered the glamour and prestige associated with the world of movies. It not only shines new light on this rather enigmatic subject, but also raises a sardonic eye to the abuse of power in the workplace, the inevitable politicking that comes as standard with most jobs.Technically, the film is quite limited due to time and budget constraints (it was made in less than three weeks for less than $3m), as the director explains in his commentary, but the story and the acting more than make up for this. I mean, ask yourself, how does a first-time director secure an actor of Spacey's calibre? Simple. With a fantastic script (as a side note, I'm glad they decided to change the film's title from its unimaginative beginnings as The Buddy Factor - which sounds better suited to Saturday morning TV - to the more ominous Swimming With Sharks).The DVDs only worthwhile feature is the director's commentary which is surprisingly candid, revealing many behind-the-scenes secrets, and it is told in a lively and entertaining manner. In fact I would go as far as saying that it's possibly the best commentary I've ever heard. "},{"Title":"Good Flawless Acting; ** Spoilers! **found the plot a bit unbelievable","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Two other movies come to mind King of Comedy (Sandra Bernhard and Robert DeNiro kidnap Jerry Lewis) and The Apartment (Rising young executive Jack Lemmon gets ahead by manipulation).I personally could not accept that Frank Whaley would be so naive.  He's applying for a job in a highly competitive environment and wants to get ahead.  So why is he so shocked at the abusive, pushy boss?  Jack Lemmon was certainly much more cynical (but sweet) in The Apartment.  Jack Lemmon, cynic, got the girl; naive Frank Whaley did not.   Second, how likely is it that one would kidnap and torture your boss?  Although the ending shares an outcome similar to The King of Comedy.  The kidnapper experiences career success despite being a kidnapper. That being said, I agree with the other reviewed who noted that Kevin Spacey is an outstanding actor, but not yet noted.  Until all the hoopla about American Beauty, I did not know his name or face, yet I had seen and enjoyed many of his movies.This movie reminded me of a stage play turned into a movie.  One or two sets; a small group (three) of main characters; dialogue taking precedence over action.   "},{"Title":"Spacey's best film, and I'm not exaggerating","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Swimming with Sharks' may be the best example of a neglected and forgotten film ever. I mean, Trimark didn't even bother transferring the movie onto tape in it's entirety, the tape runs out half way through the end credits. I first caught this film on late night TV up here in Canada, and I was amazed at how good it was, and how I could've missed it earlier. After that I spent the next four months searching every video store in Calgary for a copy to rent, eventually finding one in a small store on the other end of town. Once I took it home, I was ecstatic, popping it into the VCR immediately. It was as good... no, better than I remembered. I saw it five times that weekend.Spacey's portrayal of Buddy Ackerman, the boss from hell, is right on target, and will go down as his best performance up until 1999's 'American Beauty' (in my opinion it was better than Beauty, but the critics apparently didn't think so). Frank Whaley, as Guy, the films protagonist, is Spacey's equal, or pretty close, he gives a great, underrated performance here. Michelle Forbes and Benicio Del Toro also provide great support in two pivotal roles.The script couldn't have been better. The one liners fly in fast and furious, mixed in with some drama and a great ending, all wrapped up in an unconventional format, moving between the present and past effortlessly. George Huang's direction is also superb, he creates a great atmosphere and it lasts throughout the entire film, no small feat. It's too bad he hasn't gone on to bigger and better thinks yet, as he has a wealth of untapped talent.Still, despite the great acting, writing and direction, the best part may be the haunting piano music, which stays with you long as the film has ended. The most incredible part of it all is that the soundtrack only contains a single short track from the movie's score, with the rest coming from a random assortment of songs by famous artists that don't even appear in the movie.A brilliant, twisted character study, with an ending coming right out of the blue. I don't understand why people disliked the ending so much, to me it was one of the best parts of the film. See it if you haven't already, you surely won't be disappointed10/10 "}{"Title":"They Play For Keeps Here","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**			In an upscale neighborhood near Hollywood, a covered body on a stretcher is being removed from a house while a dismayed young man named Guy (Frank Whaley) looks on.  Thus begins `Swimming With Sharks,' a veritable survival guide for those who would venture into the cold and often dangerous waters of film making.  Guy is a recent film school graduate who has landed a job at Keystone Pictures as the gofer assistant to none other than the legendary power player Buddy Ackerman (Played exuberantly by Kevin Spacey), one of the top producers at Keystone.  Guy is replacing Rex (Benicio Del Toro) who is leaving to take a position at Paramount.  During Guy's orientation on his first day, Rex tells him `This in not a business, this is show business.  Punching below the belt in not only alright, it's rewarded,' and with that, the tone is set for much of what follows.  But not everything.  Buddy, we quickly learn, is the boss nobody would ever want. At his best, he is unpleasant; at his worst, which is most of the time, he is abusive in the extreme.  He seems to take perverse delight in assigning Catch-22 directives to his underlings (He tells Guy to hold his calls while he is in a meeting; when Guy doesn't put the calls through he is admonished for it).  His most prolific tool of management is the beguiling phrase `Shut up, listen, and learn,' which he applies frequently to the hapless Guy.  						Of course, there is only so much one man can take, and early on we realize that Guy is in the process of exacting his revenge.  Through flashbacks the story unfolds, and Guy's motivation becomes crystal clear.  A situation to which many can relate, it is readily understandable how he has arrived at the position in which he finds himself with Buddy, and  when you realize that Guy has crossed that line beyond which there is no return it evokes that sense of loss one feels for the doomed, and you wonder why things have to be like this. 											In `Swimming With Sharks,' writer and first time director George Huang serves up a delectable sampling of the smorgasbord that is Hollywood, complete with the bitters he adds to the twist at the end, which may leave you somewhat taken aback.  The supporting cast includes Michelle Forbes (in a noteworthy turn as producer Dawn Lockard, who comes to Guy and Buddy's table at what can only be termed an inopportune juncture), T.E. Russell as Foster Kane, and Roy Dotrice as Cyrus Miles.  To those who love movies, this film offers some insight into what it takes to bring those coveted images to the screen; but it is also an excursion into the dark side of Man's nature.  I rate this one 7/10.  	     	     "},{"Title":"What does Guy really want?","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What does Guy really want?*** POSSIBLE SPOILER ***We never hear the sincere answer from Guy. Because the ending answers for him perfectly.The only thing I liked more than Spacey's acting in this film. Is the excellent way in which the ending defends his cruel (but true?) philosophy Good guys never win and No, love does not conquer all. 10/10 "},{"Title":"not perfect, but certainly worth it if you're a Spacey fan","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this movie exclusively because Kevin Spacey is in it, and he does a good job, even if this isn't his best film.  The story alternates between the present day, in which Guy (Whaley) has taken his boss, Buddy Ackerman (Spacey), hostage, and the past, which shows us how Guy and Buddy get to this point.The flashbacks constitute most of the movie, and they are particularly well done.  Spacey is perfect as the domineering and cruel Ackerman, and Whaley functionally plays an overworked, unappreciated employee.  But, the early hostage scenes are laughable.  I couldn't take Whaley seriously at all and even Spacey seemed out of his element, which seriously messes with the thematic aesthetic of the rest of the movie.  Thankfully, the later hostage scenes are better, managing to save the movie.Overall, therefore, it is a really good movie, though it could have been better.  Certainly worth the rent.  8/10 "},{"Title":"A true sleeper hit","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This tiny little film has been one of my favorites for a long time.  I am proud to say that I have recommend many people to watch this movie over the years and met with great sucess.  I was working at Blockbuster when one of my friends told me I had to see the film.  I saw it and have been making others rent it ever since.  Kevin Spacey is awesome in this movie.  He dominates every single second of screen time.  He is always good but this is one of his all time best performances.  You will hate and love him as he is so charismaticly nasty.  All the other actors do their roles well enough to make the movie good, but they are not working on the same level with the exception of Benicio Del Torro who matches Spacey with his own talent and charisma, but Benicio is not in the film very long.  These two actors need more work, and hollywood needs to make many more films with like this one.  Take a good script and things can really happen as they do in this wonderful little film.  It is funny,honest, and entertaining.  See it right now.  Go on go get it.  I am serious. "},{"Title":"Is there a better movie nobody's seen?","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's a shame that so few people have seen or even heard of this movie, because it is one of the best of its kind. The only thing that drives me crazy about this movie is the cover box. Whoever thought up that misguided box should be fired, and I believe it is the reason nobody has seen this movie. We are led to believe this is a straight comedy with no meaning or plot. Just a screwed-over assistant on the war path. It is such a misrepresentation, it makes me laugh.Having said that, let me say that this is a hilarious movie. But so what, so was Pulp Fiction, neither belong in the comedy section of your video store, though. Kevin Spacey is a genius, and this is yet another stand-out role in what is becoming one of the greatest string of performances any actor has ever accomplished. He is so over the top here, you can't help but laugh. I don't want to give away too much, but the scene where he is walking to the elevator from his car, wondering why it is such a problem for Guy (Frank Whaley) to get ahold of one of the executives of the company who is white-water rafting in a place with no phones so, they have helicopters, don't they? is just hilarious. Especially when he gets into the elevator, and a feeble assistant tries to make it in before the doors close OUT, OUT, WHO DO YOU WORK FOR?!?!?! It is too funny, and scenes like that just keep coming.But to call this movie a comedy does not do it enough justice. It works on many different levels, exploring how far we can be pushed before we are sent over the edge, how far someone with power can take it before he goes too far, etc. While not usually much of a sentimentalist, I thought the scene where Spacey breaks down while discussing the murder of his wife was touching and insightful. I liked that it showed that even the most heartless b*****d has his own story to tell, and it makes for a more two-dimensional character. Basically, this movie is great in every way, and I can't say enough about Frank Whaley's performance. He is sort of overshadowed by Spacey's character, but that's the point. He plays the cowering lap-dog perfectly, and to see how the abuse pushes him into a completely different character is fascinating. If you're on this site, you've probably seen the movie, so please, go recommend this to everyone. If you haven't seen it, do yourself a favor. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Possibly Kevin Spacey's best performance","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Swimming with Sharks is probably the least well-known of all of Kevin Spacey's major movies, but it is also possibly his best.  His portrayal of Hollywood executive Buddy Ackerman is unbelievable.  At the same time he is both hysterical and terrifying.Frank Whaley is passable as Buddy's assistant Guy, but it is Spacey who owns this movie.  Even when taken hostage by Guy, it is clear that Buddy is the man in control of the situation.  But for all his strength and of his fear-inducing qualities, his brief emotional breakdown into memories of his wife is the closest to the catharsis that Aristotle wrote about that I have seen in a movie.But above all, this is truly a comedy.  One of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  Spacey's dry delivery style is so perfectly matched with this character.  Buddy is able to belittle Guy in any number of ways, but perhaps most effective is when he simply looks at him, doesn't raise his voice and speaks the words You...have...no...brain.  No judgement calls are necessary.  What you think means nothing.  What you feel means nothing.When the movie dips into the romantic subplot between Guy and another producer named Dawn the movie becomes less interesting, but Spacey's performance makes this movie worth watching over and over. "},{"Title":"the finest boss from hell movie ever made","Date":"2 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the story of my old boss, and since I wouldn't act out my revenge I pop this in and thank the lord for envelopes and hot sauce.  If I ever meet Kevin Spacey I will give him a big hug for his huge talents and then pop him one for playing such a bastard as Buddy Ackerman. No matter how many times I watch this my gut wrenches and I break out into a sweat, but with Spacey's acting it's not a problem.  "},{"Title":" David Lean isn't dead,  he's just not  available ","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Kevin Spacey arrived on the professional screen in 1986 and few people noticed his presence. Since then he has firmly established himself as a commanding actor, with such films as 'SeVen' and the dramatic suspense film ' The Usual Suspects.' Playing heavies comes natural to him as when he portrays sympathetic victims. In this movie called  Swimming with Sharks  Spacey displays true artistry. The film industry in Hollywood is a dog eat dog world and in order to survive that environment, one must become as vicious as a starving rottweiler. Buddy Ackerman (Kevin Spacey) is as heartless, ruthless, unsympathetic and ambivalent as a circling shark. His newly employed assistant arrives with great enthusiasm, brimming naivety and is called simply 'Guy' (Frank Whaley). No sooner does guy start his job, when Ackerman makes him believe he is working in the Devil's Domain, by treating him to an unending barrage of verbal and physical abuse. The situation becomes explosive when Ackerman discover's Guy's girlfriend Dawn Lockard (Michelle Forbes) is a former lover and now rival producer. Insulted, verbally berated and dressed down in front of every other employee in the office, Guy decides to give his boss a payback. The entire film is a triumph for Spacey and one which with the help of his co-stars has created a Classic for audiences everywhere. If you're strong enough to see Spacey as a monstrous Taskmaster, this is the movie for you. **** "},{"Title":"I think people don't get this film at all","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" People seem to think Guy is the victim, he's not, he's the aggressor. Buddy represents brutal assimilation into a cynical system and brutal environment.Buddy paid his dues the hard way, and pretty much lost everything he valued most in the process, finally learning to play the system rather than hate it.Guy, to me, is the impatient youth who, luckily, gets brought up by Buddy in a way far less harsh and far more quickly than what Buddy himself endured.In the end they pretty much reached the same wretched induction into a world where success was all that mattered and sex and violence were just among the ways of getting there quickly.Watch it again and see if you can see what I mean. "},{"Title":"The Price of Ambition","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie made me think a lot long after it was over. What is exactly the price of ambition? Is the price your soul, your values,all that was important to you before? Spoiler Guy gives up everything but is he really the winner? Would he have been happier if he had listened to Michelle Forbes and gotten out of the business when he had a chance? Guy doesn't look happy at the end of the movie. This movie has an excellent script, great performances and makes you think which is the hallmark of a good film. Spacey is spellbinding in one of the best roles of his career so far. Benecio Del Toro ( a very hot actor)is good in his small part in this film. sylvia "}{"Title":"A very funny & underrated film, featuring Kevin Spacey's best acting performance EVER!","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yes, this includes his subtly brilliant performance in The Usual Suspects and his wonderful middle-age angst ridden turn in American Beauty.  Swimming With Sharks is not a film on par with either of those two films, but in my opinion, this is Kevin Spacey's most dynamic and utterly believable performance.  It is worth renting 8 times over to watch Spacey's do his foul mouth, smarmy, sarcastic, ultra-egomaniac act better than he has ever done before and better than he has done since.Spacey plays Buddy Ackerman, a powerful Hollywood studio executive with a menacing reputation as the Boss From Hell.  Frank Whaley plays Guy, a film school graduate that becomes Buddy's assistant as a way to gain eventual clout and power in the business, like Buddy's other past assistants.  He quickly learns that Buddy really is the `Boss From Hell' like his former assistant warned him and the movie is about him going off the deep end as a result.Spacey's performance is not only ruthless and menacing, it is bitterly hilarious and downright amazing.  Think of every single cutting putdown and insult that has been directed at you by someone else in your entire lifetime and odds are, Spacey's Buddy Ackerman character can top all of them all in about three sentences combined.  He says things to Guy like My bathmat means more to me than you.  His code of ethics to any of his assistants is You Are Nothing.  Your Opinions Are Nothing.  You Are Here For Me.  I Call The Shots.  You Listen.  This is the kind of boss that you'd fall out of your chair laughing your ass off watching him yell at all of his employee's, but that you'd feel like a worthless piece of trash if you ever had to work for him.The movie itself does have its flaws.  I am not convinced by the love story subplot between Guy and the woman producer.  And compared to Spacey, Whaley looks like a fish out of water in the portrayal of his character.  But the true message of the film lies within the scenes between Spacey and Whaley in Buddy's home.  Buddy might be the boss from hell, but he earned that right.  He fetched coffee and licked boots as an assistant once, too, and he didn't complain because that's life.  The ending (which trust me, you won't see coming) contrives the message a little, but it follows the general theme of the movie (be it to the complete and utter extreme) Show Business is ruthless and you don't get from point A to point B just being nice.Swimming With Sharks is not an easy movie to find at the video store.  This is one you have to look for.  It is a comedy (be it a `Black' comedy) and you will find it in that section.  I have no idea why critics were not as warm to this film as Spacey's other films.  I gather it is because he was not a notable Hollywood leading man then.  Had a film like this come out in the year 2000 in the aftermath of Spacey's American Beauty performance, they'd be hailing it as one of the best films of the year and would be naming Spacey an Oscar favorite.  I give this an 8 out of 10 (for Spacey's performance mostly, but the film itself is pretty good on it's own rites) "},{"Title":"A Grim Little Marvel","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One thing's for sure This Movie Is NOT a comedy.It starts off being pretty humorous, but then, before you really notice, it's suddenly disturbing and not-at-all funny and you realize that it hasn't actually been funny for a while.Now, don't get me wrong. I really loved this movie. Kevin Spacey gives what I think is the third-best performance of his career (besides American Beauty and The Usual Suspect) as boss-from-hell Buddy Ackerman, who at first starts off as simply a two-dimensional demon, yelling, cursing, and generally making life miserable for everyone, but after a while, as more is revealed about both Buddy's life and the way Hollywood *really* works, becomes almost understandable. Not sympathetic.Understandable.It's got some comedic parts, yes. But they're intermixed so often with what I thought were some rather unsettling torture scenes (not because I thought they were graphic... more because they seemed so believable) that you feel a little guilty laughing at anything.All in all, I think everyone did a good job in this movie, and unlike a lot of people, I thought the ending was just right. Not right for a comedy, mind you. But like I said, this movie really isn't a comedy... "},{"Title":"Funny but deeply flawed (spoilers)","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There's no doubting that Swimming With Sharks is a funny film (who in their right mind doesn't get a kick out of ritual humiliation?), but it's also cursed with a risible love story, a ludicrous ending and a terrible performance from Frank Whaley. Therefore, in light of this, it's amazing that the film doesn't inspire blind hatred. But as flawed as it is, it's watchable, and it's watchable because of one person Kevin Spacey.Kevin Spacey here plays a sleazy movie executive called Buddy Ackerman. He's the kind of man who obsesses over his receding hair, who uses his job to score pussy and who steals other people's ideas. Plus his personal mantra is Shut up, listen and learn. So we're not talking about a very likable individual. But having said that, watching him humiliate people is rather enjoyable, especially when the main focus of his wrath is the bland, wishy-washy Guy (played by Frank Whaley).Guy is Buddy's new assistant and he enters his new job with all kinds of dreams and aspirations. But no sooner has he pulled into the parking lot than he's being abused by a female movie producer who tells him that he's taken her spot (even though the lot is almost empty). Right from the very first second Guy is out of his depth &#150; status means more here than high-minded ideas.But although we're meant to feel sorry for Guy (he's constantly mocked and abused by Buddy), it's hard to feel for him when he's played by Frank Whaley, an actor so bland, so limp, so devoid of charisma or screen presence that he sucks all the colour out of the screen and turns his part of the frame a battleship grey.But what's even more ridiculous is that as well as playing the downtrodden assistant, he has to play the wronged employee who gets revenge on his boss by tying him to a chair and torturing him. I guess I can buy the fumbling loser, even though it's not fun to watch, but it's painful watching Whaley try and play a crazed lunatic. He's just a bunch of adolescent facial ticks with a bad floppy haircut. I can no more buy him torturing someone than I can buy Tom Cruise being declared clinically sane.And Guy isn't made any more believable or sympathetic when he starts humping the female producer who abused him at the beginning of the film. Their relationship is just so sappy and juvenile. You'd think they were in High School. But what makes it truly absurd is that the producer is attractive and powerful. Which begs the question why would a lowly toad-faced PA fill her with lust? Perhaps she has brain damage.Thankfully there's one smart person in the film Buddy. I'm sure you're supposed to get a certain guilty amusement out of his antics, while generally disapproving of his behaviour, but I have to say, as vile a person as he is, I'm on his side all the way through the film. He's ruthless, he's funny and he's got balls (Guy may as well be a eunuch). Plus he doesn't fold under Guy's torture. He even laughs in Guy's face when he threatens him with a gun. You've got to respect a man like that.But Buddy, for me, is made even more likable by the fact that Guy behaves totally unreasonably. I mean, yeah Buddy shouts at Guy, throws things at him and has slept with his girlfriend, but if you don't like your job, either urinate in your boss's coffee or quit. You don't have to behave like a child. Or as Buddy says, Your job is unfair to you? Grow up. Way it goes. And Guy is made even more annoying because the torture is over a woman. Come on, so your girl's done the bone dance with another man; that's life.But as absurd as the whole torture angle is, I guess it sort of works as a commentary on movies &#150; it's exactly the sort of thing you'd expect to see in a film (Guy even calls it payback time), so it's apt that filmmakers would go to such absurd lengths to vent their fury. But as I've already said, it fails because Whaley is such a poor actor (Spacey, by contrast, is excellent).However, worse than the torture sequences is the ending. Again it's meant to be an ironic comment on the movies &#150; you have to kill to get the top; you have to sell your soul &#150; but it's just silly. After torturing Buddy and finding out that his girlfriend slept her way to the top, Buddy and Guy decide to engage in a conspiracy &#150; they make out that Guy's girlfriend did the torturing and then Guy shoots his ex to 'save' Buddy from her. And then at the end, Guy becomes a top executive and he and Buddy are united &#150; they close the office door on the world like the final scene in The Godfather. Maybe if the film were a more outrageous black comedy, I could accept this ending. But seeing as it's played completely straight (except for Spacey), it's just ridiculous. Again, I just can't believe that such a limp individual would do something so outrageous. And the film never hints that Guy is terribly ambitious. He even finds it hard to verbalise why he's attracted to the movie business &#150; he eventually says it's because of 'memories'. But really, even if you were obsessed with movies and desperately wanted to make it to the top, would you spare the man you loath and kill the woman you love? I doubt it myself. But the film's desperate to have a 'dark' ending where the bad guy wins, so it contrives to bring it about, even at the expense of logic. "},{"Title":"Ho Hum","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was recommended this movie by one of my film-making friends, and was therefore expecting something good. Sadly, I was very disappointed by the first half -- ah, a movie about a wimp taking revenge on their a**hole boss, how original -- and watched the second half on fast forward hoping to find something that would justify the 45-odd minutes I'd already wasted. But all I got was the 'shock' ending...The basic problem is that this is a movie which seems unable to decide what it wants to say, and says whatever it does say (hard to tell what that is) badly. Great acting does not save a bad script full of characters I can't care about.Now maybe if I didn't moonlight in the movie industry I'd be shocked to discover the dumb politics and exploitation going on behind the screen, but as it is my feelings are as summed up above 'Ho Hum'.2/10... would have been 1/10 if it weren't for the acting and the paper cut scene.  "},{"Title":"Stay out of the water","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK, so if you've worked in the film business, perhaps this movie will mean something to you.  Otherwise, it's a long and painful character study of a psychotic executive.  Spacey is good at it, but after a few minutes you're looking at your watch wondering how long the same schtick will last.  I can't believe anyone would call this a comedy.  There were very few funny moments at all.  A Clockwork Orange is more light-hearted than this one!  The ending makes absolutely no sense and is not particularly funny.  The attempt at irony swings and misses.  On the video label it says the movie is hysterical.  I question the sanity of whomever wrote that review!  Spacey is completely one-dimensional, and the other characters are simply not credible in any way.  Mousy doormat loser evolves into his psychotic boss.  Great story - maybe it would have been a good episode of The Twilight Zone (with better writing), but is certainly doesn't fly as a feature-length movie.   "},{"Title":"Hardly Kevin Spacey's Best *Spoilers*","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There's a subtle art to creating an effective dark comedy. This movie tried way too hard. It was exaggeratedly heavy on the comedy and exaggeratedly heavy on the drama. It didn't seem to know which way to go. And the two never managed to mesh well. In the end, its message, though clear, was not effectively communicated. It came off preachy and last minute. Spacey was fantastic as Buddy, but the breakdown scene involving his wife was just tossed in and played up to the point of being ridiculous. The entire torture scenario seemed silly to me, especially that paper cut business. I couldn't take Guy seriously at all. In addition, Guy's relationship with the girlfriend was completely unbelievable and acted more as a filler than anything else. That would have been ok if the relationship hadn't had such an important role in the ending. And the ending itself was too much to be taken seriously. Everything was so extreme. We were practically slapped in the face with the moral and it wasn't appreciated, by me anyway. In addition, there was too much talk. So much was said instead of shown, which made the movie drag. Whaley bored me and I wasn't sympathetic to him at any point in the movie. Oh... And character development? Not any that I saw. Whaley's transformation is best classified as here today, gone tomorrow. He doesn't visibly transform. The ending is unexpected but also unjustified by the story. Sure, that makes it interesting, but that's not good storytelling. And the tone... the director's pretension is so tangible it almost made me sick. I've rarely seen a movie that took itself so seriously.As a huge Kevin Spacey fan I am appalled when I read reviews that rank this movie as one of his best, or as his best performance. Apparently a lot of people need to rent more Kevin Spacey movies.  "},{"Title":"This is a tour de force performance from Kevin Spacey.","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A young, naive Hollywood studio assistant finally turns the tables on his incredibly abusive producer boss. A young Hollywood executive becomes the assistant to a big time movie producer who is the worst boss imaginable abusive, abrasive and cruel. But soon things turn around when the young executive kidnaps his boss and visits all the cruelties back on him. Roger Ebert wrote The reason Hollywood stories fascinate us, I think, is not because of the glamor and the sex appeal, but because of the greed and savage raw ambition. Which is more exciting Making love with Michelle Pfeiffer, or producing a Michelle Pfeiffer movie that will make you rich and famous? For a lot of people in Hollywood, that's a no-brainer, and Swimming with Sharks is about two of them. This is a tour de force performance from Kevin Spacey. This is a hidden gem and one that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"tongue in cheek brilliance","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Its so very quotable and finds Spacey in fine form - my pencil eraser means more to me than you do has been uttered often by all my team in the studio!Given it has got low production values, the lighting is grainy and their attention to continuity is poor rather than 'on purpose' it does have a jovial, dark hummer that is much more widely accessible than say the likes of Anchor Man which was equally low budget relying on star quality.Do give it a go with friends and a few beers, it improves the experience no end and then watch Horrible Bosses, 21, Casino Jack and hope that Spacey churns the same character out at least a few more times before he disappears into the artistic roles his Thespian bent so clearly desires - he is a film treasure, under utilized and always great in a film... even when the film is rubbish (Casino Jack....) "},{"Title":"Here's to all the schmucks who can't tell Sweet'n Low from Equal","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Kevin Spacey, more often than not, gets handed the sharpest, funniest, cleverest, most desirable monologues in his roles. In Glengarry Glen Ross, he delivered cold lines of fury when talking to his deadbeat employees and took some severe blows to the ego when he was jabbed with personal insults. In American Beauty, it was entrancing to hear him narrate his story with such gratitude and depth, along with giving us one of the best performances of the decade. And in K-PAX, he convincingly played an alleged extraterrestrial who seemed to appear out of thin air and turn a skeptical psychiatrist into a true believer. The man is a treasure often shorthanded and under-valued.Spacey gives yet another fantastic performance of true power and control in Swimming With Sharks, a black comedy that is heavy on the laughs and insight, and easy on the levels of conformity and monotony. This is a biting drama of business and progress in the work world, with some of the toughest and most brutal insight into the corporate world that can only be compared to the level of truths brought in Kevin Smith's Clerks and Mike Judge's Office Space. This deserves a spot in the same league.Guy (Frank Whaley) is a young writer who is extremely satisfied to get a job working as the assistant for movie mogul Buddy Ackerman, played by Kevin Spacey. Guy expects the job to be beneficial and insightful, until he sees Buddy's true side, which is loud, obnoxious, pretentious, smothering, overbearing, and just plain unforgiving behavior as he takes pride in being belligerent and disrespectful to his assistants. In an extremely well written scene involving Guy trying to reason with Buddy about his yelling and his uncontrollable tirades, Buddy browbeats him relentlessly by telling him, my bathmat means more to me than you, at the same time throwing pencils at him saying, these pencils more important, these pens more important. The key to this scene is that both men have extremely valid points; Guy is trying to speak on a human-level with Buddy and brings up the idea of how in a business relationship, one must have the skill and ability to hold a grown-up discussion with one another. On the other hand, Buddy remarks on how you need to be a man to do the job and you must accept the torment as a means to get somewhere in the world. Further commentary is provided when we open up and see Buddy as more than a cynic, but how he got to be one and whether or not guy is on the same track heading to the same inevitable destination.The film is intercut with scenes showing Guy breaking in to Buddy's home, taking him hostage by tying him to his chair, and preceding to torture him mercilessly, reminding him of all the times he was demanding and ruthless to him. Again, the scene is not supposed to inspire moments of shock and jolts as it is to prove to the audience that both these men have perfectly valid points. Are Guy's actions justifiable? Yes, but they're not particularly right. Are Buddy's reasons for being mean and ruthless to his assistants justified? Yes, but they're not particularly right either.Writer/director George Huang wrote the film based off of what he experienced as an executive assistant at Columbia Pictures. Whether or not the acts he was involved in were this extreme or are fabricated to fit film's high standard I can not say, but Huang clearly knows what aspiring young cinephiles (or just business man on the lowest step of the corporate ladder) must go through and put up with in order to make it big. Where Huang scores effortlessly is in the writing, which is sharp, brutal, and all around satisfying. Seeing these men spit out some of the foulest things imaginable is unbelievably satisfying and is not only played for laughs but for intelligence.While the moments of darkness and subversive violence that are spliced in with the moments of typical office conundrums and tribulations may be a bit abrupt, they are nonetheless faithful and necessary to the film's point. I've always seen film as a device used to depict either morals, ideas, ideologies, places usually left unexplored, utopias, etc, but I've too seen it has a brilliant way to showcase events, lifestyles, and modern quirks. Swimming With Sharks is a brutally well written piece brilliantly taking us into the life of an overworked and under-appreciated businessman who is just looking for respect and fair treatment.Starring Kevin Spacey and Frank Whaley. Directed by George Huang. "},{"Title":"One of the best kept secret films ever!!!","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Guy is an established up and coming producer in the film industry, we join him at a meal with three guys he is shmoozing and impressing with a lame story about Shelley Winters, which gets the expected laugh. As the film goes on we hear from Buddy, Guy's viscous boss who lives to torment him, doing just that to him on the phone, but today is no ordinary day, today Guy isn't taking the insults lying down, today Guy, is fighting back.Over the course of the next 90 minutes we experience the previous year of Guy's life of torment under Buddy Ackerman as his take-it-with-a-smile, put-upon assistant while interspersed with his latest pursuit which is that of torturing his boss with a variety of petty annoying vindictive torments.This is largely a film that revolves around three characters, Buddy, Guy and Guy's girlfriend, and as the film builds towards its inevitable conclusion we are held captive by three performers doing quite an incredible job, Frank Whalley and Michelle Forbes are great as Guy and his girlfriend and aspiring writer Dawn Lockard. But the real star is without doubt Kevin Spacey, who takes all the plaudits for Guy's good ideas and yet thinks nothing of putting him down at a moments notice, getting him to approach any blonde haired bimbo for a Chat in his office and then ditching them when Buddy is done with them, Spacey is magnificent in this role, and yet by the end of the film, we sympathise with him, but still don't like him.This is a hidden gem and one that should not be missed when on television. For me this is better than the Usual Suspects because I'd heard so much about it, that I'd kind of guessed the ending, but this surprised me due to having no expectations of it.Qualitay!!! Nuff said. Em! "}{"Title":"brutal revenge never looked so cold.","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" We have a great film here. Original, taut, and quite provocative. This is what happens when you are set amongst the sharks, those money grabbing colleagues who you have to obey, and it is also what happens when they send you to far. Well maybe not, but it's still quite imaginative and cool with Frank Whalley (who notably played Brett, whom Samuel L. Jackson shot in Pulp Fiction) this time playing Guy, a fresh out of film school graduate up for a clean break, and that's what he gets when he's recruited by Buddy Ackerman, the VP of Keystone film productions and has now got to meet his new boss' every needs. Which is to make coffee, take phone calls, and not use his own brain. But with each minor mistake comes big insults, and with a complicated love triangle comes disaster as Guy holds him Buddy hostage and proceeds to interrogate him into why he insists on making his life a misery. The ending is quite good, and revealing and it is very cold in it's own little way. Frank Whalley is great as the undignified, runt of an employee who is constantly being humiliated, and Kevin Spacey is even better as his cynical, cold boss. Benicio Del Toro and Michelle Forbes offer sound support and this film is a great way to spend an hour or so. "},{"Title":"Mind Blowing!","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just saw Swimming, yesterday, I am so surprised that I didn't see it in the past. I have seen nearly all Spacey and Whaley films, but for some reason I missed this one. (Kill me!). Besides being a bad speller I love truth movies like this one. After seeing Spacey in Glen Garry, (which I lost count the # of times), I knew we Had a new super star. One of my ways of noticing a great actor is in the eyes like mentioned in the commentary tracks of the film. Since purchasing the film 2 days ago, I saw it 4 times, once just the film and then with the 3 commentaries. I don't want to bore you all with any more chatter, but just to end with I didn't figure out the ending till I saw the look in Spacy's eyes. (the eyes again) after my first viewing I just said phuewwwwwwwwwww, wow, wow, pH.See ya!!! H.K.R. "},{"Title":"Extreme revenge. Business as usual.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What eats a shark? A bigger shark! What goes around...comes around. It's time for the little guy to stand up and take no more s#*t. Cutting sharp as butcher's knife; this is a harsh look at the darker side of Hollywood. George Huang directs this stark black comedy about a young and almost clueless studio assistant named Guy(Frank Whaley), who is verbally and mentally abused by his tyrant of a boss Buddy Ackerman(Kevin Spacey). Ackerman is a top movie exec who has no care about the people he needs to step on and humiliate to stay at the top of the ladder. Enough is enough. Guy finally gains enough courage to make his move and deal out some torture and abuse of his own. Also in the cast are Benico Del Toro, Roy Dotrice and the charming, but manipulative Michelle Forbes as Dawn Lockard. Believe me, she knows how to get her way. Seeing the boss from Hell strapped to a chair and violently tortured makes you wonder about how much you would be able to take and dish out. "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not only one of Kevin Spacey's finest hours but a funny/gripping comedy thriller poking fun at the dear place we all call hollywood but some poor bugger who is somebody's assisstant there might call hell if this film speaks any truth, if so i feel sorry for them!Released pre-American Beauty which is when the world really stood up and noticed Kevin Spacey Swimming With Sharks deserves alot more recognition, although, if it was a commerical release i think those lucky few who have had the priviledge to watch it would be so lucky!a gem of a film, 9/10 "},{"Title":"Love it.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Did you know this movie has three or four main locations.  It's amazing how much drama and conflict is in this movie, despite it's minimalism.  A scathing film about Hollywood, this movie is right on.  I'd been hearing about it for years, and finally decided to check it out.  Great script, very good performances.  Frank Whaley, where are you?  You were top notch in this.  And Kevin, of course, turns in a good performance.  Awesome film. "},{"Title":"Undeservedly slighted...","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is as fine a piece of work as you'll find in all of cinematic history. The focus of the relationship (a brutal, abusive one nevertheless) between Kevin Spacey's and Frank Whaley's characters as boss and assistant respectively, could have worked on many levels just the same in similar pairings such as master-slave, father-son, instructor-apprentice, etc. A breaking point can exist in any of these relationships if one party is so persistent as to finding it, and the film shows that full scale. I think the whole idea of George Huang (writer and director) using a Show me, don't tell me approach throughout the whole movie, makes this a unique film, and an entertaining watch. It's a shame that this movie never received the accolades it deserves or found an audience, especially considering that it speaks so loud for each and every one of us. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"True to life, amazing, incredible","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had no idea what this movie was going to be about.....10 minutes into it, I was intrigued by Kevin Spacey's performance.  I actually hated him at first, thus being a great actor as always, but somehow felt sorry for him towards the end.  He is an amazing actor! "},{"Title":"spacey deserved an oscar for THIS!!!","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I would never deny him his triumph for American Beauty, but I was so riveted by his sublime interpretation of Buddy Ackerman I wish he'd been recognized by the Academy for this as well. I can't say I've seen every movie Kevin Spacey's ever been in, but all the ones I have seen (Midnight...Good & Evil; Usual Suspects, American Beauty, Glengarry Glen Ross, K-Pax, to name a few) I have never been disappointed. The gamut of characters he has portrayed displays his incredible versatility and passion as an actor, and for me, this was his most outstanding role. I am still basking in the afterglow!Not to slight  Frank Whaley, who also delivered a superb performance as Guy, the awkward just-out-of-film-school first-day-on-the-job assistant. His  character's bumbling pitiful side, coupled with his extremely dark, desperate side should have ranked the actor up there with, say, an Edward Norton (who is the reigning king of meek/dark personalities). I hope he gets his hour to shine one day. I will certainly be on the lookout for him after seeing this. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, although many would disagree with me.(***SPOILERS**)","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I will not hesitate to recommend this film and all that comes with it, but I warn you that the ending will probably disappoint you, if you're 'that' type of person.     I on the other hand loved the ending, (***SPOILER COMING***)because I think it is more plausible on the impulse factor. I want my life back! Guy shouted earlier in the film. So what is his life now? Well, you'd have to say it's his love life; his last remaining social connection, which is supposedly real. So when Guy cracks, it's because Dawn agrees to come over to his boss' house for sex. He's probably gotten used to Buddy's antics by now, so when Dawn rolls on through the door, I can understand how Guy is more angry at her than his boss. He shoots her on impulse. I DO NOT SEE WHY SO MANY PEOPLE BELIEVE THE ENDING IS NOT PLAUSIBLE.(***SPOILER ENDS***)     The second thing I would like to respond to is the suggestion that we don't know enough about Guy's character when he takes Buddy hostage. I can sympathize with this to a degree, but watching the rest of the movie rewards you(as long as you don't expect the full on comedy that it is marketed as). Hopefully you can apply some of your own experiences to understand Guy's early actions before the film explains it. I think the people who say the second half of the movie falls apart are unable to make the transition at the mid-point and are thus left behind trying to find different parts of the movie which aren't there.    You think it has a weak script? Well I think you just don't like Buddy's continuous cursing, which only shows how closed your mind was when you watched this film. Spacey's performance is exemplary to anybody that ever has to play a 'villain'. I'm sure I hear just as much swearing in today's society. And while you may not like the cursing, you should like the script. Some of Buddy's and Guy's monologues are quite thought provoking, staying with you long after the film has ended. And that is the true sign of a strong script.    Just before I go I will stop defending 'Swimming with Sharks' and say something I really liked about it. The music. I really liked the music. It plays in perfect tune with the scenes, especially the opening and closing scenes. Which I think is a good quality of many movies that is overlooked. "},{"Title":"disturbing, but in a good way!!!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie will knock your socks off!  There was a surprise ending that I  never would have seen coming.   Spacey is a god among men "}{"Title":"Brilliant and twisted must-see","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is not for the weak of heart. It's an amazing tale of manipulation, revenge, and politics. Kevin Spacey is, as always, fabulous as evil boss Buddy Ackerman (Kevin Spacey does evil so well, though). Frank Whaley is his much abused and thoroughly vengeful assistant Guy. Michelle Forbes appears as Dawn, an assistant producer involved with both.All I will say is that this movie is full of surprises, especially the ending. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie, reminds me of my boss.","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved this movie, I've seen it a multiple number of times, and I've spent over a year hunting down a copy of the video (I found one at Suncoast).  I don't see why no one likes the ending though, I thought it was perfect. The acting is great, even though I think that Whaley may have been a little better than Spacey.  Also this would of had a perfect setting in the computer industry, since I'm in it, and all the bosses are satan.  It's like Pulp Fiction (which also has Whaley in it) it's said to be a comedy, but no way.  And the paper cut scene rules, in fact, watch this movie to come up with ways to get back at your boss. "},{"Title":"The perfect verge of greatness","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie comes so close. Kevin Spacey gives what I think is an Oscar worthy performance. What holds this movie back is Frank Whaley. I'm going to disagree with most of the other comments and fault his performance. I just don't buy him in any scene except for the very first at the restaurant. He shouldn't even be in the same room as Spacey for the torture scenes. He's far too aware of himself. When Buddy throws his throwing fit in the office, he laughs to himself afterwards. That laugh is such a remarkable demonstration of Spacey's abilities. Buddy knows what he just did was funny, but Spacey doesn't let his own amusement surface. We can see that Buddy thinks it's funny, but we don't see Spacey thinking what Buddy did was funny. Compare that to Whaley's scene where he sits in Buddy's chair and yells about the delivery. You can tell that Whaley, as Guy, knows he's conveying the cold as ice executive type image.The romantic angle between Guy and Dawn (Ensign Ro Laren!!)came off more like a plot device, which it was. The ending is a bit lame as well. This is a very good movie that could have been great, despite Kevin Spacey's godlike performance. It's worth seeing for that alone. "},{"Title":"i'd have changed the ending","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I actually had a boss who was worse than Buddy. A psychotic  hatchet lady with a big bad grudge against whole scheming male dominated world. The powers that be finally gave her one more reason to take proper vengeance when they unceremoniously sacked her one Friday afternoon. But I know she was hired again, to wreak fear and havoc elsewhere. Anybody who's had a boss from hell, will probably watch this film with some guarded laughter. It's really not much fun at all to be Guy. In fact it becomes the one overriding and homicide inducing element in your miserable life. I relished every little paper cut inflicted on Buddy's sneering face, and I would have taken an all together different route if presented with Guy's murderous decision. "},{"Title":"Loved it up to the last scene...","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is classic Spacey - I thoroughly enjoyed his character!  If it hadn't been for the very end - pretty much the last scene - I would have given this one a 10.  I felt it was a weak closure.  See it, though, especially if you're a Spacey fan... "},{"Title":"even though it jars this film is a thing of beauty","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this is in my personal list of top ten films of all time even though it veers recklessly from (very) black humour to near brutality this film really got to me. the story has been covered enough in the other reviews so that i wont go into it except to say along with the continual question being asked throughout the film of what do you REALLY want? should be amended to include - and how much are you prepared to pay?. get this film and watch it if you like films that when they end leave you with questions that you ask yourself. it comes very close to real greatness and only the mix and near mismatch of the two very different strands of storyline keep it back. oh and beautiful ending music by tom hiel. a great example of how good american independant films can be. "},{"Title":"This movie is very effective in getting you to hate the boss.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  But you wouldn't believe what happens to him anyway. I won't give it away either. Watched this movie over a 3 day class period. Just finished it Wednesday.  I would suppose if you ever watched this movie make sure you watch it twice before returning it to the store.  That's what I'm doing.  I'm not totally sure it was Hysterical as some people claim, but then again Blair Witch was funnier than this movie.  (that's a self pun, nevermind..) Sure it's a tad sexist, but come now, you guys.  Anyway, for the past few days I got that damn piano music in my head and I can't get it out.  Someone help me!!!  lol "},{"Title":"A glorious black comedy","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sharks is a top notch black comedy about office politics. The endless stream of insults and putdowns is captivating. As usual, Kevin Spacey is sensational. If you're into the darker side of the human psyche give this movie a look. "},{"Title":"Sweet'n low is pink,Equal is blue.Get it ?","Date":"9 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I dont often resort to writing just in block capitals to emphasise my point,but BUDDY ACKERMAN IS THE ROLE KEVIN SPACEY WAS BORN TO PLAY.A while ago Empire elected Spacey as the best actor of the 90's.I was uncomfortable with this.(I mean surely they'd overlooked Casper Van Dien)When I read that article I had not seen swimming with sharks.Spacey gives one of the most hurtfully truthful performances I have ever seen,reducing his assistant to a crazy. His continually obscene and degrading taunts of Frank Whaley are sublime,and while they can be funny(If you were in my toilet bowl,I wouldnt bother flushing you)its worth taking a second to wonder just how much of this poor Guy can take,and whether the fact that he turns to revenge is a surprise. Now I'm not saying that cutting Kevin Spaceys tongue open with a sheet of paper is justifiable,but Ackerman should really have seen it coming. While the scathing dialogue is inch-perfect,and Spaceys portrayal is Oscar worthy-the highpoints of the film being his confrontations with his downtrodden assistant-the support is capable of holding their own against Spacey and Whaley.Benicio Del Toro(despite the fact that he only has about five minutes screen time)leaves an impression,and Dawn-Guys girlfriend,the only good thing in his life,and inevitably the catalyst for the shock ending to rival Seven and The Usual suspects(both starring Spacey-coincidence ?)is both sweet and harsh. Swimming With Sharks is the best film you never saw,so go get it.now. "},{"Title":"Cutthroat look at Hollywood power play","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Probably one of Kevin Spacey's finest works in which he plays the heavy. Spacey is Buddy Ackerman, a movie executive so evil and mean that he inflicts his insults on his newly appointed assistant Guy, played brilliantly by Frank Whaley. The film goes present-past-present mode in between where Guy kidnaps Buddy and deservingly tortures Buddy and in the past we see Buddy inflict his cruelty towards the gullible Guy. Michelle Forbes plays a movie producer with a past and Guy's frustrated girlfriend. Benicio Del Toro makes an appearance as Buddy's old assistant. Top notch performances from the cast and director George Huang who directs a truly honest film. "}{"Title":"Rent this movie!","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Kevin Spacey is awesome.  This movie is a showcase for his acting talents. He is reason number one to see this movie.  Reason number two is if you have ever had a bad boss.  Reason number three is that it is a well executed movie.  The script is good, the directing is good, and the film has nice little details like a funny bit on the radio in the background.  Frank Whaley is very good in this movie. It is a shame that guys like Whaley and Spacey can not star in these kind of roles in mainstream movies because they are certainly more talented than your Keanu Reeves and Sly Stallones.  THe movie is funny, it is dark, and it is good.  I always recommend it to people and they always like it.  The Movieman gives it his full recommendation check it out I promise you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Kaiser Soze's Brother Big Hollywood MogulExtra extra!","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Kevin Spacey is by far one of this generations most fabulous actors, we all know that. He plays Buddy Ackerman Hollywoods answer to Adolf Hitler as Hollywoods reigning golden boy mogul de jour. Up and coming... from Hell!!! Enter the dragon or in this case his assistant fresh faced New Yorker Frank Whaley a very decent yet naive young man who still has his dreams, soul, and innocence. As the movie flashes from the end to the beginning you think you want to put this poor trainee out of his misery.It is painful to watch, yet we all have had an Ackerman in our lives.We watch like voyeurs as the characters take an amazing turn. Predator Spacey has done his job too well.Shark becomes shark bait. Frank Whaley is fabulous as the man who came to Tinseltown. Wide eyed guppie finds out that he is not only swimming with sharks, but is turning into the biggest one in the tank.Plus he is a bottom feeder to boot. You will be riveted to the last minute. Be careful what you wish for. Think All About Eve on PCP during a roid rage. FABULOUS STUFF  "},{"Title":"Fine performance","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought Kevin Spacey was very strong in the role of Buddy Ackerman. Where he screams, it really brings you back to when you were in the position of Guy on the receiving end. Unfortunately, I was not so impressed with Frank Whaley's role of Guy. Although the character needed it, I thought he was a little too whiney and I took sides with Buddy all the time. A great film, with strong undercurrents of the 'kill or be killed' atmosphere of big businesses. "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey shines","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As everybody else I expected a comedy when I bought this film. As everybody else I soon realized that it was going to be more than a comedy. The torture scenes are not exactly comedy, except  maybe the paper-cut torture scene. Torture with an envelope is not exactly what we see in the movies every day. Loved it.However, the film is far from perfect. The two halves represent two totally different moods and sometimes I believe the director couldn't bring those two parts together without a big crash. But I *did* have a great time watching this movie and at times the two moods worked side by side perfectly. And do I have to say this Kevin Spacey is great! He must be the greatest actor that has ever blessed the screen with his presence! Every word, every *syllable*, every look, every smile... PERFECT!I'm going to finish this little review with a Buddy-quote, the man blessed with a tongue sharper than... eh, an envelope, -)You're happy. I hate that!  "},{"Title":"Little film packs a big punch.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Swimming with Sharks is George Huang's first feature, and well could be his last. Hollywood takes itself very seriously and there has been more than a little not-so-good natured grumbling that Huang's scathing representation of big-time movie production may be just a touch too accurate for some tastes.Whether or not Kevin Spacey's character, Buddy Ackerman, is modeled after Joel Silver (producer of Die Hard among others) we'll never know for sure, but we do know he's an insensitive ego-maniacal boss. His new assistant Guy (Frank Whaley) is starry eyed over becoming a producer as the story opens, but comes face-to-face with cold, hard realities quickly.A nice little story with a neat and appropriate twist, fun for film business fans, or anyone who's ever hated their boss.  "},{"Title":"meet the new boss...","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Kevin Spacey is really great at playing power freaks who dip their tongues in acid before they leave for work in the morning. I didn't feel the boss from hell catharsis, though. This movie seemed to me like another commentary on the moral decay of Hollywood movie executives, with some David Mamet-style s/m exploration (and a dose of Mamet's disregard for women), but without the character or story complexity needed to back up the gut-twisting ending.  "},{"Title":"Warning back of box may be lying","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First and foremost, this is _not_ a comedy.  Black comedy, perhaps.  But a hilarious romp through the misfortunes of a young, idealistic up-and-comer it most certainly AIN'T, and you can take that to the bank and hold the Sweet 'n' Low.This is not to say that this is a bad movie--it is a GREAT movie.  Spacey _is_ excellent (as is Frank Whaley, why does no one mention him though?), the film is intelligent and well-made. Perhaps the only meta-Hollywood film this decade that will rival _The Player_.But forget the box.  This is not about the boss from hell.  If there is any point to this movie (and there is), it has to do with the way we create people within ourselves, and how we deal with people once we _really_ know them.  But don't let that spoil the entertainment value of Buddy Guy's chuckle-inducing tantrums.  Hee hee!  I giggle at the mere thought of another real-world entrant losing his or her soul. "},{"Title":"Easy to push assistant gets pushed around until something snaps.","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Kevin Spacey (the producer) is very good in this movie. I can't imagine another actor playing the part that well (look for other kevin spacey movies, I haven't seen a bad one yet - in fact, they're all brilliant)Only drawback is that the romance is not very believable, but considering the fantastic quotes, the very good acting and the fantastic ending, I forgive that little error.Very nice that they managed to give the producer a personality to hate, and still get you to understand him in the end. Very nice indeed.Great movie. Can't miss. 10. "},{"Title":"Can Kevin Spacey do no wrong??!","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The most true-to-life depiction of the boss from hell!! We've all seen guys like this......it's just that mine didn't look Mr.Spacey!See this movie - over and over again!! "},{"Title":"Brilliant performance from Kevin Spacey","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Guy (Frank Whaley) has finally had it with his boss Buddy Ackerman (Kevin Spacey), and he takes him hostage with a gun. The movie flashes back to the start when Guy was a young naive assistant to the abusive Hollywood producer boss. Dawn Lockard (Michelle Forbes) is a producer who befriends and gets romantically involved with Guy.This is a tour de force performance from Kevin Spacey. Writer/director George Huang bases the character on his former boss Joel Silver. It's his directorial debut and is a lower budget indie. Both problems are obvious but they're lucky to have the great performances. Whaley and Forbes do good jobs. It's like a brilliant play and has the insight of realism. "}{"Title":"Fanaticalaboutfilms Review Swimming With Sharks","Date":"19 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Swimming With Sharks is set in the cut throat world of the film industry although this doesn't dictate the plot as much as you might think. It follows Guy (Frank Whaley) who is a clean-shaven enthusiastic new recruit into this unique world landing himself a job as the personal assistant to Buddy Ackerman (Kevin Spacey) an expletive throwing repugnant studio executive whose addition to your CV opens every door imaginable but is counteracted so much by his demeanour that many would find it not worth the trouble.Guy seems to have the determination to see it through helped by script writer and love interest Dawn (Michelle Forbes) but after working for the man for over a year, cracks begin to surface and Guy is finally pushed too far showing up at Buddy's home in the middle of the night intent on revenge. What plays out over the 100 minutes is a mixture between the past year of his life and the present unfolding situation.This was George Huang's first (and it would seem only notable) foray into the world of writing and directing and credit must be given to him. The script is impressive with Whaley engrossing himself into the character topped only by Spacey's exceptional performance where he looks set to star in a similar, albeit toned down, role in Horrible Bosses. He not only excels in many of his 'throwing a tantrum' scenes but somehow brings sympathy and compassion to a character that we should not feel anything for. Even when being held hostage he emits a certain smug arrogance that would be misplaced in any other character apart from this one.I felt conflicted given the knowledge at the beginning that Guy kidnaps his boss. It somewhat limits the sympathy you can show towards him regardless of finding out what Buddy did to drive him to such lengths.I wouldn't class this as a comedy per say as this is not going to have you laughing a great deal but rather an extremely dark satire of life in Hollywood and the means required to keep your head above the water. It shows us that the calling of the bright lights can change a man with only a few have what is required to make it. Add all of this together to an unexpected ending and it makes for an interesting watch.Yes there are moments where I felt things were not quite working and the relationship between Dawn and Guy lacked that believability factor but Swimming With Sharks certainly made the time fly and has enough to keep it fresh in the mind for a couple of days at the very least.For further reviews feel free to check out http//www.fanaticalaboutfilms.com "},{"Title":"Good, but maybe not as good as you've heard.","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is possibly one of those films that somehow ends up being better than the sum of its faults. The 'message' is heavy-handed and obvious, the character arcs pretty well sign-posted in advance and the scale of the piece rather small. Trading off against this, the performances are very engaging and enjoyable (especially Spacey, given an early chance to chew on some scenery and helpless assistants and poor old, forgotten Frank Whaley, whose career never really materialised &#150; maybe he needed a stern boss to guide him?). I wasn't massively impressed with the ending, but then again it was a free DVD in a newspaper, so no complaints, really. Solid if unchallenging entertainment. "},{"Title":"A hilarious film dominated by Spacey.","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's entertaining, easy to watch and definitely hilarious. Spacey is absolutely on fire in one of his five best performances. His range and ability to play the arrogant jackass flawlessly is just perfect. I only have two complaints, but they are pretty big ones. First, I've always felt that the ending was very shocking and unpredictable. But with that comes the fact that it is overwhelmingly contrived and completely unrealistic on all fronts. My other complaint isn't much of a complaint, just a reason as to why I don't love the film more. Usually when I love a film it has to be either extremely entertaining, very poignant, have a deep meaning or just have elements that are phenomenally done. While this one has certain parts of all four, it never really excels in any of those subjects. I still like it a whole lot, but I don't love it. "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey as Lester Burnham's flip side","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" To me, it seems like 1995 was really the year that brought Kevin Spacey into the national spotlight. He played a creepy boss in Swimming with Sharks, a strange interviewee in The Usual Suspects and a serial killer in Se7en. The first one lets him go all out as a total jerk - and he's a movie producer, so that makes him as bad as can be - making life a living hell for Frank Whaley's newcomer. So it's no surprise that Whaley does what he does.Is Spacey the actor who most defined the direction that indie films started to take in the '90s? Hard to say, as there were many such actors. But I would say that it's neat how Spacey's characters usually perpetrate misery on other people (like here) or rebel against it (like in American Beauty). Overall, this is certainly one that I recommend. Because a paper cut on the tongue can't be anything pleasant.Also featuring Benicio Del Toro in an early role. "},{"Title":"Brilliant black-comedy about 2nd-thoughts on the movie industry","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Kevin Spacey and Frank Whaley are, in a nutshell, brilliant when it comes to this movie. I've seen this movie 10 times at least, and every time I see it, you catch on to different key moments and lines. Kevin's character is that of Buddy Ackerman, who is a fictitious producer extraordinaire who's life has been hell up until the point when he received that job. He takes it out on everyone, especially his personal assistants. When Rex (Benicio Del Toro) gets promoted as the VP of Paramount Studios, Guy takes his place as the new head on the chopping block for Buddy to abuse.Guy, modestly played by Frank Whaley, is a typical Hollywood newbie to the behind-the-scenes jobs. He's a writer who wants to try his hardest by working hard, but he lacks the detail that Ackerman is looking for. And Buddy lets him know it. Throughout the film, Guy is picking up on how the game is played while trying to maintain a relationship with a smaller producer, Dawn (Michelle Forbes). When Dawn is caught to be cheating on Guy with his boss, all s&^+ hits the fan.This film had absolutely mesmerizing acting. Truly a one-of-a-kind film, this movie should be in every DVD collection. Not only will you look like a real buff, you'll want to be one after a single viewing. It was a good introduction to Frank Whaley, for myself, and his talents. The music was very moody and near perfect for that drama, but not quite drama feel in every scene. The directing was simple, but the story behind the movie is great. Check out the trivia on this movie to learn more about where it came from. Kevin was even a co-producer to get this film out there. It was a great part for him, by the way; it really touched on his usually-cast mean, poignant guy role.So run out and BUY (don't bother renting, you'll want to see it again later anyways) this DVD. The DVD has a good deign to the menus, too. I had to give this one 9/10. There is too much history between myself and this film not to. "},{"Title":"Don't for a minute think Spacey is giving an OTT performance","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Swimming with Sharks is a very fine movie - if you haven't seen it I encourage you to get the DVD out because it has some great writing and performances to equal the script.I'm just scribbling this comment to say that when I first saw the movie, I assumed that Spacey's (excellent) performance was a bit OTT. Still great, but OTT.A couple of years later I happened to be doing some business with a major talent agency on the West Coast. I became acquainted with one of the partners in the agency.So I can say from personal experience that the charm, the rage, the trappings, the sycophancy, the whole shmoola depicted by Spacey is, if anything, mildly understated -)Def worth 2 hours of your time. "},{"Title":"Buddy makes my boss look like Billy Graham","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  No way could I work in the environment Guy put up with. However, he did because he found down deep what meant more to him than anything else thanks to Buddy's expert teachings. Nice use of flashback in this fictional look into the seedy backstage part of Hollywood. Chock full of biting dialogue which keeps the viewer glued from scene to scene wondering where this volatile relationship will lead. And was it ever a surprise. Hot film. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie with a girlfriend when I was in College. She introduced me to it and I thought it was awesome. It is a great gritty, funny, dark movie that seems true to life. My girlfriend went on to be a lesbian, but I still think this movie is on my top 10 list.  "},{"Title":"Who found this film?","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is strange how this movie has like 4,000 votes, and a rating of 7.3, and the film   is not all that good, and it only grossed like $200,000 at the box office, so I am  wondering who found it and gave it so  many votes.  Its not a bad movie, its just  rather standerd fair, the cast is superb, Kevin Spacey(Se7en), Frank Whaley(Field  Of Dreams), and even Benecio Del Toro(The Way Of The Gun) in a bit part.  Its a  good thing that the film didnt run over 90 minutes, because its wafer thin plot  could not carry barely carry it.   **1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Gives The Player a run for its money; pitch black satire","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" SWIMMING WITH SHARKS (1995) ***1/2 Kevin Spacey, Frank Whaley, Michelle Forbes. Usually on the mark black comedy a la The Player set in Hollywood with novice assistant Whaley the brunt of his employer's scorn, movie executive Spacey (in one darkly funny turn), The Boss From Hell who winds up paying dearly for his humiliating demeanor. Forbes is the only weak chain as a supposedly powerful producer who improbably steers Whaley through the pitfalls of Lotus Land. "}{"Title":"An excellent film, and one of Kevin Spacey's truly great moments.","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  An excellent film, and one of Kevin Spacey's truly great moments. He shines in this character of an abusive and dominating boss, and seems to be a natural at it. The story seems quite straightforward to begin with, but halfway through the film the truth is revealed and you are pulled from siding with one character and totally hating the other, to understanding both. In fact you are almost taken the full journey to hating the character you originally believed in. This turn is done wonderfully, and you can feel your realization creeping forward. The ending is just as much a turnaround as anything, and watching Spacey's character control the events is fantastic. See Spacey at one of his finest moments. "},{"Title":"flaccid characters + egoistic plot mechanisms = B-movie","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sure, Kevin Spacey is fantastic in this film, but that still doesn't help over come the fact that the story is weak and petty, the lead character is nothing more than a two-dimensional cut-out representing the p***y frustrations and alter ego of the writer, and that the ending makes little sense. Not to mention that the whole film is lacks any development and is just a collection of cruel scenes with little explanation or connection between them. There is no development just a mean boss, an aspiring kid, and torture (which is such a pathetic attempt at cathartic redemption--obviously designed for the post-pubescent frustrated men who are the key market to this kind of B-film)--basically nothing really separates this film from a Russ Meyers special except that Meyers doesn't have pretensions of any sort while you can just feel how important this movie believes it is.All in all, this film may be worth watching just to see Spacey do his magic, but the residue this film leaves behind almost makes me think I should just watch American Beauty twice instead of seeing this once.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey is terrific, but . . .","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is worth seeing just for Kevin Spacey's wonderfully nasty performance, but the improbable and unbelievable romantic relationship between Guy and Dawn undermines the whole thing.   "},{"Title":"Outstanding film","Date":"3 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was originally led to believe (via my Netflix queue) that Swimming With Sharks would be a (dark) comedy. And while there are certain moments of humor, this film is firmly planted in drama territory. But, no matter what label they give it, the film is excellent and very much worth watching. The writing is sharp and interesting, and Spacey and the small cast do a great job with it. It's a very small movie, comprised of a very few actors and locations, but never feels small, thanks to the great depth that the characters are given, as well as the engrossing story. I don't want to reveal too much about the plot, but sufficed to say, it explores the dysfunctional and often tragic professional relationships that are abundant in Hollywood, and the extreme ends that an otherwise reasonable individual can be pushed to. Worth watching for sure. "},{"Title":"Great flick!","Date":"7 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ackerman obviously has problems or he wouldn't be acting quite in the way that he is, but director George Huang and Spacey are also careful to show that Ackerman has a lot more going on than surface behavior--he's acting the way that he is purposefully, both to get his due now as part of the establishment and to coyly manipulate his young, meek and abused underling, Guy (Frank Whaley), along with everyone else he comes into contact with. His aim is to mold Guy in a particular way--a way that works even though Guy thinks that he's severely breaking form in the extended penultimate scene that's intercut with Guy and Ackerman's history.Huang shows professional relationships as consisting mostly of politicking and manipulation. That's true at every level--certainly even Guy is doing this. There is very little authenticity to anyone in their working relationships. That seems pretty accurate to me, unfortunately. It's notable that the one dream of authenticity in the film--Guy talking about moving to Wyoming with Dawn (Michelle Forbes)--is treated and dispensed with as an unreachable fantasy, and it's also notable (and is fairly literally pointed out in the film) that Dawn, the one character who tries to demand being more authentic amidst the shark infested waters of the professional world, basically never gets anywhere.In the highly metaphorical ending of the film, things remain manipulative, political and backstabbing, and in that climate, at least two out of three characters win. Huang seems to be suggesting that the professional world ain't likely to change any time soon, and that even if you try to change it or manipulate the game itself, you're likely to just get eaten up by it, processed by it and incorporated into it anyway. Again, I can't say I disagree with him. "},{"Title":"An Essay on the Origins of a Corporate Monster","Date":"24 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not entirely what you'd expect from the promo art, this strange hybrid of chilling suspense and black comedy bears a surprisingly deep, developed cast of characters and a bitter, intense message about the origins of a corporate monster. Kevin Spacey is at his usual best as the pompous, demeaning studio executive with a finger in every pie, while journeyman Frank Whaley (Brett from Pulp Fiction) overplays the wide-eyed, naive farmboy act as Spacey's hapless assistant at the edge. But while early scenes hint this is just another predictable, pull-for-the-little-man light comedy, the narrative's regular flashes forward in the timeline paint a larger, more sinister picture. When the dust settles, Spacey is revealed to be far more complicated and damaged than he lets on, Whaley has worked himself into a deep, dark pit of trouble and neither man is who they were at the outset. Bewildering at times due to the jolting changes in tone and atmosphere, it lingers with the viewer well after the credits have rolled. "},{"Title":"Worth a watch","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Swimming With Sharks is original and daring, but very uneven. I've always been a sucker for films about filmmaking and Hollywood and as such I was willing to let a lot slide, but it had a few too many ups and downs, starting out with a very problematic and ambiguous mix of comedy and tragedy; it then reaches its peak in the second half, when it turns more and more into a full drama; but then disappoints with the ending. And without that ending, it would have been a truly singular film. As it is, it's still an interesting one well worth a watch, if only for Kevin Spacey's performance in the second half, that turns from over-the-top ham to utter and nasty subtlety. "},{"Title":"Who Would You Rather Work For Buddy Ackerman Or Ari Gold?","Date":"10 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Why is Guy working for Buddy? Probably because Ari was not around in 1995. Why does Dawn want to be with Guy? For access to Buddy. Why does she stay with Guy? I am not sure.There are bunch of things about this movie that I am not sure about. But, Kevin Spacey is an excellent, verbal tsunami as Buddy Ackerman &#x96; and totally believable because he is a great actor.Frank Whaley's Guy is certainly out of his element working for Buddy &#x96; he wants to write and make meaningful movies, not be a gofer that is verbally abused for getting Equal instead of Sweet & Low. Michelle Forbes' Dawn, who also wants to make meaningful movies, seems way out of Guy's league.The ending leaves a lot to be desired. "},{"Title":"Sad","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The role of Buddy Ackerman is no stretch for Kevin Spacey. He's played version of that character many times other, better films. This is fortunate because it gives his performance a certain resonance without which Buddy would be as flat and incomplete as all of the other characters in this pointless little farce. The script leaves little time for plot or character development, resembling a porn flick in its rush to get to the good stuff. The difference is that here the good stuff isn't people pleasuring each other but inflicting pain, making it appropriate viewing for young adults.Of course there's nothing wrong with a porn flick if you want to watch people having sex, and I guess there's nothing wrong with Swimming with Sharks if you want to watch people undergoing physical, emotional, and psychological torture. But if you're looking for incisive satire, interesting characters, or anything else that even attempts to engage more than your basest passions, you should probably look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Hysterical! - NOT QUITE","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Talk about false advertising!  What was this doing in the comedy section of my video rental place?  I think there was maybe one laughable part in the movie.  I can appreciate black comedy, but this had only the blackness without any comedy.  The movie was generally disturbing and un-funny.  Yes, Kevin Spacey was good as Buddy and the rest of the cast was also good, but generally the movie falls apart because we don't really see a good enough reason for Guy (Whaley) to lose his mind so badly.  The ending was disappointing as well.  What would Buddy's motivation be for letting Guy get away with what he did?  This isn't really explained AT ALL.  Why would Buddy go for such a plan?  Wouldn't it be more like Buddy to screw Guy completely by turning him over to the police?  The ending didn't seem to make a whole lot of sense to me no matter how I looked at it.Generally, I disliked the film despite the good acting.  Spacey essentially chews scenery for most of the film, but towards the end he gives Buddy a bit of needed humanity.  The story just wasn't as good as the cast. "}{"Title":"What would you do to climb up the ladder?","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film tells the story of a young Hollywood intern who had to endure his nasty and abusive boss, in order to fulfill his dreams of working I the film industry.I find Kevin Spacey's character quite hilarious, because he is just like what a nasty boss is. Of course he reminds me of the hugely successful character called Miranda Priestley, Spacey is not as memorable as Streep because this film is ultimately about the intern, not Spacey.The story telling is not linear, and for a long time I thought the scenes of the intern in the home of the boss was a fantasy sequence. The surprise ending makes me realise that in fact these scenes are not fantasy but reality. And the ending again reminds me of Anne Hathaway's character in The Devil Wears Prada - what would you do to climb the ladder? "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey always puts on a great performance","Date":"18 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of those movies where a great actor turns a run of the mill film into a good one. Kevin Spacey is just the sort of actor that always seems to do that.Swimming with Sharks, is the story of a young man, Guy ( Frank Whaley), who is determined to make his mark in the Movie industry. He lands a job as the assistant to big time Hollywood executive, Buddy Ackerman (Kevin Spacey), and thinks he has the start to launch him into the big time. It turns out that Buddy is not only a bigshot executive but also makes ridiculous demands, and is a downright cruel demanding boss, that seems to have no regard for his assistant or anyone for that matter. How far can Buddy push Guy until he snaps?This is not a new story line, it has been done time after time, but it is a horrible boss story, so everyone can relate to it. I am not a fan of Frank Whaley and actually can't stand him, but he does a decent job in this one. As I said this movie wasn't very original and I probably wouldn't have liked this movie at all if it wasn't for Kevin Spacey.Kevin Spacey did a great job portraying the evil, demanding boss.In my mind, he was what made this movie. Everything in this movie says boring and done before, but Kevin Spacey's performance turns it into a good movie. It's rare that one actor could do that by himself but in this case it is true.Not to reveal anything, but the end takes a twist that is actually a pretty good one. So overall, it was a good movie, not a great one. Spacey turns out to be the only one driving it, but somehow it was enough to make it watchable and at times enjoyable.Like my reviews, hate em? Any questions or comments, or if you want a DVD reviewed just shoot me an e-mail at subliminal.lithium@gmail.com "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Biz","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Human ambition has equal capacity for creating worthy and despicable accomplishment. The movie industry, according to Swimming with Sharks, implies that it will promote the latter. The consistently underrated Frank Whaley plays Guy, a naive film school grad who believes he's gotten a position which will lead to the job of his dreams. An Oscar worthy Kevin Spacey is his boss, Buddy Ackerman, a powerful Hollywood producer with no limit on his passive-aggressive sadism. Throughout the course of the movie we witness the rigors that Buddy makes Guy do, often with a dismissive insult.Why should you watch this? 1) The script is by director Geroge Huang and is reportedly based on his own experiences as a page boy for industry elites, thereby providing a potential insider look at what it's like to be in such an environment. 2) The audience's sympathy to Buddy and Guy is skillfully manipulated over the course of the film, creating emotionally involved viewing.Add to this a powerful piano theme and you have a picture asking us how far we would go for success. "},{"Title":"wickedly brilliant","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film surprised me. I saw it on TV and did not know beforehand what it would be. Kevin Spacey (whose performance, as a side note, was excellent) being the star was what made me watch it in the first place, but now I'm buying it because it is a psychological masterpiece that needs to be added to my collection--mostly due to the end. I adore the way the rest of the movie doesn't really build up to the end, which is a masterful twist that makes this movie worthy of being called brilliant. The psychology reminds me somewhat of Mario Puzo's FOOLS DIE. Buddy Ackerman's gems of advice are genius, Guy's nervousness, desire, and ultimate change is magnificent, the comedy is almost always flawless, and it all comes together to make a film you will never forget. "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A simple gem, lit with truth. Also a lesson in what a movie can be when actors are allowed toact, and a writers insight is respected, rather than given lowerbilling to a director's ego,special effects and Hollywood cliche.  "},{"Title":"AN UNDERRATED MASTERPIECE","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The movie is very simple, with just three main characters, and has the least complicated of plots it simply deals with a tormenting employer, and how his tormented employee avenges his tormentor; simple, isn't it? Yet, I am amazed as to how one can make such a masterpiece considering it has the most of the trite of plots. The reason to this is also simple a bit of outré &#145;creativity' by the movie-director, and of course, Mr. Kevin Spacey.The movie wouldn't be half as good without Spacey, who is the life of the movie. Though he plays the part of the villain, he is more adorable than anyone else in the movie. The whole of the 90 min. of the movie is full of Spacey, and his mordant dialogues. Though one is supposed to feel sorry for Frank Whaley, for the inclement treatment he receives from Spacey, one doesn't. On the contrary, one rather wants that Spacey continue this treatment, so that he (Spacey) could continue treating the viewer with his fantabulous dialogue-delivery of some of the most acerbic dialogues ever written. It is amazing that one actually ends up laughing throughout the major part of this otherwise subfusc movie, thanks to Spacey. Though Spacey has got a lot to do with making this movie, a treat to watch, the exceptional direction is also worth a mention. Though George Huang had nothing much to play with, as far as this movie is concerned, which mainly consists of exchange of dialogues, and very little of anything else, with some &#145;intelligent' creativity from him, he has managed to make this a very interestingly directed movie. The interesting direction comes from the really weird arrangement of the movie, especially the non-chronological ordering of the scenes.  The climax of the movie is unpredictable, and one of the best ever. The whole course of the movie changes drastically in the last five minutes. As a matter of fact, though the movie puts on a funny façade throughout, one actually feels quite sad after the movie ends, feeling sorry for Michelle Forbes, especially. This is where beauty lies in the movie though it makes you laugh throughout, you actually feel &#145;punched in the face', at the end. The movie truly exemplifies the &#145;dog-eat-dog' world, in which all of us live. I GIVE IT A 10/10 RATING.           								     "},{"Title":"Yada yada yada","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Swimming With The Sharks tells of a Hollywood studio V.P. (Spacey) who psychologically subjugates his assistant (Whaley) though hollow promises of  success in the film biz while verbally abusing and humiliating him. A bland dark comedy with psychodramatic overtones which relies entirely on the performances of three virtually charismaless actors, Swimming... offers a whole lot of dialogue and very little else. A middle of the marquee flick now circulating on cable, Swimming... may have some appeal for fans of the trio of principals and others into dialogue-intensive flicks. (C+) "},{"Title":"The most under-rated film ever?","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'd never heard of this film, in either of it's titles (The Buddy Factor or Swimming With Sharks) until my girlfriend asked if I'd seen it. She bought it for me and it instantly soared into my top 5 movies of all time.Kevin Spacey should have bagged an Oscar for his role as Buddy Ackerman, and Frank Whaley should have at least got some decent roles after this.In the period of trying to avoid all things related to this movie (it was going to be a xmas present from the Mrs and I wasn't allowed to know anything about it), I watched the interviews on The Usual Suspects and found out that Benicio Del Toro was cast as Chuck Fenster based on his part in Swimming With Sharks, and I couldn't agree more with Brian Singer. Benicio isn't in the movie for long, but his performance is spot on, I couldn't fault it.I don't want to give away anything about the movie, but what I will say is.... If you have ANY idea about movies, this is a one to watch! "},{"Title":"Whaley to Spacey","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The acting from these two different actors are terrific. Both give a unique performance in the characters they played. Some have said that Whaley's acting is very weak compared to Spacey. Spacey being the more signified and defined actor of our time, Whaley has had to take the sidelines in his work against Spacey. The truth is, Whaley gave an excellent performance. Who said working with Spacey would be easy? "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why this guy George Huang hasn't done anything else is beyond me. This film is great.  A great script with three  excellent leads, you have to see this to really enjoy it. And not once, but multiple viewings.  Kevin Spacey is at his best, playing a Hollywood Player in the first degree, a rude and obnoxious, egomaniac boss who mentally and physically abuses his assistant, played by the underrated Frank Whatley.  Anyone who's had a horrible boss, or who has worked in the industry should see this film.  This script is great on so many levels, it's a wonder that this film isn't more widely known.  Run, don't walk to the video store to get it, or better yet, buy it.  And if you don't, than remember You-Have-No-Brain. "}{"Title":"Kevin Spacey","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Swimming With the Sharks is a clever, bitingly satirical look at Hollywood and what a**holes can come from it.  But not all of it is great (it is basically a one joke idea turned into a movie).  But thankfully, the star/co-producer Kevin Spacey makes this film all worth while (he might be the best actor of the decade).  Funny, revenge-full, odd. A- "},{"Title":"Truly Brilliant","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a big Spacey fan, and this film did not disappoint. Buddy is the Boss from Hell, but he is at the top because he is the way he is. I am not excusing his behaviour, but in the end we see why he was the way he was to Guy. Spacey is brilliant, as we have come to get from him. The movie is small scale, but carries big balls. Can't wait for what this man is going to do next. "},{"Title":"Spacey is God","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In Swimming With Sharks we see the greatest actor of the 90s. When he is not on screen, the film suffers. The final scenes are great! Has Spacey ever disappointed? Methinks not! 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Sit down, shut up, learn!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A prerequisite for anyone interested in joining the Hollywood game.  The statue may say Kevin Spacey won Best Supporting Actor for The Usual Suspects and God bless him in anything he does, but it was this all-but-forgotten gem that earned Spacey the little bald guy.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a great movie.  Kevin Spacey is at his best in a role that fits him to a tee... Phenomenal acting... Award winning performance!  "},{"Title":"A Painfully Great Movie","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Swimming with Sharks, is proof that a movie doesn't need a huge budget, great effects, or overpaid actors to succeed. A wonderfully painful microcosm of human interaction, it manages to use powerful direction, succesful flashbacks, and superb acting to both entertain and shock.The three primary actors are Guy (tormented underling), Buddy (tormenting boss), and Dawn, who's had relationships with both. Guy is initially an idealistic, ambitious screenwriter, unintimidated by the Hollywood social infrastructure. Buddy (Kevin Spacey, terrific as the only name actor) is the gleefully malicious boss who can guarantee success, but only if tolerated from long enough.Buddy manipulates, exploits, and abuses (emphasis on the last word) Guy, who tolerates his boss's behavior until he realizes his one confidant, Dawn, has been in relationships with Buddy before. Guy, after being bended A LOT, finally snaps, and the easy exploitation avenue this movie could have taken is gracefully avoided, as the relationship between the three, and especially Buddy and Guy , is carefully examined.This movie is somewhere between slice-of-life, coming-of-age, character-interaction, and drama, and manages to draw in the best elements of each. It's truly a terrific and under-appreciated experience. "},{"Title":"Good, but Terrifying.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As a fan of Kevin Spacey, I went into this movie with high expectations.  I got my wonderful (as usual) performance from Spacey, but I also got a real scare from a movie that I expected to be a comedy.  Spacey effectively portrayed the Boss from Hell, and although at first the idea seemed to be funny, some of the torture scenes were a little too...  I don't know.  This film did not go over well with me, although it had an excellent cast, and a very good story. I personally like to believe in the basic goodness of humans, so this movie was a hit below the belt to me.  And by God, I don't plan to reward that.   "},{"Title":"Drowning in Pessimism","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie about the dark side of the movie business is worth seeing for Spacey's clever performance alone.. Period. I am tired of films that are considered profound merely because they present human nature at its worst. For a movie about movies, this film is very uncinematic, relying on its clever dialogue to make its points. As for the surprise ending, presented without irony, I can only conclude that the screen writer is a misogynist. "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There's something wonderful about a revenge film. Everyone wakes up in the morning believing he/she is the star of the movie, and that anyone who interferes with one's own personal agenda is in some way the enemy. Revenge plot films work particularly well if a person has low self-esteem. Rather than fighting back in the moment, the hero draws upon built-up inner anxiety to engage in a single act of power in an attempt to restore equilibrium. Quite naturally, in the real world this type of revenge seldom relieves the tension because life is not a movie; after the revenge is enacted the actions taken have their own consequences. A good revenge flick helps people ignore this bitter pill. In the movies the end credits roll and all responsibility resolved.Swimming With Sharks is advertised as a comedy, no doubt an act on the part of the producers to figure out just how to sell this oddity. It's dark, but it isn't dark comedy (Company Of Men and the works of Todd Solondz come much closer). Parts of the film are so brutal they pre-date the current torture-porn genre everyone is so obsessed with (Saw, Hostel). There are some laughs. There are laughs in Saving Private Ryan too, but it isn't labeled comedy.The intrinsic problem with this film is that it hasn't earned its revenge case. It is ostensibly about a young man who is abused by his boss and eventually takes his boss hostage to pay him back for all the mistreatment. The hero (aptly named Guy) is an everyman so vague we know literally nothing about him...what does he do with his spare time? Does he have friends/family? How did he get where he is? What are his interests (this becomes a running motif through the film, no doubt inspired by the film's author's own struggle...What do you want?, the answer to which we are denied by a vague, cheat of an ending)? It's very difficult to care for such a character, even if acted well (even Tom Hanks becomes a creep in the wrong roll, such as Punchline). Kevin Spacey as the boss, Buddy, is supposed to be a monster but he's too charismatic as an actor. The best laughs came when he abused his assistant--he seemed almost as surprised as the audience probably is at what Guy will endure. When Kevin's character is being tortured, the view taken suddenly becomes empathy for him. Guy is suddenly filmed as a leering monster without rationality. At this point any message the author had has been lost; there's no hero in this film, ergo, no reason to care at all.It's not a stretch to assume this story is based on the author's own troubled career in the film business. I worked for a similar boss and can vouch that it's not that far-fetched. I had similar wish-fulfillment fantasies at that time and thought that I was justified. I thought you could win over the most beautiful woman in the story (actually, the ONLY woman--there seem to be all of about four people in the universe of this film) just by being your eager, naive self, that eagerness won accolades and that a boss abused you because he was a mean person. Time and tide have revealed the truth that most monsters are really just the demons of an individual's personal psyche and resentment is usually based in the self. As the film points out, if Guy was so unhappy he only had to leave. The film doesn't offer any denouement at all, surprise ending notwithstanding. We still know nothing about the protagonists, we can't even be sure anything they said was based in fact and everyone magically gets to have his cake and eat it too. In short, there was no point to this story at all other than to point out that (shock!) the film business can be pretty brutal.There are plenty of good films that tell solid and satisfying revenge-style fantasies, both the feel-good variety (9-to5, Working Girl, The Devil Wears Prada) and not so much (War Of The Roses, the remake of The Hills Have Eyes). This isn't one of them--despite a fun turn by Benicio Del Toro in the Emily Blunt role from Prada and some interesting work by Spacey and Michelle Forbes, this is a frustrating, mean, confused and slightly dull creation of self- indulgence from a director who has, one hopes, worked it all out by now... "},{"Title":"Intimidation in the work place hits high, from a big gun","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Way before Kevin Spacey became a horrible boss, he was another real horrible ar..hole boss, where this movie really lets you ponder how far you can let someone push you. Hollywood producer exec, Buddy Ackerman (Spacey) who just revels in the role with flawless brilliance, lets out a string of verbal and physical assaults on a new fish employee, who Buddy has basically kissing his arse. Of course a lot of employees in the real world, who have been bullied, where the boss has made them their ashtray, will identify with this all too well, or painfully so, or to smaller degrees, than Spacey's handling of his employee, Guy, Pulp Fiction's Frank Whaley, suited up, and suited perfectly in this role, worlds away from that psychopathic nutter, in the first Vacancy film. The movie switches back and forth in slick fashion, which doesn't make it lose it intensity at all. Whaley has turned the tables on Spacey, making him his b.tch, holding him hostage in his own palisade house. What sparked this was Guy's new love involvement (Michelle Forbes) who Spacey refers loosely and dismissively to as a little f..k towel. We continue to cut back and forth to Buddy's mistreatment of Guy, chronologically, until that final straw, and oh, how does he make Whaley suffer. In the end, unfortunately the victim is either of these two, and in that kind of hazy finale, we're left to figure out how it really went down, providing a slick thriller element, you wrack your brain for hours with, and this make does make pensive. I really enjoyed this movie, like I hadn't another one this much, for a while, which Adelaide Cinema's weren't granted a season run. But I recommend this to anyone, as it's another one that's slipped through the cracks, and that goes double if you're a Spacey fan, for you are to witness one of the most dramatically intense, searing, and powerhouse performances from a boss whose methods of intimidation are frightening. A master actor at work, where his two supporting co stars deliver solid. One engrossing film, from start to finish. "}{"Title":"Hollering Aplenty","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ever heard of this movie?Me neither, until a few weeks ago.It's available for instant streaming via Netflix, and is easily worth ninety-three minutes of your time.Swimming with Sharks is fantastic.It has its shortcomings don't get me wrong.But between the high quality story and a spectacular piece of acting from Kevin Spacey, there are enough laughs to outweigh the unsettling plot.George Huang wrote and directed Swimming with Sharks in 1994 and it's the only major motion picture in his filmography. Perhaps it was his passion project?It's the classic story of a young man taking a job as an assistant to a big Hollywood agent, in order to get ahead in life. One thing it really hammers home is that a year can be way longer than first it seems.You gotta love a young Benicio Del Toro performance, with that dour accent of an unknown nationality, like Fez in The Usual Suspects. Benny of the Bull plays a quietly excellent character as Rex, or the man who Guy, played by Frank Whaley, will replace answering calls at the desk.Speaking of Whaley, here's one of two shortcomings.His performance is ultimately the least impressive part of this movie. And as the protagonist, that's not the greatest sign.I'm not saying Whaley's acting is bad, but it's unconvincing. He can't keep pace with the whirlwind plot, and the coolness of Spacey.The scenery, settings and backdrops often leave much to be desired. They're not incomplete or shabby; the surroundings of the characters are just very bland.Perhaps this is a stylistic choice that somehow adds to the movie. Personally I think the budget wasn't very high (IMDb estimates it around $700,000) and this doesn't allow for tons of prep previous to shooting.At the same time, the movie doesn't need elaborate backdrops or an overwhelming amount of sensory detail. There's enough already packed in.More on that later.On a final note regarding casting, Michelle Forbes as Dawn Lockard is just spectacular. Her character is compelling, strong and nuanced. The scenes in which she interacts with Guy are gripping and covered in subtlety.Forbes played roles in lesser-known features, such as Escape from L.A. and Kalifornia. Recently she's much more prominent in television and her work includes a significant role as Maryann Forrester Maryann in the second season of HBO's True Blood. So noteworthy is her performance it's deserving of a sidebar. Skip the following bracketed paragraph if you couldn't care less.(Sidebar True Blood is no longer a good television show. It may never have been 'great' as an overall televised product, but the first two seasons had fabulous story arcs. It went off the rails because of the ever-expanding world building, and the perseverance of a character named Terra. The entire second season is carried by the introduction of the new antagonist, Maryann Forrester Maryann, and a large hunk of the show's success is due to the thoroughly riveting and convincing performance from Michelle Forbes.)Here's a smart exchange.When they first have a drink and discuss business, Dawn asks Guy if he'd like to go out. He orders a glass of white wine and she orders a cocktail. While they talk, she chews on the ice from her drink and smokes.Huang draws a dichotomy here between the typical male and female roles in social and romantic interactions. I think Guy's shorter than Dawn too, so they're really an odd pair.Nuanced scenes like this resonate throughout the entire film.When Buddy and Guy are conversing, pay close attention to the physical positioning of Spacey's body. At one point, his shoes are propped on the desk and uncrossed, displaying his crotch like a woman giving birth. This posture illustrates the relative difference in power between the two men and Buddy's attitude toward his assistant.So if you haven't seen Swimming with Sharks, now's the time, before the scenery and settings begin to feel any older. Stop reading here if you're sensitive to spoilers.Anyway, a final few things are worthy of discussion.First of all, the wind-up toys on Buddy's desk, and the discussion of 'Equal' versus 'Sweet-N- Low' artificial sweeteners. The symbolism in these details are too numerous to note; some of which I can't wrap my head around either. Aside from the lack of 'artificial sweetener' present in Buddy's rhetoric, I'm assuming there's value to the color of the packets (blue and pink, reminiscent of early-life gender roles) but can't complete the analytic connection without further research.In retrospect, the existence of the toys throughout the earlier portion of the movie seems off. As the narrative unfolds, the mechanisms don't draw our attention, but it's odd to think a man with such a business-oriented lifestyle would adorn his workspace with playthings.The resolution is built around a technological quirk of a distinct age in history. Only in the '90s could a conflict revolve around the oddities of call waiting and conferencing. But hey, it works.The ending is a bit confounding in its value. It's an original twist and the correct way to wrap up the story. But quite a bit gets lost in, what seems like, a rushed conclusion.It's not hurried; it's just a drastic and almost unprecedented turn for the story to take. The viewer is never convinced Guy's passion for the business outweighs his love of Dawn.And I hate to harp on this, but it goes back to Whaley's acting ability. When he shows up at Buddy's house and threatens him at gunpoint, the seriousness of his intent doesn't feel real. Further, the torture scenes aren't genuine because we don't see the capability for this level of aggression in Guy's behavior.All things considered, Swimming with Sharks is a classic that shouldn't be forgotten! "},{"Title":"One Man And His Dog","Date":"16 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If it turned out that Kevin Spacey paid the Producers to play this role I wouldn't be surprised given that it is an actor's dream role and one that makes Kirk Douglas's Jonathan Shields in The Bad And The Beautiful seem like a wimp. Douglas himself, who revelled in playing characters like this would have probably gone to the mat with Robert Ryan to play Buddy Ackerman had this film been written when Douglas and Ryan were in their heyday. As it is Spacey hits one out of the park without even trying and the best thing is that there is fine support from the other two leads. Cyanide-laced screenplays about Hollywood are not exactly thin on the ground - we can cite, in chronological order, Sunset Boulevard, The Bad And The Beautiful and Cliff Odets' The Big Knife off the top of our heads and they all appeared within six years of each other in the fifties. Swimming With Sharks may lack the skillful screenplays all three boasted but it is still well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Swimming with a bad ending","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film has Kevin Spacey at his best, acting like a jerk! Why he gets the recognition he does is beyond me. I've never of him before and quite frankly don't want to. Ironically this film is about just that, one jerk with too much power who uses that power to abuse and blackmail people (including Whaley's girlfriend played by the beautiful Michelle Forbes). The best part I can say is that the characters are real, Spacey plays the worst boss in the world (in the real world he'd be fired) who works at a Film company. Like any dictator boss, he has people who run errands for him and well act like puppets for him. Whaley is the guy who pitches a great idea for a movie and Spacey steals it for his advantage along with  trying to use Whaley's girlfriend.The rest of the film deals with Whaley abusing Spacey (god I loved those parts) by any means possible The ending though truly sucked,it is so fake and leaves you unsatisfied. It makes you think though maybe there was some sort of homophobic element the writers were thinking.Who in their right mind would kill a beautiful woman instead of a ugly, foul stenched, big mouthed of a boss like Spacey?But again it was directed by a no-name director. "},{"Title":"A great film until the end, Comeon I could have written it","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film has Kevin Spacey at his best, acting like a jerk! Why he gets the recognition, while a good actor like Frank Whaley doesnt just goes to show why Hollywood is Hollywood, taking one jerk and giving him everything. Ironically this film is about just that, one jerk with too much power who uses that power to abuse and blackmail people (including Whaley's girlfriend played by the beautiful Michelle Forbes).The best part I can say is that the characters are real, Spacey plays the worst boss in the world (in the real world he'd be fired) who works at a Film company. Like any dictator boss, he has people who run errands for him and well act like puppets for him. Whaley is the guy who pitches a great idea for a movie and Spacey steals it for his advantage along with trying to use Whaley's girlfriend.The rest of the film deals with Whaley abusing Spacey (god I loved those parts) by any means possible The ending though truly sucked,it is so fake and leaves you unsatisfied.Vote 5 out 10. Good to watch once but not twice. Its currently playing on the Bravo Channel (Actor Guilds Channel) "},{"Title":"Dark and fun","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This comedy is similar to that of American Psycho and its just dark and fun. Kevin Spacey does an fantastic job as the an evil boss. However, there is no connection to his character, not as much as you'd hope you would get. I like the idea as well as the unique outlook and plot, however, I would say that it didn't feel complete&#x85;However, I was still surprised and intrigued by the beginning ending&#x85; (you know where you begin at the end and the start from the beginning to see how they got there)&#x85;.Overall a fun watch.yay Kevin Spacey! "},{"Title":"lousy movie, great performance","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ugly, heartless Hollywood crap that expects nothing but ugliness and heartlessness from its audience. The scenes WITHOUT Spacey reveal how truly awful the film really is. But the scenes WITH Spacey are just so entertaining that you hang on in there right to the end. Yes, he could play this part in his sleep but he does it so well, he's such a joy to watch, so believable and marvellously monstrous. Enjoy it for his performance, but don't expect anything else from this movie. If you want to see a great film about the evils of modern Hollywood, check out Robert Altman's The Player. This sad little potboiler is not remotely in the same league. "},{"Title":"Poor production, unconvincing Hollywood milieu not supported by barbed, illogical script...","Date":"28 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ill-tempered, verbally abusive movie studio chief runs his male assistant ragged with nit-picking requests, keeping the young man firmly under his thumb with constant threats of unemployment; after a year of office-terror, the working stiff finally cracks. Writer-director George Huang has possibly bit off more than he can chew here. His Swimming With Sharks isn't a diatribe against Hollywood, nor is it a tribute to the hard-working underling...instead, it's stunt film-making with a twist, a one-trick pony with tunnel-vision. The surroundings don't look or feel like Tinsel Town (perhaps due to a limited budget), and we never get a sense of this stressful environment as a movie-making entity (it could be a realtor's office in the Valley, for all we know). Lead Kevin Spacey, who also served as one of the film's producers, gives a controlled and focused performance as the power-mad mogul whose ego is out of control; he does good work, and yet the character doesn't ring true. We learn so little about him and his acquaintances that his important position and high-ranking status fail to jibe with what we do see; who does this man answer to? what drives him beyond humiliating others for sport? what projects is he juggling aside from the one script we see passed around? The film is so emotionally stunted and underpopulated, it begins to seem like a stage-play padded out for the big screen--and yet one without enough characters or motivations in it. Perhaps Huang wanted to keep things simple, but instead his movie looks like a half-baked project which needed a lot more insight, humor, and atmosphere. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Swimming with a Bad Ending **Spoilers***","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is about one jerk with too much power who uses that power to abuse and blackmail people (including Whaley's girlfriend played by the beautiful Michelle Forbes).The best part I can say is that the characters are real, Spacey plays the worst boss in the world (in the real world he'd be fired) who works at a Film company. Like any dictator boss, he has people who run errands for him and well act like puppets for him. Whaley is the guy who pitches a great idea for a movie and Spacey steals it for his advantage along with trying to use Whaley's girlfriend. The rest of the film deals with Whaley abusing Spacey (god I loved those parts) by any means possible The ending though leaves you unsatisfied.If you havent seen the ending here it isWhaley must decide between shooting his boss (who has it coming at this point) or his girlfriend (who was being blackmailed into having sex with the evil boss). Now who do you think he is going to shoot? His boss? Wrong!!The movie doesn't even explain why Whaley shoots his girlfriend. Before this had happened Whaley was in control and if he had shot his boss in self defense ,everyone would believe because his boss was the worst person you could think of.It makes you think though maybe there was some sort of homophobic element the writers were thinking.But again it was directed by a no-name director.I cant imagine why Whaley who is a decent actor (The Doors, Born on the Fourth of July) did this, he must have needed the money.A very underrated actor. "},{"Title":"Ugggghhh!","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Yes, this review may contain spoilers, but you'll thank me for it. This is the worst film I've seen in quite some time. I came to this board expecting to see the same response I had, but inexplicably, there are several people who love this film and Spacey's performance in particular.Some will chastise me for saying it, but I find Kevin Spacey's acting quite limited despite the world's admiration for him. I felt like I was watching a meaner version of Kevin's American Beauty role. His character in this film is ridiculously overacted, all the way down to his laughable insults he throws at his assistant.There are all-world trite and boring scenes like when Spacey is tearing into Whaley about bringing him Equal instead of Sweat and Low. Somehow, I suspected this particular scene was supposed to be funny, but by this time I was ready to hit the stop button (this is approximately 20 minutes into the film).What about the faux-homage to Resevoir Dogs? Whaley proclaims, I think I saw this in a movie once, as if he's going to cut off Spacey's ear. But what does he use to cut him? An envelope! That's right, he's going to give him paper cuts! That has to be one of Hollywood's all-time worst scenes, and the fact that the actors and director tried to carry it out with a straight face makes it even more appalling.I will admit that I didn't see the end of this film (my DVD mercifully locked up about a half hour before the end), but anyone who wishes to say so could spare me the line that I missed a great twist and everything would have made sense. Well, I don't care what happened in the end, because it could never make up for all that bad acting and relentlessly over-the-top dialogue. I even got the feeling that the actors themselves wanted to get out of this film as bad as I did. "},{"Title":"don't bother","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I tried to like this movie.  I love Kevin Spacey and I knew the other guy from his role as Big Brain on Brad in Pulp Fiction.  But I just didn't care about the characters at all.  Kevin Spacey is a prick through the whole movie and even finding out some horrible things that happened to him, I didn't like him.  Especially the ending---that made me hate him even more. This was like watching a bad car wreck.  Spacey played a prick well (he does it all well), but other than that, I don't recommend it.  "}]