[{"Title":"A Psychedelic Look At 'Wild Bill'","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"37 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" If there was ever a psychedelic western movie, this has to be it. It's so bizarre, at least compared to most westerns, that it was tough for me to write this review. I stopped and re-started several times. Where to start?I just found it great fun, an entertaining film that's always a kick to view, and what more you can ask? Being someone who is very much into visuals, great cinematography and unique approaches to camera-work, this film provided all of that and more, such as an interesting story with whacked-out characters.I love narration and John Hurt's description of the goings-on here was just great to hear. He played Charlie, an Englishman with a gentleman's vocabulary that was in stark contrast to the hardened outlaws, led by 'Wild Bill' Hickok himself, played by Jeff Bridges. Ellen Barkin plays Calamity Jane, and few women of the 1980s and '90s played foul-mouthed, hard-but-sexy women as convincingly as Barkin.In addition to Hurt, Bridges and Barkin, other fun characters included California Joe, Hickok's gravel-voiced friend who doesn't say much but when he does, you hear some some of the longest sentences ever uttered. Daid Arquette plays a very strange villain, the man who became famous for shooting Wild Bill. He acts strange and talks as if he has a mouthful of marbles. James Remar, another mean-looking tough guy, is a hired killer. Christina Applegate, Bruce Dern, Margoe Gortner, Keith Carradine and assorted other characters all add to this strange tale, strange in its telling and even stranger in its visual style.Some of the film is in flashback, which is seen in startling black-and-white and mainly features Diane Lane, who is flat-out gorgeous and maybe the most intriguing person in the film. One of the flashbacks has the film deliberately overexposed with wild dream-like images.No western purist admits to liking this but I love the genre and I put this near the top of my list of favorite westerns. So, sue me! "},{"Title":"As Close To History As One Gets For 'Wild Bill' Hickok","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  Making a movie about a legend is a tricky situation; it is worse when the pages of history are filled with myth.  There is no doubt that 'Wild Bill' Hickok was a lawman, gunman and Western legend.  There is the problem.  He was so famous that numerous sources sought to make their fortunes on stories embellished for sales.  The most notable was the dime novel.  The makers of this movie did as good a job as anyone has it trying to tell the true story of this legend.There are scenes not found in Bill's history, but they are historical for the time.  The classic Western model is not in play.  Indians, Chinese, black cowboys, ... etc are muti-dimensional characters.  The added scenes flow the story and add depth.  Even with numerous flash backs the story flows well.Jeff Bridges as James Butler 'Wild Bill' Hickok and Ellen Barkin  as Calamity Jane do great jobs with the main characters.  Bridges while in costume actually resembles the pictures of the real Wild Bill.  The romantic relationship between these Western notables and its development is well done.  The interplay sets this movie apart from most Westerns, and adds appeal to those who might not be Western fans.Two of the best pieces of acting are by actors with smaller parts in the film.  Watch for Keith Carradine as Buffalo Bill Cody and John Hurt as Charley Prince, Bill's friend and the character narrating the film.James Gammon (I) does a good character role as California Joe.If you like Western history, this is a great film.  If you want a classic Western flick and non-stop action, you may find it slow.  For anything more accurate you'll need to go the library; to date, this is the best film on Hickok. "},{"Title":"That's the spirit!","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  The hardest steel is forged in the hottest fires... The Wild West in the years following The Civil War must've been very close to the West as Walter Hill envisions it here; if not in fact, then most certainly in tone. Life was cheap pick up any one of the magazines or books devoted to same and take a gander at the bodies on display in storefronts and on boardwalks (or laid out in the sun, or dangling from the limbs of trees). The man who walked away from a gunfight was the man who got there first with the most. He what hesitated, was lost. Jeff Bridges as WILD BILL is a man with a hair-trigger; he HAD to be. (Otherwise, he would've been BELLY-UP BILL, and a lot less interesting.) He literally fights- with fists or with guns- at the drop of a hat. Not the kind of man you take lightly. He drowns his sorrows in booze and pipes and the black and white flashbacks (with the camera canted just enough to suggest an off-kilter dream state) are great. See this one because you like hard-hitting, no-nonsense westerns or because you prefer superior craftsmanship- but SEE it; to miss it would be to pass up one of the finest westerns to ever come thunderin' down the trail.     "},{"Title":"Better than average western, with some very nice touches.","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" I wasn't expecting much from this one, but Walter Hill's direction credit during the opening title sequence sucked me in - and I was glad it did.A very capable cast and an interesting cinematic style gave this film a unique flavor, although some of the characters bordered on unbelievable at times.Loved the interaction between Wild Bill and Calamity Jane on the saloon table, although the conversation seemed too modern for the late 1800s. But overall, the film was a great way to spend a Sunday afternoon, especially when compared with some of the lesser films available at the time. "},{"Title":"A great piece of infotainment about a true legend of the Wild West.","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" The Wild West grew out of myth and partially true folklore. Hollywood grew for the same reasons. Put the two together to construct a story about the last days of Wild Bill and what do you get? Well&#133;you get something that's exciting, brutal, nasty and short &#150; and very little of it truthful.Walter Hill is one of Tinsel Town's better producer/directors, no question; and his experience at producing great thrillers (like the Alien series) serves him (and the viewer) well. Because this is a thrilling tale of a man who was in fact a legend in his own time (like Buffalo Bill, Billy the Kid, Butch Cassidy and many others), and of a man who obviously didn't relate too well with people in general. Maybe Wild Bill thought that he'd been dealt a raw deal from day one? Who knows...? And that's the upside of this narrative as well as its Achilles Heel &#150; because if you read the history of Wild Bill, you'll find that most of this film is pure fiction. Trouble is, most of what you read about Wild Bill is pure fiction, also. And the sources I researched admit it nobody knows the real truth about how Wild Bill died EXCEPT he did die while playing poker in a saloon. Beyond that, all else, it appears, is up for grabs &#150; which means that any writer/producer can develop a story that provides a reasonable probability of what might have happened.So, don't pay any heed to reality in this film, beyond the very detailed settings, props, costumes, accents, language &#150; the general mise-en-scene. The story, some of which is told in flashback, is generally fast-paced, with the possible exception of when Bill visits the Chinese opium dens in Deadwood for some light relief, shall I say? But, those episodes also give the director/cinematography the opportunity to play around with camera angles, shimmering scenes, and such like.What I particularly liked about this movie were the scenes of mid-nineteenth century small towns across USA. Those images compare very well with genuine photos I've seen of that time, particularly those of Deadwood. So, hats off to the production team for those flawless settings, arguably the best I've seen on film to date. In fact, this film is worth seeing for that alone.In contrast, there's a major error that is just unforgivable, considering the overall standard of the production in the final battle scene between Wild Bill and five tough bounty hunters, Bill shoots them all dead with his two revolvers, both of which looked like 1858 or 1861 Remingtons. Those guns are six-shooters. In the gun battle, Wild Bill shoots at least sixteen shots, and maybe eighteen, all without reloading! Don't worry &#150; I checked it by counting those shots, again and again, while going through the battle slowly. What a shame that goof wasn't caught before the film was released...However, the cast is great, particularly Jeff Bridges and John Hurt (as the fictional character, Charley Prince, invented for narrative purposes), both of whom are ably supported by Ellen Barkin as Calamity Jane and David Arquette as Jack McCall. Jeff Bridges must be highlighted for special mention his costumes and general manner look stunningly true to life when compared with real photos of that long dead gunfighter.As a piece of history, forget it. As rip-snorting entertainment, go see it, especially if you love the Western genre. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Walter Hill got it right  with Deadwood","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" This could have been great, but there are two big problems, Ellen Barkin cast as Calamity Jane, and worst of all, the idea that Jack Macall couldn't bring himself to pull the trigger when he TWICE had the opportunity. Hill's Long Riders is miles ahead of this film, although this is not all bad, Bridge's performance is excellent as are many other supporting roles. I found the John Hurt character a typical John Hurt 19th century character which he did best in Cimino's Heaven's Gate. Here he takes the place of real life Charlie Utter for reasons I don't understand. Barkin is so miscast that it almost hurts, her imitation of an southern accent is so close to a crime against humanity that she should at least pay a fine, and no woman looking like Ms. Barkin living in a town like Deadwood would be as clean and pretty as she always seems to be. Her bubbly, sweetness is also more than misplaced. You can bet your gold nugget that the studio needed a love interest who would show her birthday suit, I would well hope that Hill was not responsible for her character or role. Hickock's killer is a much more believable character in the excellent HBO Deadwood, here he's a whiny, indecisive jerk which makes it hard to believe that he was raised by the woman who captured Hickock's heart long before. Lastly, the set design in this film was too westerny, the bars are polished, the woodwork is excellent, the furnishings are expensive, etc. Deadwood was a gold mining camp that sprung up over night, this looks like a standard movie town for westerns despite the muddy streets. The excellent book by Dexter is done a disservice by this film and it is quite interesting to see what Hill did with the same story 9 years later in the pilot episode of Deadwood. Watching both is a learning experience. "},{"Title":"An Unrecognized Masterpiece","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  I've been checking out the comments on this film and they seem to be in line with most of the other reactions I've heard.  It's important to say up front that this is not a film for Western fans.  It's not a film for action fans. It's not for history buffs who care only about the facts.  It's not a film for people who want to see a good story told simply.Wild Bill is one of the richest and most disturbing films ever made about the American West.  It shows us a complicated man without trying to explain or rationalize the contradictions in his character.  He's capable of love, but he also commits acts of brutal violence.  He cares for his friends but he holds them all at arm's length.  And he feels compelled to play the part of the living legend to the end, come what may.I suspect that Walter Hill chose this subject because he identified strongly with Wild Bill himself.  But whether or not this is true, the contradictions in Hickok's character are a part of this country's character.  Hill was lucky to have Jeff Bridges in the lead.  It's one of his finest performances.  Though Wild Bill doesn't voice doubts about his life out loud, Bridges' face shows us that he doesn't understand himself the reasons for many of his actions.The story is not told in chronological order, but the organization of the sequences is not haphazard.  In fact it's beautifully thought out.  This is not a film for everybody, but I think it deserves a lot more attention than it's gotten so far.  I feel like fans of Walter Hill's work will see the same thing I do a beautiful and haunting meditation on why this country is the way it is. "},{"Title":"Muddy, angry, two-fisted tale of revenge in the Old West...","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Historians may scoff, but Walter Hill's Wild Bill is an absorbing and intriguing western with elegiac overtures yet much of the emphasis placed on the battles. Jeff Bridges does a fine job as scruffy, mangy, weathered James Butler Hickok in the 1870s Midwest, getting into brutal fights while doing nothing more than standing at a bar (John Hurt's narration tells us, Being 'Wild' Bill was in itself a profession.). Ellen Barkin plays Calamity Jane like a lovestruck toughie who clucks behind Hickok, waiting for a commitment; David Arquette is Jack McCall, a young man defending the honor of his mother, whom Hickok loved and left. Occasionally, director Hill hits a stumbling block (there's an inconsequential bit with Keith Carradine as Buffalo Bill Cody which disconnects the mood, and also a black-and-white flashback filmed in high-contrast where Hickok attempts to talk sensibly with a no-nonsense Indian tribe). Still, the hand and gun bouts are fully charged with adrenaline, and there's a genuine feel for these sad, meandering people that recalls strong sections from other westerns, particularly McCabe and Mrs. Miller. A bumpy film, but not a bad one at all. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"What makes a hero?","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  Is it the will to fight? Is it the fear of failure? Quoting one of the most important lines in this movie Wild Bill had chosen a way of life, that  demanded he´d walk down the muddy mainstreet, instead of using the sidewalks along the houses., one begins to realize that legend  has its price. Now, it may not be a historical correct version of the life and death of the great Wild Bill, but it´s a lesson on what happens when the your name gets to carry you, instead of the other way around. -and Jeff Bridges is simply superb as the uncompromising and stubborn gunslinger. Great Movie!!! "},{"Title":"Nice Movie but historically VERY inaccurate","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Now I'm not going to go into a tirade how inaccurate the movie was historically, but you'd think with the cast they had paid damned good money to take part in the movie that they would have found a way to tell Wild Bill's story in a more factual yet exciting way that keeps the nuance of the Romantic Western Period in tact.The gun fights were incredible, the props and backgrounds were amazing and the portrayal of the old Deadwood mining camp were simply Breath taking.I personally enjoyed how the movie would weave in and out of Wild Bill's past through his opium induced dreams... the characters were very believable but the story just didn't add up to the facts that surrounded Wild Bill's death.I would also take exception to the HBO series Deadwood concerning Wild Bill's death also, it's a shame that somebody in the movie business, ANYBODY, would come up with a more accurate portrayal of the man, his life and his untimely death.With all that being said, it was a beautiful movie visually. "}{"Title":"Loved the Movie, Would Probably Love the Man","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" James Butler Wild Bill Hickock Soldier, buffalo hunter, lawman, adventurer, wastrel, whoremonger, opium user, syphilis-carrier, brawler. Wild Bill wasn't just worldly, he was world-class worldly. Yet there was a boyishly but noble, almost sensitive charm to this raging bar fight of a man. His murder by the hand of a coward smacks of Greek tragedy, though he was spared the final indignities of disease and self-abuse. Wild Bill pretty well accurately chronicles the life of the man. Walter Hill has beautifully established the enigmatic poetry of him. Jeff Bridges perfectly embodies his spirit, while his friends, Calamity Jane (Ellen Barkin), Charley Prince (John Hurt) and California Joe (James Gammon) provide letter perfect foils, thematic analyzers and comic relief. With the success of Deadwood on HBO, Wild Bill would probably be a deserved hit with audiences now. At the time, a movie whose gaminess made a Leone western look positively Disneyish by comparison was probably too off-putting for audiences. Now, it's time to examine the beauty of the performances amidst the accurate ugliness of actual conditions in mining towns like Deadwood in 1876. This is Barkin's best performance, Gammon's most charming and Hurt's most beautiful line readings. Who could ever forget the haunting look on the face of Song Lew (Karen Huie), proprietress of the opium den after saving the doped out Bill. Or Bill's disgust with the opium of the masses Marjoe Gortner (himself a former evangelical preacher) doles out to the suckers in the form of religion. How the movie beautifully integrates the old joke that the best way to find a whore is follow the church bells into the storyline. Christina Applegate is even very effective in her peripheral role, with her baby face and voluptuous body, a child whose eyes already reflect a soul dead from surrender to his conditions. Wild Bill is strong stuff indeed. If I can fault writer-director Walter Hill (and I believe it is still too soon to render a final judgment on this movie), I would fault his decision to shoot the flashbacks as erratic dreams, with unstable camera and black-and-white. I'd have chosen one OR the other, not both. No matter, Wild Bill will continue to haunt me, as great films do. for years to come. I just wish he'd added at least one flourish so effectively used in The White Buffalo, another less well made, but impressive movie about Hickock. That would have been to include the scene of Bill passing the mountain of bleached Buffalo bones. For Bill's passing was perhaps a fitting climax to the death of that era; and, with it, the death of the American West of legend.I give Wild Bill a 9. "},{"Title":"The Legendary Wild Bill","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" In Wild Bill we get to see one of the best characterizations of the legendary western character. Jeff Bridges joins a pantheon of great players who've essayed the part of the marshal of Abilene, Kansas. Folks like William S. Hart, Gary Cooper, Roy Rogers, Guy Madison, Bill Elliott, Forrest Tucker, and Charles Bronson have all played Hickok with varying degrees of success.Some of these people have played Hickok more or less nobly as the script and their screen persona permitted. Someone like Roy Rogers you know without seeing the film had Hickok be a straight arrow. The real Wild Bill was someone who was as tough as he had to be to enforce law and order in a wild and woolly town like Abilene, Kansas circa 1870-1871 when Hickok kept the peace there.Among those other actors who played Hickok also includes Jeff's father Lloyd Bridges who did it in an hour television drama on the Great Adventure series. I saw that years ago and I wish I could remember more of it so I could compare father and son. The part I best recall is the famous story of Hickok accidentally shooting his own deputy who made the fatal mistake of coming up behind him too quietly and after he'd just shot one of Texas's rowdier cowboys. It's part of the Hickok legend and shown here as well.Of course the manner of Hickok's death has also entered into folklore with wide and varying accounts of the kind of man Hickok's killer Jack McCall was. He was probably closer to the sneaky rat that Cecil B. DeMille had Porter Hall play him as in The Plainsman. Here he's shown as a drunk and scared kid played by David Arquette much in the same manner as Bob Ford was played by Casey Affleck last year. Arquette does well in the role.Ellen Barkin is cast as Calamity Jane and while she's as tough as the famous frontierswoman, she's way too good looking. Too bad Louis B. Mayer never thought of using Marie Dressler for the part back in the day. Even she was a little too femme for the part.The film is done in Citizen Kane style, narrated by John Hurt who is a close friend of Hickok in the story. It's a pretty good western, coming out when those are few and far between. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Deadwood","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Welcome to Deadwood The best that can be said of it comes in this interchange.Charley Price This town reminds me of something from the bible. 'Wild Bill' Hickok Which part? Charley Price The part right before god gets angry.Jeff Bridges excels in his portrayal of the legendary Wild Bill Hitchcock, plainsman, cavalry scout, US Marshall and Don Juan of the wild west. Jeff Bridges follows in his his father's footsteps into the role. Nearly forty years before this 1995 film, Lloyd Bridges had starred as Wild Bill in a 1964 episode Wild Bill Hickok - the Legend and the Man out of the TV anthology The Great Adventure, a regrettably short lived series. Although the Lloyd Bridge's version stuck closer to historically accepted facts, Jeff's attempt at one of his father's roles, though accomplished by toying with the truth and exaggerating the finale, was exceedingly well played. It was interesting that our cynical era improved upon Bill's actual ending. "},{"Title":"History","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" In all actuality this film is more historically accurate in many respects than many others that have used the celebrated lawman/gunman as either a focal character or as a background character. Although it glosses over and invents some situations it is as I wrote much more historically true than many that have come before. It would be interesting to the viewers of Wild Bill to cross check the movie with the facts. Deadwood itself itself is still a town about the same size nestled in the middle of a lot of wide open spaces. Wild Bill was also a scout for the 7th cavalry, a Union Spy during the civil war as well as a lawman and gunfighter. And as the movie shows he wasn't exactly in love with Calamity Jane. I'm not sure about the opium use but it was prevalent in Wild West towns for sure. Watch it. At it's best it's entertaining and evokes the gritty world of the old west in the latter part of the 19th century. "},{"Title":"Historically it is also completely inaccurate!!!","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Wild Bill Hickok did not have sexual relations with Calamity Jane. They didn't know each other until they road the stagecoach to Deadwood. Bill & Calamity were not caught in a sexual act by Jack McCall nor did Jack have paid help in order to corner Bill. It is speculated that Jack McCall shot Bill over losing at a card game the night before. At Jack's trail, he claimed it was because Bill had killed his brother. But, Jack only had 2 sisters. Bill was a married man in March of 1876 and that is never mentioned. The story also eludes that Bill was losing his eyesight possibly because of all the womanizing he had done. Not true. He had glaucoma which is not a sexual illness. The only thing that was accurate was that he was a marshal at Abilene, Kansas and that he was in Deadwood on 8/2/1876. "},{"Title":"Forget facts and enjoy the cinema","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Walter Hill has based his screenplay on two literary works by two individuals Paul Dexter's book and Thomas Babe's play. Hill is a good screenplay-writer himself. I recommend viewers to view the film as an example of a good screenplay and not be unduly worried about facts.The structure of the narrative is simplified by the sepia and black-and-white flashbacks by the director. Unlike other directors, Hill chooses to uses tilted shots for most of these flashbacks, suggesting a colored viewpoint of what is shown.The film can be dismissed easily as a crass action western--but this film looks at bravura narcissism (opening shots of shooting a glass on top of a dog's head), a man who refuses to be tied down to relationships with women but is friendly with men, stupid reactions to knocking his hat, etc. The heroics may belong to the mustachioed men rather than the clean-shaven but the film has more to offer than hairy faces.The casting of John Hurt, Bruce Dern and Ellen Barkin is commendable--they provide fascinating screen time that adds to the credibility. Hurt and Barkin who open the film carries the film even though Jeff Bridges proves to be a credible lead player but he is no great thespian.The film ultimately belongs to Hill and art director Dan Olexiewicz, with the atmosphere changes from bright sun to slushy streets--that strangely keeps pace with the characters. Hill develops the characters slowly through filmed flashback and dream sequences (visit of Wild Bill to the insane asylum, the conversations with Red Indians, are examples) rather than the spoken word of the main character and that contributes to the feeling that most characters are not fleshed out. They are well developed, in an unusual way. This is not great cinema but above average stuff--a good way to describe Hill's body of work. "},{"Title":"Great Gunslinger Shooting Action","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  Great gunfight scenes and exquisite costuming highlight this fast-paced story of Wild Bill Hickok, man and myth. The film illuminates some of the most exciting and legendary characters of the untamed American West. One of the better Wild Bill portraits on film. Remember.. You shouldn't oughta touch a man's hat! "},{"Title":"A Terrific,Underrated Western From Walter Hill With A Brilliant Performance From Jeff Bridges.","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Wild Bill is a terrific and underrated Western that combines wonderful direction,an amazing cast,fantastic Action and a memorable score. All of those elements make Wild Bill an entertaining Western film that is Walter Hill and Jeff Bridges at their best.Based on the novel Deadwood by Peter Dexter and the play Father's And Sons by Thomas Babe,Wild Bill tells the story of the last days of James Butler Hickok AKA Wild Bill(Jeff Bridges),the legendary lawman and gunfighter thinking about his life past and present.During the Western movie revival of the 1980s 90s there were classic Westerns such as Unforgiven(1992),Tombstone(1993)and Dances With Wolves(1990)that were critical and Box Office hits but there were also other Western films during this time that went under the radar and weren't as successful but still wonderful in their own rights such as Walter Hill's 1995 Western Wild Bill a terrific and memorable Western that was Hill's third and film about an iconic true life Western figure following Jesse James/Younger Gang film The Long Riders(1980)and the Geronimo film GeronimoAn American Legend(1993). And while Wild Bill isn't as good as those two films Wild Bill is an interesting look at a charismatic figure of his time. At a lean and tight 98 minutes Wild Bill is a memorable and entertaining film that is not really a biopic but a great mixture of Western shoot em up and character study told in a gritty way. This is the kind of movie that won't be appealing to general audiences and is the kind of film that will be liked or disliked but if you're a Western buff you will enjoy this film even though it might not be historically inaccurate. Wild Bill is a movie that is a revisionist Western in the truest sense told in very surreal and stylish giving viewers a look into one of the most iconic characters in the West in Wild Bill Hickok,a Cowboy who probably isn't known on a national level like other Western icons such as Wyatt Earp,Doc Holliday,Jesse James or Billy The Kid but if you know Western History you will know Wild Bill. The tone of the movie stylish and gritty capturing the beauty and ugliness of the Wild West in all it's glory and also gives viewers a look at the town of Deadwood in South Dakota which is violent and bizarre and serves as a precursor to the classic HBO TV series Deadwood,a show that gave viewers another look into Deadwood. When we look at the title character Wild Bill we get a brief but fascinating look into his life as a person of many things in his life such as being a lawman,gunfighter,buffalo hunter,folk hero and gambler. It's easy to see why Walter Hill wanted to make a movie about Wild Bill because like the characters in Hill's other films Wild Bill in the movie is depicted as a man who is larger than life but at the same time a flawed human being. Hickok is a man who also haunted by his demons(told in black and white drug induced dreams)and his ways of living have caught up with him(Hickok was losing his eye sight)and is over the hill but still has his bravado. Wild Bill as a character is so interesting that I would have loved to see more of his history and life story in the past and present which I think is a flaw. Another flaw is Wild Bill is that it feels less cinematic compared to Walter Hill's other movies and at times has the feel of a TV movie. The Action and gunfights in the film are thrilling and intense going along with the Western tone of the movie as Walter Hill can do. The ending in Wild Bill is amazing,dramatic and tragic and while not true to how what really happen in real life it's close enough. An outstanding ending.The cast is great. Jeff Bridges is excellent and at his best as Wild Bill Hickok,with Bridges bring gritty,tough and charismatic. Ellen Barkin is terrific as Calamity Jane,a lady friend of Hickok's. John Hurt is wonderful as Charles Prince,an English friend of Bill's. Diane Lane is sensational and beautiful as Susannah Moore,a past love of Bill's. Keith Carradine does a fine job in a small role as Buffalo Bill Cody. David Arquette is superb as Jack McCall,a man who's after Wild Bill. Christina Applegate is great as Lurline,a prostitute that befriends Jack. Bruce Dern does a good job as Will Plummer,an enemy of Wild Bill's. James Gammon is fantastic as California Joe,another friend of Wild Bill's. James Remar is amazing as Donnie Lonnigan,a gunman. Marjoe Gortner(Preacher),Stoney Jackson(Jubal Pickett),Karen Hule(Song Lue),Robert Knott(Dave Tutt),Steve Reevis(Sioux Chief),Pato Hoffman(Cheyenne Leader)and Dennis Hayden(Phil Coe)give good performances as well.The direction by Walter Hill is exceptional and stylish with Hill bringing a haunting and beautiful look to the film. Fantastic direction,Hill.The score by Van Dyke Parks is effective,beautiful and gripping,with Parks scoring matching the tone of the movie. Great score,Parks.In final word,if you love Westerns,Walter Hill or Jeff Bridges,I highly suggest you see Wild Bill,a terrific,underrated Western that is worth your time. Highly Recommended 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, esoteric Walter Hill piece","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Walter Hill's Wild Bill is the director at his most restrained and esoteric. Usually he leaps out of the gate, guns blazing, characters vividly drawn to the point of thundering archetype and a tight, violent narrative that doesn't stray into vagueness or episodic nature. Wild Bill is the opposite of all that. It chronicles the twilight years of famed and deeply troubled gunslinger Wild Bill Hickock in a loose, foggy fashion, skipping through time and presenting us a fractured narrative in a constant state of disarray, viewed through a prism of Bill's booze addled, regret strewn mind. It's a slow, groggy piece, all sense of showmanship and glory stripped away from his life in favour of an agonizing existence at the end of his road, surrounded by few friends and memories fading along with his legacy. It fades in and out on vignettes here and there, with no continuous or conventional plot line to hitch up its skirts. Jeff Bridges warbles his way through an intensely underrated performance as Bill, a whiskey soaked gent living out his quiet years reminding on the old days, gambling to his broken hearts content and dodging old grudges. He's joined by refined Brit Charley Prince (John Hurt), feisty tomboy Calamity Jane (Ellen Barkin, adorable and full of passion for Bill that he's tragically blind to), and rowdy California Joe (James Gammon). Gammon, now passed away, was a criminally underrated characters actor who had a raspy teddy bear voice (he even played one of the country bears in the movie), and a sweet, gruff disposition that made him mesmerizing in any appearance. His Joe is a nice creation and one of his best roles, a rowdy old boy who livens up Bill's cantankerous gloom. Eventually trouble from his past finds him, in the snivelling form of Jack McCall (David Arquette, in over his head with a Hill film and struggling alongside the rest of the able cast), a disgruntled man who loathes Bill for leaving his mother (Diane Lane, luminous in gorgeous black and white flashbacks) decades before, a chapter of his life he scarcely even remembered until Jack showed up to put a thorn in his side. And so a plan is hatched by him to assassinate Bill, with the hard nosed help of New York lowlife Donnie Lonnigan (Hill regular James Remar, growling perfection). It's a riveting look at the ex gunslinger, anchored by Hill's focused, un characteristically moody approach to the material. Fun facts Hill would go on to direct the pilot episode for HBO's sensational Deadwood, also partly detailing the curtain call segment of Bill's life, where the role was played by Keith Carradine (who also briefly appears here as Buffalo Bill Cody), and the incomparable Robin Weigert stepping in for Barkin as Jane. Both versions have the goods, this one severely overlooked. One of my favourite westerns, and a campfire style historical tale worth taking a look at. "},{"Title":"too much jumping around in time","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Charley Prince (John Hurt) and Calamity Jane (Ellen Barkin) are at Wild Bill Hickok (Jeff Bridges)'s funeral. The movie flashes back as Wild Bill ride with California Joe. Then it jumps around from Nebraska 1867 to as a Marshall in 1871 Abilene, Kansas where he accidentally shoots his own deputy in a chaotic shootout. He joins Buffalo Bill Cody (Keith Carradine)'s show in NYC where he's generally a bad actor. He's losing his eyesight. He gets called out by wheelchair bound Will Plummer (Bruce Dern) in Cheyenne and promptly kills Will. He meets up with Jane and is dogged by young Jack McCall (David Arquette). Jack is helped by Lurline Newcomb (Christina Applegate). Will Bill had an affair with his mother Susannah Moore (Diane Lane) which ends in tragedy.The movie jumps around so much in time period that it feels very aimless. The plot meanders and pacing drags. The back and white flashbacks make it lifeless. Sometimes it turns surreal. I was relieved that Calamity Jane finally rejoins the movie but then it goes off once again to another place and time. Other than being a drunk card-playing gunslinger, the movie doesn't get too deep into Wild Bill. The movie fades in and out so much that it's hard to cling onto. Jack McCall is not necessarily a compelling character. In the end, the movie slips through my fingers. "}{"Title":"Good western","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Good western.Follows the life of legendary gunslinger and lawman Wild Bill Hickok. Gritty and dark, it explores his motivations, relationships, regrets and inner turmoils. Good character development.On the down side, it does try too hard to contemporise the language and customs in some respects, and loses some focus towards the end.Great performance by Jeff Bridges, but that's a given. Good support from Ellen Barkin and John Hurt. Minor cast includes David Arquette, Christina Applegate, Diane Lane, Keith Carradine and Bruce Dern. "},{"Title":"Decent, but Dreary, Detailing of the Wild Bill Myth","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" I wasn't too overly impressed with Wild Bill the first time I saw it. I was expecting better from the great Walter Hill. The storytelling is a bit awkward and non-detailed, resulting in a less-than-captivating experience. Not to mention the pic comes to a screeching halt in the third act wherein Bill is held up in a saloon in Deadwood as his would-be killers consider knocking him off. This final act left a bad taste the first time I saw the film.Yet, I recently gave the flick a second chance at the advice of a fellow Amazon reviewer, and am glad I dead -- I mean did (it must be the effect of the movie). The first half hour involves a series of insult-in-the-saloon-leads-to-gunfight type episodes; as mentioned above, not enough detail is included in these scenes to render them truly thrilling but they're enjoyable nevertheless. The second act settles down a bit, but is essentially more of the same.Jeff Bridges is fine as Bill but, as written, the character comes off rather dismal and unlikeable. Ellen Barkin is well cast as Calamity Jane; Diane Lane is beautiful as Bill's one-and-only (past) love and David Arquette is good but annoying as Lane's vengeful son (and possible son of Bill).Wild Bill offers a very unattractive and dreary Wild West. This is not necessarily bad in-and-of-itself, but the awkward storytelling prevents it from attaining greatness. Still, in this era where there are so few Westerns to enjoy, Wild Bill is a must for Western fans.GRADE C "},{"Title":"A pile of horse s**T","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Out of every movie i have ever seen based on a legendary old west figure this movie was the largest pile of horse s**T i have ever seen.There is not 1/100 of fact base in this film i have spent 25 years of my life researching legendary western figures from Wyatt Earp to the back shooter Pat Garret and believe me they have made some stinkers but this is no doubt the worst pile of lies and misleads i ever saw. I WISH THERE WAS A RATING LESS THEN 1 BECAUSE THIS MOVIE WOULD RATE A - 10.Not to mention very bad acting from second rate actors.Walter Hill directed my favorite movie of all times the 1979 cult classic THE WARRIORS in which he also used James Remar so i expected better from him.This movie is a disgrace to a otherwise great director. "},{"Title":"Never touch another mans hat.....","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Wild Bill Hickok, famed lawman and gunman of the Old West, is haunted by his past and his reputation.He is loved by, but cannot love, Calamity Jane.Dogging his trail is young Jack McCall, who blames Bill for abandoning the boy's mother and destroying her life.McCall has sworn to kill Bill, and Bill's ghosts, his failing eyesight, and his fondness for opium may make McCall's task easier....One of the main reasons to watch this film is of course Bridges, who puts in a wonderful performance as the titular character. He is ably supported by Barkin and Hurt, and thats most of the positive things said.The film is shot beautifully, and does have an authentic feel to it, but Hill feels out of place directing this, and has made some evry odd choices with the uses of flashbacks, and using Arquette, who is not convincing, but you know the demise of Bill when you meet arquettes character.Reason being that the man is too slimy and typically evil in a Mike Myers way (not a compliment) and is the sole reason of making the film just that laughable. Sure, the history is a load of garbage, but that doesn't matter, all we want to know is how many people he shot, how drunk he got, and how well Bridges does to adapt the two aforementioned traits.it's watchable enough, with some silly scenes and misjudged narrative, but thanks to some good performances, the film isn't the turkey most say it is. "},{"Title":"Jeff Bridges is an ICON!","Date":"18 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Jeff Bridges is one of my all-time favorite actors. I guess he's not only prolific, but also an actor who has gained a Cult following over the years. In 'Wild Bill', he plays the late legendary lawman Wild Bill Hickok, with unseen ease.As a film, 'Wild Bill' is not an interesting watch, sure it offers some captivating moments, but they are few and far between. Walter Hill has directed this story passably, but the writing is not sharp enough. Be it based on a book, as a cinematic experience, it comes out very half-baked. It had tremendous scope to hold it's viewer, but that has not been tapped in here properly.Jeff Bridges quite frankly owns 'Wild Bill'. The kind of roles Bridges has managed to pull off, make him, probably, one of the finest actors in the History of World Cinema. Bridges goes down as an actor, who should inspire a set of new-born actors in the coming time.On the whole, Watch it only for 'The Dude', who goes 'Western' in here. "},{"Title":"Overambitous but disappointing","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Most reviews seem to look at this through the prism of Deadwood, which seems unfair as the elongated TV format allows for far more character development. So to point out that the characters in Wild Bill aren't as-- well, you get the picture. Viewed alone, the movie deserves praise for performance, set design, a sense of period dialogue and historical accuracy in visual recreations. Yes, WB really did wear Navy Colts backwards, cavalry-style, in a red sash; yes, he did have greasy lanks of hair and wear a big floppy hat, a thick tie and a vest that didn't match his jacket which didn't match his pants. And for about an hour, I think the movie is pretty amusing. But when it sinks into Deadwood over its last hour, it appears to use too much of the stagey dialogue of one of its sources, a play by someone named Thomas Babe. At this point, it pretty much abandons history which is bad enough, but also cinematic fluency, of which Hill is a master it becomes static, talky, dreary, and completely loses its momentum. And someone--Babe?--made the decision to give the McCall-Hickcock dynamic an Oedipal overtone--he's the son of a woman once loved , then abandoned, by Hickcock. This is an attempt at coherency, to bring the murder into some sort of classic framework. Yeah, swell, however McCall was much older, a buffalo hunter who'd lost dough to Wild Bill the night before. He didn't stand for the abused son, he stood for the randomness of frontier violence, where booze, pride, stupidity and a culture of pointless aggression could easily spell an ambush murder like McCall's. THAT, to me, would not only have been more accurate, but more fluent and a better movie. "},{"Title":"Someone should put a bullet in this one","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Perhaps I love Deadwood too much; the critically praised, HBO series for which director Walter Hill appropriately won an Emmy for the pilot. I clearly set my expectations a little too high of this one, which predates the Deadwood series by eight years or so. Coming from Walter Hill, the man behind the Warriors and The Long Riders, there is no way that Wild Bill should have been this sloppy. His portrayal of the life and death of James Butler Hickok results in a motion picture that self-destructs in spectacular fashion. It is vastly underwritten, poorly acted, edited as if it were a labyrinth of jungle vines to be cut down by a machete, and on top of that the movie is also severely anti-climactic.All that Hill gets right is that parts of the movie are well shot, and he is able to capture the look of the times on screen, but on the pages, it is a different matter. The opening twenty minutes (give or take) are especially excruciating. What we see is almost a joke, totally amateurish and more oriented towards obnoxious gunplay than exposition. It is like watching kiddies play cowboys and Indians on the street with little wooded pistols. Hill should know better than that, as should Jeff Bridges, whose portrayal of Hickok is devoid of talent. It is so obviously a performance, and he delivers most of his lines in a hammy fashion, and there is nothing remotely human about this character. The movie does a poor job of showing his misery and self loathing.When all is said and done, Wild Bill is a dud. It is clumsy and careless, and is easily one of the worst westerns I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"a dark and moody Western with an effective atmosphere and feeling to it, but is unfortunately bogged down by its disorganized running time and numerous defects","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Wild Bill is a dark, moody Western about the last days of legendary lawman James Butler Hickock that sometimes shows off its true colors (by that, I mean its riveting action sequences, not its appearance) but suffers from a disorganized screenplay, some dull characters, an imperfect running time, and while it's not a bad Western, it's not a great one either.Jeff Bridges gives a noteworthy performance as Wild Bill, John Hurt gives most of the movie's seldom-seen charisma as his friend Charley Prince (I'm not sure if this character is real or not) and then there is a truly great performance by Ellen Barkin as frontierswoman Calamity Jane. In shorter, laconic terms, Wild Bill boasts a great cast and some witty dialogue. Director Walter Hill (who also directed The Long Riders (1980) with the Carradine brothers) does a phenomenal job with the action scenes as well. The killings in this film look harsh and brutal as they in deed were. And the violence is not overdone to the point where it becomes depressing.But like I mentioned earlier, the story is disorganized. There were too many black-and-white flashback scenes, which I've seen many done better many times before in other films, that dragged on and slowed the movie down for me. John Hurt's narration was sometimes effective, sometimes overdrawn. And the pacing was in need of a revision. I'm sure the filmmakers could have worked it out a different way to tell the past of the characters without constantly using flashbacks and could have removed some additional scenes that went into and out of nowhere. Because they unfortunately are the movie's major flaws. They slow it down.Wild Bill, again is not necessarily a bad film. I did mildly enjoy it at times, but it is a very dark motion picture without much point behind itself. The action scenes are good, the acting is great, and the general atmosphere of a dark time in a weary man's life is convincing. But ultimately, Wild Bill is just too slow and kind of a disappointment. "},{"Title":"The acting is key in this movie","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" I thought this movie to be a truly great one and the key here is really great acting especially from Jeff Bridges. For that reason and that reason alone its worth seeing this movie. To actually experience the realism created by this level of acting is truly a feat that movie actors strive to achieve. Jeff Bridges has achieved that in this rendition of Wild Bill.I really do not have anything more I can say about this but its the sort of film that leaves you wishing there would be a sequel. If this were to become a TV series I would probably put money on it to say it would be a winner. So find it rent it sit back and watch one of the most enjoyable movies of all time. "},{"Title":"He had found the band of jackals he needed.","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" I've only recently become aware of this movie and had it on my short list of films to see at the first chance; subscribing to the Encore Western channel just this week made the screening of the film feel like a sign on bonus. I always go into stories like this with the expectation that historical accuracy is an unknown concept, so in that regard, I don't come away disappointed. I have to say that this was an entirely entertaining film, with elements of story telling and filming technique that go beyond the formulaic and ordinary.As a fan of HBO's Deadwood, it's difficult not to make comparisons between that Western series and Wild Bill. I would like to have seen more of James Butler Hickok in Deadwood, but of course that wasn't the point of the show. Before getting to the meat of the story here, director Walter Hill provides a few quick glimpses at events in the life of the legendary gunfighter from his days in the Nebraska Territory of 1867, up to his arrival in Deadwood Gulch in the summer of 1876. The portrayal of the mining camp in both productions is effectively done, calling to mind the description Obi Wan Kenobi offered upon setting eyes on Mos Eisley - You'll find no greater hive of scum and villainy. Roughly paraphrasing the film's voice over narration, the town resembled that part in the Bible right before God gets angry. I'd say you pretty much have it right there for historical Deadwood.I would take it as a pretty safe bet that Wild Bill (Jeff Bridges) and Calamity Jane (Ellen Barkin) were never interrupted on a card table, but with it, the obligatory tease for story purposes was quickly consummated. With it too, the firm intention, yet not the resolve of Hickok's ultimate killer, Jack McCall. David Arquette would probably not have been my first choice for the role, catching me off guard with a passing resemblance to Emilio Estevez's Billy the Kid in Young Guns, and looking slightly better groomed than Garrett Dillahunt, who portrayed McCall in the 'Deadwood' series.I liked the way the picture took hallucinatory turns with the black and white flashback scenes. They seemed to offer the perfect vantage point from which Hickok and the viewer could examine a troubled past and it's tumultuous incoherence. The most surreal one had to be when Bill recalled the duel with Will Plummer (Bruce Dern in one of the best casting decisions of the film). It showed at least that Hickok had some sense of fair play in his make up, bringing himself down to the level of a cripple to even out the playing field so to speak.This will be a good one to catch a few more times to allow the bizarre nature of the film to sink in and mellow with familiarity. It definitely sets me in the direction of finding out more of the real life Wild Bill Hickok, a name that seems to grow in significance with each re-telling of the legend. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable but rushed","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" I was really looking forward to seeing a movie about Wild Bill Hickock with a top cast and proper budget. I wasn't necessarily disappointed by this film, but felt it could have been done differently.I think one of the difficulties with a film of this nature is that you are building up to an ending which everyone is aware of and there are only a few ways you can build up the background to the climax. In a film such as 'Wyatt Earp' for example, everyone knows the gunfight at the OK Corrall is coming, so the film builds up the background for you as best it can pretty much chronologically.The angle with this film is that the background is set with a series of flashbacks, which don't entirely work and become slightly tedious. It would have been easier to watch them as a chronological story, but you feel sympathy with Walter Hill for wanting to mix it up a little.Ultimately, it comes out as a slightly rushed mish-mash. The flashbacks are not long enough to really set the scene for you, whereas the early part of the film which goes from 1867 through to 1875 is a bit garbled and doesn't make complete sense until later. There are also very brief references to Hickock's time in the army, which could and probably should have been expanded on. I didn't really understand this as the film is only an hour and a half long and could have done with another half hour.With regard to the actual content, Bridges is superb and imposing as Hickcok, and I personally liked the choice of Arquette as Jack McCall (considering I'm not a fan of his generally). Much of it is fiction or exaggerated fact, but that is par for the course with Westerns and if we're honest with ourselves that type of romanticism is what draws us to the genre.All this notwithstanding, it is an easy watch and by no means as demanding as 'Wyatt Earp' or even 'Young Guns'. The scenes where Bridges is in full flow are quite excellent and recall all the great Western leads. I would very much recommend this film to all fans of Hickock or Westerns generally, as it certainly has its entertaining moments, even if the presentation is not all it could be. "},{"Title":"Stylish and Slick, But Cannot Live Up To The Name.","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" This film presents the viewer with an odd perspective on the psychedelic West, but as MGM's answer to Disney's/BuenaVista's Tombstone, it falls flat on its face. It failed at the box office, and it fails to convey any resemblance to a modernized western. Actually, this plays more like Andy Kaufman meets Quentin Tarantino in Deadwood.That combination may sound like fun, and at times, it is, but for the most part, this is one convoluted mess that cannot live up to the name Wild Bill Hickock, though it is slick and stylish in its development and execution.Jeff Bridges was one bright spot in this work, while there are other bright spots, they are matches next to his spotlight.All in all? I was entertained, if somewhat aghast.It rates a 4.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Underrated, psychedelic western by Walter Hill","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Wild Bill was ripped to shreds by critics, ignored by audiences, and went on to become a huge box office failure. But with Jeff Bridges embraced as a bearded guru in the wake of The Big Lebowski, the film has now become a huge cult favourite. And why not? It's a deliciously psychedelic western; an orgy of over the top violence and drunken wisecracks, the film would also give birth to the HBO series Deadwood decades later. Walter Hill spent his career making westerns and so by the time he directed Wild Bill he already knew the genre inside out. This is thus a film best appreciated by those familiar with and completely bored by the western genre. Those in search of something a little bit different. A little bit bizarre. The plot Jeff Bridges plays Wild Bill Hickok, a half blind, always drunk, perpetually stoned lawman who lives out his remaining days at Deadwood, the infamous town in South Dakota. Deadwood is handled like George Lucas handled the town of Mos Eisley in Star Wars. It's a hive of scum and villainy, bar fights, gun battles and drunken brawls occurring left right and centre. The streets are muddy, opium dens are overbooked and a hellish rain beats down every night. This town reminds me of something from the Bible, one character murmurs. Which part? Wild Bill asks. The part right before God gets angry, comes the reply, summing up the tone of the film perfectly.Faced with woman problems, weighed by his moustache and haunted by his past, Wild Bill mopes around Deadwood, unaware that a disgruntled young man is plotting to kill him. In typical western fashion, the film builds toward their final act face-off, but Hill subverts expectations at every turn. He's less interested in a mythological construction of Wild Bill than a trippy deconstruction, using flashbacks and a fragmented narrative to nosedive into both Bill's past and personal demons.But can we trust these flashbacks? Are these visions the truth or are they attempts by Bill to justify his violent past? In the film's present, Bill surrounds himself by those who blindly worship him. Calamity Jane, an old flame, spends the film lusting for Bill. Likewise Old Charlie, an Englishman who is always eager to defend Bill using charm and logic. Same story with California Joe, an old timer who is always spinning yarns and telling tall tales about Wild Bill. Bill, in other words, walks around with his own little propaganda machine, his circle of fawning friends all busy mythologising him.With Bill's real world an illusion, what exactly is there in the film's flashbacks which demonize him? He kills an Indian only because the Indian challenged him, he killed a man in a duel, but that jerk stole his watch. Likewise, he fights a guy in a wheelchair, but not before tying himself to a chair to make things fair. There's always the notion that these flashbacks, these traumas, are themselves part of the Wild Bill mythology. That perhaps it is the very falsity of these flashbacks, the very film, which is tormenting Bill.In any case, the film is primarily of interest because it allows us to watch Jeff Bridges chewing scenery. For all his wisecracks and violent flourishes, Bridges' Wild Bill is a fragile guy unable to relate to people, has no family, is going blind and is increasingly crushed as the film gets more and more claustrophobic. Hill's aesthetic strategy is such that you can feel the walls drawing in as the film progresses, the shadows, the mud, the rain, the walls themselves, closing inexorably in, until Bill finds himself at a cramped poker table, a gun behind his skull. But what's great is that Hill suggests that this claustrophobia is the result of the Wild Bill myth. That the need to constantly adhere to the public's perception of who Wild Bill is, is ultimately what boxes Bill in and results in his demise. Trapped by his own lore, he sets about a chain of events which leads to his death. Ironically, while it is the Wild Bill myth which leads to a gunman seeking revenge on Bill, it is Bill's act of forgiveness toward this very man, his breaking of his dime-novel persona, that earns him a bullet in the brain.8/10 &#x96; Val Kilmer's performance as Doc Holiday in Tombstone was much lauded in the 90s, but Jeff Bridges' work here is equally awesome. Incidentally, Walter Hill directed the pilot episode of Deadwood, this film serving as the template for the HBO series' tone and style. Thematically, the film does exactly what The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford does, but arguably a bit better.Worth one viewing. See Hill's The Warriors and The Long Riders. "},{"Title":"Not that wild about it!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" OK, I'm biased. I was in this film. So I should love it, right? When we were making it, it seemed very cool, and everyone was excited. It sat for a year, and then when it came out, awful. Just terrible. Everyone in it was over-acting. (In our defense, that's what they asked for on the set.) And the story sort of...rambles. I am going to avoid a long rambling review, since I was, 'Gambler guy who walks in front of Bill as he gets out of the stage in Deadwood', my opinion may not be entirely free from favoritism.A great time shooting, a bad time watching. Oh, well, they can't all be Oscar winners. (I think we were heading for the Razzies!)Hey, we had fun, anyway! "},{"Title":"Soft hearted gunfighter plays his last hand","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  Damn good western with plenty of smokin' guns, hot lead, and wagons of dead bad men. Bridges was perfect as the famous gunslinger and the rest of the cast also looked the part of the old west. I liked the use of flashback, especially the stark black and white style used; it was a nice addition to the story. A real rip roaring shoot-em-up. "},{"Title":"Awful film considering it was directed by Walter Hill....","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" ...lousy dialogue, special affects but the worst was the acting - reminds one of the 1970's and that decade's addiction to Gary Hart or Jimmah Carter...The film was akin to 'Little Big Man' - the sets were awful and the casting was even worse. Took me back 'War' film cast with Hollywood draft dodgers trying to show their manhood i.e. 'A Bridge Too Far' - Eliot Gould and Ryan O'Neal - that fight scene 10 minutes in where 'Wild Bill' takes/shoots down some four desperadoes was pathetic.Truly Hill's worst film - a real 'pc' pile of 'Hillary' and 'Debbie Wassserman Schultz...- castrated men regardless of the violence. "},{"Title":"Great atmosphere...Extremely bad history!","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  The tone and atmosphere of this film is right on.  The history is just awful!  It begins with a mistake many 4th graders could point out.  Bill is sitting, playing poker, WITH HIS BACK TO A DOOR!  The only time he did this was when Jack McCall killed him at the no. 10 in Deadwood! "},{"Title":"Ellen Barkin in the old west","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" I can just barely recommend this movie because I happen to like Ellen Barkin. This role as Calamity Jane isn't anywhere near her outstanding performance in The Big Easy. Jeff Bridges did a fairly good job as Wild Bill Hickock. Fans of the TV series Deadwood may want to watch to see another version. David Arquette was the worst Jack McCall that you could imagine; gunning after Wild Bill because he thought he left his mom (Diane Lane). It was slow as westerns go and that was a fine set of guns Wild Bill had. They must have got off 20 shots at the end! Like so many movies, I feel the ending will leave you disappointed. It just didn't seem in character for McCall. "},{"Title":"Utter confusion.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  Spoiler??)Bleh.  Hey I like Jeff Bridges.  And he makes an excellent Wild Bill, but the flashbacks are freaking annoying.  This is a weak movie.  It coulda been longer too.  They decided to focus later in his life.  Alot of the characters in this movie aren't developed enough for us to know who they are.  I think the creators assumed too much and figured some of us know all about Bill's legend.  The odd thing...  I've heard of alot of legends, but I think poor ol me just totally missed the Wild Bill one.  Until this movie came out, I had little idea of who he really was.Comment for the creator's.  Need more input.6/10Quality 3/10 Entertainment 8/10 Replayable 4/10 "},{"Title":"Deadpan","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  This is almost a remake of Jeff Bridges' dad, Loyd's, 1963 TV episode of American Adventure.  At least one scene, in which Wild Bill shoots his own deputy, is staged almost identically.  But the general outlines of the legend are familiar enough that most of the similarities can be taken as coincidental. What I mean, for instance, is that nobody is ever going to turn Wild Bill Hickock into a bummy looking short guy with a derby and a crew cut because everybody knows from existing photographs that he was something of a dude with long hair, a mustache, and a wide-brimmed hat.  So if Jeff and Loyd Bridges resemble each other, it can be taken as an attempt to promote their several resemblances to the model.  Ditto for aces over eights, the dead man's hand.There are of course differences.  Jeff's film was not made in 1963.  Therefore we find in the more recent production a great deal more of sex, drugs, and rock 'n roll.  Jeff's Hickock is given to boffing a voracious Calamity Jane on a poker table, and taking nude baths with her.  Ellen Barkin has a nice figure.  So does Christina Applegate who appears as a character who in 1963 would have been called a dance hall girl.  This Hickock not only belts down booze but partakes of the Chinese pipe too, although I don't know why, since whenever he nods out he has unpleasant flashbacks to earlier shootouts or tragic meetings with earlier girl friends.  Yet, in a way, the modern version is retrograde too.  Loyd Bridges' Hickock turned into a pathetic man facing middle age and looking for peace, a pair of spectacles perched on his nose to help his failing eyesight.  Jeff's Hickock has glaucoma too, maybe the result of syphilis, it's suggested.  But he doesn't wear glasses.  And he's never less than bluff and blunt, maybe impatient, even in the face of doom.  When a handful of heavies have him surrounded and toy with him before shooting him he urges them to get on with it, while playing solitaire.  Cut the bull****, he says, which is more than I'd have come up with.  I'd have been begging them to continue the bull**** as long as possible.  Speaking of bull, I don't know how much of the legend can be believed.  Did people really call somebody out?  Did Hickock really use a cross draw?  Did Bill have himself tied into a chair before a shootout with a cripple in a wheelchair?  Did Calamity really look like Ellen Barkin?  (I saw a picture of her once and she looked more like Helen Ramsey.)  Did he really have aces and eights when shot?  The air was thick with bull in the 1870s.  There may have been even more bulls around then than there are now.Regardless of that, this isn't a bad movie.  Bridges has always been an oddly good actor.  I say oddly because he's not a bravura performer, not especially handsome, doesn't opt for colorful roles like hunchbacks, and doesn't draw attention to himself by wearing putty noses.  He simply gets the job done, often with a little something extra of his own.  Arquette plays McLaw, the kid who finally offs the famous gunfighter.  He gives an irritating example of what I mean by bravura performance, maybe deliberately.  He stutters, he grins at inappropriate times, he pulls a gun then licks his lips and puts it back.  Makes you want to tell him what another character does, Shut up and go home.Worth watching, ultimately, because if it's a legend it's still an exciting one.  Then there is Bridges' gruff performance and Barkin's feral physicality.  I wish they'd made more use of location shooting.  Deadwood is in the Black Hills, a place of dramatic forests, blue sky, vistas, and sparklingly clear air.  This movie is dark and wet.   "}{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  I was excited when this film was first announced, because I've always been fascinated with the character of Wild Bill Hickok.  But the movie is a disaster.  It is presented as a historical account of Hickok's life, and it is completely inaccurate.  I can see embellishing the truth a bit for a movie, but it was just done totally wrong in this movie.  The only good thing about it is that Jeff Bridges looked almost exactly like the real Wild Bill... "},{"Title":"Ole' Wild Bill shoots a bunch of guys who had it coming!","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  Hard to say what happened here. Barkin and Bridges are fine, good even. The look is right and so is the supporting cast, even if the characters are a bit underdeveloped. The film leaves us with more questions that it answers. Does Hickock regret his life? Why can he not love Calamity? Why are his friends so loyal? "},{"Title":"wild bilge","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" I first saw this in the theater and found it forgettable. But I thought I'd watch again since it pops up a lot on cable. Now I believe it's too awful to be forgettable. This is a criminally bad film, easily the worst of director Walter Hill's spotty career, although it does seem to have pointed him towards the cable series Deadwood. That's another crime for another day, however. Except for some few expertly staged fight scenes and the performances of Jeff Bridges and Diane Lane, this is a low point in several usually reliable actor's careers. John Hurt is simply a windy fool, ditto James Gammon. Bruce Dern yells (yawn). And Ellen Barkin's Calamity Jane makes me long for Abby Dalton's performance in The Plainsman. Loud, broad, witless, with the worst Southern accent in the long history of bad Southern accents on film, this represents the nadir of her career. It's the only bad performance I've ever seen her give and I still can't imagine what she was thinking. Possibly the only way to enjoy this film is to turn it on, leave the room and, when you hear the sound of raised voices and gunfire, rush back in. Or you could just rent The Plainsman. "},{"Title":"Stylistic Western With a Weak Screenplay","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" The life and death of the legendary Wild Bill Hickok is presented by Walter Hill in a stylistic western. The direction is great, the cast is excellent, the art and photography are wonderful, showing the important parts of Wild Bill's life in flashbacks in black & white and inclined camera. However, the performance of Jeff Bridges is horrible, using grimace to represent a nasty gunfighter, opium, card and whiskey addicted in a weak screenplay. The story is not pleasant and is impossible to feel any sympathy for the character Wild Bill Hickok. Diane Lane and Ellen Barkin are beautiful as usual. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) 'Wild Bill &#150; A Lenda do Oeste' ('Wild Bill &#150; The Legend of the West') "},{"Title":"Was it really that ugly?","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" Walter Hill tried to tell the story of Will Bill from a new, different angle, and for that he deserves credit. But good intentions do not make a good film and Hill goes terribly wrong. One must remember that if Hickok is still a legend in our actual days, and a respected legend, contrary to Custer and Buffalo Bill who did not maintain their appeal, he must have had some charisma, in other words some magic, either him or what happened in his life. That is what the film fails to capture. Trying to be more realistic and showing us the town of Deadwood always full of mud, and Wild Bill as a crazy looking guy with a long hair an a beard that does not allow any expression to his face, all this film does is to show the ugliness of all that and at that point we can ask ourselves that if it really was that ugly why do we still talk about it today? In his search for realism Hill forgot the soul of the story, and the soul is as much part of reality as is the physical part. In that respect, De Mille's 'The Plainsman' is more real than 'Wild Bill' besides being a much better film. Hill showed a lot of talent in 'The Long Riders', but in 'Wild Bill' he threw it all away. "},{"Title":"one of Hill's lesser efforts","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":" This one one of Walter Hill's lesser films and a major disappointment right after Geronimo, which was a great western. Hill just went downhill with this film and his films have just sucked after this one. It's hard to believe this is from the same guy who directed The Long Riders. The movie starts out with Wild Bill's death in 1876 at age 39. Their are several flashbacks of Bill shooting dead a lot of people over the years and the movie winds up showing Bill's last days in Deadwood. Bill is slowly losing his eyesight and he has a few friends with Calamnity Jane, played by Ellen Barkin and an Englishman, played by John Hurt. David Arquette is a young kid who wants to kill Bill but doesn't have the guts so he hires some gunmen to do it for him. The movie is a major disappointment and you should stay away from it. "},{"Title":"Not Much here","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  I didn't think this was such a great film. I know that it wasn't intended as a straight up biography of Wild Bill, but the scenes that are recalled that show how Hickock went through life, and the terrible casting job of David Arquette as his killer just did this film in for me. "},{"Title":"Top of My Worst Movies of the '90s","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  This film has a major flaw nothing happens! Thinking back on the film, I can't say what it's about. It's not that the acting is bad or the production is cheap or the dialogue is bad. These elements give you something to laugh at or criticize. But Wild Bill is so muddled and undeveloped, you just sit there asking yourself what the hell it is you're watching. As my wife put it I would have rather spent the time sitting outside the theater looking people walk by. I couldn't have said it better. "},{"Title":"I love westerns!  Not this one.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Western","Review":"  This was a tough movie to watch.  Bad acting for sure.  Wild Bill was easy to dislike.  I was hoping he would have drawn those aces & eights really early.  Thankfully it was only 98 minutes. I never want to see this film again! "}]