[{"Title":"A Movie That Stays With You","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Since this story goes back and forth between a comedy and a really sad, dramatic story, I guess you could call it unique. The drama is much more at the end involving Andie McDowell's character.Supposedly, this is a true-life story of Steven Franz Lidz and his wacky family - the kid (Nathan Watt), the father (John Turturro) and the two uncles (Maury Chaykin and Michael Richards.). The story has a lot of Jewish flavor and religious themes, pro and con. It's not an easy story to explain so I won't go past what I've said that it's simply an interesting portrait of a different-kind of family with lots of laughs early on but tears later. You could get an idea early on that it's kind of a sweet movie, but there are some uncomfortable scenes in here. There is a little bit of about everything, guaranteed to strike everyone's emotions somewhere along the way. The story stayed with me long after I first watched it. "},{"Title":"A step below being a masterpiece","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OH! How could anyone NOT love this movie? It's so good. Andie MacDowell and John Turturro make such  a cute movie couple. The real show stealer was Michael Richards. Through the movie, you're not saying, 'Hey, why is Kramer being serious?' Instead, you say, 'Wow, Michael Richards is a good actor.' This was a rare opportunity to see him do a better-than-Kramer-by-not-being-Kramer performance. I would love to see him do more serious work like this. It's very tearful at the end. Parts are mildly funny, but this movie is pure drama and it's beautiful.  "},{"Title":"a heroic movie","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Unstrung Heroes is incontrovertible evidence that Diane Keaton is a great director. It focuses on Steven Lidz, a Jewish boy in the early 1960's whose happy life is upset when his mother Selma (Andie MacDowell) is diagnosed with cancer. Unable to bear it, he moves in with his blacklisted uncles, Danny (Michael Richards) and Arthur (Maury Chaykin). They teach Steven about his Jewish heritage, and by the end of the movie, he has had his bar mitzvah and feels freer in his existence.Some of the plot points may seem a little hackneyed, but Diane Keaton knows how to tell the story so that it isn't a cliché. A very good look at how the general atmosphere and zeitgeist in a certain part of American history affected one family. "},{"Title":"Paradise Retained!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What is it about these movies that touches one so much? I think it's because of the lack of more movies like these and also because of the innocence in them, that we as adults want to hold on to. This movie was a baggage of surprises for me...Finding Andie McDowell play a role very different from the ones she has so far played. It was a pleasure to see a mainstream Hollywood actor like her act in a movie that is not very commercial. It is a children's movie, but is thankfully devoid of the new-kid-on-the-block talk we hear in so many children's movies. Learning later that Diane Keaton was the director was another really pleasant surprise! She has done a very commendable job with this movie! What I liked about this movie was how a child's world was captured, with the camera almost being a character in the movie as it explored places hitherto unknown...the camera was almost made to be an extension of Steven's character, with he, like Alice in Wonderland being awed and overwhelmed by the absurd world of his uncles and other adults. Nothing in the world could have accentuated the beauty of this movie than Thomas Newman's music. This man is a maestro of sorts! His music for the movie 'Corrina, Corrina' is one of my favorites! Interestingly, even in that movie, his best renditions are while showing the world through a child's eyes(Tina Majorino). Newman's music brings to the movie an other worldly quality. It lends to the otherwise mundane lives of the characters an aura of mystery, magic and a celestial quality that makes them so memorable! He is really one of the best Hollywood music directors at the moment and I only hope that he continues to spin his magic as he has been doing for so long!Nathan Watt as Steven has given a really sensitive performance..he's the main protagonist of the movie, it is his world we are drawn into. Kudos to him for such an endearing performance! Michael Richards is excellent as the phony-bashing uncle of Steven's!! He's getting better everyday, with his recent portrayal of Mr. Micawber in the latest version of 'David Copperfield'. The rest of the cast, all of them are really good! The last scene, when Steven is watching video tapes of his mother with his father is one of the most touching in the movie... This is one of those movies that celebrates the innocence of a child and a few adults who want to retain that innocence in a superficial and phony world. "},{"Title":"Simply Amazing","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie shows how you can find heros in the most unlikely people and places. Michael Richards character, Danny, was out-spoken and rude, but his quote, People, they get trapped in their own history unless someone shows them a way out is a great way of thinking, and the movie shows the hardship of growing up and finding someone special when no one else understands what you're going through. With another great direction job of Diane Keaton, brilliant performances by Andie MacDowell, and Michael Richards and an amazing score by Thomas Newman, this movie lets you know that heros can come from anywhere and be anybody. "},{"Title":"You're the one to watch, Franz.","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by Diane Keaton, this is a beautiful, child's eye view of a difficult but enlightening period in a young boy's life. From Franz Lidz's autobiographical book, it's the story of his experiences coming to terms with his mother's cancer (described to him by his father as a very bad cold), and the changes within his family brought about by her illness. Offered little more in the way of explanation or reassurance by his father who is naturally overwhelmed with losing his beautiful wife (well-played by Andie MacDowell), the boy bonds for the first time with his two endearingly oddball uncles. The emotional aspects and situations are expressed subtly but richly, with a warm cinematic vision. John Turturro is excellent as the boy's father, who we see as being rather cold and cerebral, always preoccupied and dismissive. The father is a genius, the mother tells her son, explaining that his scientific mind might make him seem like he's from another planet, but to try and cut him some slack and learn to appreciate him. His true feeling and human quality is finally exposed when, during an extended study of his face late in the film, Turturro shows us all the emotion of this brilliant young man who is helpless in the face of his wife's devastating disease.The certifiably mad Uncle Danny is played by Michael Richards, who is finally given the opportunity to bring his Kramer, of Seinfeld fame, to a fully realized and hilariously paranoid characterization. Going to live for a time with Uncle Arthur and Uncle Danny, the boy, Steven (re- named Franz by his uncles and played impressively by then 12-year-old Nathan Watt) experiences a look into his family history and decides to study for his Bar Mitzvah, contrary to his atheist father's wishes. He also cleverly engineers a solution to the Lindquist Problem (a war the uncles have going on with their landlord), and learns to care for and about the two of them. Thus he returns home to his immediate family and his dying mother, newly confident and better equipped to cherish the remaining moments of her life.This is a special movie and I couldn't recommend it more highly. There's no sense of the maudlin where it might have gone that way, but there is great humor that will be enjoyable to a wide range of ages. "},{"Title":"Love conquers all","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Very nice, touching movie.  Made me cry.  A story of a boy coming of age while dealing with a dying mother and rebelling against his father all in the context of a loving extended family.  The (Jewish) cultural angle gave it authenticity.  A fine performance by Nathan Watt but that John Turturro is really something.  Michael Richards was essentially Kramer again.  Interesting in that it is a woman director (Diane Keaton) who brings this story of male family love to the screen.  While mom is very loving as well, she sadly and symbolically abandons Steven/Franz by dying and it is the weird (eccentric and harmlessly schizophrenic) uncles who support him thru it all, once again posing the question, Who really are the crazy (or heroes, for that matter) among us?  I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"THANK YOU Diane Keaton!","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thank you Diane Keaton! This movie is outstanding! My mother passed away from Cancer in 1983 when I was only 13 years old. This movie explains exactly how one can feel as a young kid.(i.e. 'going crazy'-Uncle Danny, the need to find pleasure in 'simple things' &#150;Uncle Arthur).I have seen this movie about 20-30 times and it gets better each time.I'm not sure why this movie is not more accepted 'main stream' or why it did not do better---financially-when it was in theaters----but I really appreciate Mrs. Keaton making this movie.From the need to find God, the frustrations and anger that the father faced, and the need to just be a kid and try to enjoy life while you watch your mother pass away, this is exactly how you feel when going through this. "},{"Title":"It feels true","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on Steven Lidz's memoir of his childhood in New York. His father is (we are told) a brilliant inventor; Steven adores his mother and is adored in return. Steven's relatives include two genially crazy uncles, Danny and Arthur, who live together in an apartment across town. Precise diagnoses are never discussed and their behavior is seen from the point of view of a boy, but they both appear to have variants of schizophrenia, Danny being paranoid and Arthur more undifferentiated. Steven's almost blissful family life is cruelly interrupted when his mother becomes ill with cancer. Unhappy with his home life after the change, he 'runs away' to live with his uncles. Their apartment is a crowded archive of their mental illness. Steven is alternately fascinated and mortified by their bizarre behavior, but by sharing their world, he becomes a better person. This movie has no real plot or payoff, but it is captivating and moving. My upbringing was completely different from Steven's, but as a member of a Jewish family that has produced both some very bright people and some very crazy people, I can say that the film conveys the accuracy of 'felt life'. It is the antithesis of today's usual deadly conformist, formulaic and violence-ridden Hollywood films.Nathan Watt does a very good job as Steven. John Turturro as his father is part of the long and distinguished tradition in American film and television of Italians playing Jews (and vice versa); he's done it at least once before (Barton Fink). You can't help but see a bit of Cosmo Kramer in Michael Richards's performance as Danny. Best of all was Arthur as played by that shambling, rumpled Canadian bear Maury Chaikin. Most of the IMDb reviews rave about Andie MacDowell, but this Jewish reviewer feels that in fact she was woefully miscast as Steven's mother Selma; in her looks, her speech, her mannerisms, her body language, and her demeanor, she totally fails to convince as a New York Jewish woman. This was the sort of role that should have gone to someone like Lisa Edelstein, Bette Midler, Tovah Feldshuh or Debra Winger. "},{"Title":"'All the lost balls.'","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've seen this one once before, long ago, but it is still a movie with a fresh and emotional impact I can't ignore. Maybe you could say that the characters Danny and Arthur are somewhat obviously eccentric, but being played by 'Kramer' and Chaykin, they know just how to pull my strings, as did the rest of the cast (Turturro, MacDowell, Watt). In the end there a few lines by 'Franz' that are a little too much on the obvious and sentimental side, but it's easy to forgive this warm, yet sometimes painfully harsh - somehow in an understated manner - film. Add to that the beautiful cinematography, settings and music and you can't go wrong.A touching story about disease, death, growing up, faith, ideals, paranoia, misfits ánd love... the whole shebang, no less, and still very charming - an admirable achievement.A big 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"I always felt that I was watching a movie","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" (Spoilers) Steven is a twelve year old with a father, Sid, who fancies himself as an inventor. Most of Sid's inventions are rather ridiculous, like a retractable canopy for a bed, with an escape hatch that is just an opening. I assume that Sid's inventions were exaggerated in order to create an image of him as a weird scientist, but his inventions were too trumped up just for effect for me to believe.Steven's mother is dying of cancer and, between his father's craziness and his mother's illness, Steven decides to run away to live with two of his uncles. Sid is normal compared to the uncles. Uncle Arthur rummages through trash to collect any item he finds interesting. He collects bouncing balls. In one scene Steven opens a closet door only to be engulfed by a couple hundred balls stored there. Think about that, how could that storage be accomplished? Except on a movie set. Steven's uncle Danny is paranoid and is always running from some imaginary pursuer, doing stupid things like entering a house through a window in order to avoid being detected. As Danny, Michael Richards' frenetic antics so irritated me that I almost bailed.Maury Chaykin, as Arthur, evinces some warmth, and, as Steven, Nathan Watt gives the most natural performance of all the actors. These two performances were about the only positives for me. Forced zaniness played against a backdrop of terminal cancer is a tricky thing to pull off and this story failed in its attempt. These people were never real enough for me to be engaged. "},{"Title":"Pretty Standard Stuff but Not Bad","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A young boy with an inventor for a father and a sick but loving mother finds life's answers in the unusual shenanigans of his two odd uncles, played by Michael Richards and Maury Chaykin. The uncles are hoarders and one is extremely paranoid. Though it's not really a coming-of-age story, the boy does expand his horizons through the unusual insights of his two uncles, one of whom collects, among everything else, balls because they carry the sound of children playing within them. It's a fairly interesting movie but nothing groundbreaking. Director Diane Keaton does about as well as anyone can with the material at hand. The two odd uncles provide a unique look at life to a confused young boy's eyes. John Turturro as the father is pretty unusual when we meet him as well but he loses his quirkiness once his wife, Andie MacDowell, comes down with an illness from which there is no hope of escape. The boy, now given a sense of self and purpose from his uncles, now has to rescue his father from giving up on life. The movie sways from comedy to pathos but is worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"A surprising gem of a film!","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this film. Kudos to Andie for not looking at all like a model. Solid dramatic work from Richards, and good direction from Keaton. My biggest criticism is that the stacks of newspapers and junk in the uncles' apartment were unrealistically neat. Whoever did the set design has never seen the real deal, and it shows! They did manage, however, to avoid pinning the film to a specific time and place, which allowed the film to seem apart from normal experience, somewhere between reality and someone's very personal dreamworld. Unstrung Heroes is not a big film. It has no definitive message, and it may never become well-known. It was made in an artful manner, rather than for box office receipts, however, and that is one quality I deeply respect.  "},{"Title":"A TRULY moving film.","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  During movies, some people gush and cry at the slightest hint of emotionality.  For a while I prided myself for having not cried at one single film (a typical mentality for a young American male).  Sure there were times when a ball of almost-ready-to-cry emotions would appear in the back of my throat, but I always considered that a normal reaction to what I call Easy Sadness scenes in movies (such as Schindler's List, Philadelphia etc.). Then I saw Unstrung Heroes.When the end credits started rolling up, I was stuck in my seat unapologetically bawling.  And the best part was that Unstrung Heroes wasn't particularly sad or depressing, the movie just, for lack of a better word, moved me.Turturro is, of course, excellent as usual, Andie MacDowell has a memorable performance, but its Michael Richards' and Maury Chaykin's duo that steals the show.  Their foolishness will have you laughing one minute and then amaze you with sage-like wisdom the next.I guess the film is somewhat based on a true story.  I gave a rating of 7.  "},{"Title":"a moving and funny film","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  diane keaton makes her directorial debut with a funny yet heartbreaking tale of a dysfunctional family. andie macdowell takes the lead as the mother dying of cancer and she gives one of her best performances to date. the film is given much needed comedy due to the presence of michael richards and maury chalkin "},{"Title":"Pretty gripping tale of the times gone by","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great and extremely watchable movie for two reasons. One is the spellbinding performances given by the entire cast, especially John Turturro as an absolute believer in science and maverick inventor and Michael Richards, the crazy nutty uncle. The other is how well it potrays the shock with which American society faced up to truths like tobacco poisoning and fall of science from its be-all and end-all position. Sort of coming of age of society. "},{"Title":"It's an Eye-Opener that Touches the Heart and the Funny Bone","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This work will walk you down the dark aisles of insanity, waltz you through some of life's unexpected moments, and will help you remember it long after it's gone.Andie MacDowell, John Turturo, Michael Richards. A boy whose mother is dying must move in with crazy uncles. While there, you learn just how resilient children are; how witty, intelligent, and full of tolerance they are, when not fed the prejudices of their parents.The drama here is quite tense, interspersed with comedic moments, which will break your heart while making you laugh. This is above all, a drama, but the comedy is beautifully touching and serves to adequately distract you from the fact that your heart is breaking.This is probably the most enjoyable drama I have ever been forced to view.It rates an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"I only saw the last twenty mins but it was enough!","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Death doesn't so much concern the dying, but rather those left behind. And this movie embodies that with a terrific cast and perfect casting. Nathan Watt stole the show and I am rather disappointed he hasn't done much else since 1996. His honest, at times uncertain portrayal of a child coming to terms with his mother's imminent death and preserving her memories was heart-wrenching. Topped that off with the callous but level-headed father Torturro brings, blended with dashes of the crazy uncles played by Richards and Davis -- this movie grabs you expectedly in an unexpected way. I only saw the last twenty minutes of it and now I am going to make sure I enjoy the whole thing! I'm sure it will be good all the way. I think any movie that makes us appreciate being alive and having the ones we care about around should be applauded and this is definitely one of them. "},{"Title":"Fine Flick","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  AN OFFENSIVE PLAN! wonderful movie, ALL of the acting is marvelous.  John Tutorro (sp?) is amazing with his look, every time they camera shows his face , the audience can feel his pain.  Every performance was solid.  this movie is the one to look out for!, the one to watch! "},{"Title":"An unsung gem...","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this purely based on reviews...having never heard of it and reading only positive reviews (a first I think for an IMDb forum!).Regardless, I was really, pleasantly surprised and have to say unless this type of film is just not your cup of tea, it was really too beautiful in so many ways I might have lost count early on, but would have never been able to let it go as the film continued.Do yourself a favor and don't miss this little gem of a movie if you happen by it in the rental section or late one night on the satellite or cable. I won't give spoilers here because there is enough of that already...but you'll probably be pleasantly surprised and glad you took all the positive reviewers words for it on this one. Bravo. "}{"Title":"Perfect! Simply perfect!","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Diane Keaton does a remarkable job with Unstrung Heroes. The movie is perfectly cast, perfectly acted, and perfectly written. I laughed, cried, and often both at the same time.  This story allows us to meet some exceptional characters who explore certain truths that many of us too often ignore until it's too late. Wonderful! "},{"Title":"love the quirky but lacks intensity","Date":"3 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Steven Lidz's father Sid (John Turturro) is a wacky inventor. His loving mother Selma (Andie MacDowell) gets sick and is restricted in bed. The kids don't like the new caretaker Amelia (Celia Weston) who tells them that their mother is dying. Steven runs away to stay with his oddball religious anti-fascist radical uncles Danny (Michael Richards) and Arthur (Maury Chaykin). Steven grows closer to his uncle and even adopts the name Franz.Diane Keaton as a director brings a gentle touch to the mostly quirky characters in Franz Lidz's life. I really like the quirkiness but I keep wondering if there is more to the story. I'm not arguing for some manufactured family drama or a shoot em up car chase. There is definitely material here like a struggle for religion and identity. For goodness sakes, the mother dies. It's all handled with such a sweet gentleness that it's hard to feel the conflict or any anger or frustration or any of the harsher emotions. The drama is not elevated high enough. "},{"Title":"Good message despite some flaws","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Right, I know this movie. Nathan Watt is smart indeed, the story, however, did not live up to my expectations. I mean, yeah, the underlying themes are lovely and easily detectable. The end was quite good, when Nathan and his dad were watching the movie sequence together in which the boy's late mom appears. That's a heart-rending sequence. The rest of the plot was somehow a bit too weird too me. I mean the uncles - what shall I make of them? They are two thorough oddballs, and I just don't like such characters who are nuts. Nathan though - he was the one who actually made me watch the entire movie. The father-son aspect was fine and emotionally agreeable, as well as the boy's uncertainty whether or not to change his confession. He did very well, indeed. The movie itself is honest and dealing with tough themes. I'll give a 7 actually. "},{"Title":"Good actors, absolutely dreadful story.","Date":"16 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had the displeasure of watching this movie during my first semester of college in my film class. When I heard that it had Michael Richards and john Turturro I was pretty excited, but that all changed once my professor hit play.The acting was not bad but the story was flat-out terrible. Without giving spoilers away, let me just say that I don't care if they had recruited the best actors in Hollywood to be in this film because the plot is beyond boring and is the most uninteresting thing I have seen to date. Poor writing and poor directing turned this movie into a dumpster fire. "},{"Title":"Poetry, not Lving Mannual","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is ironic how someone gives us poetry and we try to make a user/living manual out of it. Not good for us, not good for the work of art.There is a poignant quote at the beginning of the film where Steven/Franz was narrating that 'Heroes are those who find their own ways. This will be the year you find yours.' (not verbatim).Here is to each of us finding our own ways, while enjoying art works like Unstrung Heroes for what they are, poetry.P.S. Poetry is not always a writings that have stanzas that end with similar sounding words. Poetry is life itself.Cheers! "},{"Title":"A light movie...that really gets to you!","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Unfortunately I've missed the first thirty minutes of this movie... but from what I saw, it is amazing... I've never heard of that movie before, but my God I'm glad I flipped on this channel tonight.  The cast is just wonderful , everyone is perfect for their role and little Steven just shine throughout the whole movie!!! He's incredible!! Unstrung Heroes is a sweet movie dealing with serious subjects but focusing mostly on the way steven feels through this hard journey. A film filled with suprises and funny characters, that will make you laugh and shed some tears ...  If you liked Stepmom, you'll enjoy this one... maybe even more...A Must see for everyone!!Alexandra "},{"Title":"emotionally moving","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I only caught the middle to end of the movie, but what i saw was amazing. i am a guy, but i am not gay, this movie actually hits home, as a Jew i know what the assimilation is like. i also know what depression does and how hard it was for jews in the 60's. I wont deny that i started to cry towards the end of the movie and i recommend this movie to any guy who is in touch with his sensitive side "},{"Title":"Andie McDowell","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who doesn't think that Andie McDowell can act should rent a double  feature of sex, lies, and videotape and Unstrung Heroes.  Her  performance in this film is dead-on perfect.  She's sweet and funny and  wonderful. "},{"Title":"Just one way to sort out your emotions.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by Diane Keaton and adapted from a book by Franz Lidz. A young mother Selma Lidz(Andie MacDowell)is battling a very serious illness and her self proclaimed inventor husband Sid(John Tururro)is a little lacking in the emotions department. Unhappy with the new home situation, their sensitive son Steven(Nathan Watt)decides he wants to stay with his two eccentric uncles Danny(Michael Richards)and Melvin(Lou Cutell)until his mom is well. Steven seems to be happier and even takes interest in his strange uncle's living habits; he even decides he wants to change his name to Franz. Set in the early 60's, this drama is a bit comedic...change that to zany. Not being a MacDowell fan, UNSTRUNG HEROES assures my attitude; albeit I enjoyed the film and it is not a total waste. "},{"Title":"An amazing film!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unstrung Heros is an amazing film! I just watched this film for the first time on cable the other day and I was hooked right from the beginning to the end. The acting was great and Nathan Watt is probably one of the best child actors I've ever seen. This is truly one of my favorite movies of all time! "}]