[{"Title":"painfully true examination of the horror that is childhood","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"77 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Grimly convincing portrayal of life in junior high school for the unpopular. If you aren't blown away by how realistic this is then you weren't unpopular enough this is the real deal. This movie strips away the rosy patina of nostalgia that covers most other films that portray the grim nature of childhood. I admire the film for avoiding the common trap of making the lead an innocent victim. Heather is, when the opportunity arises, just as cruel as anyone else in the film. The movie doesn't make Heather a child, but instead makes her a confused human being full of conflicting emotions such as hatred, lust, anguish and guilt.I think to understand this movie though, you need to realize that you are viewing everything from Heather's point of view. Teachers and parents are ridiculously unfair, classmates are alarmingly sadistic, and you could point at some action and say, oh, I doubt that would happen, but there's a strong emotional truth; this is what it feels like to be an unhappy child. When I watch movies about unpopular kids, I am always disappointed because their lives are better than mine was, and this is the first movie I could point to and say, if you want to see what I was dealing with in Junior High, watch Dollhouse. But while I always wanted a movie that shows the unvarnished truth, it is really difficult to watch. Although if you can make it through the first half hour it gets just a shade less horrific. And it does have a quirky sense of humor that lightens it some. I avoided this movie for years because I was afraid it would be too painful, and a friend said no, it's not that painful, and she was sort of right and sort of wrong. But it's definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Cruelty","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"69 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Welcome to the Dollhouse was the introduction of an important voice in the American cinema. Todd Solondz's incisive study of a suburban family is one of the best indie films of the last decade. Having seen it in its theatrical release, we had the opportunity recently to take a new look at it. Mr. Solondz has created a picture of what cruelty does to a child, and how prevalent it is everywhere.When we first meet the Wieners, living in suburban New Jersey, they appear to be the ideal family. Both parents, on the surface, look normal, but in watching them closely we come to the conclusion they are not. Some couples are not meant to be parents and the Wieners, obviously, while supportive of the older son, Mark, and the cute younger daughter, Missy, turn a blind eye toward Dawn, their middle daughter who is going through a hard time as she starts junior high school.Not only is Dawn an unhappy girl, but she is the object of cruelty in the hands of the other students, both in her class, and in her school, in general. We watch as Brandon, the punkish boy, begins to taunt Dawn in his own sadistic way. Other girls come right out and ask Dawn whether she is a lesbian. There's also another girl that terrorizes her when both meet in the school bathroom. Every time Dawn tries to rebel, it turns out in disaster. Her school teacher doesn't even see anything wrong with Dawn, who is obviously affected by all she is experiencing at this crucial moment.Dawn hits a nerve with Brandon when she calls him a retard. Little does she know his own brother is mentally challenged. Usually in the case of bullies like Brandon, they are acting up their frustrations by taking it on others they perceive as weaker, which is why he thinks he can do anything to Dawn because she will never do anything to him.In a scene that gives cruelty a new name, we watch as the Wieners are having dinner one night. When Dawn contradicts something her mother has said, she is punished by not getting her dessert. We watch in total disbelief as the other Wieners begin to eat and Dawn's slice of chocolate cake remains near her mother until Missy asks to share that piece with Mark.Dawn only has a friend. The young boy who shares her interests in hanging out in the dollhouse in the Wiener's backyard. When the hunky Steve Rogers joins Mark's band, Dawn discovers an irresistible attraction toward this loser. Dawn turns against her only friend and will call him names that we all realize is her own way to deal with emotions she has no control on. Instead of finding happiness among her peers, Dawn only encounters scorn and ridicule.In Heather Matarazzo, the director found a young talent to give life to Dawn Wiener. Ms. Matarazzo has a peculiar kind of beauty, but she is made to wear horrible clothes to capture the essence of this sad young teen. Ms. Matarazzo under the guidance of Mr. Solondz makes an appealing Dawn. This young actress gave her character a range of emotions that even older, and more accomplished, actress wouldn't have given to this lost soul.The rest of the cast is perfect. Brendan Sexton plays Brendan, the boy from a poor and broken home that has to deal with the blow life has given him. Angela Pietropinto as Mrs. Wiener is seen as the mother from hell. Mattew Faber and Daria Kalinina play Dawn's siblings.This was a film that put Todd Solondz on the map. As he has shown with later films, he is a voice to be reckoned with in the independent cinema. "},{"Title":"A painful, yet honest look at adolescence","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"53 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Do not go into Welcome to the Dollhouse expecting a charming coming-of-age story.  Don't expect to have a lot of laughs either.  I'd seen this film several times before this viewing, including its original theatrical run, and it was just as cringe-worthy as the first time, if not more so because you know what to expect and find that you are bracing yourself.Solondz gives us the story of Dawn Weiner, a painfully awkward 13 year old girl who not only has to contend with being ostracized and friendless at school, but is essentially ignored and treated with disdain at home as well.  Being the middle child is obviously not the easiest thing to deal with within the family dynamic, but when your older brother is a geeky over achiever and your little sister is a gorgeous ballet-dancing cherub who commands total devotion from her mother, life is generally difficult for Dawn.Solondz throws in some intriguing plot points that punch up the story and encourage introspection, but while the story and presentation are excellent, the real breakout element of the film is the performance of Heather Matarazzo.  It is amazing that she was the same age as her character during filming because the performance, while the right age, exhibits a talent beyond her years.  You would be hard pressed to find someone who actually found the torment against her as humorous.  Rather, Solondz is so relentless with the abuse that it's almost like picking at a scab.  However, in the character of Dawn Weiner, we also see strength and conviction to go along with her vulnerability.  It's as if she finally realized and perfected these defense mechanisms simply so she can `survive' junior high school.Welcome to the Dollhouse is not a feel-good movie by any means.  It is a stark and realistic look at adolescence in a way that we don't normally see it &#150; it is not a sunny and idyllic junior high/high school experience, and not every `nerd' is stereotypical, a fact soundly proven by the complexity of the heroine of this great movie.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"One of the best indies; Long live Wiener Dog!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE (1996) **** Heather Matarazzo, Brian Sexton Jr., Eric Mabius, Matthew Faber, Daria Kalinina, Angela Pietropinto. Easily one of the best independent films ever produced. Matarazzo is brilliant perfection as 11 year old Dawn Wiener - Wiener Dog - who is trying desperately to survive the 7th grade NJ suburban hell with her existence as a gawky, nerdy yet smarter- than-the-rest protagonist facing every conceivable roadblock to hurdle including a dimwitted hunky high schooler and a seemingly threatening classmate (Sexton who is also great) who can't decide if he wants to rape her. Heartbreaking and all too close to the bone perfectly realized depiction of how judgemental we all are and just how harrowing adolescence really is. Dare not to be angered when her self-indulgent mother takes away her cake at the dinner table while the rest of the monstrous family greedily eat their desserts. Black comedy satire and documentarian genres blending seamlessly to a genuine masterpiece of poignancy sharply observant parable of anomie and angst by writer and director Todd Solondz (who won the Best Picture prize at Sundance). Wickedly funny and dead on accurate. "},{"Title":"Bravo Solondz!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the Dollhouse is a fresh, creative, no frills pic about a junior high school girl who is the personification of uncool. This poignant film could be dark comedy, light drama, satire or even farce depending on how its interpreted. However that may be, it shows in painful detail the assassination of the self esteem of a sweet, kind, and thoughtful girl who wants little more than to be liked. Entertaining as it may be, ...Dollhouse is a movie with a message for everyone who has ever been 12. "},{"Title":"Painful... but crucial","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a shining example of the potential of independent cinema. More specifically, American independent cinema. If you put together nearly every Hollywood movie dealing with early adolescence, their combined weight in truth would not equal what we see in this one film. For some reason, it seems that most screenwriters and directors seem to look back on their youth with blinding nostalgia - painting the whole experience like it was some kind of carefree paradise. One full of prank playing, football games, pep rallies, getting laid, wild parties and having an all-around great time. What makes this movie so powerful and so unique is that it never shies away from being honest, even when it gets really nasty. As you are reading this, kids all over world are being ignored, taunted, degraded, pushed around, abused... And they are doing anything to try escape it. Running away, turning to drugs, committing suicide...WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE basically details the life of a tween social outcast and middle child named Dawn Weiner (Heather Matazzaro). For Dawn, every day is a struggle for both survival and distraction from her 'real life'... She is degraded on a daily basis by her peers at school who refer to her as either lesbo or weiner dog, is receiving sexual threats from fellow outcast Brandon (Brendan Sexton III) and has to deal with a complete lack of love and nurturing from her frustratingly inept parents, who don't try to hide the fact that they prefer her brainy older brother and ballerina younger sister to her.Part of the genius of this film is that, despite the extremely grim subject matter, it is also blisteringly funny. You will laugh and you will wince... and often at the same time. The acting (largely from a group of unknowns) is spot-on, the writing is excellent and the suburban sets are appropriately gaudy.Interestingly, I've noticed skimming through other reviews and on the message board, that those who are/were near the bottom social ring in middle and high school seem to find more to grab on to here and much more emotional impact. Many of the haters seem to think this is wholly fabricated... possibly because they didn't have to deal with the the abuse, the whispering, the everyday torment that many others have to endure. Or possibly because they put someone else through it. "},{"Title":"Very under-appreciated","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great. I was shocked to see no one had posted a comment on it. A fantastic performance by Heather Matazarro. The movie is all about growing up in a world that expects you to already be an adult. Because Dawn Weiner is ugly she is mistreated, harassed, and ignored by everyone she comes across. I don't think I've ever seen a movie that featured a character more emotional alone. There is a scene where Dawn's mother offers Dawn's dessert to her siblings to get back at her. They take it, eagerly. Most movies like this are either black comedies or feature a character who is stoicaly non-conformist or just stoic. Dawn is neither. She bleeds, right up until the movies end, which I won't spoil but I will say that it is all the more heartbreaking for its inertia as for its action. Go find this one. You'll either love it or hate it. It's not a movie that just lets you go. "},{"Title":"The Curse of a Middle Child or Welcome to Hell!","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just imagine for one second that you are an 11 years old girl with ugly glasses. You are a middle child (the film also known as Faggots and Retards (working title) or Middle Child) with an older brother who is a computer wiz and a little sister, a pretty ballerina. Your name is Dawn Wiener, and almost every student in your middle school hates you, tells you in your face that you are ugly, and nobody remembers your name, you are called Dog Face or Wiener Dog', and one of your classmates greets you every morning with the words, I'll rape you today at 3 pm . The film should be called Welcome to Hell, and Todd Solondz is our Virgil in this Inferno. Heather Matarazzo is absolutely terrific. She was able to play both, an archetype of an insecure, unloved, misunderstood, and lost in this cruel world child as well as one very real suffering young girl from New Jersey. That's why I could not forget her Dawn, I wanted to talk her, to tell her that yes, the world is cruel, and she was dealt the mixed cards from the beginning but she could play them, there is always hope, there are books, music, and art. Hang on; I would tell her, you are not going to be an ugly duckling forever. You'll take off your stupid glasses, you will grow up, you'll be just fine and you will find friends &#150; just wait. But how can one wait at 11? The time drags so slowly in childhood, and every day is descending to Hell&#133; One of the best films about the happy school years I've ever seen.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"A strong, tough film","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the Dollhouse is an excellent film. It shows, in a strictly un-opinionated manner, a young girl's experiences as one of the unpopular kids in her junior high-school. She is faced with the extreme viciousness commonly shown in schools towards the students who, for whatever reason, don't fit in. The film never attempts to go any deeper than simply displaying these occurences to us, never really analyzing them or questioning why things like that happen. It just shows what is, what we've all experienced or at least seen, and for that I think it's all the more effective.There are also some humorous moments thrown in, which I thought were nice and somewhat alleviated the otherwise depressing mood of the film (not that I'm complaining).Welcome to the Dollhouse is a great snapshot of human behaviour. That's the best way I can describe it. "},{"Title":"Mr. Solondz, I Love You","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Look past the seemingly disturbing dialog in this film and take a deep look into its almost perfect portrait of the American Suburbs. Mr. Solondz writes in such a bold and daring fashion that it would be hard to top him. He writes and directs perfect Dark Comedies. The kind of movie I die for. He is a Satirist and he knows just how to disturb his audiences. If you take your time and give this film the multiple viewings it deserves it all begins to make sense. This was the first Solondz movie I saw, so I wasn't expecting what I got. The second viewing made me see the down right funny parts. This is the perfect portrait of an awkward pre-teen. Its doesn't make the freak turn out to be some sort of hero. It's new, fresh, and funny.****/**** "}{"Title":"I even liked the song","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a very funny comedy about the indomitable spirit of an 11-year-old junior high school girl, Dawn Wiener, played with geekish verve by Heather Matarazzo, who overcomes real life horrors the likes of which would make war heroes shutter. How would you like to be courted by a guy whose pick up line is 'I'm going to rape you at three o'clock. Be there.'? Or have a mother who splits your chocolate cake in front of your watering eyes into two pieces and adds them to the plates of your brother and sister? Or have your dream lover tell you he can't be a member of your Special People Club because it's 'a club for retards'?It gets worse. You're taunted daily by choruses of 'Wiener Dog!' and 'Lesbo freak!' and bullied at school by everybody including some teachers and the principal. And at home, your siblings tear down your club house. And when you're missing from home for a day and phone home, you're told to call back later, mom and your spoiled little sister are mugging for the TV cameras.Ah, but Dawn can overcome the night. She turns the would-be rapist into a macho-posturing little boy who really only wants to be affectionate ('I make the first move!' he boasts) and demonstrates that no matter how hard they hit her, she'll be back tomorrow, undaunted.Matarazzo does a great job, but she isn't alone. Brenden Sexton stands out as the posturing macho boy who loves her but can't admit it, as does Eric Mabius playing Steve Rogers, the self-absorbed high schooler/rock star wanna be (and Dawn's first love). The rest of the cast is also good, especially Victoria Davis in a bit part as the foul-mouthed, sexually ambiguous 12-year-old Lolita who corners Dawn in the bathroom. Incidentally that scene in which Lolita slyly tells Dawn 'You didn't come in here to wash your hands,' and insists that she do what she intended to do is just a great piece of pre adolescent camp. Another fine (and subtle) scene is when Dawn in her bedroom hears Steve Rogers sing for the first time (in the garage with her brother's 'band'). The expression on her face, as she rises up enthralled and follows the sound, suggests someone in the throes of a first awakening. And I loved the bit where Dawn, after being told by one of Steve Rogers's ex-girl friends that they 'finger-...(you-know-what)' one night and that was all, is inspired to demonstrate her finger work on the piano to Steve and then to show him her hands, fingers spread so he can see them. Of course he hasn't a clue to what she's thinking--and we're not too sure either!Now some people may think there is some exaggeration here, and they're right. I mean, nobody wears a pirate's black eye patch after getting hit in the eye with a spit ball! And teachers, even bad ones, know better than to deliberately humiliate their students (although some do it unconsciously). Nonetheless, while the action may not be entirely realistic at times, its spirit is totally true. Just ask anybody who remembers junior high school. Which brings me to the question how did director and script writer, Todd Solondz, get it so right? Did he take notes when he was still in junior high to use when he grew up? Did he steal his daughter's diary? Clearly somebody lived this script. I'm guessing that 'Dawn' is 'Todd' at least in spirit, and the striking capture of the psychology of the world of being twelve-years-old is due to his having been there and done that, 'big time,' as is written on Dawn's locker.Whatever, this full color world of the middle child is an adorable, witty, psychologically honest, beautifully directed and edited, masterfully conceived entertainment, winner of the Grand Jury Prize at Sundance, 1996, and sure to steal your heart.Final irony this is a movie for and about 12-year-olds (it would appear) yet it is rated 'R' and so, in effect, junior high school life is not only 'not suitable' for those under thirteen, they can't even view it!(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of the 1990's","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought I was the only one who went to junior high school and did not enjoy it.  It is so nice to see not all of us grew up in Beverly Hills 90210 or Fast Times at Ridgemont High.  I knew girls just like Wiener Dog, and the speech patterns and reactions of the students and family were dead on.  I almost screamed laughing when her sister was kidnapped!  I give this a 10. "},{"Title":"A Very Dark and Depressing Film","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" *** out of **** Todd Solindz's(Happiness, Storytelling) first film was a tough one for me. This is mainly due to the fact that I had once seen this film when I was seven or six and really loved it. I have seen it again, at sixteen, very recently and it is not the same movie. I remember when i saw it a young age it was funny and really neat. Now the humor is gone and in replacement is horror and mean spirited characters. It just goes to show how films can mean one thing at one age and another thing at another age. I have been disarmed by this film.The plot of this creepy film is as simple as a plot can be(unlike Happiness and Storytelling). A girl named Dawn Wiener is harassed by her classmates, her teachers, her family, just about everyone she meets except for her crush that she could never be with. She talks to him and is nice to him and likes to hear about him talk about himself. In one scene she even tries to seduce him. While this is happening, she attempts to fight back against her torturers, and continues to fail and fail, not because she is in capable of doing so, but because it isn't meant to be in a film like this. Her only other friend is a boy who hangs out with her in her clubhouse she built. He may be just as tormented at school as she is as every time he is seen in public, he is called faggot and he has low self esteem for it.The weirdest and yet ironic part about this film is that her biggest school jerk she must always face is a boy who is actually not such a bad kid. He has interesting thoughts on himself and her and doesn't always try to hurt her, yet pretends he does because that is his character. He must stay in character while attempting to either mess her up or keep in touch with her. At one point he continuously threatens to rape her and then hopelessly plans to.With a creepy and bizarre film like this, it does make the viewer question if it is really necessary to continue to watch. I had a hard time continuing even though i sat through it easily when i was a lot younger. In a way it makes me wonder if i was stronger at that age and more capable of sitting through a film like this since i had no knowledge of the content in this film.The film, despite having a sad ending, does have a point. If Dawn tries to fight back every time someone torments her, will she ever win? I don't think she will. But i admired her character throughout the film because every time bad things happened to her, she didn't at once cry. She has every reason to, but she stays strong. People today have to admire someone like that because someone who can stay strong when some weirdo is threatening to rape them must have been raised in some way or another. Life is unfair, plain and straight, but she continues to go through life not even once thinking about suicide. It's a shame what happens to her in Paindromes.Rated R for language. "},{"Title":"Truly original exploration of geek childhood","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Todd Solandz's first feature is a dead-on accurate exploration of geek childhood as seen through the bespecled lenses of the nerdy Dawn Wiener (Heather Matarazzo). Dawn's rotten school life is compounded by the fact that an older guy at school is targeting her for extracurricular rape. He hasn't quite decided if he's really going to bury the sausage in Dawn, but he's sure getting off on the anxiety he's generating. At home, Dawn must compete with her cute, feisty, outrageously indulged sister Missy (the irrepressible Daria Kalinina), a beauty pageant wanna-be if ever there was one, and a mother she has a huge disconnection issue with. Dawn's life is such a living hell the rape looks like it might be an interesting diversion. Solandz followed this up with the terrific Happiness, an exploration of a more adult hell. Though the subject matter of Dollhouse is incendiary, the nihilism is sautéed in the blackest of humor and deep sympathy for the characters. A true original. "},{"Title":"Everyone has a little bit of Dawn in them.","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This amazing little film is about one young girl's everyday struggle to survive the harshness of Junior High and her own uncaring parents.Heather Matarazzo plays 11-year-old Dawn Weiner who is tormented daily by her sadistic classmates. Weither it be the school bully or her own siblings, no one ever has a kind word for Dawn. Dawn is very homely and geeky, yet, has a unique charm about her that over shines her physical flaws. She is the middle child in her house and receives almost no love or support from her parents who are too busy spoiling Dawn's little sister Missy. Dawn's older brother, Mark , is a computer whiz, who is too busy with schoolwork and filling in college resume's to worry about a social life, although he does have a rock band. But anyway, one day, while Dawn is taking a test, a bully named Brandon (played by the amazing Brendan Sexton III)tries to copy off of her. When Dawn refuses to let him copy, Brandon threatens her with rape! Dawn tries to avoid Brandon the rest of the day, but he catches her and tells her to follow him. Surprisingly, Dawn follows him. When they reach the place where the rape is going to take place, Brandon suddenly becomes very charming and nice to Dawn and the two form a close bond. One day, Brandon asks Dawn to be his girlfriend. Sadly, Dawn has someone else she's got her eye on. High school hunk Steve Rogers (Eric Mabious, who doesn't even know Dawn is in the world. Anyway, several depressing, yet somewhat humorous incidents occur soon after and Dawn accepts that this is her life and decides to just take it one step at a time.This movie caught my eye one night on cable. I had heard this and that on it and decided to give it a shot. About ten minutes into the movie and I was hooked. This movie is so realistic that you actually believe that the character of Dawn is a real person. Well, Dawn may not be real, but there sure are plenty of people like her in the world. Unfortantly, there is also hideously cruel people in the world too. Anyway, all the actors give excellent performances especially Heather Matarazzo and Brendan Sexton III (who deserves a LOT more recognition for his awesome acting skills). These two actors carry the movie, although some of the credit must go to writer/director Todd Solondz who captures all the horrors of adolescence in this one of a kind film. Although not everyone will take to this movie, so if it sounds interesting to you pick it up. You will either love it or hate it. But I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Weeble In A Barbie World","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Childhood can be a pretty tough haul all the way through, but there's something particularly cruel about junior high school, crossroads of irresponsibility and puberty, that keeps psychologists in business. The only ones who remember junior high school with unpolluted happiness were those inflicting the damage on the rest of us.Feeling the way I do, I thought I'd like Welcome To The Dollhouse quite a bit more than I did. Independent filmmaker Todd Solondz gets wide credit for presenting the true misery of the junior high school experience in this film, and he certainly pulls no punches. My problem is that he throws too many of them, leaving the audience as dazed as its protagonist, misfit Dawn.Dawn goes to a school where kids draw abusive graffiti on her locker with much the same assiduity Michelangelo painted the Sistine Chapel. She comes home to a family so cruel that the mother denies Dawn dessert because the girl won't tear down her backyard clubhouse. The only guy interested in her tells her he's going to rape her after school, then gets mad at her for trying to dodge him. There's also an older boy Dawn likes, oblivious to her puppy love while he sings vaguely pedophilic love songs in her brother's band.Add to that a lead character who resembles Waldo in Van Halen's Hot For Teacher video, and the end result is too much even for folks like me who found middle school worthy of the Saving Pvt. Ryan screen treatment. There isn't a moment in this film designed to make you feel anything less than completely queasy.Yet at the same time, the film attempts to be a comedy, with labored scenes involving Dawn's over-the-top family and teachers so monstrous it's a wonder they don't bark How can you have any pudding if you don't eat your meat? When Dawn is punished for attempting to retaliate against some abusers, her mother demands of her Who told you to fight back? When measured up against the harsh realities the film attempts to depict, with its envelope-pushing vulgarities and frank sex talk, characterizations like the mother's and the fate of Dawn's too-cute sister Missy become colossal mistakes in tone.And oh, the acting. Now that's its ten years later and they've all grown up, I can be less cruel in saying Dollhouse features one of the most unpromising cast of young players I've ever seen. I can't decide who gives the worst performance, the brother, the mother, or the boy who plays Dawn's gay-because-its-an-independent-film friend. There isn't a convincingly acted scene in the film, except the opening one when Dawn tries to find a lunch table while her peers ignore her.That's the one good scene, because that's the real savagery of junior high school, the scar tissue so many carry with us The hurt of being ignored. But the film loses that tangent quickly for a downhill spiral of piling on. Independent films get credit from critics for breaking the rules of typical Hollywood entertainment, but Welcome To The Dollhouse feels more like smug vandalism. "},{"Title":"Award winning look at the problems of misfit youth, thankfully told with zest and humour.","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A thirteen year old girl is living in her own private suburban hell. Disliked and unpopular at school (where she is bullied widely) and little regarded at home - where she comes a sad third to her little-miss-perfect ballerina sister and her nerdy (but smart) older brother.(Who doesn't like girls because he wants to go to a good school.)How rare a subject this is for a professional film, even a low budget one. My mind has span out for a parallel in the movie world - underground or over ground - and come up near empty. The nearest I could come up with is Kes (a brilliant English film from 1969), but that was set in another time and another place.Maybe also About A Boy (with Hugh Grant), but that was a comedy with a hero about to come to the rescue. Rather than here, where any rescue is going to have to come from within. You could also throw in a few foreign films - such as Pixote - but these films are often about utter desperation (and even hunger) a million miles from the safe American suburbs of modern New Jersey.With this Tod Solondz won the Sundance Film Festival Best Picture award of 1996 and you can clearly see why. If independent cinema has any role to play in the world it is telling the small private stories that would otherwise go untold. (While I might be talking prematurely here I am not sure he is a rounded film maker who could take on a variety of projects. However he is more than welcome to prove me wrong!)Most people are not writers, diarists or raconteurs. However they make small observations and notes which they store away in some cubby-hole in their heads. Occasionally stage comedians tap in to these shared memories and observations - such as the problems of your first kiss, for example - and the audience laughs. What you might call the laugh of recognition. This film is entirely built around the laugh of recognition or something very much like it.We have often heard how cruel children can be. The truth is that they have not yet learnt to hide their true selves. While some may grow to be wiser, all that normally happens is that the hatred or dislike of something or someone becomes hidden, unsaid or even intellectualised. Have you ever noticed how childlike arguments become when someone starts losing an argument? Name-calling never really leaves us!(And if you don't believe me you should read some of my private messages sent to me via the IMDb board!)Credit Heather Matazzo (as Dawn Wiener) for carrying the whole film on her tiny sloping shoulders. I would be intrigued to learn her technique and approach to the subject. Is she a method actress? Did she snub the school bullies at the lunch truck? Pretend is all real? Has she had a hard childhood - to that point at least? Given the targets and script it is hard to see how she could have been any better.Within the film she forms a strange relationship with a smaller special education bully who says that she is going to be raped. But so empty is her life that she goes along with it and call the boys bluff. What follows is the only real piece of depth that the movie aspires to and isn't easy viewing.Her parents aren't really fleshed out and are rather two dimensional and one note. Parents do have favourites, but they can never be as cold as they appear here. At least their total disrespect doesn't turn violent!The rest of the plot involves the formation of a garage band lead by the wonderfully empty headed Eric Mabius - a would-be Jon Bon Jovi with the IQ of a fish. Heather forms a crush on him that might as well be with the real Jon Bon Jovi for all the chance it has of going somewhere. However it allows for some comic interaction with the older boy who she feeds up with home-made snacks. The meeting of two daydream believers!How will she grow up? Will she find her place in the world? We simply don't know. However she has some intelligence and a lot of nerve and that could serve her well. One day soon the real world will come flooding in and she will laugh at what she once believed and once said. Growing up isn't easy, but nothing really is... "},{"Title":"A Bleak and Satirical Social-Commentary; Painfully Detailing The Cruelty, Rejection and Misfortune Of Which The Innocent Receive","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Daring American director Todd Solondz is widely known for his masterfully bleak 1998 masterpiece Happiness and it is hard to imagine that his career-propelling masterpiece Welcome to the Dollhouse could match the latter slice of twisted American life. Welcome to the Dollhouse remains a counter-piece for his latter work Happiness, using similar techniques, and incorporating related themes Solondz knows how to make his viewers cringe at the misery of which they are viewing. You see, Solondz uses comic-relief to deal with a serious problem because it is a way of making the film easier to cope with and also crafts a more detailed environment.Welcome to the Dollhouse follows the trials and tribulations of an innocent oddball, paradoxically named Dawn Wiener (Heather Matarazzo) and details the stark and painful realities of these forced-to-be outcasts in society. Dawn is a girl who is forced to cope with constant misery day after day and regular disillusionment from her fellow family members. Although she is strikingly peculiar in her looks, she strikes the viewer as an innocent and kind child. Ultimately she receives unjustifiable psychological torment and repulsive treatment from the cruel world she has become distanced from, all due to the way society has immorally perceived her. The film follows Dawn's bleakly funny journey of how she deals with her insecurities and learns to deal with the pain in her life.For the people who were bullied during their school life and were left to practically despise their childhood the film works as a message to them, a poignant message of sympathy and pity. For the people who were the bullies in childhood, the film works as a study of why bullies behave in the way they do, also pitying the bullies, while also making the bullies realise why they should feel guilt for the vindictiveness they forced upon their victims. And for the people who were neutral it will make you remember what happened around you during your time at school. There is no denying that everybody at some point in their life has received some sort of spitefulness towards them, yet Welcome to the Dollhouse offers the opportunity to realise just how unlucky some children really are. I can honestly say that Welcome to the Dollhouse is a film that should be taught to teenagers at some point during their school-life. It would surely make bullies think twice before they picked on the innocent and also gives the bullied a sense of hope.Although delightfully entertaining, highly amusing and terribly insightful Welcome to the Dollhouse is not a film for everyone. I will not deny that some viewers may find the film nasty and too demanding for viewing. Although this is an intentional and important element of the film it does mean that some might wrongly assume the film to be cruel. For anybody studying sociology or psychology, Welcome to the Dollhouse is about as appropriate and perfect as it gets, offering detailed discussion topics and observant analysis. Sadly there will be people who relate to Welcome to the Dollhouse and so it might be too painful for them to watch. Yet, it might make them realise the mind behind the bully and give them some comfort and humour to their past anguish.Ironically dry like the counter-piece Happiness, Solondz uses a similarly exaggerated visual style, echoing naturalistic tendencies to depict the dishonesty and the fake-air of the life surrounding us. The script is truly startlingly, offering an audacious reality-bite of bold lines and crafting detestable society members. Young actress, Heather Matarazzo gives off a vibrant and delightfully funny performance as Dawn Wiener. She is perfectly cast and slides into the role with such freedom and versatility. You can tell Solondz has crafted the script with a blissful elegance so that the actors and actresses have the freedom to make the characters their own. Solondz is very observant of his characters and visually emphasises their features using different technical methods (e.g. the clothing). Solondz has the utmost understanding of the narrative and one would assume that the film might be personal to his own experiences as he seems so knowledgeable of the characters. Welcome to the Dollhouse also attacks school systems, studying the flaws, ignorance and biased nature of educational power.Few films will strike such sympathy through devastation by pulling at your emotional-cords without an ounce manipulation. Welcome to the Dollhouse is a horribly realistic slice of life, provocative, compelling and daring in every sense of the word. A far finer and realistic achievement than anything adolescent-angst director Larry Clark has ever and ever will come close to creating. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, but improbably negative. Can I please have a band-aid?","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" So much brilliance went into making this film; hundreds of little touches gave such flavor to the characters and the situations. But the unrelenting flow of one painful situation into another was improbably bleak, and felt like being punched in the face.Our lead character is played brilliantly, and shows her determination in the face of endless adversity - in fact, the acting all around is excellent. But the movie denies the moments of redemption. Such a strong young warrior as Dawn would certainly have had some triumphs to share.I just can't imagine a child receiving flatly rude replies from grownup strangers on the street, or being jeered when speaking in an auditorium; even Michael Moore at Utah State, or Sean Hannity at NYU wouldn't have been so roundly jeered.I was roughed up or picked on every day during recess. The teachers did nothing. But I did win the flash-card math competition against my entire class. I was kicked out of a graphics class in junior high (I didn't cause any trouble - the teacher just didn't like me), but ended up making a great deal of money doing graphics years later. Haa ha!!! A drum teacher privately told my mother that I would never be a drummer, but here I am, playing semi-professionally, making decent and working with musicians of note. (no pun intended!) I'm not saying that junior high school isn't hell, but I would have liked to have seen a few moments of glory in the life of our determined and courageous young Dawn. "},{"Title":"Dark and real","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is in the simplest terms a story about a miserable white, suburban, middle-school girl who is accepted nowhere. Not in school with her grades, not at home by her family, and not at all by her peers.Simultaineouly exhibiting the loneliness of adolescence and the lack of attention associated with being the middle child, this movie is able to realistically portray how truly hopeless and boring that life is for a middle-schooler. The main character, Dawn, is a near-friendless, gawky, and desperate girl. So lonely and confused, in fact, that when a delinquent classmate boy tells her that he wants to rape her, she is interested, not horrified. The story takes us through her initial and misplaced experiences with the opposite sex, her pain and alienation from her peers, her inattentive and unconcerned family, and her continuing resilience throughout it all. The audience will be left to wonder how it is that so many people make it through middle school without developing a serious mental illness from trauma. With it's true to life direction and understandable characters, it will make you remember an awkward time in your own life which you may wish you could forget, but can't. "}{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Welcome to the Dollhouse is basically a feature length episode of Freaks and Geeks, with an amped-up rejection level and consequently an even more alienated main character (Dawn Wiener played by Heather Matarazzo). Then throw in a little of the Jan Brady middle child syndrome and give the thing a Napoleon Dynamite production design. What makes Welcome to the Dollhouse so extraordinary is that it is more about what is happening inside each viewer as they watch the film than about what is actually happening on the screen. Meaning that your reaction and the film's entertainment value will have a lot to do with your own experiences at that age or at least your sympathetic awareness of the difficulties that some of your classmates were experiencing. As someone has already said, if you aren't blown away by how realistic this is then you weren't unpopular enough.While Dawn's 7th grade world and home life are surreal extremes which give the film a nice level of black comedy (the stuff written on her locker is hilarious), even the most extreme of these elements ring true. In part because Heather Matarazzo is so believable as Dawn and in part because our points of view at that age lacked real perspective. Meaning that minor incidents of rejection and ridicule were magnified, but our perception of reality is more important than reality itself.Children who first experience rejection in elementary school typically have a physical or basic hygiene issue. Dawn is not one of those children, she is just one of those who become targets for the first time in junior high school for more subtle differences. Since this is a new thing, she is as much mystified as hurt by this abuse. Not really understanding why it is happening to her, she blunders around in a quest to discover a logical reason for the rejection. At the same time she is dealing with the all the physical changes happening to a seventh grade girl. But Dawn's rugged home life has made her self-sufficient and somewhat prepared her for the abuse she has to take in school.Understandably Dawn responds with retaliation, a welcome change from the more typical portrayals of this type of character as a weak victim. Some of her responses are negative like smashing the tape of her parent's anniversary party, pushing away her only friend, and not relaying her mother's message to her little sister about a ride home. Others are positive, like stubbornly refusing to let the taunts from the crowd stop her from finishing her speech. Based on her refusal to apologize at the dinner table, Dawn would probably refuse to ingratiate herself with her classmates even if she knew how to do so. Which puts most viewers even more solidly in her corner as we not only identify but begin to admire her.All three of the Weiner children are excellent. Daria Kalinina does a great job as perfect little sister Missy and Director Todd Solondz uses her ballet talents to give sequences in the family home a great surreal quality. Josiah Trager gives older brother Mark a realistic portrayal, he is sympathetic to Dawn's daily situation, having gone through the same thing, but he seems to know that the best help he can give is to lead by example. His hardened survivor attitude and future thinking perspective is probably the best way for her to cope with the next five years. "},{"Title":"Junior High is Hell","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Junior High must be the tenth circle of Hell. How do any of us scrawny, not-cool geeks survive it? Perhaps we don't, and all our adult neurosis trace back to 7th grade homeroom and not Mom after all.Not convinced? Watch Welcome to the Dollhouse and relive Hell.Dawn Wiener is the protagonist, an awkward 7th grader who is put-upon by everyone from her family to schoolmates. She suffers a multitude of insults, all too small to register with adults who could help, but which inflict a thousand darts to her soul. The movie made me cringe, unearthing long suppressed memories of adolescent cruelties and torment at the hands of bullies. Is this entertainment? Absolutely, Todd Solondz did an admirable job in his freshman movie. "},{"Title":"7th Grade Rape and Fun","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am going to watch for more Todd Solondz films. I don't know if WTTD has three acts and an arc, but it held me. I suppose for us late bloomers, male or female, those not physically beautiful or at least with acceptable persona's, seventh grade can break your heart. If there is weakness in Solondz's film, it's the relentless humiliation and tension. Yes, there is a knowing laugh here and there, but the pain comes right back. Dawn is not yet a woman; however, she grasps at any straw that comes her way even if it means rape or violence with a local teen punk. She courageously loves her brother's friend, the unattainable teen rock and roller, but he wants no part of her youth and gawky looks.These disappointments, her unloving mother and father, indifferent brother, and her babied younger sister are as much an impediment to her happiness as the taunting kids at school. She acts out. She's mean to younger kids, rejects her only friend, defies her mother, destroys her sister's dolls, call's her brother names, contemplates seriously murdering her sister with a hammer, and finally allows sis to be kidnapped by a nutty neighbor.Is this all over the top? Not really! Seemed like this was the way middle school was, a nightmare of displacement where violence and perversion lurked nearby. "},{"Title":"Awesome Picture!!","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is quickly becoming a favorite of mine.  Have you ever watched a movie and felt like you were part of it.  When I see this film the actors make me aggrivated with them and hate them as they unknowingly mess with this poor little sweet girl's mind.  All she wants is to be popular.  This is something I like though.  When a film can pull you in that is when you know you have a piece of art in the making.  I give this one of my highest ratings.  Check this film out as soon as you get a chance. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest dirty kids movies I've ever seen","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film. The cast was great. The Script was great. The characters were great. It was great. This is a good movie about life. And unattractive, unappreciated, people. Like Dawn Wiener. Heather Matazzaro is a great inspiring actress that brings everything to her role. She's a beautiful actress, she brings her great instincts up to the camera. This is a good movie, despite the ending. Dawn could've became more attractive something could've happened with her and Steve, anything. I like the part where she's in the bathroom and that girl made her take a dump. That was hilarious. Some of the movie was pretty dramatic. I can't believe that this movie was nominated for any good awards and that Heather Matazzaro is still not noticed. If you're an outcast like Dawn and I, see this movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the most painful experiences at the movies","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this film yesterday and I have to say that I have seen very few films take the chances that this one does. It's unfortunate because many of us went through the same experiences that Heather Matarazzo's character went through at school that profound feeling of not being accepted, loved, or wanted by anyone (even members of one's own family). Interestingly, the film went beyond my expectations in showing the wide variety of characters that are true to life the promiscuous socialite, the popular figurehead, the naive principal, the dictatroial teacher. There really were people people like this when I went to  school, and unfortunately, there are still people that we continue to deal with that are not unlike many of the antagonists in this film. I like the way that that the lead character is not portrayed as a martyr. While she is a victim of growing up in a cruel and even hateful environment the movie makes a larger statement while we may be persecuted by the bullies at school we may feel so overcome by the persecution that we fail to realize the damage that we do to other people's lives. This is possibly best seen in a scene where Dawn refuses to talk to her friend on the telephone. A truly great film but I doubt I will ever want to see it again.   "},{"Title":"Very touching movie that shows us that we're all special in different ways","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" WELCOME TO THE DOLLHOUSE, in my opinion, is a very touching movie that shows us that we're all special in different ways. One of the things about this movie that made me feel bad was that Dawn (Heather Matarazzo) got picked on. You poor thing. I really didn't like Lolita (Victoria Davis). This was because she treated Carrie like dirt and acted snobby, especially when she cornered Dawn in the restroom. My favorite character, of course, was Dawn. One of my favorite parts of this movie was when Steve (Eric Mabius) gets angry at his band. Even if others didn't think so, I thought that Dawn was a very special young lady. In conclusion, I recommend this movie to all you Heather Matarazzo fans who have not seen it. "},{"Title":"Who ever told Dawn Middle school had to be so hard","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dawn Weiner, one of the most pitiful characters ever created. You want to feel sorry for her, but then you want to be mad at her for all the ridicules things that she does. This isn't a triumph story of any kind, she doesn't really change all that much, things don't really get too much harder for her, the viewer just keeps getting introduced to new drama in Dawn's life. The way that the director is portraying middle school is literally unbelievable to someone who has ever went through middle school. Middle school children are cruel but they aren't generally that mean. They don't write your nickname on your locker. Most of the time your parents aren't as bad as they seem. The way the director has the parents hating dawn is flat out stupid. OF course Missy is perfect in everything that she does. It doesn't seem to even matter if she is being the most utterly annoying child in the universe, she is still little miss perfect. It is awful in that perspective. "},{"Title":"Brillaint film that everyone can relate to","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the Dollhouse is a brillaint film from director Todd Soldonz. The casting of Heather Mattazrro who in opninon deserved an Oscar nod for her role as Dawn. Watching the film I felt the pain Dawn goes through and has everyone should because everyone was picked on at one time.If you've never seen this film check it out. "},{"Title":"Todd Solondz is merciless on Dawn--but even more so on us","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Filmmaker Todd Solondz gets into one particular groove and never helps himself out. It would be a wise move. By the tenth or eleventh humiliation against our heroine, one begins to tire of the ugly language, the over-the-top parents(just awful), and the flatness of the entire conception. Solondz beats his one note to death, pummels poor Dawn without letting her stand up for herself(except one time, in her brother's room), and seems to snicker behind her back. Why, for instance, does he have her continue with her thank you speech after the kids have already tired of her and begin jeering? He holds the shot for too long, for no particular purpose except to expose more pain. Certainly, the dead-end suburbia captured here provides ample room for black humor, irony, wistful teenage despair...but Solondz is more interested in hammering home his point, that there's no way out for Dawn, and in a way we're all trapped in childhood. It's like a prank on the audience. "}{"Title":"Come on Dawn, tell your sister that you love her!","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is one that you will either desperately hate, or you will scream your excitement to your friends at any given opportunity. Welcome to the Dollhouse is not one that most find meddling around somewhere in the middle mainly because this is a difficult film to watch. This is not to say that the direction is bad or the acting is atrocious, but instead its deep roots deal with issues that are difficult to swallow. Dawn Wiener is not your typical hero in which she is redeemed at the end of the film and praised as the newest addition to the popular crowd. There is no big entrance, there is no singing school band, in fact, there is very little of anything except the Weiner family's excitement of being on television. We, as audience members, want to feel bad for Dawn, but we cannot just laugh her off as a comedy character. She reminded me of Napoleon Dynamite. While most laughed at the actions and words of Napoleon (Jared Heder), it was actually very sad the situations surrounding him. The same can be said of Dawn. When I talk to friends about this film they typically (after already getting excited about the discussion or denouncing the entire film) say that it was a humorous film. Dawn is a funny character. Even film sites label this film under the category of comedy, and while there may be small elements of humor sprinkled throughout the film, I think it is far from being a laugh-out-loud comedy. Welcome to the Dollhouse is a tragedy about society, family structures, and being the outcast that never quite fit in.Todd Solondz has single-handedly created a masterpiece that will be studied and respected for years to come in the film community. He has taken elements so cliché in our cinema society and twisted them a bit to give us sincerity and anxiety compiled together. His choice of both music and camera placement only further develop these intense emotions. We want to laugh at this film, we don't want to feel sympathy for Dawn, but Solondz forces us to almost immediately. It feels during this film that Solondz actually may have gone to school with all of us, watching our moments of embarrassment and writing them down for future reference. I loved the sounds that Solondz used to define this film. That wild mix of guitar and drum create a feeling that something is going to happen, thus keeping us all glued to the edge of our seats. While Solondz obviously makes Dawn the center of this film, it is his attention to detail with the surrounding characters which really make Welcome to the Dollhouse more than you typical Hollywood fare. I wanted to see more of Dawn's older brother; I thought he was a tight juxtaposition between Dawn and her sister, Missy. He was also ignored by his parents, but he seemed to be comfortable with it. He knew his role, and while he wanted to escape it, he also fit well within. I don't believe than any actress could have pulled Dawn's mother off any better than Angela Pietropinto. Her facial expressions and impeccable timing demonstrated to us that Dawn's pressures did not just evolve at school, but also continued at home. I just thought that Solondz created a real family with the Wieners. One that most films are afraid to capture on film, but seem very real to the audience.Finally, I would like to add that I believe this to be a pivotal film in our film culture. While others may disagree, I think that Solondz has created a masterpiece. I didn't realize this at first, and for most I will suggest more than one viewing, but the final chapter to this film is really a powerhouse of great acting, promising discovery, and a horrifying truth. You will not end this film with butterflies and song, but instead realism, which is the honesty that Solondz bring to the table with Welcome to the Dollhouse. The acting is a bit amateurish, but what puts a smile to my face is the ability that Solondz had to make this work. Dawn is not an actor playing a teenage, but instead feels like a teenager playing herself. Solondz typically uses unknown actors (in the films that really pack a wallop) which allows us to look past the acting and deeply into the story, which is why I didn't focus too much of my review on the acting. It seemed natural, and for me I was more interested in what Solondz wanted to do, and not so much how his cast wanted to say it. This was a Todd Solondz film.As you watch his later work, you will see Solondz evolve a bit (Happiness), and go a bit mainstream (or at least as much as he can with Storytelling), but will come back full circle giving us a match to Welcome to the Dollhouse avant-guard cinema with Palindromes. He is a masterful director, but not one that mainstream Hollywood is willing to embrace (thankfully!). His work, especially with this film, creates uneasiness in you that you cannot shake after watching. He creates visions and impressions that remain with you long after the final credits have rolled, but he is an acquired taste. Solondz is not for everyone, but for those willing to give him a chance, watch his films without the panoramic explosive eye; than I think you will find that there is nobody else like him out in our film community. I cannot wait to see where his vision will take us next as well as I cannot wait to add Welcome to the Dollhouse to my film collection.Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films Made About Junior High Ever (If Not the Best)","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a painful, but hilarious coming of age story that has aged well about a truly awful junior high school experience. Dawn Wiener is the middle child (ala Jan Brady from the The Brady Bunch) of a low middle-clash East Coast family. Her older brother looks awkward and nerdy as she, but is preoccupied enough with getting into college that the social hierarchy of adolescence has little effect on him. Her younger sister is the adored, coddled princess and crown jewel of a pretty rusty crown. Though she's ostracized and/or humiliated by most of her peers, Dawn has a friend in Ralphy, a skinny, effeminate boy, who she makes aware is at the absolute very end of the pecking order of life. Director Todd Solondz takes us on a journey through a brief moment in this girl's life, putting her through the absolute worse and unforgiving situations, but doing so with reverence. Yes, we can laugh at her and her life, but we also love her resilience. "},{"Title":"if i were in your shoes...sensible","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" this movie gave me ten years ago at the cinema the sensation of a suffocating life-system all around me. i was teenage and i guess that movie helped me to feel less alone to understand that some sensation weren't so alien.well i guess the director got the point, he wanted to make a movie from a sensible point of view in the shoes of a little girl.the power of this work is mostly in the mix of picture, photography, plot, magisterial interpretation of this miracle little girl and her friends as well, which create a stream of sensitivity flooding hearts and mind.the other point which impressed me most as i told before is the total alienation and oppression that a child has to stand in school, and this is probably the explanation of the title welcome to the dollhouse, the house is the society and the dolls are us.definitely a must see movie for everybody especially the teenager full of compulsive instincts of rebellion etc. living hard times during bush kingdom.mikele "},{"Title":"A totally unexpected delight","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Loved this film. Amazing that a MAN wrote and directed. Talk about being in touch with your feminine side! Acting was superb. Music; right on the money. Cinematography; perfectly dull... and therefore REAL. I felt like I was there, suspended in time, watching it all. A celebration of humanity the likes of which I haven't seen since Fellini. Todd Solondz is a fresh new talent. Talent with a capital T. It'll be interesting to see where he goes from here. Only negative comment; I wish it had an ending. As it is, it just fades away. Tod; You could have dug just a little BIT DEEPER and you know it ! But you can't have it all, I guess. "},{"Title":"a brilliant comedy!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i was up really late one night and happened to catch the movie from the beginning. i couldnt believe how dawn WIENER was being treated throughout the entire movie. i thought maybe the focus was that she was the middle child, so the movie was to poke fun at the middle child curse. (**SPOILER**) i thought she would even go out with that guy for longer than that, after they spent all there time together kissing in that house in the backyard.  but it was kinda obvious after the movie progressed that he was using her, since no one else at school really liked her, because kids judged her on her looks and clumsiness.  welcome to the dollhouse is a funny movie when you overlook the cruelty that she endeavors. just her name alone would target kids in the school. i hoped that the sequel would come out and prove that she out grew her old look and is able to be a normal kid, but that isnt in the works yet, is it?   (A+ A) "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the dollhouse shows life at 12 exactly as it is -  unrelenting, cruel, funny, cheerful one minute and hopeless the next.Solondz doesn't spare anyone in his movie. Even Dawn, the main protagonist, is shown with all her failings and bad sides. Also, no character is one-dimensional and I appreciated that very much. It's good to see a movie that doesn't resort to sugarcoating and that's relevant to how real people (or younger versions of them) relate to each other.I may not have felt all warm and fuzzy inside after seeing it, but I will definitely not forget this flick. "},{"Title":"One to remember!","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You really have to see this film to understand just how memorable the movie is. I have seen it approx. 10 times, maybe more in the past few years and each time I have watched it I have thought it to be better each time. This movie is golden... The characters are so interesting, but in a very sad and shamefull way. Some of the most memorable lines in cinema history appear in this very movie! Are you going to rape me now? was said by a very sweet innocenet voice whom followed her rapist to the location in which the rape was to take place, i will says no more, just watch it! "},{"Title":"A cinematic masterpiece!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is and always will be one of my favourite movies. To appreciate this movie, you have to be very open-minded. Some may appreciate this even more if they can identify JUST one of their pre-adolescent life experiences to Dawn's, the main character of this movie.Everything about this movie, from Dawn's mom screaming at her to go to her room after she calls her sister a 'lesbo', to the sound-effects of the knife scraping the chocolate cake off Dawn's plate onto her brother's really hits the bullseye. Obviously, this movie was filmed on a small budget. The saviour of the film is Dawn, played brilliantly by Heather Matarazzo. She lives with her dysfunctional family - a loser brother who is more concerned about getting into a decent college with his good grades rather than appreciate life growing up. A mother and father who look down on Dawn as more of a nuisance than anything, but adore her younger sister, an aspiring ballerina and so saccherine sweet, that you as the viewer, get a kick whenever Dawn does something to upset her.The trials and tribulations of Junior High are really all about being picked on by the school bully, not having any friends, and for the first time, discovering your sexuality. Not everyone leads a cheerleader life. Not everyone leads a jock life. And most certainly, not everyone has a place where they can fit in, adjust and get by without being noticed. Dawn is your A-Grade loser. She dresses in clothes that have way outdated her peers. She wears thick-framed glasses. And she is not attractive. She is the ultimate geek target for all those who feel they need to boost their social status by either ridiculing her or making fun of her.Many of the characters she associates herself with are stereotypes that reflect their true selves. One female bully accuses her of being a lesbian, but bullies her by making her go to the toilet in front of her so she can watch. The school bully, Brandon (played by Brendan Sexton) tries to make her life a living hell, but finds that he has more in common with her than anyone else because believe it or not, they both lead similar lives. Their parents ignore them, they are social outcasts and they share a mutual attraction for each other.Many of the situations Dawn gets herself into are quite hilarious. Such as the time when she invites the guy she is head over heels in love with to join her 'Special People Club'. Another prime example would be when the family is gathered around the television set watching a home video of a anniversary party and Dawn is pushed into a wading pool by her younger sister and everyone laughs. The viewer finds gratification watching Dawn get herself into these situations because we all secretly know deep inside how she feels and that someone has finally had the guts to make a movie about it.There is no fairytale ending to this movie. This movie serves it up and whips it out to you plain and simple. Life isn't about fairytales and love hearts. It's about adolescence and growing up. Every one over the age of 25 should watch this movie, male AND female. You will laugh, but you will also admire Todd Solonz's (the director) guts for telling the tale of how life really is.10/10 "},{"Title":"A realistic portrayal on unpopular childhood!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Todd Solondz is a very talented writer/director. He considers this his first film, even though he released what he would call, a studio butchered film a few years earlier. His followup, Happiness, was in countless Top-10 lists, being named #1 movie of the year by a lot of critics. Welcome to the Dollhouse is a realistic portrayal on unpopular childhood. If you were ever made fun of in 5th grade, then you might relate. If you were ever not invited to a party in your early teens, then you can relate. If you ever fell in love with one of your older brother/sisters friends... then YOU WILL RELATE.If your offended by 13 year olds saying the F S or B words, don't watch it. If a 12 year old discussing sex, or types of intercourse may bother you, don't watch this movie, and be sure not to touch Solondz's next film, 1999's Happiness. If your an open person, who wants a good laugh, watch this movie. And if your a very open person and want a few good laughs (as uncomfortable as they may be), see HAPPINESS.Pete's Movie Rating (out of 10) 8 "},{"Title":"Sharp-edged humor...","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All that misery...punctuated by the Dance of the Sugarplum Fairies!  What wit!  Thank you, Heather and Daria for perfect performances. "}{"Title":"This film strikes a painfully resonant chord at the realities of coming of age","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A dark comedy it is.   From the very first scene, one immediately develops a feeling of empathy toward Dawn Wiener, a middle child in a suburban family, as she struggles through the torturous path of early adolescence, searching for identity, self-esteem, and even something as deserving as family love and affection.  Confused, ridiculed,  erratic in behavior, and often her own worst enemy, she becomes more and more alienated and bitter. Realistically, nothing is quickly resolved.    One leaves the film with a strong feeling of desire to help Dawn get on her feet and move on.  A sequel is begging.... Outstanding, credible portrayal by Heather Matarazzo as Dawn. Congratulations to Heather, film director, writers and the supporting cast for a job well done.  "},{"Title":"A use for a Debbie Gibson song","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'll be specific with my comments and not regurgitate all the great things said about this film. Welcome to the Dollhouse has created a useful space for Debbie Gibson's song Lost in your Eyes. Never before seeing this film did I quite understand and come to appreciate this song. The angst. The longing. The way a twelve year old girl can make sense of the thing called love. The torture of being torn between two boys. If you've seen this film then you'll understand. If not, rush to the video store. This scene made me recall all the tears and sleepless nights wondering does he like me as much as I like him?.  "},{"Title":"Disturbing but funny, even it makes you feel guilty","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Welcome to the Dollhouse is a lot like the recent Napoleon Dynamite. Both have the cast decked out in hideous wardrobes with horrid 1970's-looking environments. Both are about high-school oddballs who face torment from the shallow popular kids. But while Napoleon Dynamite is rather light-hearted, WTTD is really dark and will make you cringe with guilt and quite often make you feel really uncomfortable. In fact, it has more in common with a true horror movie than it does a dark comedy.Heather Matarazzazzazzo plays the unfortunately surnamed Dawn Weiner, a girl blessed with strange looks (meh-I like her) and an uncaring ignorant family. E-ver-y-one around her is UN-BEE-LEEV-ABLY cruel to her in every way possible. And rage unconfronted continues forever. As are her bullies bullied themselves, Dawn goes on to bully others etc. It subtle idiosyncrasies like this that might go unnoticed in single viewings.Other characters are quite well drawn, especially Brandon, who didn't get enough screen time. His relationship with Dawn is quite intriguing. Most would think he's using her as a way of making himself feel better but when you think about it that's probably not entirely true. Perhaps Brandon likes Dawn because she isn't nasty to him like Cookie and the other girls were. She wasn't tarting all over him like Lolita in the library and she stood up to Brandon for punching Troy. Also Brandon apologises to her for vandalising her locker and the sad looks he gives her in the library appear to be a look of longing and wanting.Ironically, the biggest monster in the film is Dawn's own mother. She's a beast of a woman, completely ignorant of Dawn's needs and infatuated with her other younger daughter and far too supportive of her arrogant older brother (his character is further developed in Todd Solondz's 2004 movie Palindromes, played by the same actor). Any scene with her will make you grit your teeth and shake your head no doubt.Too bad Heather Matarazzazzazzo is married (err...to another woman-sigh...no chance for me now) cause she's actually quite attractive in real life. Though I must say again her wardrobe in this film is 'EEK' Seriously, you'll be questioning Dawn's fashion sense. But then she's probably only wearing what her mother buys for her and wants her to be seen in.If this movie impresses you then I dare you to check out Todd Solondz's follow-up Happiness. Now THERE is a film to dark and so unbelievably horrifying you'll be watching it through the gaps between your fingers and biting your lip in an effort to restrain the guilty laughter. But on it's own, WTTD is a great movie. Just don't show it to kids if your not down with frank portrayal of teen sexuality or bad language. Or do show them as a lesson in how NOT to treat people.The DVD is in 1.851 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 2.0 sound. The print is a little beat up with track lines and speckles but it doesn't distract too much. There are no extras but I don't care. "},{"Title":"Wretched selfish people living wretched selfish lives","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While watching this film, one wants very much to sympathize with Dawn.  She is tortured at school, she is disdained by her parents, and is your general all around victim.  But as we watch her, we see that everything she tries to do will obviously only make her situation worse, and that she is just as much a victim of herself as anyone.  What's more, she is not any nicer a person than the people who are mistreating her, making it very dificult to even like the character.  In fact, the movie is entirely devoid of likeable characters, as not a single person seems to have any kind of human heart. On the whole, it makes for a film that is more annoying than enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A 'comedy'... like United 93 or Come and See, right?","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I find it interesting that this is classified as a 'comedy' under genre. There may be a line or two that sticks out as being humorous in possibly some dark-ironic way, but this is not a comedy. This is about as tragic a story as you can get, and it's the kind of movie that I know is (mostly, with a few flaws I'll get to ) a tremendous, absorbing character study, but not something that I'll ever want to revisit. It's an extremely well made look at what it's like to be a relatively OK person being kicked in the genital area for 90 minutes.Heather Matarrazo is Dawn Weiner, 7th grader who is, to put it lightly, picked on by other students. But it's not only bullies - she is the quintessential 'middle child', so it's not just students, her own family either often acts like she doesn't exist (I almost typed in 'it' instead of 'she', like she's a pronoun), or that she's often in trouble or being a brat (notice a scene where she refuses to tear down her Special Clubhouse and the mother cuts up a piece of chocolate cake for others at the table). Basically her life is a hell to the point where she has one friend at the club house, and outside of this a) has a, uh, gentleman caller in the form of a white trash would-be rapist (Brendan Sexton is excellent in this role, for what it requires anyway), and her actual crush as a high-schooler who sings (sometimes) in her brother's band.To say it's a jaundiced take on suburban angst and alienation is to almost affront people who are born jaundiced. Dollhouse puts its protagonist so through the wringer it's a wonder that she doesn't find a gun and shoot up the school by the end of it all. The problem with that potential problem solver - no, really, in the world of Solondz's brutal and awful New Jersey town, it would almost do the world a favor - is that Dawn isn't nuts, just put down upon to the point of barely being recognizable. I wondered at points if the movie was like a big test for empathy can you find yourself in Dawn's shoes(?) Most of us have been picked upon (see Christmas Story and we usually know what Ralphie is feeling, not the other way around), but to this extent? This is a truly compelling, morbid saga of life in middle school, which, as I recall, is generally one of the more brutal parts to endure in a lifetime, and it's practically as if we can see the hormones erupting inside of Dawn's brain; she's still a girl, but she can see the adults around her, or just the hunky Steve Rogers (I doubt it's any tip of the hat to Marvel by Solondz by the way, it's coincidence), and know that change is happening. All of the details that mount in this story are grounded in some sort of reality, even if it's one where everyone seems unfair and unable to see actual problems happening to someone like Dawn, and because of this the pain that one feels (or I felt) is excruciating. Matarazzo is so good in the role that it's hard to see her as anything else, and the cast are basically unknowns so it's more like we're there than in Solondz's two follow-ups, Happiness and Storytelling, where at least there were recognizable faces to go with the anguish and cruelty.If there is a flaw that keeps it from being a totally great (if depressing) indie success, it's that when a turn comes in the story that is very dramatic, involving the youngest daughter being kidnapped, it's both rather random to add some conflict, and b) it ultimately doesn't change much to the story. That latter point may have been Solondz's point, that such a harrowing development is there but is undercut by Dawn still being invisible to all around her (she could run away, but that is drastic even for her). However it doesn't fit the rest of the tone of the movie, as it's meant to be a big deal, and it happens and then the movie... ends. I am fine with it being a scenario where, for Dawn and her family and (indeed) the whole school, go through some things, don't learn any lessons, and life goes on as usual - as it is in the real world generally speaking - but that one story turn feels inorganic.I feel so critical of that because the rest of the film is so powerful, and Solondz's script is so sharp and yet doesn't leave its grip on the moral standing here no crying, no lessons. In that sense it's the same storytelling philosophy of the show Seinfeld, only here the characters, generally speaking, are much more so unlikable and ridiculously ruthless, from the bullies of varying degrees to Dawn's own mother and Brendan, that you can barely breathe. "},{"Title":"Yo Weiner!","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Many similar Dawn Weiners of the past will empathise with what Todd Solondz channels in Welcome to the Dollhouse. That terror-stricken walk in the cafeteria, clutching lunch tray and desperately trying to find a place to fit in is a cliché because it rings true - belonging is a see-sawing struggle in junior high. It's a pity because despite the intentions of Solondz to find a delicate balance and sensibility of the 11 year old girl who feels the whole world is against her, it becomes less a dark comedy and more a over-the-top caricature with a mean streak behind it. Overloading the main character with woe after woe and a barrage of insults and dumb luck is just as boring and uninspiring as the character whom has nothing go wrong for them. To signal her complete underdog status, the big-nosed Heather Matarazzo is cast, but that's not enough, we have to stick spectacles on her face too. Nerd, the bullies might jeer. And there are so, so many of them. An entire assembly chants insults in a tender moment. She is branded a lesbo almost immediately by the usual mean cheerleaders. Her parents flat out hate her, and hide this behind big, fake smiles. Even her little sister is some conniving little evil genius, undermining her in the background then putting on a angelic, beaming look of love. Ugh. It is to no surprise that its best moments are the ones that surprise Dawn, and the ones that are low key. In these brief scenes Slondz shows an actually understanding of the 11 year old besides a potty mouthed bully. Brandon lashes out in anger at her, and tells her to not be late for her 'rape', but at this age it is suggested that he does possess that kind of malice, nevertheless know what rape is. So he tries to get out of it, but still maintain his outward persona - oh you might be late to get home, so I won't rape you just yet. These are just kids, and they barely understand sexuality, but can feel it blossoming in spades and tug at their heartstrings. There's a certain sweetness in the way Dawn fawns over the older, handsomer version of Brandon, Steve, and how she attempts to impress him by feeding him jello and playing a piano piece. And Mark may the only family member who does not treat Dawn like a little pest; there's no malice or intent to intimidate as he tells his little sister that high school is just more of the same. He simply presents it as a fact of life. For all its mess, the ending is a quiet, unassuming one - there's no moment of inspired change, no resolve to fight back, but just an acceptance that things will go on their way. Unfortunately these moments of quiet contemplation are far and few. Solondz throws challenge after challenge at young Dawn; to the point that any 11 year old would collapse and rage, and then expects her to behave, to take it on the chin, to put down the hammer, because its just another day in the life of kid. Paradoxically he expects the subject matter to be taken seriously - for abuse, for drugs, for kidnappings to ring hard and true. But they don't, they hide behind a layer of comedy. Oh, he was just videotaping her doing pirouettes. The movie is funny, of course. But it goes beyond and above until it becomes absurdly dark and it becomes uncomfortable to laugh. The sneering Lolita, wearing a choker and a nasty glare, traps Dawn and waits for her to sh*t right there in the moment. The dialogue is filled to the brim with uncharacteristic profanity, as if Solondz wants to be hard hitting and genuine. I didn't mean to be a c*nt, murmurs Dawn. This is supposed to be a sweet, subverted moment of naivety for her, a genuine instance of her attempting to act older than her age suggests. But it seems so facile. "},{"Title":"Somewhat cartoonesque, but still very much worthwhile.","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not a bad film - at all - but it came off a bit like a comic book somehow. 'Cartoonesque', would be the right word. I don't mind the mixing of that style with movies at all either, but here, it somehow got in the way of truly sympathizing with Dawn Wiener. I do believe it is part if Solondz' style, seeing as I've had the same 'issues' with his 'Happiness' and 'Dark horse' as well - just not as much.Within the cartoonesque feel, the teen issues come off especially awkward. The repeatedly added upbeat rock theme makes for even more of such an effect. Heather Matarazzo is perfect for her role, but just as the rest of the cast, (to me) she hardly ever surpasses the cartoonesque. So, the drama never really becomes tangible, or when it almost does, a comedic tone will diffuse it. Again, this seems to be simply Solondz' style, take it or leave it.A small 8 out of 10, nonetheless, because Solondz is good at what he does. P.s. this looked almost to be the unofficial prequel to the HBO's series 'Girls'... "},{"Title":"Disturbing awkward cringe-worthy masterpiece","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dawn Wiener (Heather Matarazzo) is the awkward middle child and social outcast 7th grader. She's got the hated nickname Wienerdog. Girls call her lesbo. Not even the other outcasts like her. The teachers find her annoying. Her parents ignore her. Her mother favors the youngest adorable Missy. Her older brother Mark is a nerd but he's a driven nerd. He gets the popular hunk Steve Rodgers to join his band and she's completely infatuated. Everybody picks on her especially class bully Brandon. She has the Special People Club in the backyard with her only friend the younger Ralphy. Steve Rodgers is actually nice to her and she misunderstands. Brandon starts taking an even more intense interest in her.Heather Matarazzo is amazingly awkward. It is cringe-worthy. Writer/director Todd Solondz is the king of the disturbing underbelly of society. The bullying is hard to watch. Dawn is not a nice girl but she is the clueless girl trying to find her way. She often hurts people just as others have hurt her. The movie is so uncomfortable that the audience has no choice but to laugh. And then it gets darker. Sometimes it goes over the edge like what happens to Missy. There's no real need to go that far but it's not a problem. At its center, there is the compelling Matarazzo. "},{"Title":"Not all childhoods are happy","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent satire of middle class America, where the protagonist experiences alienation from peers and family alike. Dawn rarely has meaningful moments or bonds, and when she does, it is transient. The fact that she ends up spurning her only friend is a cutting, realistic portrayal of the food chain - being picked on, and doing it to someone else. Yet this film is not deeply depressing. Dawn never gives up in a way, she keeps going despite the jeers. Todd Solondz shows no mercy in his portrayal of parenting, childhood and bullies. Interactions with people are often an irritation, something to be tolerated but is not particularly pleasant. This is a movie that shows what it's like when your loved ones apparently don't give a s*** about you. "},{"Title":"A sad truth of society, yesterday-today-tomorrow.","Date":"17 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Are you a lesbian? Teenager Dawn Weiner is greeted with these words after finally sitting down in the school cafeteria just minutes after starring open-mouthed for a table where she would be hopefully welcome. It is obvious that poor Dawn is the school reject, a dandelion among roses, or so the nasty cheerleaders who ask her this rude question choose to believe. After denying the question, a possible lesbian of years to come announces that Dawn had just come onto her and later will demand to watch her defecate in the school bathroom. This isn't a polite movie, and to put blame where it really should go, Dawn's treatment at the hand of these bullies is not helped by the adults in her life her nasty teacher, the principal who believes he is trying to help her, and especially, her self-centered parents who baby her little sister while basically treating her equally as nasty as the students do.Mother (Angela Pietropinto) is the biggest culprit, always believing the worst about her, and emotionally abusing her every chance she gets. Anyone who has felt that their parents hated them simply because they misunderstood them will identify with Dawn here. She spoils the Jon Benet Ramsey look-alike Missy (Daria Kalinina) and belittles poor Dawn every chance she gets. Like a character out of a John Waters movie, Mrs. Weiner should go down in the hall of fame as one of the nastiest movie mothers ever. She makes Faye Dunaway's Joan Crawford look like Sally Field's M'Linn from Steel Magnolias in comparison.While it is understandable that she'd want Dawn to tear down the clubhouse she's built (it is after all an eyesore), the way she does it is without any type of sensitivity. Father (Bill Buell) isn't any better, maybe a bit quieter in his abuse, but still supportive of it. The only remotely likable member of the family is brother Mark (Matthew Faber), and he ain't any prize, either, totally selfish with his consumption of his rock band and desire for education, but perhaps it's because he can't wait to escape from his truly messed up family. Missy is one of those nightmare Bad Seed children, oh so pretty, oh so polite, but phony, phony, phony. While I wouldn't wish a fate which befalls her on any child, I can see why Dawn can't stand her.Dawn, herself, ain't totally without faults. She bullies herself, in this case, her only friend, a sixth grader who hangs out with her in the clubhouse, obviously desperate for a friend any friend. After a scene with a bully (as Brendan Sexton Jr.) who has threatened to rape her, Dawn yells at this innocent kid, who has just offered her comfort, calling him a faggot. Heather Matarazzo gives a heartbreaking performance as the unfortunate Dawn, someone you are sure will either end up an ax murderess or a suicide victim. As for the character of Brandon, the bully who has threatened to rape Dawn, Sexton gives an insight to what makes a bully a bully. He obviously is curious about who Dawn really is underneath, yet can't help but treat her like crap when around their fellow students. But once alone with her, he reveals who he truly is, and this reminds me of junior high bullies I knew who actually became quite a different person when alone with me. Still no excuse, but an excellent insert into the screenplay to allow us to see the multiple dimensions of seemingly really horrid kids. Victoria Davis reminded me a lot of a young Jodie Foster, albeit one who needs to wake up and stop harassing other people for being something her character obviously is.The ending is a sad one, an insight into what is going to be in this character's life. Yes, there are moments where you can't help but laugh, and yet, still feel bad about the fact that you are indeed laughing. Bullying is, in fact, no laughing matter, but perhaps that is the intention of the writer and director to get us to see that while he wants us to laugh, he also wants us to think. In thinking about it, hopefully we will grow up and realize that humanity really needs to get away from the images it tries to project on children to be. Grow up, he says, Dawn Weiner could be you, your daughter, your sister, your best friend's kid. Time to wake up and smell the junior high school cafeteria mystery meat. "}{"Title":"Welcome to the Dollhouse Review","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Welcome to the Dollhouse-***1/2 (out of 4) Junior high can be tough and it is especially tough for little Dawn, who suffers from her abusive classmates, less than satisfactory home life, and her own discomfort with the problems of adolescence. Perhaps one of the most raw and unsentimental coming of age pictures ever made, though the tone is purely original. We are in many ways touched and even heartbroken by the central character and her troubles, but often catch ourselves laughing at the sheer misery and misfortune encountered by her. Half black comic and half drama, but completely insightful this film is definitely one for the books. It also is the first display of the humorous misery of writer-director's Todd Solondz's imagination. "},{"Title":"Hard to watch... But brilliant.","Date":"27 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You'd think, with all the humiliations that pile up on our mousy heroine over the course of this unbearably cruel film, the scene is set for a big revenge moment... A huge climax where she finally sticks it to all her enemies and proves her worth. You would be completely wrong. This is no 'triumph of the underdog' tale, just a survival story about the spirit of a kid who must endure almost consistent harassment everyday, whether she's at school or home... And we wonder, how does she avoid cracking up? Her family don't want anything to do with her, preferring to lavish their affections on her 'perfect' younger sister, while in class she's the target of bullies, and the teachers seem to consist of a bunch of patronising jerks.Even the few chinks of light that occasionally shine through the gloom of her existence are quickly snuffed out, so if you're looking for a movie to put you in a good mood you're better off watching Bambi's mother get shot on an endless loop. BUT... (and this is a massive BUT) it also happens to be one of the finest films I've seen in years. I had it on DVD but guess what... a massive scratch on the disc stopped it after half an hour. Even with that small taste, I knew it was something special. So I waited... And FINALLY the whole thing has been uploaded to Youtube... And may I just say, it fulfilled my initial reaction to it, and then some.A huge part of it's success lies squarely at the feet of Heather Matarazzo, who cuts a sympathetic (or perhaps just pathetic) figure as she shuffles through life, being abused and hated by all. It's a role which could easily have descended into caricature, but her breathtaking performance as a bright girl doomed by circumstance to eke out this rubbish existence makes her plight evermore tragic. The supporting parts hit the bullseye too, as everyone from her nerdy best (and only) friend to her tutu-wearing, sickly-sweet younger sibling infuse proceedings with a quality which is rarely seen.This is a great film... Not a happy one, but I guarantee a far more relatable flick than half the homogenised coming-of-age motion pictures out there. You know, the ones where everyone is beautiful, most of your fellow students are wealthy minorities and you burst into the chorus of a cheesy song every few minutes. Hmm, what could I possibly be talking about... 9/10 "},{"Title":"Kind of misanthropic but fun","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The thing about watching a film like this at a time when the American high school genre has moved on to the much rosier visions of Napoleon Dynamite and Glee is that it strikes you how almost every character is a flawed, unlikeable person. Sure, you feel sorry and empathise with Dawn, the main character, but she's equally willing to bully, and doesn't have saving graces like the standard US school film geek - she's no brainbox.The guys in the film are portrayed as far less vindictive than the girls - bad boy Brandon has a sort of rogue honour, and the main fault of the other males in Dawn's life is that they are obsessed with doing their own thing or else following expectations laid down for them.It's a very watchable film - more so than Todd Solondz's later works. It looks like the work of an embittered outsider, but at least an outsider who, like the main character, tries to do their own thing against the odds. "},{"Title":"Barbie and the Beast","Date":"19 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like Woody Allen, Todd Solondz spends his time poking fun at man's foibles, whilst perhaps simultaneously wishing he weren't part of the very social fabric he condemns. It's your classic ego trap I'm better and above you, but worthless and wish I were with you. Solondz made Fear, Anxiety and Depression in 1989. He wrote and directed that film and, like Woody Allen, also cast himself as the film's neurotic hero. Like Allen's alter ego in Annie Hall, the geeky looking Solondz spent the entire film bumbling about, venting his various dissaffections.Solondz was never happy with Fear, however, and promptly disowned the film when his producers re-edited it behind his back. Burnt by the film industry, Solondz slipped into depression. He withdrew into isolation and became a teacher and writer. During these years his approach to art changed drastically. His screenplays became more formal, more precise, more caustic, and his visual style became cold. Ice cold.Solondz's first film when he emerged from his depression was Welcome to the Dollhouse. Drawing upon his own unhappy school years, Dollhouse is about Dawn Weiner, a girl whom the universe seems to have condemned. More sinister than similar teen movies, Dollhouse's Dawn is so insecure she's happy to let a kid at school rape her if it means validating her own self worth. This would be rapist is himself marginalized, insecure and so reliant on sexual threats for self validation. Dawn is so filled with rage she even saws off the heads of her sister's dolls, fantasises about bashing people with a hammer and deliberately causes her sibling to be kidnapped by a local paedophile. Meanwhile, all the abuses people hurl at the geeky Dawn, Dawn hurls down at her little sister, a girl whom she unfairly despises. The result is that Dawn is shown to be capable of the same kind of brutality that she's subjected to. Social bullying is internalised, becomes self-hatred, and is then redirected violently back out at others.Dollhouse was a cosy film compared to Solondz's next three flicks. In Happiness he portrays a web of characters, all of whom harbour different problems and neuroses, and all of whom are linked by their desire for absolute contentment. And so we have a paedophile who is only happy around kids, a successful writer who is only happy if she writes something of substance, a musician (who ironically writes songs of substance) who can't find success and is so discontent, an elderly couple who no longer have the will to live, a fat man who fantasises about raping women, a fat woman who is disgusted by sex and a dopey housewife who is blissfully unaware of the disturbing truths that exist beneath her sweet suburban facade. Forget American Beauty and Blue Velvet. Solondz ends his film with a Norman Rockwell kid ejaculating on his front balcony. Solondz's point is almost classically psychoanalytic Lack breeds Desire breeds Suffering. Peel away the emotional baggage and happiness is a stain that oft amounts to nothing more than a fleeting moment of biological bliss.Happiness doesn't broadening its horizons to tackle the wider social and structural issues that better directors align to their existential musings, but it does offer more than Sam Mendes' American Beauty. Indeed, Solondz's next film, Storytelling, seemed designed to address those critics who pointed out the similarities between Happiness and American Beauty. Mendes has himself slammed Solondz on numerous occasions, and so perhaps Storytelling is best viewed as a sort of intellectual assault on Solondz's critics.Storytelling is divided into two segments, the first called fiction the second called non-fiction. Fiction is about a creative writing student who has sympathy sex with a mentally disabled kid and later lets her African American teacher rape her. She then turns her experiences into a work of fiction which purports to be truthfully based on these factual encounters.Storytelling's second segment then focuses on a documentary director who makes a documentary called American Scooby (a parody of American Beauty) in which he follows a high school student around campus. The documentary director hopes to uncover the truth of growing up in suburbia, but in reality is merely transposing his own deep thoughts, self-analysis and existential hang-ups onto a modern teen who is actually a dopey airhead. The end result is that film-maker and child enter a sort of exploitative relationship. The kid gets fame and is portrayed as being deeper than he is, while the film-maker gets prestige for nothing. End result Solondz essentially advocates the sort of truthful sensationalism present in the non-fiction segment of the film, whilst aligning human delusions (love, romantic illusions, family etc) with the fictions of the second half. Other themes abound - the power games and domination/exploitatin reversals of Dollhouse are reworked here with subplots about a vengeful maid and a black teacher - but it's the American Beauty angle that's most interesting.Palindromes is thus far the weakest of Solondz's films. The first and last words in the movie are Mom, a pair of palindromes through which Solondz implies that nothing ever changes. Indeed, Solondz makes the film a palindrome at every level, his Schopenhaueran point being that we are paradoxically always changing and never changing (hence different actors play the same character), every desire and addiction merely supplanting another. It's an extremely bleak film, depending how much trust the audience puts in its final monologue. This bleakness has led to critics labelling Solondz a misanthrope, but he's no more colder than both Allen and the Coens, two other contemporary critical darlings who've spent their careers reworking similar material.7.9/10 &#x96; Welcome to the Dollhouse, Palindromes 8/10 &#x96; Storytelling, Happiness "},{"Title":"A sketch of adolescent alienation","Date":"4 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Welcome to the Dollhouse is about a girl named Dawn who fails to find a place anywhere in society. She seems to be the victim of middle child syndrome as her parents are too worried about their other two children to bother much with her. Dawn's brother is already established as the brainy oldest child and her sister is the cute one, leaving her without an easy way to establish her own identity. At school she is is unable to fit in at least partially because her parents don't care enough about her to help her dress normally for her age. Because she isn't nurtured at home, she also fails to develop socially and her personality is too thin to make her sympathetic to the other students. Predictably, she is treated as poorly at school as she is at home.Welcome to the Dollhouse is full of these devastating scenes in which Dawn get her hopes up only to have them knocked down again. Her parents and classmates are oblivious to her suffering; no matter how bad things are for her nobody ever seems to think about her feelings. Things also tend to go against her as a matter of course. She is frequently unlucky as when she attempts to get revenge on her tormentors and accidentally targets an unsuspecting adult.Welcome to the Dollhouse does a fairly good job of capturing an unfortunate girl at a particularly awkward time of life. It suffers from a lack of realism at times, however, since it's unlikely that every teacher and student would hate a person that is more bland than offensive. Even more detrimental than the film's lack of realism in establishing Dawn's situation is the film's lack of style. The visuals are unremarkable and the only memorable aesthetic choice is the tacky design in Dawn's home. The plot takes a detour into absurdity when Dawn's sister is kidnapped but surprisingly this isn't really played for laughs in spite of some humorous elements.I was surprised to learn that this wasn't director Todd Solondz's first feature as it felt like the work of a film-maker looking to gain enough confidence to do the things he really wanted to. Welcome to the Dollhouse does an adequate job of establishing a single character but it feels like it's missing some crucial elements that could have made it truly memorable. "},{"Title":"Todd Solondz initiates a world of downers","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you've never heard of Todd Solondz, then I should explain that Welcome to the Dollhouse is probably the most watchable. His movies - at least the few that I've seen - are always complete downers, containing characters who are either sickos, helpless, or something similar. His first notable movie concerns Dawn Wiener (Heather Matarazzo), a New Jersey middle school girl ostracized by everyone around her. The only boy who gives her any good advice is totally pitiful himself. Dawn's entire life is one big FML.I recommend WTTD, but with the caution that it IS a total downer. Hell, you might not even end up liking it. But it is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"the horrors of middle school","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film well encapsulates the horrors of middle school, perhaps more than was your experience, but the point is well taken. This unfortunately-named girl (Dawn Wiener), whose plight is not helped by her gawky looks, nerdiness, and refusal to take her punishment lying down, brings the pain of middle school into sharp relief. Having read a lot of the comments on IMDb, it's clear that this movie resonates with many. Landmark director Todd Solondz doesn't shrink from depicting the most cringe-inducing, skin-peeling, soul-destroying tortures inflicted by kids on their peers during those difficult tweener/teen years. Dawn Wiener (Heather Matarazzo) lives with a mother who has no idea of the pain in which her daughter is in and with a father with no guts to intervene to his wife on his daughter's behalf. Her older brother is an academic success, although also very nerdy and her younger sister is the belle of the ball who can do no wrong in her mother's eyes.Solondz has constructed a very plausible hell in which his young protagonist suffers. She has no friends save for one boy who is the only other member of her Special People Club. Her locker is the site of some particularly vitriolic abuse (although, having worked at schools, I found it implausible to believe that no teacher would have intervened to have the abuse removed), she is called lesbo and one girl who is particularly nasty will not let her leave the restroom without taking a crap.I liked the fact that this protagonist does not take the abuse lying down. Solondz creates such a good movie that he does not make Wiener into a wallflower. Indeed, she reacts in sometimes callous ways, taking out the anger she feels on someone less powerful than her. It's not necessarily pretty, but it's human nature. She reacts in anger to several things and I found this refreshing. She is not depicted as an ineffectual person. She fights back against her treatment-which people do, in real life-and Solondz deserves credit for this characterization of his protagonist. This really is a tough film to watch but I think this is one many young teens and tweeners would do well to watch and discuss with their parents because it could be a jumping-off point for a discussion about bullying and cruelty at this very difficult age. "},{"Title":"At three o'clock today, I'm going to rape you","Date":"17 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dawn is bullied in her middle school. She is insecure, wears unflattering clothes and doesn't feel attractive. Her inattentive parents care far more about her smart and nerdy older brother and her spoilt, elegant little sister(that she actually has to share a room with, in spite of being 11) than her, leaving her the overlooked middle child. She falls in love with a guy five years her senior. But could that possibly work out? This is one of the most brutally honest(it admits that teenagers actually think about sex), painful(the cake scene is torture), and difficult to watch films I've ever seen. I knew that it would be, because this is not my first exposure to the immensely talented Solondz... I own a copy of the quite good Storytelling, and I had heard that this was much harder on the viewer. This really doesn't let up(there are those that will use the word nihilistic), it's pure bared nerve endings, and it shows with no pretense the kind of cruelty some of us experience, and what effect it has on us. Everyone lashes out at someone weaker than them when they're in agony. While some of the actions do encourage headscratching, the characters in this are entirely realistic(I would say almost everything in this is), credible and well-developed. No one is a hero or a villain(don't expect to like everything about any of them). The acting is amazing. Matarazzo(who I can barely believe was willing to play the role) is impossibly perfect. Her body language, voice, eyes, everything is spot-on. Everyone is convincing in this. The tension is present and thick right from the beginning. I suppose one could argue that this doesn't have all that much genuine plot... we get a string of scenes in chronological order, and several things aren't followed up on. A ton does happen; I think this is mainly meant to show a small portion of the girl's life. Don't expect a lot of growth or change, or for this to have a conclusion(it kind of just stops... one can interpret the last image to mean something, though, and it certainly isn't randomly chosen). I'm not sure I understand classifying this as a comedy... if so, definitely note that it's black and sardonic humor. You can really *feel* the setting. The lunch-room, class-room and the suburban home... you're *there*, and you feel as suffocated and trapped as our lead does. This is filmed and edited impeccably well. There is disturbing content and strong language throughout this. The DVD comes with a trailer. I recommend this to anyone who wants an uncompromising look at what for many are the worst years of their life. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Solondz Recalls Middle School Torment","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Heather Matarazzo stars as Dawn Weiner in Todd Solondz'ode to junior high school, otherwise known as middle school. She's a student at Benjamin Franklin Junior High School where she is mercilessly harassed by other students, male and female alike. She is also scapegoated by clueless parents and self-absorbed siblings. She longs for excitement in the fantasy arms of a high school guy, far too old for someone of her ilk. Dawn agrees to be raped by another guy at her school, and somehow there's still hope? This too is a misdirected abusive situation, which naive kids like Dawn do not understand. Seriocomic results are harvested throughout the film from similar situations. The only thing is, the film seems like a one note tapestry illustrating the slings and arrows of junior high and nothing more. The relentlessness of Dawn's mistreatment is clear; at the end, Dawn runs off to New York to find her kidnapped sister. She discovers her sister is found via a phone call, but then her mother is too busy with the media to talk to her at that moment. As it is, it's a bitterly funny look at the tween years of a put upon girl struggling to find direction for herself when the adults in her life fail to provide any. If you're looking for a redeeming moment in the film, then this might be it Her realization that adults would never provide any meaningful direction in her life. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"So real you want to commit suicide","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't say I *liked* this movie per se, when I saw it in the theatre. This movie is a big wrecking ball of depressing reality smacking slam into the center of your psyche. It's not that it's *bad*, it's just so real it makes me want to go shoot myself in the head for the flashbacks it caused.It's suburban New Jersey dysfunctional Jewish family life at it's most appalling, with the stereotypical nerdy clarinet playing older brother , the precocious and spoiled darling little sister, the miserable middle child, who is the focus of the story an unattractive girl who is not particularly bright and is the class dog that everyone in her school taunts, the forgettable father ruled by his wife, and the oh so true to character mean, belittling mother who is constantly berating her middle daughter while doting on the smart oldest son and the cute younger daughter.The rest is really just a slice of life of this poor girl's depressing existence, centered around getting a crush on an older good looking high school boy (Eric Mabius, Ugly Bettys boss), her friendship with the boy next door, and the constant stream of abuse from her classmates.Whew. It does for teen comedies what Goodfellas did for Romantic Mafia dramas. "}{"Title":"Wiener","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was the same age as poor Dawn Weiner when this movie came out. Like Dawn I felt so much like an outsider and this movie was just a painful yet funny look at a preadolescence girls life.Dawn is of course a mega nerd. She has an unfortunate face, big glasses, a uncaring father, a wreck of a mother, and all sorts of misfortune!Dawn is unlucky in that her last name is wiener, now that is just mean. She is friendless in school and is picked on by bully Brandon and skanky looking crack whore Lolita. Home is no happy place for Dawn as if school is not bad enough she must go home to a shrew of a mother, an equally nerdy brother Mark, a beautiful little sister Missy and a father who could not care less!The life of Dawn is complicated when she develops a crush on the way too old to be a high schooler Steve Rogers. Steve is being tutored by Dawns beyond dorky brother Mark. In exchange for tutor lessons Steve sings and plays guitar in Marks garage band The Quadratics ( As in the quadratic equation..). Mark plays the clarinet in his band...so cool.Dawns life is just one big bitch slap after another. The girl never seems to get a break not even once! When her little sister is kidnapped she sets off to find her. Her sister is returned safely home, but Dawn phones home to tell her family she is in the city alone at just 11 yrs old, but mom and dad are more interested in the recovered Missy. Cruel! Cruel! Cruel!The movie has no big giant plot, as it is simply the painful life of poor Dawn Wiener. It is funny definitely and well worth watching. While there was a surge of forgettable teen movies in the 90's played with 25 yr old abercrombie models as 15yr old, this movie is much more realistic in the simplicity. The actors are not well known, though Heather Matarazzo as the delightful Dawn has certainly had some attention, no others have. That is OK as the actors look the parts they play. Heather was a pre teen at the time and would not have been considered a Hollywood beauty. This is a movie I enjoyed as pre teen mess myself and still enjoy. "},{"Title":"Is 8th grade any better than seventh?....","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dawn asks Mark Weiner, her brother. No, he says, but they won't call you as many names to your face.Heather Matarazzo is excellent as Dawn Weiner. Her nemesis is Brendan Sexton Jr. who claims he want to rape her, but really just wants attention. Her spoiled sister, Missy. Her parents who indulge Missy and want her to tear down her clubhouse so they can use the backyard for their 20th anniversary party. Dawn also obsesses on the local band singer, Steve, wishing he could take her away from all her misery, in a suburban New Jersey neighborhood. Some of the scenes with Steve, and the band are hilarious. Matthew Faber is also very good as Dawn's brother.Todd Solondz has created an amusing take on dysfunctional families and teenage trauma. This film is clever and amusing without being trite. I have not yet seen his other films but will have to catch up. "},{"Title":"Great, Weird, Funny.....Awesome!","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm gonna rape you at 3. When I was in 9th grade, my friends and I rented this and for aleast 2 weeks we would say this to as many of our girlfriends as possible. I don't know why we did. Maybe because we knew we could get away with it. Kind of like how Brandon in this movie knew he could get away with anything also. Well about a month ago, I recently changed to Comcast Cable, and they were offering this for free. I decided to take a stroll down memory lane...and whoa nelly...this movie blew me away.The story is a about a girl named Dawn Weiner. She's a middle school student who is the middle child in her family. And boy is she. We've all heard that being the middle child is tough, but Dawn's life isn't just tough it's ridiculously difficult. Her little sister, is the beautiful little princess type and her older brother is the geeky ivy league college type. She's the oddball at home, the biggest loser at her school and to make matters worse her last name is Weiner. The movie tells a great story about how life can be so unforgiving.The acting in this flick is outstanding. Every single actor in this movie delivers their performance incredibly well, especially Dawn and Brandon (Brendan Sexton 3rd). The music is the classic Solondz style, and I loved every minute of it.If you're into dark humor then Welcome to the Dollhouse is for you. It doesn't play like a comedy, but hot damn, this movie is hilarious. Todd Solondz is a great director and this movie proves it. Happiness and Palindromes are also great flicks. Check them out! "},{"Title":"Special People Club members only.","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Poor Dawn Weiner. Everyone in this movie hates her guts and it's sad in kind of a funny way. The only person who likes her is Ralphie and then she says that she hates him. I kept thinking 'take what you can get.' Dawn Weiner is in Jr. High School and she gets picked on by every one at the school. Then she starts to develop a crush on this older guy, Steve, who plays in a rock band with her brother. He likes her for a while but doesn't. Her little sister also gets into some trouble but when Dawn goes out to get her little sister, no one cares about Dawn. Even her family hates her but it is a little funny.They tear her down and make her feel like the worst crap in the world but she still sings, softly.Great movie to watch at 300. "},{"Title":"More realistic than fake.","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think Welcome to the Dollhouse is more realistic than fake. The characters and the setting are realistic as well. In every school, there is always a smart, dorky student, a burn-out kid, and an annoying little sister and/or brother. Welcome to the Dollhouse is really close to being real especially in the scene where Dawn is out in search for her little sister. She goes to sleep and dreams about rescuing her sister from the kidnapper and all of a sudden, everybody likes her. Even the lead singer of her brother's band, Steve, likes her. Now I know that's something a person who barely has any friends would dream about. Some parts are a little exaggerated. Like the part where the burn-out kid tells Dawn to meet him outside because he's going to rape her. Dawn gives in because she's afraid of him. I think, that every Junior High student would know the seriousness of a rape situation. Another one was when the burn-out kid starts getting a little too attracted to Dawn. From what i've seen, that typically doesn't happen in real life. A burn-out being attracted to someone who doesn't have any friends because she wears thick frames with big grills; i think that only happens in the movies. "},{"Title":"sharp, original, memorable","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is somewhat painful to watch, but it's worth it, because it's unique, and it'll stick with you. This film gives a very sharp and uncompromising look at the harshness of life for many young people. All though in some ways the characters are a bit extreme, there is a kind of very surprising realism in this movie, especially in the portrayal of the main character. Like many adolescents, she struggles on five fronts boys, friends (or lack thereof), school, family, and her own mind; with all of these things providing pain and confusion rather than solace and support, the character has little respite. For this reason, and because she seems to have a gentle and fairly intelligent nature overall, she is a sympathetic character, and yet we see that in her confusion and pain, she is capable of hurting others just as she is hurt. Although the movie focuses on this one character, you get the sense that some of the other characters are also lost and troubled in similar ways. "},{"Title":"Do you believe that there are satirical elements in this movie?","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To answer my own question, yes I believe that Welcome to the Dollhouse has satirical elements. I think that there are four main ones and they are the burnout kid, sibling rivalry, the middle child, and our parent's favoritism. The burnout kid is Brandon McCarthy, and he plays the character well as he is one that does not seem to care in school, and comes from a messed up family life. The other students at the school used him as the one getting in trouble because of those two facts even though it was them that had the drugs. The sibling rivalry is between the three children in th Wiener family as they are trying to out do each other in everything but in some things they go over board on them. They want to be the best in class to show that their parents will love them more. The middle child is always described as being the one that the parents do not pay attention to and this movie shows that Dawn is always getting in trouble because she is not the first born or the baby of the family. Lastly is the parent's favoritism and that is shown with Missy and she does not do anything wrong it is always the other children. She has her parents doing everything that she wants. What do you think are the Satirical elements? "},{"Title":"This movie was unusually cruel!","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Omigod! Did anyone else think that this movie was unusually cruel? It was brilliant, yet tragic. I'm watching it on cable right now at 420am. I saw it on cable as a teenager but I don't think I ever found it this depressing. Oh gosh it is so f---king depressing. I remember feeling like parts of my childhood resembled this with being teased and everything. But the scenes where Brandon threatens to rape Dawn like every friggin day and this chick adores him- well it was so hard to take. Granted he's misunderstood, but to degrade someone like that publicly and privately and then kiss them (we all know Brandon was attracted to Dawn in a way he could never express appropriately), well the kid totally needed therapy. And Dawn got treated like crap by everyone including her parents ( Mom withholding the cake from Dawn because she won't tear down her Special Peoples Club made me want to throw my TV!) How did this chick survive childhood? I hope her character wasn't based on a real person. After watching this tortured movie I am definitely going to nurture my children when I start a family. It's horrible, but like a train wreck you just can't stop watching. Ughhhhh!!! "},{"Title":"shows how cruel kids can be","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director/Script Tod Solondz, Cast Heather Matarazzo, Brendan Sexton, Eric Mabius, Matthew Faber, Daria Kalinia Great little Indy flick by Tod Solondz. The content is pretty heavy for the given age of its characters but this was necessary to show the realism of today's teens. Even though it has been 25 years since I have been in junior high, I still remember what it what like. The point being,at this age kids can be very mean and this film hits it right on. This film is about a nerdy, self-conscience junior high girl by the name of Dawn (Heather Matarazzo) who is subjected to cruelty by her classmates at school. She is also treated unfairly at home by her parents who seem to favor her older brother and younger sister. This was the first film for Heather Matarazzo. I was very impressed by her performance here. I was surprised to see her in a movie like this because I had only seen her in the Princes Diaries movies prior to this. I actually think many older actress would have had a harder time playing this part.Tod Solondz is a rather controversial director. Another film by him that I would like to see is Happiness. This is supposed to be a black comedy dealing with all kinds controversial issues. Hopefully he will continue as an independent film director. "},{"Title":"Pre-Teen Hell","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Welcome to the Dollhouse ... well, it was definitely an incredible confidence booster. After watching it, you come to the conclusion that your life really isn't so bad compared to Dawn Wieners. This movie actually makes you feel emotion! The way Dawn's mother treats her so badly ignites an anger in me! And the humor! Dawn's obsession with Steve and the way she honestly believes she can seduce him ... Then there's the way, somewhat of a parody, that the teachers all turn a blind eye to the harassment Dawn goes through every day. At times, this movie is just painful to watch, and the next second, you're laughing your head off. Thumbs up for this indie for an original concept and original cast, and also for sparking emotion in the viewer. This movie perfectly captures the awkwardness of adolescence. "}{"Title":"welcome to junior high school","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the Dollhouse was first released in September of 1995 in Canada. It wasn't until it reached the U.S. when they decided to released it in January of 1996 and May of 1996 as a wide release. This film shows the trials and pains one girl experience while being in junior high school. This movie was straight and I could definitely relate to Dawn's character because I too was the victim of heavy teasing and bullying to some extent. Just to feel like no one understood you and everything was your fault really gave me a blow to my stomach as I know it did to Dawn.  What's reminiscent about this movie is that it was released the same year that I started junior high school. I didn't know that then because I hadn't heard about this movie when I was in junior high school. I discovered this movie one night back up in June 2000. I had only watched a brief portion of it and as some movies, it slipped my mind. It wasn't until this year that this movie started playing regularly on the sundance channel(it is an independent film of course) and I decided to watch it last night. Above all this was a decent flick because it shows that some people went through the pain of junior high school. Watch it. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, darkly satirical, and brutally honest.","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the Dollhouse portrays an awkward 7th named Dawn Wiener. Unfortunately for Dawn, her life is completely without hope or dignity. Ostracized and bullied by her peers, rejected by her apathetic family, and isolated by even her teachers, there is no trace of redemption. Watching this, it's hard not to feel sympathetic towards Dawn's plight. Yet it's also hard to not want to slap her uncontrollably. Dawn speaks the honest truth - there are some who are truly alone. And sometimes there really is no shining beacon of light into an otherwise dark and depressing life.This film will leave you with a gritty feeling. It's disturbing, unsympathetic, dark, and unsettling. Yet it is also insightful and honest. Thus, it's incredibly hard to like, but very easy to respect.  "},{"Title":"This movie is funny!","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is real, and it's funny, Dawn keeps getting teased at school, her parents don't notice her,plus her mother is selfish, her sister is a spoiled brat, and there is no explanation for Dawn not to be depressed.No one will hang with her because they think she's ugly, and what I notice in this movie is that if she's being abused at school, why doesn't the faculty notice, it's either they don't care, I mean look at her locker, no one cleaned that, the ending left you thinking that there should be a sequel. This is a must see movie, really it's coming on next week, really you should check it out. My friend told me about this movie along time ago, I never really paid attention to it until now, but you must see it.  "},{"Title":"this is a really great movie for those who can view it properly","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this is a really great movie. the script is very good, the story is great and the characters are just really well rounded. if i were to try and copy the film i think the hardest part would be capturing that middle ground that solondz is so good at finding. that thin line between an extremely warped sense of humor, teenage coming-of-age melodrama, and cutting commentary. solondz perfectly captures the cycle of abuse and the power play that exists within families and on the schoolyard. at the same time, he is somehow able to interject just the right touches that allow the audience to laugh at what they are seeing while still being very affected by what is taking place. only solondz could write a lines like what you always gotta be such a c---? or tomorrow - same place, same time - i'm gonna rape you. for a 12 year old and have it be funny. it's amazing how within one scene solondz can make us laugh, make us think, and make us want to cry. some of the movie is so exaggerated that it's funny, but it would be a mistake to discount the film as unrealistic or camp. i think that solondz is trying to capture the adolescent experience, and part of that is overreaction or blowing things out of proportion; anyone who has been young and honestly looked back upon their younger years knows this to be true. from literally the very first scene the camera is trained on dawn's character, so it makes sense that things are exaggerated here or there. it makes for both good humor and insight into dawn's world. i think matarazzo (the actress who plays dawn) should get just as much credit as solondz; she is so perfect for this role. her look, the way she eats, the way she talks, all her mannerisms are right on. the supporting cast, too, is both well-drawn and well-played. dawn's mother, sister, brother, and boyfriend brandon are all great (her father doesn't have much of a role and that's part of the point). in other words, this film is solid, entertaining, and thought-provoking. A-. "},{"Title":"unsympathetic heroine, sympathetically","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie, saw it twice in the theater, own it. You can  -of course- tell it comes directly from the life experience of its director, because just about everything is exactly as it would be IRL. While the movie explores a victim of high school abuse, the victim is neither glamorized nor whitewashed We see that she internalizes the abuse and takes it out on others, mirroring itself in a violent relationship with one of her bullies. This type of treatment could never have come out of the Miramax machine, and reflects the last gasp of the '90s indies movement, wherein the director was left to his own devices, and the movie - surprise, surprise - was an arthouse hit. The bitchy ballerina sister and passive aggressive mother are fantastically drawn, the dialogue is razor sharp. Commenting on this movie years later, I really wish Solondz had toned down the shock value of his later movies and focused on telling human stories. This movie proves he can. "},{"Title":"Excellent, excellent, excellent","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is my 3rd Eric Mabius film I've seen (I'm a big fan). I have only seen Heather in The Princess Diaries and liked her attitude she brought to screen. Plus, I saw the trailer and I was hooked. This movie is for anyone who's ever been picked on while in junior high. I gave this movie 10/10 for being grounded, non-superficial, and relating to me when I was growing up.  "},{"Title":"Funny But Sad, And Entertaining Nonetheless.","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome To The Dollhouse (1995)***SPOILERS***I was up late watching the IFC (Independent Film Channel) last night, and Welcome to The Dollhouse was just about to come on. I had never heard of it before, but I decided to give it a try. I was pleased with the movie. The movie opens with a whole junior high school eating lunch in their cafeteria. Then we see a girl named Dawn Wiener (Heather Matarazzo) trying to find a seat. You can immediately tell that she is unpopular, by the way she is dressed, her dorky glasses, and the fact that when ever she sees an open seat, someone takes it in hopes that they'll not have to sit by her. Everyone makes fun of her, calls her Weiner Dog and Dog Face, and her locker is covered with terrible spray painted phrases about her. At home, Dawn seems to be neglected. Her parents seem to not care about her much, but her little sister, Missy, is treated like an angel. Then, Dawn falls in love with her older brother's band member, Steve (Eric Mabius). From then on, her life becomes a rollercoaster. A boy she likes is moving away, her little sister gets kidnapped, and Steve quits the band. While watching this movie, you don't know if you want to cry for Dawn and feel bad for her, or slap her for being so stupid. Anways, Todd Solondz brings up a great movie, that keeps you balancing over hating or loving the main character. I give Welcome To The Dollhouse an 8/10. "},{"Title":"This movie puzzled me","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i really enjoyed this movie but its ending was disappointing to say the least..we go to the movie to escape reality..not to have it thrust in our face..we want to see dawn have at least one thing go right..is the message of this movie life sucks so deal with it? if so we dont need to go to the movies then..we want the good guy or girl in this case  to WIN. outside of the dissapointing ending this was a GREAT movie "},{"Title":"Strange and Odd, but nevertheless good","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ok, I must admit (albeit a bit ashamedly) I love this movie.  Honestly, I'm not entirely sure why.  For some reason, whenever it comes on I have this overwhelming compulsion to watch it...almost a morbid fascination.  It's just so, well, strange that you can't help but to enjoy the hell out of this movie.Dawn Weiner is a basic nobody.  She's picked on at school and is virtually non-existent at home.  Basically, her life sucks.  She endures bullying from her classmates, her older nerdy brother, and even her all-too-cutesy little sister.  We see her struggle with coming into her own during the hellish times of Jr. High...struggling to fit in but never quite succeeding.Heather Matarazzo is absolutely FABULOUS as Dawn and is so highly under-rated it's disgusting.  She doesn't quite fit Hollywood's standard of beauty and therefore is kept in the background for the most part...a waste of pure talent in my opinion.  As dorky Dawn, Heather is fabulous...pulling you directly into her clutches.  Brendan Sexton is another under-rated young actor who plays the overpowering bully who, in all actuality, really has a crush on Dawn.  He is fabulous in his part and portrays a young, angry tween/teen to perfection.  Brendan is as captivating as Heather and both of them work quite well together.The storyline itself is definitely dark, strange, but completely on-target.   Yes, life in middle school *can* be that brutal...and so can life at home.  It's horrible going through your pre-teen years feeling like a nobody and both Heather and Brendan portray this with dead-on accuracy.Definitely a strange movie, but enticing nontheless.  I actually give this 4 1/2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"good movie but the ending I was dissapointed","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the Dollhouse plays a reallife situation about an outcast child name Dawn Wiener(heather matarazzo) who is in middle school, the worst place on earth. To most kids, middle school is like a prison for which some kids will act like bullies in order to be on top of the food chain. In middle school, the top people are normally whites acting black, gang members, athletes and cheerleaders or the sycophants. In Dawn's everyday life, she is the middle child, which is another problem because her youngest sister missy, gets more attention and relaxes as Dawn takes the blame and her oldest brother Mark is so facist on his lifestyle. Since he is in the 8th grade, he wants to work on his college transcript, not to mention the band he is composing and promises a rebel to play in the band. As I mention bullies, Dawn has a bully name Raymond(brandon saxton) who even though hates her guts, he actually likes her. What makes the film better is the sudden tragedy of missy's disappearance, for which Dawn forgot to give her a letter to hitch a ride with one of the neighbors. The only thing I was disappointed with was the ending for which Dawn had her opportunity to escape from the hellish life she lived in. But as most kids like myself who suffered in middle school, her character knew she had one more year of middle school before going into high school.three stars out of four.I would've given this film a three and a half rating, but the ending was disappointing. "}{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I only wished this film wasn't an indie, so more people could have had the chance to see it. Then again being an indie film is part of it's charm.Dawn is a young girl who seems to be neglected by everybody. Her parents are the type that attend PTA meetings and throw barbecues for the neighborhood, but they don't even know their own children. I fell in love with this movie and highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"UnDescribable","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie... is incredible. Some people may not agree with me, but it's almost as if I befriended it. It makes you laugh hysterically, and it also makes you really want to cry. The music, the actions, the actors, the craziness, it's not like any other movie I've ever seen. and i LOVE it with a passion   "},{"Title":"this movie is fab","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. I rented it this week and in the past 3 days have watched it several times. It's so realistic and the way Heather Matarazzo portrays a nerdy 7th grader is fantastic. I think independent films are the best kind of movies. As depressing as this movie is, it's definitley one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Teenage Hell","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the Dollhouse is brilliant.  It's a hilariously painful look at being in junior high and being the unloved member of both a family and society at large.  While most of us could never relate to the kinds of things Dawn experiences in the film, to a lesser degree many of us can sympathize.  The film is never condescending or patronizing, nor does it take the easy way out by making Dawn into a victim.  This was the third time I've seen the film, and it gets funnier each time I see it.  "},{"Title":"Just a correction","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The film is really great. I'd like to do a little correction in the Movie Connections, the IMDB forgot the obvious reference to Carrie (1976). Why some wonderful actresses, like Heather, doesn't appear in the movies? Why does the Studios prefer Britney Spears, Mariah Carey or Spice Girls? It's a shame. "},{"Title":"One Little Victory","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I caught Todd SolondzÕ nihilistic  Welcome the the Dollhouse last night on IFC (my new favorite network). Like his other films that IÕve seen Ñ Happiness and Storytelling Ñ DollhouseÕs central focus is the revolving relationships of abuse in suburbia, and the struggle to find a modicum of happiness in a world of hostility. Relationships, for writer/director Solondz, seem to be mired in a swamp of miscommunication and selfishness that blind the participants to anything other than what they desire. This random narcissism often ricochets causing little harm, but more often collides with anotherÕs desire in a power struggle for dominance, resulting in hurt feelings, misunderstandings, and random cruelties. SolondzÕ films are not for the emotionally squeamish.SolondzÕ characters want the people in their lives to be like dolls, sitting benignly on shelves, hair perfect in their cute dresses and shoes. They sit and smile and donÕt cause trouble perfect control in the perfect world of a childÕs imagination. Yet, for Dawn Wiener, the unfortunate middle child with the equally unfortunate surname, finds her life in middle school anything but perfect. The abuse she receives from her classmates, her parents, and her older brother, Dawn attempts to redirect toward those she has power over, her younger sister and her younger playmate. This cycle of cruelty takes on a life of its own as it breeds and spreads from character to character like a pandemic syndrome until the only pleasure in life seems to come from othersÕ suffering, from little victories of domination. Yet, with these little victories, the cruelty infects another with no cure in sight.The movie also addresses the social weight of appearance and our propensity to evaluate and condemn based on narrow conceptions of normalcy. Dawn, the homely middle child Ñ not the intellect with the drive to succeed like her older brother, nor the adorable perfection of her little sister Ñ is half-way between geek and dweeb, intellectual and wannabe, saint and sinner in a world where nuance and subtlety are themselves anathema. Dawn does not fit neatly into any category, so she is equally despised by all cliques. All that she can seem to do, when both attack and surrender fail miserably, is to survive and look to forward to a better time Ñ a victory in itself.I guess, then, that Dollhouse is not nihilistic after all. Like the memorable end of Happiness when the young boy, probably about DawnÕs age, is finally able to masturbate successfully, there is hope for little moments of pleasure, little victories we have for ourselves. Yet, the filmÕs setting is so bleak, one has to wonder whether those precious moments are really enough, especially when they seem to only occur in the absence of others. Does one personÕs pleasure have to lead to anotherÕs pain?  Dollhouse, in this sense, does not work as well as Happiness does, but it still shows signs of genius "},{"Title":"I loved the movie!","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a GREAT dark comedy! It almost seemed like it should've been a drama or angst film. I cried when I first saw this movie, and the parents in the movie - geez I just wanted to strangle them! I really got into the movie from the second it started all the way to the end. And I loved the song Welcome to the dollhouse, haha! The little sister was kinda annoying, and her brother made me laugh! I recommend you rent the movie! "},{"Title":"The most realistic movie ever.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I cried the first time I saw this movie. It was just like my middle school experience except for the fact that I am a guy and went to middle school in the suburbs of Chicago. This movie does not pull any punches when it tells you about junior high school. When my mom watched it, she apologized to me for me having a middle school experience like this. Heather Matarazzo gives one of the best child performances ever (up there with the one from The Tin Drum), it is ten times better then Haley Joel's overacting in The Sixth Sense. Watch every Tood Solondz movie and support them when they come out. "},{"Title":"An excellent growing pains film.","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The title refers to a song in the story, but try to remember back to when you were 11 or 12 and entering the 7th grade.  If you were lucky, all you had to worry about was hanging with the right sort of friends, having the right sort of clothes, and establishing yourself in the pecking order. For almost everyone else, however, and especially those who were hopelessly out-classed on every conceivable front, you were lucky if you could survive the ordeal long enough to make it into high school without suffering permanent scarring to your sense of self- esteem.  That's what this film is about, and those other than the luckiest, will find themselves somewhere in this story. "},{"Title":"A heartbreaker","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like Angus, Lucas or Sidekicks, this movie deals with the pitfalls of adolesence, but it's much more graphic and heart-wrenching than those three movies. It just made me sick to see just how stuck-up and morally bankrupt the other kids and especially the parents could be. And my heart really went out to Heather Matarazzo, not just because her character was always treated like something somebody stepped in, but also because she did such a great job portraying her. Why she hasn't at least been nominated for an Oscar is beyond me. I wish I was not only in this movie, but also that I could've rewritten it so that this poor girl could know that there was someone out there who liked her for her. I know all to well what she went through, because my first year of junior high was a nightmare. But, thank God, it was never as horrible as hers was because I would've undoubtedly blown my brains out if it was. I wish I could just meet Heather and tell her how much I admire her. And if you like this movie, you'll also like Outrage In Glen Ridge. "}{"Title":"Heartbreakingly Real, Ultimately Depressing.","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is NOT a movie to see if you're contemplating suicide.  From the opening scene to the final curtain, this film is scene after scene of open cruelty.  Yes, life sucks in junior high, and it's even worse if you're not normal, but who's the director trying to kid when he passes this off as a comedy?  There is nothing to laugh at here. As a gut-wrenching look at the futility of life, it's excellent.  As a comedy, I see none.  But it's often said we laugh to avoid crying, and that's probably what you'll do, as well. In a way, by advertising itself as a comedy, it shoots itself in the foot, as if it's saying Look at her!  What a loser!  Let's all laugh along at her misery!  I can't do that, and only extremely bitter, cynical people would.  But if it was advertised as a heartbreakingly real slice of life, I probably would've loved it. If you want a better look at life from the losers eye, watch Freaks and Geeks.   "},{"Title":"The worst of times, and the worst of times...","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  our your heroine is stuck in the place we all look back on with bittersweet memories- the seventh grade. Unpopular, awkard, and dealing with being the middle child in a borderline dysfunctional family. She has a painful crush on an older high school boy who plays in her nerdy, big brother's band. She has a spoiled, manipulative little sister who is the princess of the family. This is a great movie, bound to bring back memories of Junior High school days, and all that time period entails. Highly reccomended. "},{"Title":"Amazing, stunning, hilarious film!","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   Dorky Dawn Wiener    New Jersey seventh grader, couldn't get a break if you sent it 'Fed Ex'  to many a film about a dorkish schoolgirl in New Jersey struggling through what looks to be a long puberty, doesn't sound very attractive.  But this is Todd Solondz, director of the 'unbeatable' Happiness. if you like your indie films then you can't get much better than the likes of welcome to the dollhouse, its stunning!  this film has a performance worthy of winning an oscar by the lead Heather Matarazzo, who is only about 12!  ( I'm English so I don't know where you are when you're in 7th grade ) I won't tell the plot, as not to spoil it, but lets just say I will go and see any film by Todd Solondz, just on the strength of this,  Happiness was a 10/10 film, and Storytelling was another great, this was well worthy of its Grand Jury prize at the '96 sundance festival. Unmissable.....Buy it now!!!!! "},{"Title":"Relentless","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are some movies that hold up the human spirit American Beauty, 2001 etc. Then there are a very few movies that unmercifully and repeatedly trounce on the human spriit with the delight of six year old stepping on a gathering of ants. Movies like Robocop and Welcome To The Dollhouse. A movie like Seven takes shame in humanity's plight where as this movie takes glee in ripping humanity's hopes to desires to shreds. This movie an uncomprising look at the harshest of badhuman nature, the adolescent mind of junior high. For anyone ever picked on (which is almost everyone) this movie may make you think about those b**tards in your youth that made school so bad that Columbine-like actions seem almost sane, if not necessary. The story is told through a female point of view of an eleven year old girl who's seems to be the primary target of the world collectively taking a dump on her. With boys the abuse is more physical, with girls, psychological. At some points I almost had to turn away from the screen it was just so gut wrenchingly funny and depressing. I'd give this movie a niner "},{"Title":"Welcome to the fun house!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK. I really don't know what to say... there is something about this movie. Though few people are willing to say,  it is good. It's interesting because it is not just a woes me! film were the young outcast is thinking about how depressed she is, instead it is an interesting and yes a funny movie. Heather Matarazzo (Dawn Wiener) is good at playing a young confused girl. She is good at being pathetic.  Brendan Sexton III (Brandon McCarthy) is in a word awesome.  He is in character all the way and is so believable as this troubled young boy.  He is the type of actor that if he so chose he could easily make the audience laugh, cry, or shiver.  If you were to describe this movie to someone chances are they would give a negative opinion about it, and slap disturbed movie label on it.  People don't want to admit the movie was interesting because it is disturbed, and they don't want to believe a certain situation such as rape between young preteens, or mistreatment of peers, as well as neglect at home is a fact. Much less that it could lead to a girl becoming Confused.  But oddly enough the movie is portraying the abundance of hot air amongst preteens if one was to think about it.  Although some people have logically formed bad opinion of this movie.  In reality the only reason people would rather label the movie as disturbing, or uninteresting, is because of their fear of there own image, when in fact disturbing movies tend to attract attention.  Bottom Line... Good script, Great acting, interesting plot.  "},{"Title":"The definitive junior-high portrayal","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is as close to reality as a film has ever gotten at portraying the brutality of junior high, and it is basically peerless. Bravo at not being afraid of the box-office consequences of casting someone hideously ugly. So hilarious and fun to watch. First time I rented this, I saw it three times in a row. Contains the most touching relationship between adolescents ever caught on film. NAILS the black comedy genre. The more you watch it, the more the caricatures pop up, but a film can never capture perfectly a living, breathing human being. It comes incredibly close to crystallizing how excruciating and embarrassing puberty can be for a loser. Hilarious and sad. It's life. "},{"Title":"Horribly hilarious adolescence movie","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a brilliantly twisted black comedy featuring some of the most touching performances from child actors ever - the two central kids are quite amazingly good in their roles. Solondz deftly plays around with the hearts of his audience, creating moments of quite awful sadness, awkward mirth and occasional joy when something goes right for our unfortunate heroine, slipping from one to another with great skill and verve. As we follow the girl through her cruel adolescent world, we marvel at the pain of youth and the joy a little kindness can bring. All the film needs is more of a punchline ending to make it a 10/10 movie - and all this from a pretty inexperienced director. Can't wait to see Happiness now. "},{"Title":"The greatest movie ever","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the Dollhouse is definitely one of the best movies ever made. It doesn't try too hard and it doesn't have a happy ending either.  It is realistic with characters that are interesting.  Heather Matarazzo is awesome as Dawn Wiener Dog Wiener, the school's token geek.  This may not be a film for everyone, but anyone who likes dark comedies will love this one. "},{"Title":"understanding the loser","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  my brother told me about this movie about a year ago, and ever since i've wanted to see it. well, i saw it today, and although it evoked many different feelings in me, the strongest of them would have to be guilt. I felt miserable afterwards, because i recognized that i had been rather cruel in middle school to the 'losers'. (It was mostly due to jealousy over their perfect marks, when i was failing because of my then-undiagnosed ADD.not to make excuses or anything.) The maker of this film manages to show the reasoning and motives behind the actions of the bullies and the loser. It is hard to truly like any of the characters, yet it is impossible not to sympathize with all of them (except for steve, who was quite annoying). this movie does not have a happy ending, dawn does not suddenly become beautiful or loved, despite the many events/tiny tragedies that occur, in the end, everything is the same as it is in the beginning of the movie. i don't know if this review was helpful or not, the bottom line is, this is not a movie for people who thrive on happy endings. this is a movie for people who aren't afraid to feel real compassion for someone they prolly ridiculed, or at best simply ignored, while they were in middle school. "},{"Title":"The real world, uncensored. Possible Spoilers.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Video Movie Guide gave this movie *****, and for once they were on the mark. This film centers on the miserable life of one Dawn Weiner, your typical nerdy, unattractive, gawky, Jewish girl. She has a miserable family life in which she's treated like dirt, is despised and put-down at school, and hangs around with outcasts. However, she's just like her family members, her classmates, and her outcasts in being pretty cruel to others herself. Although she could rebel, she endures through the daily humiliation. Like a certain movie that came out recently and is being reviewed on this site by people who aren't going to bother typing up other movie reviews because no other movie currently has Britney Spears in a starring role, we see Dawn deal with adult situations like drugs, rape, and threats of violence, but also things that children would deal with such as their clubhouse being torn down because it has outgrown its use and sibling rivalry.The cast of unknowns, led by Heather Matarazzo is outstanding. Their characters seem real, and more likeable than the Hollywood-created versions of the people portrayed here. Unlike (name your Freddie Prinze Jr. flick), there is no happy ending, no ugly duckling turned into a swan, no escape from a bleak lifestyle. That's what makes this movie so special. Black comedy at it's finest, although not for everyone, and a movie that portrays what the real world feels for the likes of Dawn Weiner. "}{"Title":"Welcome to the life of Dawn","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"       This movie, bieng painfully true to the experience of junior high, is a great story. Enter Dawn Weiner. She has a smart older brother,  a cutesy little ballerina sister, and two parents who totally over look her.     Now,  some people saw flaws in this film, as did I, but I think the thing is, the truth is too hard for them. It is hardcore, but laughable as Dawn struggles through life, as a middle child, loveless, with no freinds. She falls in love with Steve, the lead singer in her brothers band. She finally gets up the nerve to tell him, while she 'spills her heart', he tells her her 'special people club' is for retards.        All in all, this movie is hilarious, but sometimes, it makes you hurt for the horribly unloved Dawn, but sometimes forcing to to relive your own junior high horrors. 7\10 "},{"Title":"An interesting, insightful film","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The thing about Welcome to the Dollhouse that makes it so good is not its dazzling complexity, but rather its simplicity.  The movie does a fantastic job of using such normal surroundings to create a picture of a bleak world.  The dinner table, the school bus, these things are vehicles for a sense of hopelessness that pervades the film, a most beautiful hopelessness.  The main character, played perfectly by Heather Matarazzo, is presented so perfectly as an ugly, friendless, socially-awkward girl, and you almost cringe at the normality of her house, her family, and her life. Nothing in this movie is perfect. While the cinematography itself is quite interesting, the plot is Solondz's effort to find the simplest way to display Matarazzo's alienation. This is seen in three forms the handsome, popular high-schooler she falls in love with, the troubled, tough classmate that falls in love with her, and the kidnapping of her sister.  Already alienated by classmates, her geeky brother's band, the Quadratics, finds a lead singer in Steve, a popular high-schooler who barely recognizes Dawn.  Brendan Sexton Jr. plays the troubled teen who falls in love with Dawn, and then is rejected by a jaded Dawn in favor of Steve.  When she loses him, she has nothing, and then her sister is kidnapped, and the blame is placed on her.  Suddenly she is in the spotlight, only to fade back into isolation at the conclusion of the movie. You must see this movie. "},{"Title":"Seventh grade. You will never find a more wretched hive of scum and villiany.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Actually, that's what Obi-wan Kenobi says about Mos Eisley's spaceport, however, it works just the same when referring to Junior High School. Welcome to the Dollhouse illustrates this truth in a painstakingly realistic way.Todd Solondz (director) makes us relive those tragic years through Dawn Weiner, an unpopular, unfashionable and all together geeky seventh-grade nobody. Weiderdog (as her fellow classmates call her), is in one of the most tumultuous years she has yet seen. She falls in love with a senior high school reject, almost gets raped by the school bully and even becomes responsible for her sisters' kidnapping. Of course these situations are extreme, but that is not without purpose; Solondz uses these absurdities to expose the nasty and sometimes unthinkable secrets of suburban life.While his 1998 feature, Happiness was even more extreme in it's depiction of the suburbs, Dollhouses' message is not muddied by its content. The film reinforces these truths yes, junior high sucks, yes there is blackness behind those perfect picket fences, and yes you will get over it. It's this cruel sense of Such is life, that makes Welcome to the Dollhouse, what it is a wicked satire of the American family and an exposition of evil masked by good. In the end, watch out for this slice of life little gem; it might give you indigestion. "},{"Title":"A hysterical yet poignant look at suburbia and middle-child syndrome","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie hits it dead-on. It combines real performances with an unforced script to provide a hysterically funny picture of middle-class suburbia. Living in the suburbs and being a middle-child myself, I identified greatly with the satirical events and perfect, natural performance of its star, Heather Matarazzo. Nothing is predictable; it is all very real. The conversations and occurrences will have you going Yes! I know what you mean! and other times will leave you a bit shocked. It is a must-see for anyone with a taste for something different. "},{"Title":"Missy---where's the Love?","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oh, I am just sick of all these derogatory comments towards Missy.  Who does not laugh hysterically every time she frolics about in the grass in her tutu?  It is pure innocence, and the director captured it beautifully.  You despise her because you pick up that Dawn despises her---solely because she got the deeper end of the gene pool.  But in watching the movie, one can only realize that the bad relationship between the two is by Dawn's own doing.  That's the beauty of this film...  This movie really crystallizes the misery one can reap when one is in the throes of it.  She takes out her own frustration on subordinate others (i.e. by hurling names at her sister, turning on ralphy, and by knocking the bouncy ball out of the little boy's hands, which is the best, most touching, realistic scene in the whole movie).  This is the best movie in the whole world.  Not only is it touching, but it's not an English Patient or Out of Africa, where one says, It's great... but I could never watch it twice! but a movie where you want to rewind it to feel Dawn's pain over and over and over again. (It also helps that it's only about an hour a half long).  Brilliant.  Is it brilliance? Or is it just an acute sense of realism?  Todd Solondz definitely deviates from the boring, typical Hollywood formula when he exposes the negative characteristics of the victimized protagonist.  Usually we're used to seeing cardboard cut out characters---you have your victimizers who have no good traits and your victims who have no bad traits.  But he really exposes the ugly misery of being picked on---you start to be a misery to others as well.  Todd Solondz dexterously presents this film as in the point of view of Dawn and not some adult-filmmaker-here's-the-moral-of-the-story-kids point of view.  That is why it's so infectious.  It's like you're actually reliving junior high /with/ Dawn.  It provides no amateur conclusion.  Dawn's hopeful, soprano singing at the end is most beautiful and tears your heart a bit when you realize that that hope in her voice will probably be dashed again and again and life will probably remain the same for unfortunate Dawn.  Such is life.  "},{"Title":"It's sad that this is so true...","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The people that said this movie was not realistic must not have gone to junior high. This movie was so good, but so hard to watch. I wanted to climb into the movie, put my arm around Dawn and teach her the crappy-yet-vital rules to junior high. I wanted to slap Missy and GOD did I want Dawn to do something, ANYTHING than just take what was given to her. I hated that mom so much and it makes me so sad because I know that this happens to young girls and boys everywhere. The ending, however frustrating, is very real. No Hollywoodizing here, and this movie is so much better for it.  "},{"Title":"Ah memories....","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     I had a feeling that this movie would take me back and it sure does. I went through the same stuff that she did at school. You wonder what you did wrong to those folks. Kids are just cruel like a character of Steve Martin's once said. It is true that in high school they won't say it to your face as much. As soon as you're out you are free though. They like you for some reason afterwards.    True this movie just does not get happy enough and you hope for yourself and Dawn (and I guess Charlie Brown too) that SOMETHING goes really good for her. You know she's gonna be a beauty when she grows up. What she probably needs to do is to join the Rocky Horror Picture Show. Everyone is accepted there. ) "},{"Title":"Dignity","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Truly one of the greatest movies I have ever seen!  Beware though, its certainly not for everyone.  This is an incredibly honest and up front movie.  It is not always pleasant to watch.Its a comment on suburban life and is (from what I've heard) based in part on the life of the writer/director Todd Solondz.  Solondz makes a point about how we treat others.  Through much of the movie the heroine of the story, Dawn Weiner (played by Heather Matarazzo in what has to be one of the best casting choices ever), is taunted, teased or just absolutely humiliated.  The only outlet that she can find is to turn the same abuse on her younger sister Missy (a.k.a. The doped up 8-year-old). "},{"Title":"this is great","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  welcome to the dollhouse is such a cool movie. when i saw it for the first time i was like wow,they show what its like going through puberty and stuff. i recomend people to see it if they havent. u wont waste your mopney on this tape. i promise. "},{"Title":"One helluva movie....","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, this movie is pretty harsh.  Yes, many of the situations may be hard to take in.  However, the beauty of this movie is that although many of the situations may seem rough, Solondz presents them in a manner that isn't overdone or in your face.  It's an honest film that does not lack integrity by forcing viewers to sympathize for the main characters, but shows the ups and downs of growing up.  A truly remarkable film. "}{"Title":"Spectacular!","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have no idea what anyone who disrespects this movie is thinking. Who cares if it was a drama when it said comedy on the box?? I actually found myself smiling from time to time just by the sheer crazyness of some scenes (like the teacher getting shot in the eye with the spitball, everyone saying they love Dawn at the end in the dream sequence and that weird music they kept playing between each scene). This is one of the best movies I've ever seen and as a matter of fact, is my favorite independent movie EVER. But to each his own...The main thing I think no one can deny is how REAL all the characters are. Dawn is the poster child for any student in junior high who was insecure, ignored and unappreciated. The young actors (Heather Matarazzo and Brendan Sexton in particular) I felt gave splendid performances!  I've seen some of these supposedly child stars who can't work themselves out of a paper bag yet call themselves actors. Yet I think everyone in this movie held their own and gave each character what it needed. Not to mention I have become a huge Todd Solondz fan after viewing this film. He's a marvelous director.This is not necessarily a flick the whole family can sit down and watch after dinner time on a Sunday, but it's definitely something to watch if you want a REAL script, TALENTED cast and SUPERB director. "},{"Title":"A very funny uniquely put movie.","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My friends and I quote this movie day in and day out. The previews would lead one to believe it's all about a dorky little virgin interested in an older guy and sex but that's not what it's about at all really. Its basically about the ignored middle child who gets made of at school and is the scapegoat at home and is in love with a guy she hasn't a chance with. One of the things I love most about this movie is the ending I'm not going to give it away but I'd just like to say it really doesn't set you up for disappointment like I thought it would as I got furthur into the movie. I literally preach about this movie to people. It may be corny but it'll put a smile on your face. I know I've never been one to like movies about kids or young teens but this is definately an exception. "},{"Title":"welcome to the mind of youth","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  a wonderful portrayal of the hell and insecurities that the unattractive and misunderstood go through during that strange transition to junior high and puberty.this movie was laugh out loud funny and tearfully sad at the same time.  Emotions could be empathized with.  Sure a little cheesy at times, but you have to admit that there was some cheesy stuff going on when you are in junior high.  everyone is trying to do their thing and find a place to fit in.i reccomend this film to anyone who wants to be taken back to those wonderful preteen years.  sit back, laugh, and realize that life is just a series of tests and struggles, but there are no right answers. "},{"Title":"a truly brave film","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Something I wrote somewhere else  ...Which brings us to the dilemma Todd Solonz almost hung himself with when casting the hapless anti-heroine of Welcome To The Dollhouse. I remember wondering about it before seeing the (excellent) film. Either he would choose a normal 10 year old girl and then have us pretend she was the ugly, unlovable, protagonist everyone understandably bullies in the film; or then he would just go for a really ugly person. Now that, obviously, would be cruel to the point of unbearable, aggravated by the young age of the actress. In the end, the girl chosen was just ill-clothed, just a little bit dowdy and wearing thick glasses  nothing that can't be rectified easily.This is a truly brave film, tackling a subject Hollywood feelgood comedies would rather overlook... but so much more realistic and poignant ! I mean, who hasn't felt bullied, unloved, unpopular, lonely etc. To Solonz's credit, he doesn't actually dwell on it -even though the poor thing goes from bad to worse- as the protagonist, Dawn, somehow manages to get along  the film does not descend into embarrassing weepie category. Yes, it is a cruel spectacle, but there is compassion in the act of showing it.As for the end... it is pure narrative genius, and could not be any truer to life, as life, well, .... just continues, whether we like it or not. "},{"Title":"Young idealist's experience","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dawn looks like an idealist intelligent girl who grows up differently then other realistic and materialistic classmates.  Being young makes her vulnerable to the views of others different from her, and she is struggling to stand out as her own self.  I feel sad that there were no one to support her in her growing up, no one sees the world as she did and they constantly invalidate her perceptions.  I think Dawn experiences something many grown scientists, literary professors, and social workers had some experiences of. If this continue to be the state of things in jr. high schools today and tomorrow, then we must do something effective to transform the next generations' schooling experiences - to support and inspire each and all personalities to realize their different potentials and orientations, and create opportunities for students to experience fulfilling and constructive interactions between seemingly opposite personality types. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For me, this movie scored big on every level.  The characters (with exception of the nerdy brother) are all well developed and constantly interesting.  The portrayal of the mom is dead on, and way better than (if not as fully explored as) the mom in American Beauty.  I love how the protagonist is like innocent, but not stupid.  This movie is funny where Happiness is not, and here the disturbingness of everything that goes on is more realistic and touching to me than in Happiness, where everything seems a bit overblown.  Anyway, you've got to see it. "},{"Title":"Dr. Strangelove meets The Wonder Years with a brain and an attitude...","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Black humor was only blacker in Strangelove--and Welcome to the Dollhouse also shows viewers more reality than they might realize while they're watching--it's certainly not for everyone, but, then again, films that are designed for everyone seldom take any creative chances and depend on sappy sentiment--Forrest Gump comes to mind.This film captures the pain and awkwardness of the junior high years so perfectly it's hard to watch at some points--but I felt compelled to do so just to see what tribulations Dawn would weather next.  This was quite a daring film to make/story to tell, and I have a feeling most of the viewers who thought this film was too over-the-top were among the lucky ones among us who weren't tormented by their classmates during the most awkward time of life.  As for me, this one hit HOME.This is a film with three dimensional characters it's hard to hate or love completely, in situations with no easy answers--just like in real life, it's never that cut and dried.Welcome to the Dollhouse is an excellent flip side to teenie bopper tripe like Clueless, which came out the same year and offers the idea that Sally Jesse Raphael/Jenny Jones make overs will wipe away all the loneliness and alienation MOST junior high age kids have to endure.Consider yourselves more fortunate than most of us if you can't relate to the story and characters in Dollhouse--this film tells it like it is/was for most of us, and made me realize how universal the pain of those years can be.And just like Strangelove, it offers lots of very unsettling laughs and sticks with you. "},{"Title":"Shocks the first time....","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie about 3 years ago when it came out on video, and I was literally shocked at how cruel the world was to Dawn Weinerdog Weiner. But, after a few more viewings, the movie really grew on me in a wierd way. I began to examine all the character's and Dawn's personalities in depth. Rest assured, Dawn herself is hardly an angel, and the only likeable character in this entire movie would be Dawn's only friend, Ralphy, who she eventually turns against for absolutley no apparent reason. Anyway, this movie was pretty much as close to real life as you could get. There was no happy ending, or an ending at all for that matter, which I guess leaves perfect room for a sequel. Great guilty pleasure movie. "},{"Title":"jr. high stinks","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film shows how rotten childhood can be and at times it was  like this.  This portrayed the extreme version of a middle  school kid's life.  If you can't personally relate to the  situations you've probably seen them happen to classmates. Everybody laughed at a lot of the stuff that went on with Dawn > and her family and the bully that ends up being her short time > boyfriend because it's just so sad and bizarre.  I think this is > one of the best films ever made.  I'm glad I'm past that awkward > stage.  It reminded me a lot of all the 80s movies where > popularity and looks were the only relevant things   "},{"Title":"Ah yes, I remember seeing this film.","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It brought back middle school - perfectly. The people who think this isn't how things really are for many a seventh grader live in a dream world, or were just completely oblivious to the world around them. It makes me wish I had seen this film when I was that age; it would have been an affirmation that my life was not an aberration, as every other image I saw of adolescent life indicated it to be.The film isn't a mere whinefest, either; it shows how persecution spreads like a virus. Dawn is no innocent little angel - she shows streaks of mean-spiritedness herself with her younger friend - and we see how the bullying she is subject to encourages her to find compensatory outlets in those below her.All in all, a great movie, despite the discomfort it will probably induce. (In my case, that discomfort was recollection.) "}{"Title":"Great Good Above Average Average Fair Mediocre Poor Bad Awful","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Where could this film be placed? Anywhere by anyones standards. Welcome to Dollhouse should be considered a well-made and very acclaimed movie.  There were some very strong performances, and the directing was great unlike most films. I don`t think any mainstream box-office films ever get this deep into reality.  While, most films in the 90`s are quirky comedies in every genre. This film is not funny at all and seems more serious and real. Still, I don`t really know what audience this movie is aiming at. "},{"Title":"Great, but it could have been better...","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the Dollhouse is one of the most impossibly dense films ever made. It has so much going on, and so much going in its favor, that it doesn't always work. Those who say that it is unrealistic are self-delusional, but those who say that it's the most realistic movie ever... well, that's not exactly true, either.Todd Solondz deserves all of the acclaim that he has garnered for this film, though. It would have been so much easier to portray Dawn as a victim and 'Cookie' and the other 'Wieners' as her enemies. Instead, this movie is much more objective Dawn, although the viewer will feel remarkable sympathy (or empathy) for her, really isn't very pleasant she's downright MEAN to Ralphie, the one person who would be her friend. And there isn't a neat little pre-packaged 'moral' waiting at the end of the movie. Solondz doesn't patronize his viewers in that way, which is a very nice touch not often seen today.And there are some moments that are so awkward (re Dawn and Brandon sit in the 'special people club' listening to Debbie Gibson's Lost in Your Eyes) that even the most cynical viewer will cringe with discomfort. That's a sign of superior filmmaking. Dawn's two 'crushes' are also depicted beautifully, with all of the poignancy that would be appropriate for a middle schooler's crush.And Missy, Dawn's little sister, is one of the most ridiculously funny film characters that I've seen in a very long time.Despite all of these GREAT things, there still seems to be something intangible that's missing from Welcome to the Dollhouse that would boost it to a 'classic' status. It's an excellent, often painfully funny film that demands to be taken seriously, yet it seems like there was more to be done.Rating 8 out of 10. It works most of the time, and it's infinitely better than the 'black comedies' that the big studios have been attempting to roll out since Fargo. You'll feel uncomfortable, but it's a discomfort that everyone NEEDS to confront-- from either the perspective of Dawn or from that of her persecutors.  "},{"Title":"Saddest comedy I ever saw.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well directed and wonderfully acted, but almost too painful to watch a lot of the time. One keeps waiting for a ray of sunlight, a glimmer of hope, to fall on the heroine but it never does, or when it does it gets shut down almost immediately. The cruel characters are exaggerated, but only enough to accentuate their venality, never enough that you can laugh at them (and achieve some emotional distance thereby). I kept waiting for a comedy to break out. This film came within an inch of being funny as hell. Instead, the director Solondz kept too tight a reign on the situations, and it ended it up depressing the hell "},{"Title":"Didn't you go to school with her?","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every year, every class has their Dawn Wiener. She's the one that is so impossibly awkward and struggling just to make her way through teenage life. You can't help but feel sorry for her, but laugh at the same time. That cold chill of deja vu kicked in for me when I remembered back to middle school. A true piece of work that doesn't make growing up into some fantasy, Welcome to the Dollhouse is honest and harsh, but has the ability to make you think.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anybody who says that this movie was not-realistic or exaggerated, is full of crap. Why do I say this? Because what happened in this movie is pretty damn close to exactly what happened to ME in grade 7. The movie made me feel good that I'm not alone. And the details from the main character's experience that didn't actually happen to me happened to people I knew.The movie showed it like it is. It did not take sides and glorify one group of people and make their enemies look horrible. It did not make the tormented Dawn look innocent and unfairly abused... she was a geek! And she was stupid! But still, we feel sorry for her, and cannot deny that the other childrens' actions are way out of line, and should not be done nevertheless.Although I recommend it for everybody in general, I think every child should see this movie. Yes CHILD. I wish it was made and shown to me before I was in junior high. Potential Dawns would learn how not to act, to avoid provoking bad treatment. Everyone else would realize how not to treat geeks, by seeing it from these peoples' shoes. "},{"Title":"It was brilliance darling, pure brilliance","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's like Heather Matarazzo said as she introduced Welcome to the Dollhouse on the Independant Film Channel, this movie can either be viewed as a dark comedy or a drama depending on your junior high experiences. For me, personally, it was a drama. But for your sake I won't go into the weepy tale of my middle school awkward period and desperate wish for popularity, nor my journey into high school, where the awkward stage ended, my stunning beauty finally noticed, and my new goal to strive for outsider status is being achieved. ) This movie was one of the first to finally show the middle school experience as it really is. Not only does it not make the mistake of making the children overly immature and sickeningly innocent but it also stays away from the opposite extreme that most film makers tend to stalk into, leaving their middle schoolers veteran prostitutes with seven kids and a crack habbit, thirteen going on thirty. Some adults may beg to differ with me on the language factor, but sorry, sweetie, we know all the words by kindergarden. We just don't know what they mean 'till junior high. The acting was brilliant. Brendan Sextant III made me literally shriek with delight (don't worry I do it all the time, it's either that or a fit of clapping. I know I need to find new ways to express my amusment.) The over exaggeration of Dawn's pathetic situation just inhanced my feelings of pain and fury at her world. Some people have said that they couldn't feel sorry for Dawn because she took her anger out on other people. Again, my nonadolecent friends, that's called being thirteen. The dialog was perfect, especially the way they called each gay. Yes ladies and gentlemen, apart from some things that I can't say here, this would be the favorite insult among us teens. Quite creative, are we not? The best parts of the movie were, when Dawn stopped to consider the possibilty of smashing her sister's head in but decided against it, her sister frolicking through the scene changes, and of course who could forget my very favorite . . . Be ready cause at three o' clock I'm gonna rape you.  "},{"Title":"Junior High School Pain","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Who among us cannot remember the pain of junior high school?  Welcome to the Dollhouse captures that pain in ways that are both funny and moving -- but still so painful it is often hard to watch.  This movie is a genuine sleeper.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Harrowing but true look at junior high","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a true and horrible portrayal of what some kids endure during adolescence.  I appreciated that Solondz didn't gloss over the details of the abuse, tack on a happy ending, or paint Dawn as a martyr simply because she was at the bottom of the pecking order.I appreciated this movie.  I thought it was brilliantly written and acted, and I am glad that someone out there is creating movies like this.  But I warn you -- do not rent this movie if you're expecting a comedy, or if you're the type of person who cannot appreciate the dark reality of some independent films.Personally, I am glad I saw it once.  But I never want to see it again. It's too much like my own past, and the past of so many people I know.  "},{"Title":"The coming-of-age film meets realism","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It takes a lot of guts to make a film like this. Hollywood has pushed the sugar-coated views of growing up down our throats for too long -- finally we get some realism. My own memories of 7th grade are mostly related to the appalling way in which middle-school-age children treated each other. It's a really terrible age to be unless you are blessed with good looks, smarts, and luck. The main character here isn't, and it throws her reality in your face. This will make a lot of people uncomfortable, because we have a tendency to reinvent our childhoods -- and omit the unpleasant behaviors we experienced. "},{"Title":"realistic & original","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  welcome to the dollhouse is one of my favorite movies for one simple reason(besides excellently written, acted, and so on it rejects the typical, stereotyped loser, magical transformation, and happy ending cliches that usually go with movies of this type.  a quick summary  it follows the life of a seventh grade girl, Dawn, that has it particularly hard she is neither pretty nor smart, is neglected by her parents and viciously picked on by everyone at school. the pain of Dawn's life is shown so unflichingly that at times it may make the viewer feel uncomfortable, feel like squirming in their seat... but the sad thing about this movie is that there really are people like this, and it's about time that there was a movie presenting their painful existence as it really is, and the tortured souls that they really are, rather then portraying them as just another unpopular teenage girl who looks exactly the same as the so called popular crowd except she has glasses, who then proceeds to go through a radical makeover (e.i., her glasses are removed and she gets a new hair cut... of maybe just a new outfit) and bam! she's miss popularity, all the guys suddenly want her, life is great and it's a happy ending... people, life is not like that!  this is the first movie i've ever seen that shows this type of person in a realistic light.  we've all known people like this, and at one time or another we've all experienced something like what she has to go through... not certainly not many people have had it as bad as dawn does (if i had to make one complaint about this movie, it would be that her life is almost too awful that at times it becomes a bit unbelievable, that things could be so bad and that someone could survive with things so bad... but it's a testament to dawn's character, for her will to survive and her want to fit in, that she does survive) another terrific thing about this movie is it's ending- no magical makeover, no happy ending, thank god!  the ending may seem downbeat and a bit like no ending at all, i loved it.  there is no big ending, just dawn sitting by herself on the bus, a song playing softly in the backround, and the bus drives on... to me it symbolized how so often there are no happy endings, how life as it is will go on, and that dawn is doomed, at least for now, at least until she grows up, to life painful life that she has been living. there will be no incredible transformation, there will be no change in the way her life goes on, just more of the same.  that is why there is no big finish, because everything continues as it has been... for all dawn is tortured, for however much she may want love and attention from her parents, acceptance and popularity from her peers, life just doesn't work like that. so perhaps you're not the knid of person who appreciates realistic movies. if you think that the reason one watches movies is to escape from reality, not be presented brutally with the worst of it, then i can certanly understand that... but this is not your kind of movie.  "}{"Title":"the most realistic movie I've seen in awhile...","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie.  The acting is completely perfect- especially Heather Matarazzo (god I hope I spelled that right) and Brendan Sexton Jr. Everything they said sounded so natural- especially for two actors so young. And Brendan makes his character completely three dimensional.  I think he's an incredible actor.  You should rent it immediately. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Adolescent Hell - an update","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I'm glad I got the opportunity to edit my review, which I wrote immediately after seeing the film. This was one of the few films that I hated while I watched it, but the more I thought about it - which I did a lot - the better it got. Later I ran across it on TV and laughed at the things that upset me on initial viewing. See my initial reaction below...---Despite a few brilliant moments, this film is relentless, painful, and unfunny. Dawn is living a nightmare, from the brutal treatment of her peers to the callous selfishness of her parents, to the bitterness of a boy she gets to care for to... And it never lets up. How anyone can watch Dawn go from one gut-wrenching experience to the next and describe the story as hilarious is beyond me. I can relate to quite a bit of what she went through, but so what? Is there an ending? Not that I can tell. It should have had to be continued, though that would have been equally unsatisfying. If it makes you heartsick to watch someone being tortured from within and without, avoid this one. If you don't give a damn, you'll probably love it. "},{"Title":"realistic portrayal of awkward childhood","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite movies. While some people here have commented that Dawn somehow deserves her teasing and punishment, or is her own worst enemy, I don't see that. It's not like she KNOWS how to respond in a healthy way to these attacks. Her mother is just ridiculous (and a bit unbelievable - bad acting there as well, unlike the rest of the cast) and her sister is doted on beyond belief. When Dawn holds the hammer in her hand and briefly contemplates crushing her sister's skull in her sleep, you feel her emotions. And you know that this is no cozy cute warm and fuzzy picture of childhood. The older computer nerd brother, her classmates, her hilarious crush on the incredibly self-involved wannabe rock star Steve... it all rings true. Kids DO pick on others merely for their looks or their name or any little vulnerable thing they can get their evil little hands on... that's reality. And this movie is fantastic in that it is an uncompromising look into the life of a 7th grader. And whomever made the comment about it thankfully NOT being another My Fair Lady makeover movie was right on... everyone should see this film. No matter when you were 12, you will see yourself somewhere in this movie. "},{"Title":"We all know someone like this.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it's that kid you picked on in class...maybe it's someone you just felt sorry for...or maybe it was you.  This film pokes fun at the awkward stage, and pokes with a jagged edge.  It's so funny...if you went through any of this as a kid it's great for two reasons - you either can just laugh at it as you look back and see how stupid it was to begin with, or you can laugh at her. Welcome to the Dollhouse is such a great comedy to come across in a long time.  "},{"Title":"Dawn Weiner's all that","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this movie a couple years ago, I figured it would be a slightly more abrasive version of The Breakfast Club or Pretty in Pink, those coming-of-age movies in which an awkward girl character endures scorn and ridicule for most of the film, only to undergo a ***FASHION MAKEOVER*** and stun the popular kids with her wholesome good looks and well-adjusted nature. Thankfully, this movie did not go down this tired road. This film muses that often nonconformity is not a choice, that those on the fringe of society are not always there because they want to and are able to slide back in acceptability whenever the situation dicates it. In this instance, Dawn Weiner is not immune from the same petty antics of her tormentors. As often is the case, the abuse she suffers is handed down to whoever she can abuse. This is not a film in which one can root for any particular characters. It gives a fairly illuminated portrait of the psychology of real families and real adolescents as they grope for whatever power they can. I make these comments now in the shadow of the release of She's All That, a giant step backwards for such subject matter. It rehashes the Pygmalion plot (also plundered for My Fair Lady and Pretty Woman, ugh) with a high school backdrop. Again, we are back to misfits who clean up nice and only then become objects of affection for their jock overlords. "},{"Title":"It puts you right in the movie","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My wife and I saw this and were absorbed by the characters especially Dawn. We would actually like to see a sequel to this in a couple years when the kids are older.   I felt like grabbing by the scruff of the neck the kid that was harassing her and put a real fear into him as he apparently didn't care about anyone or anything.  The teacher was a witch and I also would like to give her a piece of my mind, and the principal was a real naive case.   This was just the opposite of Our Miss Brooks.   Her mother was like someone I can associate with and her father was a real nerd.  I hated her brother who also needed a good toungue lashing.  It is amazing how the director can put someone like Dawn who was perhaps 12 at time in a situation that she might be raped and also to use language that I really would not expect a child of that age to use. "},{"Title":"Twisted","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A twisted movie, but hilarious. True to real-life, in a way. Well-written script...I liked it.  "},{"Title":"when things can't get much worse....","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Heather Matarazzo is brilliant as the cursed and much maligned Dawn Weiner in this dark and sometimes sick and strange comedy about a girl's life... "},{"Title":"Read Bukowski?","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who has read Ham On Rye, or any other of Charles Bukowski's painfully beautiful coming-of-age tales would enjoying this film in the same sad way as Bukowski's works. The brutality of growing up, passing through awkward stages, and stumbling upon feelings like sexual desire, are all covered in an admirable, honest fashion. It's a good movie, and not to be underestimated because you can rent it at a grocery store! "},{"Title":"Ugly as hell.","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You know what movie this reminded me of?  Boys Don't Cry.  Now there's an ugly movie, made all the nastier by the realism of it.  And even that horrible story wasn't so bad as this one, because it had a few pleasant parts, and at the end it gave its central character a break from her torment.  So, film fans, Welcome to the Dollhouse is the most realistic movie in the world, is it?  So the world is actually WORSE than what's portrayed in Boys Don't Cry?  My god people, why haven't you killed yourselves?  I identified with Dawn too, I'm impressed along with you that this director managed to cram such a multitude of previously unsung indignities and minor horrors into one movie; no single incident or character portrayed here is more than a little unrealistic, and that's an achievement--but for all of them to come together around one person is just silly.  Even the loser has a good time once in a while, except for the rare one that doesn't, and that one at least is going to react somehow, by turning to drugs or shooting up the place or SOMETHING.  That's what I'd like to think anyway--that the banal hell-on-earth portrayed in Welcome to the Dollhouse is not a stable thing in reality.  Dawn should cut herself or run off with Brandon or go crazy.  You who like this movie, you went through thirty or fifty or seventy percent of what she did and you didn't snap, I'll believe that.  But she went through all of it and just kept going.  I don't buy it and I don't want to watch it.  I'd be glad to join Todd Solondzzddzdz in hating junior high; the man is clearly good at hating things.  But if he wants to hate the whole world, he can do it on his own damn time. "}{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a waste of 2 hours of my life! I was hoping for a story thatwould inspire, intrigue, and captivate me..instead I was left depressed and empty. I was hoping that the movie would make me laugh but instead I felt like vomiting. Thank God I saw it on HBO, or I would have wasted 8 bucks. I was disappointed because I was unable to connect with the cast. Their was not one likeable person in this movie.  You will wish you could drop an a-bomb on all of them. Even the misunderstood heroine of the story made you want to run away. The worst part of the movie was how it tried to be realistic! Yeah, every school lets students write graffiti on other student's lockers (not).Another problem was how vulgar the movie was! They were talking about rape and sex every three seconds.In a nutshell, this movie was horrible, it's not even a movie to see if you want a good cry. ( i.e, Comeback, Little Sheba)It was annoying, repulsive, and unwholesome! I give Zero out of 5 stars!    "},{"Title":"Impressive but painful","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was really great in its depiction of junior high school life and all the attendant misery.  The junior high school scenes are realistic enough to be painful to watch, at least for me.  I don't think I could ever watch this film again, despite its high quality of acting and scene detail.  The oblivious teachers and the rotten fellow students were familiar ground, but this time there was no wonderful redemption at the end where the protagonist turns out to be a great person and everyone is sorry for how horribly they've acted.  This film just was a small chunk of Dawn's life, and her life will go on after the cameras shut off.  That's the impression I got, anyway, since there wasn't much of a definitive ending.  But hey, that's how most episodes in people's lives end, with no real clear finish line.A great film, but not for those who find thinking about their own junior high experiences too painful. "},{"Title":"Look in the mirror","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Todd Solondz shows perfectly the frustration of growing up. How Dawn (the main character) feels the need to impress her teachers, guys, her siblings and most of all her parents. I especially like the BBQ where she dressed up for school-heart throb. Luckily I never went through this kind of torment through school, but there is still some bits that every person can identify with.The narrative and actors very funny! set in a suburban Jewish community. Todd Solondz also covers every kind of issue that young women must go through their life, rape, unfair lower marks in exams (reflecting wage the work industry), the pressure of looking attractive, arguments with boyfriends, running away to New York and many more. But the great thing about this film is that isn't a happy ending, there is no ending I feel the message Solondz was trying to create is there will be many more frustrations and issues in Dawn's life. As it ends she is sat on a bus with lots of young girls, going somewhere she doesn't want to go, she ends up joining in the singing showing society has now got her, she must stop rebel and join everyone else. You must see this film!!!!! "},{"Title":"Far too depressing to be a fun Dollhouse","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is relentlessly depressing, dour, and fatalistic.  Just when you think things couldn't get worse, they of course do.  So, what's the point?  A slice of NJ reality?  The hopelessness of ugly, awkward girls?  What did I learn from this exercise?  I can't fault the acting or other film elements, only the nascent decision to make this film in the first place.   "},{"Title":"Well acted and realistic, but very depressing","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a one-of-a-kind movie. I never saw such a depressing, realistic account of what life can be for a social outcast. The acting is superb, and I caught myself wanting to yell at the protagonists all the time. Not only at the cruel classmates and the absolutely incompetent parents and teachers, but also at the heroine Dawn herself, who relieves her frustration by hitting on the even weaker ones, using the very same insults the others throw at her. One should think that somebody who suffers injustice or cruelty would understand best how wrong it is to treat others this way, but the sad truth is that these victims often act as bad (or worse) against those that are even lower on the social ladder. Abused children often become abusers when they have kids of their own. This is one thing the movie reminded me of.An interesting movie, but so depressing that I don't want to see it again. It is beyond me how one can really laugh at anything in this movie - unless it's the Missys or Cookies of this world, who never learned how it feels to be treated like this.  "},{"Title":"No normal people here","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This had to be some of the most abnormal folks I've had the pleasure of viewing in many moons. The Wiener family consisted of a gutless, say nothing dad and a mom who doted on the youngest, spoiled rotten, daughter while virtually ignoring the siblings. This didn't seem to faze the son at all as his mind was on college and resumes', but caused the other daughter endless grief and anger. Her life at school was no better; a living hell over having to deal with outrageous behavior from her peers as well as the faculty. Finally, she breaks from the strain and becomes what she hates, at least briefly, and strikes out at a fellow nobody. Even though this was a comedy it had it's serious side, however I found myself howling with laughter even when I should have been crying tears of pity and pain. Dynamite film, well played by all.        "},{"Title":"Honest and funny movie, full of heart and a little hate.","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let's see, this is my first review... This is the first true Independent Film, I had ever seen (about 15 years ago), and I instantly fell for the humor and writing behind it.Dawn Wiener, your typical outcast tween, hated by her classmates and at times her family finds herself stuck at a crossroads, she has finally fallen in love; with an older man, who does not reciprocate her same feelings, and all of a sudden her younger sister Missy is kidnapped by the local pedophile. Wiener-Dog, Wiener-Dog, Wiener-Dog!! I don't mean to be such a c*nt, Drop dead lesbo. This movie is full of funny little phrases that to this day I still use with my friends. This is truly what it is like to grow up as an outcast, this movie gives the audience an in depth look at what it is like through the eyes of the actual outcast. In fact she is such an outcast, that when she tries to assist another outcast when he is being bullied by the school bully, he rebukes her and in turn calls her by her nickname Wiener-Dog!! It also can be seen as somewhat of a feminist film for younger women, there are numerous times throughout the film that Dawn tries to use sex to get ahead in her life, she never actually follows through with it, I mean come on she is 12 years old and if she did that would be absolutely wrong and disgusting, but it is able to demonstrate to young women that they do not need to use sex to do what they want in their own lives.This movie is absolutely hilarious, and it brought Heather Matarazzo to the forefront of the Indeoendent movie circuit, however I personally do not feel she ever received the recognition that she really deserved for this film. I think I have only given maybe a few other movies a 10 *** rating and I give this movie that because although it is flawed in numerous ways, all the ways that it is good completely make up for any flaws that lie with in its 90 minute run time. Thank you for bearing with me on my first review, I know that I seem to jump all over the board with review, o read other people's reviews and think to myself, God I wish I could be so eloquent and detailed with my reviews! Oh well I guess all in due time. Thanks! = "},{"Title":"On trying to find DVDs, v1.10","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A prime quality that the DVD had for me was a price much higher than I usually can pay. Used to be that when I browsed IMDb details I sometimes looked at the tag at the top that showed availability in the different Amazon countries, availability as disk or tape or whatever. Way back then I purchased from local low cost shops, but it was interesting to browse. Then I progressed to purchases from the local, UK, Amazon but only for what I could pay for by cheque. Then I got to be able to pay electronically and it was suddenly possible to purchase low cost disks from second hand sources in the UK, Germany, USA and Canada, etc, via Amazon UK. The disk availability box at the top of an IMDb page was starting to have potential for real value, though I tended to search just in Amazon UK. Some of the really interesting disks were not available, some needed access to paying to a different country's Amazon, especially for low cost disks, but this was a massive start for being able to search for disks by title rather than from the more restricted range of what was available locally. Locally is still really useful, but it is more a serendipity sort of thing. Then the IMDb system changed. The disk availability button was not there. Then it was there but not showing the range of countries or versions of disks, if UK Amazon had the title in a variety of versions then either only one would be shown or an Amazon USA version would be shown. So, there was a basic indicator of availability, which is useful knowledge, just the way of searching the different stores was gone and at August 2009 this was still gone. So things were okay and unless an Amazon other than UK became the sole outlet for such as The Adventures Of Pete And Pete Season 3, some have a hunger for that Trachtenberg series, then things were tolerable. What happened instead was that Amazon USA became the sole outlet for Unfabulous Seasons 1 and 2. Also Zoey 101 seasons 3 and 4. While the prices are nothing like my ideal it was suddenly essential for me to get a payment method that Amazon USA accepts and in August 2009 I managed. Dollhouse. When I got to make my first order there was a copy of this at USA at a much lower price than I had ever noticed at Amazon UK or any other outlet. Except that order failed, it was not available for a delivery address in the UK. Two other items went through, though. It looks as if some traders are able to export, but not others. Later experiences told me that I still have a problem re availability of difficult to find titles. The outlook can seem bleak. The stuff that I had been noticing will mostly have not been available for export. * Dollhouse is from the year when season 3 of Pete, Pete appears and is a couple of years after Heather Matarazzo appeared in an episode of each of seasons 0 and 1. It is weaker than Pete, but in some ways it is as strong. I find that it echoes My Girl and Tideland, but from a different culture and in a more down to earth way. All have the main actor as of an appropriate age, scary but sense when musing on these sort of aspects. Dollhouse is bound to feel offensive to some who can accept My Girl. To me it has a reality that I can relate to more than with My Girl, though both stories are alien at the same time. Napoleon Dynamite, about a different age range and a different subset of symptoms, I now have to wonder how those characters would appear if that story was set at age eleven. Mysterious Skin and The Quiet expand on the range of faces of this. I found Dollhouse difficult to get into, but I vastly prefer this to Princess Diaries as that falls flat for me as soon as Mia gets the makeover, the point where one is supposed to gain empathy with Mia? Much is said of Dollhouse being a story about the difficulties that an ugly girl can face at age 12, but watch this with any care at all and it is obvious that this is a rather nice looking girl who is badly damaged by the ugly ways of those around her. One needs the right sort of helps to be able to get around that sort of thing and this story makes a loud comment about how real those helps can be. I have to like this feature a lot. The message board hints of some considering the three bad boys to be pure criminal types, but the strongest hint put in a criminal way. For me, Dollhouse gives a context that puts such into perspective. What this shows of their back to front reality, criminal seems an inappropriate label. That is the real strength of this feature. This is not about the apex of the pyramid of society, it shows a dunghill. Dawn comes out with some really putrid behaviour and there are some reviews here that consider that to be a reflection of her personality. To me, she is just showing some effects that can happen when one is blowing in the wind, chaff that does not have enough free will to escape being blown in that way. Rather than Dawn being horror I consider that she is blown into a horrifying and damaging situation, but one has had to have been in that sort of situation oneself to accept that is an aspect of her being a victim of horror. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Bad Ending (spoilers!)","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie really hit home with me. As a child, I looked like the main character of this film, Dawn Weiner, as was bullied by my peers just like she is. But Welcome to the Dollhouse isn't just about an ugly, nerdy girl getting bullied at school, it's also about the hardship of growing up an outcast and confronting difficult situations in adolescence.Poor Dawn gets harassed, threatened, assaulted at knife point and nearly raped by her bully, Brandon, only to find out that he really likes her. A bond eventually forms between Dawn and Brandon -- the two school outcasts -- but Dawn's main interest is an older boy named Steve, who's in her brother's garage band. Steve, of course, couldn't care less about her, but in Dawn's mind she believes that if she could show him that she is willing to go all the way with him, he will like her.Dawn loses out big, though, and gets neither guy. To add insult to injury, Dawn's younger sister, Missy, gets kidnapped, thanks in part to Dawn's actions.While the movie is slow at times, it does pull on your heart string, and is definitely worth watching.  "},{"Title":"I wish I knew what people saw in it.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Most of the people who I talked to about this movie said they loved it. I rented it expecting something dark and harshly realistic, but not this dismal piece of garbage.The movie starts in one groove and never seems to pull out of it. I know junior high is hell, and that many people --myself included--see a little of themselves in Dawn. But realism does not equal entertainment. I started to think ok, I can see that she's tormented, now what will she do about it? And nothing happened. Dawn lets herself get trampled on right up to the end. I ask, what is the point? To remind us of a period in our lives most people prefer to forget? I just don't get it. I want my money back. "}{"Title":"Didn't we know all that before?","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Life is hard if you grow up. Especially if you are thirteen, a middle child in suburbia and if you have to wear ugly glasses because of your far-sightedness. And it is even more cruel if your brother is intelligent, and your younger sister an attractive ballet dancer. But didn't we know all that before? It is just another movie of the the others are successfull and happy, and I am so poor and ugly-type. I cannot understand the good reviews it did receive (at least here in Germany) "},{"Title":"ZZZZZZZZZ","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  By the previews, they made this look like a nerdy girl puts a spell on boys so that they fall in love with her.  This movie is not like that.  It sucked beyond belief.  The acting was horrible!  The girl bully Laura, where did they find her?  And the painful, phony studder by Dawn.  The only thing that kept me from shutting this off was the portrayal of what 7th grade was like.  The little crushes Dawn had on Steve and Brandon were close to reality.  Sad to say, but the only person with an ounce of talent was the innocent, but bratty little sister.  I give this movie 1/5.  "},{"Title":"Perceptive and Insightful but Not Without Flaws","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" FEEL FREE TO SKIM THIS IT'S GOING TO BE VERY LONGActing Heather Matarrazzo is very good with the subtle moments, but not the big emotional moments. For example, when begging her boyfriend to not leave, or when begging her teacher for a re-test, her voice gets too whiny and thin for me to be convinced by her. Subtle moments and big emotional moments are equally difficult, and every actress should know how to do both, but in this film Matarrazzo is only capable of handling subtle moments. Luckily, this role requires mostly only subtle moments, and she therefore gives a very contained, intelligent, and strong performance. Her performance is somewhat repetitive---there are many scenes in which she just plays the same emotion over again, and that emotion is  Hey, I'm being mistreated, but no one is paying any attention. But she does have other emotions besides that---for example, her crush on her boyfriend and her crush on the high-school star of her brother's band. Overall, I would say that, despite the flaws of her performance, she still gives a good performance. She mostly doesn't have much to express herself with but her facial expression, and for that I admire her performance. The rest of the acting isn't very good. The person who play's Dawn's mother acts more like a cartoon than an actual person--though perhaps that's what the director was trying for. The person who plays Dawn's boyfriend is OK, I guess, but there are a lot of moments when he didn't convince me. The boy who plays Dawn's homosexual friend gives a very good performance, but unfortunately he isn't given much screen time. He and Matarrazzo give the best performances in the film, however. The script My criticism of the script is that it chops the film up into separate scenes instead of connecting them. It also doesn't really tell us that much about Dawn, leaving us to fill in the blanks ourselves. These two things combined gives the film a somewhat stark, spare feel. Stark and spare is appropriate for a film like Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter, and Spring not appropriate for a film about the richly intricate worries, fears, and secrets of your typical 11-year-old geek. I also don't like that Dawn's mother didn't notice when Dawn ran away to New York for a few days that was just over-dramatic. But I've gotta give the script points for perceptiveness. It also never dips into clichés or tries to smooth over Dawn's geekiness to make the film less embarrassing. And overall, though it is flawed, I'd say that the script, like the film, is pulled up to being very good by it's perceptiveness. Costume design Very, very good. Captures Dawn's geekiness, Dawn's sweetness, Dawn's emotional honesty, and Dawn's attempt to be cool.Cinematography Nothing special. Adding this all up, I'd say it was a good film not without flaws. "},{"Title":"The characters left much to be desired","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was not a realistic depiction of the hells of junior high school. For one thing, girls would pick on other girls, but in no way, whatsoever, would any of them force another to sit on the crapper in front of another as a forms of bullying. These are 11-12 year olds? Uh uh. Maybe 4 years older that would happen, but no one at that age would succumb to a type of humiliation that gross and tasteless.I liked this movie at first. The second time I saw it, I felt it lacked a point. It did. The final scene was abrupt and thrown in almost 20 minutes before the movie should of ended. And despite the very short running time, the movie dragged on too long in many scenes. I never really cared for what happened to the main character (Heather Matarrazo as Dawn Weiner) She was no better than her sadistic classmates, her senseless teachers, or her goofy family. She gets the nasty language she hears at school and uses at home, she's not too bright, she's not someone you want to know.  As for the people who said this was funny It wasn't. It wasn't even a black comedy. The bullying scenes were embarrassing and annoying, and the tone was very downhill.I wish I enjoyed this movie as much as the people who grossly overrated it; but if you want a better movie about High School angst, see Heathers.  "},{"Title":"dreary and very narrow minded","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An overrated film about a 'misfit' girl.  That's exactly where the film is rigged.  If the girl was perhaps just a tad less pathetic, it might be believable.  But the whole world is against her.  It's a martyr role, and one that many young people can relate to, so they respond as if they're watching art instead of the director's diatribe.  (Note the girl and the director both wear large, overly-emphatic glasses to gain sympathy or to seem pseudo serious?  You decide.)  And, of course if the girl is portrayed as sad and neglected, the only way that everyone - and I do mean everyone - else in the film can off is as thugs, cretins and buffoons.  A world that the director may believe exists, but only if you have a big chip on your shoulder. "},{"Title":"Be Warned","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I find it hard to believe this film is championed by so many people on here. It's atrociously bad on all levels. There's really no plot other than following around a geeky junior high school girl who is harassed to a ridiculous and totally unbelievable degree because she is supposedly ugly, even though there are far uglier people about who seem to do just fine. She does, however, dress very badly, but then so does everyone else in the film. I thought at first that it was supposed to be set in the 70's, and took this as an explanation for the Brady Bunch costumes and music, but about midway through the film the brother goes on the internet, and that put the kibosh on that idea. Most of the rest of the film is similarly unfathomable, and the script, acting, dialogue, and especially the production values, are atrocious. I could overlook some of these things in a better film, but this one is completely uninspired. A waste of time unless you're desperate to see another poorly made teen 'nerd' movie. "},{"Title":"Sometimes the mystery in a movie is not found in the plot but just in the fact that a movie was actually made in the first place.","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only spoiler in this review is that if you happen to watch this movie you may forever doubt the integrity of artistic creation, be afraid to ever watch another movie again, commit suicide, or all of the above in whatever order suits you best.The creation of life, the existence of a higher power, what in the world women are thinking...these great mysteries of the universe pale in comparison to the question of how it is that this movie has managed to receive such high reviews. I would have given it a 0 out of 10 had I not been cast as an extra...yes, this movie is so bad that my mere presence in about 3 seconds of a scene is enough to raise it a whole star (check it out...anniversary party in the back yard, as Dawn makes her big entrance to the party out the back door I slip inside through the door right behind her).After viewing this horrific movie for the first time, I was saddened by the thought that it would never be aired again, allowing my cameo and claim to fame to be forever lost. Years later I looked it up and, in a state of shock, realized that somehow critics were not only responding positively to it, but, in fact, critically acclaiming it as a great piece of work. My first thought that the director paid them off was quickly dismissed by the fact that the movie was so low budget that no one got paid and we were actually under the assumption that this was simply an college class project.I am so tired of a movie getting a cult following just because it is weird and depressing. Yes, movies such as Kids and Requiem for a Dream show us that a formula of strange and depressing can be a match made in heaven. However, movies like Dollhouse and Gummo missed the boat completely.So please, if you set on watching the movie, fast forward to the anniversary party, check me out for a few seconds and then move on to the next DVD in the store...just don't get sucked into liking garbage because it is so far out there that it MUST be cool. "},{"Title":"Profoundly Disturbing","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ha ha ha. Her friends make her poop on the floor of the school bathroom. Her little sister gets kidnapped by a pedophile and is kept prisoner in sub-floor space. Isn't that funny? I didn't think so. I can enjoy very dark humor. I can laugh about things that others find offensive, so it takes something really cruel and raw to turn my stomach. This was not done in a satirical way. It looked dead serious, but they added little tidbits here and there to let you know it was supposed to be a comedy. I wasn't sure in the movie theater whether I was more disturbed by the movie, or by the fact that other viewers were laughing! If you aren't disturbed by pedophilia, excrement-related bullying and other such themes, and in fact, you find all of those topics very funny, this may be just the movie for you. The actors were very talented and certainly convincing in their roles. The director made it all seem very real. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"This movie is not a comedy!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"     What was Todd Solondz thinking when he made this pathetic excuse and a failure to even call it an 'independent' film?  It's about this junior-high girl who gets made severely fun of by her classmates.  This movie is more of a drama than it is a comedy.   In the movie, Dawn gets constantly teased and pushed around by a boy bully who turned out to be a drug dealer and user, and he was also in love with her.  Also, Dawn had parents who seemingly hated her, and they loved her older brother and sister more than they did she.  And finally, she falls in love with some older teen loser who wanted to be a rock and roll star, and does silly kiddie stuff to get his attention.  Her teachers and the principal were rather oblivious and they didn't do anything to stop the ridicule that Dawn was receiving.   This movie was totally miserable.  I didn't see any humor in it at all.  I've seen more humor in Buster Keaton films!  There wasn't even a happy ending, either. At the end all the students weren't even sorry for teasing her, and Dawn didn't even get any redemption at the end.   Welcome to the Dollhouse is up on my list of Worst Movies of all Time.   "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just don't understand the value of this movie. It displayed the worst level of family bonds. No love between the family members. There was no communication between the mother and the father. It was obvious that the mother was playing favorite with the ballerina kid. I kept watching for the movie to get better, but I wasted my 90 minutes watching this piece of crap. If I went to a movie theater and paid my money to watch this, I would want my money back! "}{"Title":"Did any one else think this was the funniest movie??","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I feel kind of bad for Dawn but my flat mate and I would sit up late at night and just laugh at her and this movie... I mean the whole I'm gonna rape you scene is by far the best... and has any one forgotten the scene when dawn goes into the toilet and once realizing someone else is in there starts washing her hands hahahaa... I wanna see you take a dump.... I mean if that doesn't tickle your funny bone I don't know what will... Tho I do feel kinda bad for the kid because of her parents, and her annoying as hell little bratty kid sister if I were dawn I would smother her in her sleep *kidding* hmmmm anyway tell me if you agree or am I just a little bit loopy ??? "},{"Title":"Independent Does Not Equal Insightful","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This self-indulgent diatribe against everybody and everything attempts to prove its artistry through repeated misanthropy.The young actors make it watchable, but it offers no true insights or character development.  For the same message done far better, watch Pink Floyd's The Wall. "},{"Title":"Weird","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is basically about the way high school is. It's not really correct. Like the mother liking the baby, Missy, can be true, but for her to ignore the middle kid, Dawn, is just not. The bully a school that likes Dawn is just weird to me. Then the kids from the school are incorrect. There's not that much of a bully that picks and beats kids at school. Schools are more just about clicks. Like Preps, Jocks, Poppulars,and etc. Then Dawn likes her brother's friend, who is like twenty years old and she's only like thirteen. It was so fun how Dawn had only one friend and still had her play house, who has a play house at her age. Then she really thought she could get with Mark's friend. Overall, it was okay, not like an Oscar winning movie. "},{"Title":"I think I should put the gun to my head....now","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I understand this film won awards and what not back in the mid 90's....but it doesn't get much worse than this. Seriously, hear me out.The overall plot line is designed to be realistic since there's no happy ending or saving the day involved, but then again there was no ending period. Seriously, could she at least be shown kicking her sister in the head or something before the credits rolled? I literally blurted out loud That's it?? when it was over My main gripe is the characters more than the storyline....some of them come off completely awful. I don't know if it was Matthew Faber himself or just the way his character is written, but his lines are spoken in such a monotone way you are likely to start laughing every time he appears on screen regardless if the situation is funny or not. The kid's acting is so horrendous its a wonder he got on Band of Brothers.Don't get me wrong, some of the scenes had their funny moments (300 today...you get RAPED!), but others are so freaky they make you wonder if this kind of stuff actually goes on in the world. When Lolita corners Dawn and says I wanna see you s*it!....kinda made me wonder if pre-teen girls really watch each other drop a load? I certainly didn't need that thought running through my head while I was munching on popcorn.Again, good god almighty every time I see the older brother I start laughing because his lines are monotone no matter what the situation is, at least have some delivery, even the goofy rocker kid had some spunk in him. Least Brandon McCarthy kept this movie entertaining....till they had him run away near the end of it then it was all downhill from there.I'm cool with the girl not getting her way at the end since its the realistic thing to do, but at least give us SOMETHING to send the fans home happy? Even if she didn't get either of the guys she liked, at least have her put the boots to her sister, throw something at Lolita or tell the popular girls to stick it.....ANYTHING would have been better than the ending I saw.Maybe because I wasn't picked on every day in middle school but I really did not like this movie. I try to put myself in the kid's position but the majority of the plot was so outrageous that I simply couldn't. I will say Heather Matarazzo did her best, although I found her funnier in Saved.3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"It was, well, unreal...","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I spent my seventh grade year being suspended from school.  That's what really would've happened to Dawn.  I spent my seventh grade year being teased just as bad as she was, and having my family hate me, and swearing just about that much, and having a crush on an older boy just like Dawn. So why didn't I like this film?  For one thing, it depressed me by reminding me of my own painful childhood.  And no one--not even the a**holes--ever threatened to rape me and then fell in love with me.  Oh, they just teased me more.  Yeah, boy, there's a lot of kids out there who went through a lot of TS as seventh-graders (why is that the deepest pit in hell for most of ys, I wonder) if we weren't conformist model wannabes who got straight As like all the Abercrombie girls.  I thought the ending made no sense, I thought the plot was totally unreal, and I just thought the movie ddddddrrrrrraaaaaggggggggggeeeeddddd on forever.  I just wanted it to be over.  What a depressing pile this was.... "},{"Title":"this is a bad movie","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  welcome to the dollhouse is a bad movie. it's too dull and unsettling for me to like it. i just don't like most independent movies because they're so dull,and unsettling. i can't explan why critics praise independent movies. i've seen maybe 2 or 3 that are good, but none that are more than that. this is maybe one of the worst independent movies ever! it's supposed to be a comedy.  there's no laughs in this movie whatsoever. it's really a dull drama like most independent movies. clerks is the best out of the 3 independent movies i like. i'm sorry i just can't be entertained by most independent movies.i give welcome to the dollhouse *1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":".","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Really the movie is not of my taste . it does not reflect totally through what some children live during this age.Beside being too fantastic to be a children's movie, I refer that are too many events for a girlThey treat her badly in the college she falls in love with a bad boy ... typical somebody kidnap her little sister which miraculously appears Too many events that the real do not reflect Too badly the beginning to come to a happy endingThey should have strained mas in giving it more content and realism to the movie. Personally I prefer the breakfast club that reflects more the school stage, at least for my age "},{"Title":"Welcome to pain...should be listed as a horror film","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought this movie was awful on so many levels, I can't even list them all. This is the story of Dawn Wiener, the biggest loser in 7th grade, whom everyone picks on. She is abused by her classmates, her parents, her teachers, her brother, her sister...basically the whole world hates her. She pretty much hates herself, too. She does not change, nor can any change for Dawn be hoped for. She dresses unattractively (and like a 6 year-old), wears ugly glasses, and acts really annoying and nerdy. Anybody thought of giving this poor girl a makeover and therapist? How about just some contact lenses? No, because that would alleviate the suck-fest.The really awful thing here is the degree of negativity of this film, and the way Dawn just takes it. For instance, when the class bully, Brandon, tells her he's going to rape her...she accepts it. WHY? You want to pity Dawn, but it's also kind of like feeling sorry for a homeless alcoholic person. On one level, it's a tragedy. On the other level, it's hopeless.Where is the justice in this film? When is this character going to change? Otherwise, why should we care about her? Turns out, the world is nasty. And Dawn can be pretty nasty, too.The movie has an unusually blatant disrespect for its characters, I think, in this way. It's a lot like watching a punching bag getting used. What is the point here? That junior high school is miserable and life is unfair? WE ALREADY KNOW THAT, HELLO! Do we need it rubbed in our faces. And then the movie tries to be funny? Where's the lesson? Otherwise, just give me some pathetic family's home videos and call it Welcome to the Dollhouse, which is basically the equivalent of watching this film.And since when was a little girl's kidnapping funny? (I'm referring to the mother drama-queening her way at the dinner table while Swan Lake plays in the background). And then, turns out the kid enjoyed her kidnapping. Much of this film is disturbing.At least in a film like Napoleon Dynamite, which looks like a cousin to this film, you have some satisfying redemption. It's not even revenge, but at least it's a character earning some respect, even on his own terms. We think Napoleon is funny in his own quirky, harmless way. That's a movie that actually cares about its characters, even if they're not ready to change. "},{"Title":"Just plain stupid.","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this when I was about 10. I liked it. Now, having aged 6 years, I am able to form a sane opinion about this piece of sh*t. What a moronic, sad excuse for a coming of age film. This film is just flat out stupid from the beginning to end. I don't know why I liked this in the first place. For one thing, it has the worst dialog I have ever heard. And in what form of reality would you start dating a boy who treated you like sh*t for you're whole junior high existence, beat up your best friend, and threatened to rape you? What the hell is that about? The ending is idiotic, this whole film is idiotic. I got a queasy feeling after watching this movie. All the actors look like disgusting trailer trash, I could barely sit through this without vomiting, and I mean that literally. This film is stupid. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"The worst movie for the worst fan base","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie fails at almost anything you hand it to it. First the storyline is just a clump of paper with some random paragraphs of dialog on it, the story seems to be just thoughtless. Dawn is a character most can not feel sorry for, I have no remorse that some idiot that is oblivious of the meaning of rape gets raped by another student. I found that im going to rape you 3 o clock be there! ok just to be simply redicously unbelievable. I do not care how ignorant of the fact what rape is, there must be something to tell you in your mind that this guy does not want to play scrabble.The ending was the topper, thats what made the movie the worst movie i have seen and i have seen attack of the killer tomatoes. THERE WAS NO ENDING! why? because there was no resolution so that just killed any hope for dawn in one shot. why make a thoughtful ending why no ending is cheaper and less thoughtful? that is what the director was thinking when making this piece of crap. "}{"Title":"This show should have never been made","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this show was the dumbest show I had ever seen. I thought it was funny how cruel the kids were being to the girl, but I was expecting some sort of conclusion. I was expecting the girl to either commit suicide, get together with the guy from the band, or maybe make a friend. Some happy ending or some sad ending, but an ending none the less. This show sucked.  "},{"Title":"A Tragedy to Cinema","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Welcome to the Dollhouse, in my opinion, is probably the worst movie that I have ever seen in my entire life. The script was terrible, the actors were poor, the New Jersey settings were not a good choice, and it's bad to get kids involved with a movie like this. They say that the movie is a comedy. I didn't see any comedy at all. What is funny about seeing a poor girl getting harrassed.11 year old Dawn Weiner is always picked on at school and neglected at home. She has 2 siblings. Their names are Mark, who is a computer nerd, and Missy, who is in Ballet. But one day, Dawn hears a new guitarist playing in her brothers band. So then, she begins seducing him. But when she realizes that he is too old for her, the main bully at her school, Brandon McCartney, threatens to rape her. He tells her to meet him behind school so he can do it, but she gets away. So he calls her and is specific of where he wants her to meet him. It was like he was trying to set up a date with her. After all of this, Brandon finally kisses her instead of raping her. Now she has a boyfriend. She becomes so wrapped up in him that she loses the only friend she has, Ralph. There isn't much more to say about the movie because its only 87 freakin minutes! My advice to anyone who reads this review and has not seen the movie; don't see it! It is a tragedy to have that movie exist.  "}]