[{"Title":"A poignant and emotional portrayal of indentured servitude and arranged marriage in turn-of-the-century Hawaii.","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Picture Bride paints a realistic and moving portrait of what it must have been like for Japanese men brought to Hawaii at the turn of the 19th Century to work in the sugar cane fields. Most came planning to return to their homeland, but few were ever able to do so. Equally movingly portrayed is the fate of Japanese women, some as young as fifteen or sixteen, who were sent as promised brides to men they knew only through photographs that often were 10 or 15-years out of date, or were of some other younger man. They too worked long hard hours in the fields, while fighting homesickness and to preserve their dignity.Director Hatta's portrayal of one picture bride's courage and perseverance struggling to survive in a strange land and alien society under great physical duress, is, ultimately, inspirational and uplifting--a story of moral and cultural survival. There is a grandness and magnificence of sweep of character and landscape in Picture Bride that captures the alluring beauty as well as violent harshness of colonial Hawaii. This is a film that is emotionally, intellectually and artistically rewarding.  "},{"Title":"based on true events, this movie is  a little gem and a visual feast","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Japan 1918. The story of 16-year old Ryu begins with the death of her father. As it will be revealed later, both of her parents have died of tuberculosis. In this desperate situation Ryus aunt has arranged a marriage with a Japanese man in Hawai, whom they know only from its picture. By her arrival in Hawai ryu discovers that her new husband is much older as in the photograph ,and that he lives in very humble circumstances beside a sugar cane plantage were he works on. Ryu not used to the hard labour on the plantage and in despair over her situation in her new home thinks of running away. She soon discovers that she has nowhere to go. The friendship to Kana, a female co-worker of hers, gives her new hope and strength. This picture is based on real events between 1907 and the 1920s, when thousands of Asian woman were married off to men in America, whom they only knew from their picture. This not very well known picture is well written and acted. The location is breathtaking. This film also features Mifune Toshiro in his very last screen appearance as a Benshi (narrator of silent movies). This film gives some insight of Japanese culture here and across the ocean. A must see! "},{"Title":"Good and entertaining study","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good historical drama which is very educational and also very entertaining to people who like history.Very good acting and script.Not as sensual and sexy as it is sometimes marketed,be prepared to peek into the pioneer spirit and human ability to adjust.Very touching as well for the spiritually mature. Not for people who do not like to think......  "},{"Title":"Gotten better with age","Date":"26 June 2007","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this when it premiered and just re-watched it on IFC again. This is a great telling of the many possible stories about the immigrant farmworker population that came to Hawai'i to work the sugar plantations in the early 1900's. My grandparents were part of that migration; my parents were born on a Kohala plantation (Big Island) at the time setting of the movie. I moved to the Big Island over a year ago after living in California for over 30 years. I was surprised to see that many of the former cane growing lands are still undeveloped, with wild cane still growing, years after the plantations closed. I've heard many stories from my aunts and uncles who were kids growing up on the plantation. This movie helps to image those kinds of stories and memories. This story is more of an historical document than a romantic plot-driven movie. It leaves me shaking my head to read a review like ccthemovieman's. Some people just don't get it.I didn't recall that Youki Kudoh had the starring role, with which she did an incredible job. I recall her great performances in Jim Jarmusch's Mystery Train and in an Australian film, co- starring with Russell Crowe, Heaven's Burning. Tamlyn Tomita did a great job with her pidgin English, especially for someone who didn't grow up in the Islands. I had forgotten that Toshiro Mifune had a cameo role as the moving picture show narrator. And I missed the fact that Jason Scott Lee had an uncredited, non-speaking part as one of the plantation workers during the payday scene. I was saddened to find out that the director and co-writer, Kayo Hatta, died in an accidental drowning in 2005. There are two other excellent foreign films that mirror this cane plantation experience Gaijin about the immigrant cane workers in Brazil (many of them Japanese) in the same time period; and Sugar Cane Alley about the cane plantation experience in Africa. The latter is still available, but Gaijin, sadly, doesn't appear to have been shown in quite a while. Another great film about the early Asian in America experience when immigrants were more like slaves is A Thousand Pieces of Gold. This was set over the Chinese workers' involvement in the building of the railroad, starred Rosalind Chao, Chris Cooper, Michael Paul Chan, and Dennis Dun. "},{"Title":"Picturesque","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw PICTURE BRIDE, I felt a bit let down, feeling the story was a bit commonplace. Also, being from Hawaii, I felt the petty impulse to begrudge the few (very few) slightly misleading geographical and historical moments in the film. Now, five years later, I like the movie better. Its cinematography is beautiful, and if the plot is sometimes predictable, it's still handled sensitively. The film leaves you with a strong sense of a time and setting that no longer exists.   "},{"Title":"A Hidden Gem","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great film. From reading other reviews, I can see that I'm not the only one who shed a tear. Tamilyn Tomita acted with such skill and conviction, she made the ending heartfelt and memorable. In the hands of a lesser actress, her last scene would have seemed trite and corny. One would never guess this film was done on a tight, limited budget. The cinematography is gorgeous and there are a number of big name actors. The script is so wonderful, I can see why they all wanted to be in it. If you watch the long, long list of credits at the end, you'll see that half of Hawaii pitched in to make this film happen, and for good reason. The soundtrack (available on CD) is absolutely beautiful and sets the mood throughout the film. My only complaint is that I almost didn't want the film to end. "},{"Title":"Picture Bride","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Picture Bride has an excellent look into Hawaii's past and the people who lived there in that time. The time, money earned and the hours that these people had put into their lives to survive and live, takes a whole new meaning to blood, sweat and tears.The concept of dating/matchmaking is something like what we do similar today via the net. Just that is more of snail mail. Very slow snail mail.The singing of the plantation's songs from the workers reminds me of the southern plantation workers' songs of their demise and future goals.The movie shows the hardship as well as soft romantic scenes that Hawaii can bring. Like the stillness of a storm coming and the sudden chaos of the rain and then the tranquility. "},{"Title":"Sulking Is Entertainment?","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a Japanese film but there is quite a bit of English also spoken in here. It's a pretty film, with nice visuals, featuring the scenic beauty of Hawaii.However, that was the only redeeming quality for me. The story was generally boring. Who wants to watch a young woman sulk for 90 percent of the film because her picture husband is a lot older than he advertised he was? Granted, that could be a bummer......but get over it!Only in the last 10 minutes does she do an about-face and become fond of him. By then, for most viewers, it was too little-too late. We'd fallen asleep by then. "},{"Title":"A MATURE RESPONSE","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For a mature man, to admit that he shed a tear over this film  is a mature response, to a mature film.If one need admit more then perhaps one could say that, Life  can never be the same, after viewing such  advent  for it has moved us to the next level. "}]