[{"Title":"Check Your Brain At The Door","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Alicia Silverstone is looking for a killer. The sick twisted type. See she's a big fan of those 'True Crime' magazines hence the title. Now I've never been able to grasp the interest of these magazines, but that's of no consequence here. It seems very likely a murder is going to happen and she'll naturally investigate. Along the way hooking up with a police cadet (Kevin Dillon) who's off doing his own investigation. They form an unofficial partnership and from there things proceed pretty much how you expect in these sorts of movies. More bodies show up, as do many suspects, including the police cadet, cue the sexual tension. Can you say predictable yet?The problem with True Crime like many movies is it has nothing new to say. It's watchable, but you've seen it all done before and to better effect. The premise could be decent, but there is no follow through. It's just another cookie-cutter thriller with way too many red herrings thrown at you and a scene that happens early in the middle half of the movie just ruins it all. I call it the point of no return. Without giving away too much I'll say this She ends up investigating a house and finds hard incriminating evidence in and outside the place. Then she gradually seems to forget about it. Time passes and attention shifts to other suspects but why!? Eventually we end up back at square one and yup you guessed it. The person's house which she found all that evidence at turns out to be the killer. Laughable.True Crime is just below average in the end. The cast is passable, there's a creepy moment or two, but the end of the movie is a joke. Unless you're a big fan of Alicia Silverstone or have lowered expectations for thrillers you should pass. Especially with the blunder the movie makes that means you can easily predict who the killer is going to be. Nevermind the fact that a 16 year old girl is smarter than all the police officers in town put together. True Crime this is not. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw True Crime when it was first released back in the mid-nineties and I have watched it many times since. It is a great mystery about Mary (played by Alicia Silverstone), a high school senior in a California town who's classmate's younger sister was tortured and killed by an unknown murderer. Mary meets Tony (played by Kevin Dillon), a police cadet who sees how bright she is and they decide to work together to try to find the killer.Many suspects in this one. True Crime feels very true or real to me. I read a newsgroup review where someone wrote that total suspension of disbelief is present here and it is so true. Alicia Silverstone is perfect in this role and Kevin Dillon and Bill Nunn do a great job, as do the other actors. The locations are right on and the writer/director, Pat Verducci, really captures some of the realities of teenage life and of Mary's loneliness (see the scene where Mary awakens from the dream sequence after having viewed the photos she took of Tony). I wish Verducci would make more movies.I have not seen any other movie quite like True Crime. 10/10 "},{"Title":"....an entertaining story worth seeing","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I searched out this one after seeing the hilarious and linguistically challenging Clueless (1995), perhaps Alicia Silverstone's best known effort from early in her film career. True Crime has Kevin Dillon, which should be helpful in improving most film projects. In fact everyone in the cast does a good job . The only disappointment I think the movie has for me is an awkward feel to some of the scenes, coming from the need to run a quite uncompromising, grown up theme as part of what in tone starts out as a schoolgirl adventure.Alicia Silverstone is pretty good in this one. She carries off well the naive enthusiasm and growing unease that affects Mary Giordano as she manoeuvres towards the truth behind the serial murders. I reckon her characterization of MG has some mileage in it too. The inference of the story line is that she goes on to a career in law enforcement. It could be really interesting for an older Silverstone to revisit Giordano at a time of crisis later in the officer's life. Just a thought!True Crime shows its director in a good light. Pat Verducci also has the writing credit. I don't know of any other film work PV has done. I can only wonder what happened after such a promising start.Like most productions, this one has a largely unknown supporting cast, although Bill Nunn (Detective Jerry Guinn) is hardly that. Over the past decade he seems to have been able to secure an impressive number of screen appearances. I recall seeing him recently in Carriers (1998), a made for TV presentation with a military theme. Bill Nunn played Captain Arends. Fans of the classic US TV comedy show Who's the Boss may also have an interest in Carriers because the leading player is Judith Light, remembered with affection by many because of her lengthy involvement with the show.True Crime could easily not have worked, but it does OK. I think it is an entertaining story worth seeing.     "},{"Title":"A Real Dud!","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I try to be very objective when I view a low budget movie.  I also apply a lower weight to independent and low budget productions versus the big budget productions.  I expect near flawlessness from big budget productions and their studios.  Therefore I apply tougher criteria to the major studio releases.  But this movie was just a dud.  Period.  The premise was terrible.  The main character, Mary Gordano (Alicia Silverstone), was unbelievable as a high school senior with an unquenchable desire to solve crimes.  There was not enough depth in her character or her acting that pulled you into her world.  Also, to make this movie more mysterious, the lighting in certain scenes did not set the mood, especially in the warehouse.Once again another disappointing movie that I could only give three points to. "},{"Title":"An engaging made-for-video thriller!","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw this made-for-video movie on TV once and was quite impressed with it. It stars Alicia Silverstone as Mary Giordano, a student who has an addiction to mystery novels and detective magazines. She uses her knowledge of detective work to intervene in a homicide case, and teams up with police cadet Tony Campbell (Kevin Dillon) to try to solve it.The chemistry between Mary and Tony were good and the movie has a good thrilling and exhilarating feel to it. For a made-for-video movie, the script made for an exciting plot and kept me engaged, especially when he came to the part when Mary finds herself becoming a victim of her own circumstances.While the plot may be predictable, it does go at a steady momentum and the acting throughout wasn't bad. Overall, this makes for a good movie to keep you entertained on a slow night.Grade B "},{"Title":"exciting","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i got to see the whole movie last night and i found it very exciting.it was at least,not like the teen-slasher movies that pop out every now and then.the search for the killer and the 'partner' relationship between the hero&the so-called bad guy was parts i liked about the movie.also,i remember once being on the edge of my seat during a specific scene in the movie.i mean it's exciting.maybe some time later,i might watch the movie again... "},{"Title":"Schoolgirl Alicia Silverstone looks for a killer","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" True Crime (1995) is a thriller and a mystery. A schoolmate of Alicia Silverstone has been brutally murdered and she investigates on her own. She wants to be a cop because her father was, and he was killed in the line of duty. She knows the detective in charge, Bill Nunn, who tries without success to ward her off interfering. Meanwhile she's coming of age. She sees Kevin Dillon hanging around the carnival where the victim was last seen and follows him. She's then informed that he's been assigned to the case as a trainee by Nunn.As this went along, it got better and better, especially as twists developed and suspects came into view. There was a good deal of surprise to it combined with enough plot details so that we felt suspicious of too easy a solution to the case. While the story did tie up some loose ends, it has plot holes relating to the sharing (or absence of it) of information with Nunn; but this is somewhat understandable and not fatal to the story at all. Most thrillers have such issues. The cinematography is mostly sunny California suburban, although the climax has a darker location. This takes it away from being neo-noir even though a serial killer becomes central to the story.The acting was all right, more than adequate. No one brought it down and we felt sympathy for Silverstone as protagonist. This is decent work from writer-director Pat Verducci. I liked it; I'd rate it about 6.5 if I could. For my tastes, it's competitive with the bigger and noisier thrillers that have lots of special effects and action sequences. It has a nice bit of philosophical conflict between the nihilism of the killer and the Catholicism of Silverstone. It's nothing fancy or artistic, but it's good journeyman work. However, Ms. Verducci did only one more short after this in 1997 and has no other movie credits. She's become a writing teacher.I personally rather enjoy seeing movies in which young people are using their wits skilfully and growing up, and it's good to see a young woman as a heroine. "},{"Title":"uninspired murder mystery","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mary Giordano (Alicia Silverstone) is a smart Catholic school girl obsessed with true crimes. She goes to school with her sister Vicki (Marla Sokoloff) and best friend Liz McConnell (Tara Subkoff). Police detective Jerry Guinn (Bill Nunn) is her mentor following her dead father's footsteps. A fellow student Kathleen Donlevy is killed by who turns out to be a serial killer. She investigates with the help of police cadet Tony Campbell (Kevin Dillon).Mary is a darker teenage Nancy Drew. That has potential and it's interesting to dip her toe into sexual tension. However I wish it's not played up as erotica and it's too broadly done. The murder case is relatively uninspired. It's so uninspired that they investigate a traveling carnival. The actors are pretty good but there are some really clunky lines. I don't like the poorly done dream sequences. Going back to the carnival is bad enough. I don't know how she could still hang on to that carnival ride after being knocked unconscious. This is a borderline movie but I have to go a slightly negative. "},{"Title":"Straight-to-tape thriller with both serious and silly ingredients...","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Alicia Silverstone (pre-Clueless) plays a modern-day crime-obsessed teenager attempting to solve the brutal slaying of a local girl. Pat Verducci wrote and directed this B-flick, which isn't especially well-made but is however surprisingly serious-minded in regards to its leading character. Silverstone is appealing and successful in carving out an interesting young woman here, despite the picture's kitschy undermining. The supporting cast (including Kevin Dillon and Michael Bowen) isn't bad, though the violence in the last act goes overboard. Not a cheesy camp-fest, but nothing exceptionally memorable either. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"eh...","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film was so predictable, that during the entire time you're hoping that the obvious suspect is innocent, and there's some other big twist still coming. However... it doesn't. He just continues to act creepy, and she continues to ignore it. Mary found very incriminating evidence at his place, and she still trusted him? And what was that baiting the trap? There was no trap. She confronted him, he said excuse me. I have to go kill someone He left, and that was the end of it. They make attempts to use other suspects, (like that one older carnival girl at the end) but they're completely underdeveloped. Actually, all the characters are underdeveloped. They have no depth, and the setting is just plain strange... who hangs out in a recycling factory?? Its choppy and nothing is well developed. For example When she leaves his place after having the beer, and he finds the pics and she runs out and he catches her and they end up having sex in that car... what was that? Her reactions weren't portrayed. In the car she acted scared like it could have been practically rape- but then all we see is her showering the next morning. booooooooo It could have been so much better.. sooo much better. "}{"Title":"it was okay","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have seen this movie and even though I kind of knew who the killer was from the beginning I still liked watching it. I would recommend it to other people. It comes on Lifetime movie network quite a lot. And I am thinking since it's close to Halloween they might play it more. So please be on the look out for it if you are interested in watching it. I believe that Alicia Silverstone played her part very well. I really like her as an actress and person. She seems so nice and down to earth. Kevin Dillon he's performance was so so for me. I am not trying to knock him or anything but I believe that his brother Matt would have been able to pull this bad evil serial killer persona better. Kevin just seems too sweet for me. But I think he did okay. "},{"Title":"Not seeing this film would be a true crime.","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the best made-for-TV movie of all-time!  Am I saying this because I'm a huge Silverstone fan?  Partially, but even without her, I'd still see it.  I'm a fan of serial killer genre films, and believe this to be a great entry in that category.  Also, Mary Giordano easily ranks among Alicia's top five character creations.  Totally memorable - like she really exists. I'd have her on my side, too, if there was a mystery to be solved.  She plays the character, like she does with her real life, with complete confidence in everything she does.  Seems sweet, honest, nice...just like she is in real life.  So is that acting?  Yes, indeed, she's sort of a rebel once again. This time she's not bad, she's too good and a bit afraid to do things that seem above the law.  But she doesn't do things the normal teenager would do. Instead, she spends her time reading detective mags and solves crimes.  A cliche abounds she's sort of avenging her father's death, in a different way than vigilante-style.  At the time, Alicia seemed to be playing the same characters rebellious, seductive, without a parent, a loner.  This happens here, too, but she's a bit nerdy this time around.  That doesn't matter; she's still cool as a nerd.  Check this out soon, or else Giordano will be investigating why you haven't... "},{"Title":"True Crime here is the waste of talent","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm an Alicia Silverstone fan. She has that most memorable masterpiece that is CLUELESS to her credit. I didn't know about this title until searching for THE BABYSITTER on Amazon spewed this out as a related title that I might like.Unfortunately, I am quite disappointed. Movie is kinda lame in a dull way. There's not enough to make you feel something for the character. Nothing bright. Alicia needs a chirpy script. EXCESS BAGGAGE, though way inferior to CLUELESS, does a whole lot better.If we don't feel for the character, it is all to no avail. Movie seems like just an excuse to have a few gory scenes that, in any case, seem totally out of place in such a tepid little flick. Too much wallowing in referring to 'scattered body parts' reveals a sadistic bloodthirsty Freudian slip of the scriptwriter. The hanging corpse was another dud of a scene. I'm in such a bad mood after just watching this, that my review is just filled with negativity, so if it sucks, it's because the film was so bleak I'm still recovering.I absolutely know Alicia would have been up to portraying a much-more upbeat character had there been a better script. I've studied the 18 other reviews and why some of them are so positive about Pat Verducci I just can't fathom. Maybe he bribed them? Maybe he is their uncle? Maybe they stand to inherit? Maybe they want to be cast in his next (????) movie?No involvement, no magic, that's the cause of death, the true crime of TRUE CRIME. With hindsight, I'd have made this movie with Alicia cast as a fashion-conscious Nancy Drew with a weakness for some Questionable Type, but this Kevin Dillon, she'd have wrinkled her nose and said As if...! So sue me, Amy Heckerling! "},{"Title":"wonderful plots and twists","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" i thought this movie was wonderfully plotted it made me confused and my cousin who watched it with me.to tell the truth i think that the younger kevin dillon was hot.hahahaha...but i also thought the girl was stupid to go along with the cop and that was wrong what he said to her before his deathi was inside you.i think that's what she gets for doing what she did with him and how is he going to tell her that she's too young when he never cared how old the other girls were.?now i don't think i myself could ever trust a cop like that.but to tell the truth it was pretty obvious it was him even if he was wanting to become a cop i would still be suspicious of him either way.and that was funny when she sprayed him in the eye in the store.hahahahaha.she was still stupid for going into the warehouse again by herself and so was the cop who died HELLO!! it's called back-up.sometimes these movies make me mad when people act stupid and do stupid things.but that's what i think an thought about the movie. "},{"Title":"Sexy Silverstone!","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a nice piece of work. Very sexy and engaging enough plot to keep my interest throughout. Its main disadvantage is that it seems like it was made-for-TV Full screen, and though there were several sex scenes, there was absolutely no nudity (but boy did it come close!). Strange, too, since Netflix shows that it was rated R.Nonetheless, very titillating, and I wish Alicia Silverstone made more movies like this.One Netflix reviewer stated that it was part of a series, but I have been unable to find out what series that is. I'd like to find out, though, because this movie was THAT good.Walt D in LV. 8/23/2005 "},{"Title":"Couch potato sexual fare for two","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Alicia Silverstone, yes, she of the pouty, sensuous mouth and the soft chubby thighs, stars here as nerdy cum sexy Mary Giordano, a catholic school girl, daughter of a cop killed in the line of duty. She's attired in a plaid-skirt uniform to tease us with those pretty thighs. She wears glasses and makes all sorts of unsex, nosex, 'I'm a nerd girl' expressions with her pouty mouth-to no avail of course I can't take my eyes off of her.There's been a murder of a classmate. She's 'investigating.' The head cop, who has helped her with some class projects, is black and gruff (women's sexual fantasy number one--totally under-played of course). He's a father figure. She decides to 'become' the dead girl and goes swimming as the dead girl did. Immediately Kevin Dillon appears sweet talking some 14-year-olds. He's all in black and looking menacingly sexy. The girls giggle. She follows him to his home, and from across the street in some bushes takes pictures of him as he poses behind a conveniently opened window. He even takes out a gun and looks sinister.Okay, obviously we have woman's fantasy number two rolling. Dillon seems 'questionable,' heightening woman's fantasy number two, but actually kicking in The Fundamental Woman's Ambivalence Sexual Fantasy, namely, is the sexy guy a good guy or a bad guy? We get our first clue when they go into the convenience store to quiz the clerk. Dillon flashes his junior cop badge and demands answers. Alicia watches. The clerk says he's answered these questions before and turns up the volume on the acid rock, in reply to which, Dillon sweeps the radio onto the floor and cracks the guy across the face and pins his arm behind his back and applies a little pressure. Outside, Alicia says 'I can't believe what you just did!'Okay, now we've got the sexual tension full force. On the one hand we have the sexy dude/star I mean, kiss her! is what the audience wants; but on the other hand, he looks like a cold-blooded, mass rapist/murderer, so maybe don't. It's the usual dilemma with men the only interesting ones are the ones you can't be sure of.They return to his pad and he's having a beer, want one? Okay, this is a good question, allowing Alicia to show how grown up she really is. She says yes and they sit on his bed and tip back their long-necked brewskis. Now the nerdy expressions are gone, and the Alicia of the Aerosmith video comes to life. She laments that she is not pretty (right! sure!). They go outside and he begins to kiss her in earnest. He presses her up against the car (and yes, he removes her glasses) and she presses back big time and he guides her into the car still kissing her and (although the camera stays above the neck) makes with some obvious groping. Oh boy, ...and Doris Day this is not! He's not only kissing her, but he's feeling her up, and now he has her in the back seat of the car, laid out, and she is just giving in to it, and...fade to black.Well, it's ninety-nine percent clear that they did the wild thing, and just where does that leave us vis-a-vis his possible villainous nature? It used to be the rule in Hollywood that the girl may be tempted, and she may even kiss and like the kiss a little, but she would never, ever, ever, lie down with a mass murderer. I mean, that's how we know the guy is a mass murderer. But this is the nineties and all bets are off. You can get carried away, if the guy is persuasive enough, sexy enough and knows how to do the deed. It could happen to anybody, even Doris Day were she nineteen today! We have reality today.Now they have a suspect, a carnival Ferris wheel man. Yes, my sweet lord, they actually do a carnival in this one, and drag out some carny types, including women's sexual fantasy number three, the carny guy himself, who has a deformed right hand and a thick mustache and a leer to match, but biceps and an animal nature with which he favors Alicia as he tucks her into the Ferris wheel car. Later Alicia and Dillon follow the carny to a recycling plant and watch through a curb-side window as the one-handed carny puts some serious sex moves on a frail blonde in a white slip, circling her neck with his good, but formed-into-a-claw, left hand.Finally we have the finale at a recycling plant. The centerpiece is a vat of swirling broken glass being churned by a giant meat grinder! Of course they climb up, up, up until they are above the swirling churning grinder of glass and Dillon is moving in on her. Her face is a mass of scream/cry/wet with tears. But she hits him with a plank of wood, knocking him out over the grinder. He grabs hold of a gunny sack rope and swings above the broken glass in the grinder, holding on for dear life. Now we have the moment of moral truth. He has one toe on the platform. The gunny sack rips a little more. Can she give him the final shove? He certainly deserves it. But no, her heart is too big. She reaches out for him her slender hand. He says, 'I was inside you...'Oops. Yes, he did say that, and yes, that fact has been in the audience's mind for an hour, and yes, it was her virginity, and yes, the stupid b*****d is stupidly rubbing it in, and so...Well, I can't reveal the ending, alas.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Bland... in one word.","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The movie never becomes intolerable to watch. And to tell it straight, it has nothing to show either, except maybe part-sexy Alicia Silverstone in a nerdy non-sexy character in revealing quite-sexy dresses. The story is very easy to follow or there's nothing to follow -- you can see in either way. There is no suspense, little action, unimpressive dialogs, unsatisfactory sensuality, same boring locations and very bland acting. Kevin Dillon is totally worthless. Silverstone... well, I didn't concentrate too much on her acting, I confess. Yet as I said earlier, if one has nothing to do except watching a movie, this won't look so bad. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Nancy Drew Investigates","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The high school age of the story's protagonist trivializes the entire film. Mary (Alicia Silverstone) has an interest in true crime. And there just happens to be an unsolved murder in her town. So after school, Mary sets out on an adventure to catch the killer, not unlike the youthful fictional character Nancy Drew.Silverstone gives a nice performance. But I just can't take Mary seriously, so stereotyped is her view of crime, and so easy and predictable are the story's plot points. Naturally, she has easy access to the local police chief. Naturally, she finds romance. And naturally, she encounters some dangerous situations. It's just too easy, too predictable, and too convenient. Further, the plot climax is clichéd and trite. The film is about one step above a kid's after-school special.I like the carnival setting, always ripe for intrigue and mystery, and the accompanying lighting gives a sense of the macabre. And the film's score is unusual and haunting, especially during the title sequence.Though Silverstone is well cast, Kevin Dillon is not, looking too young and hip for a newbie cop. Film prod design and costumes are acceptable, as is the editing.The main problem here is the scriptwriter's bubble-gum approach to murder. Nancy Drew and the Hardy Boys may have been believable forty years ago. In today's institutionalized world, they are not. "},{"Title":"Was Okay!!","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was a mystery movie and I love to solve things before the movie solves things, like cases, murder, etc. Alicia Silverstone has acted good especially when she was crying. And Kevin Dillon (also the brother of Matt Dillon) has been really good. In the movie, I realized that something was familiar with Kevin. And so I went on the net and saw the name of his brother. When the movie started, I knew Tony (Kevin Dillon) was the murderer all along. It was really obvious because of the way he has been acting around Mary (Alicia Silverstone). He also has been spying on Mary and following her. This movie is quite good, though it was a really easy case to solve. I like this kind of mystery movie. "},{"Title":"Teen-age amateur sleuth goes after serial killer","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very good drama about a young girl who attempts to unravel a series of horrible crimes. She enlists the aid of a police cadet, and they begin running down a series of clues which lead to a traveling carny worker with a long police record. An ending which is guaranteed to keep you on the edge of your seat. "}{"Title":"Horrible Piece of Filmmaking","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I believe that this is the worst film Alicia Silverstone has ever appeared in.  Makes her previous films like The Crush(1993) look like a cinematic masterpiece.  Alicia Silverstone's performance as Mary Giordano is unconvincing and at times annoying.  A bland Hollywood low budget film with a mystery that is uncompelling as well as tiredly predictable.  Might have been a good film if the film director had put some creative energy into the story.  The repressed erotic emotions of Mary Giordano never reaches a three dimensional depth.  The worst of Italian Giallos is still better than True Crime(1995) and the best of 1990s Teen slasher horror flick.  La Sindrome di Stendhal/Stendhal Syndrome(1996) had a similar serial killer-young police woman cat and mouse relationship that was more developed than in True Crime(1995).  Bill Nunn gives the only performance of the film that makes the movie a worthwhile view.  Lame attempts at plot twists that never surprises or shocks. "}]