[{"Title":"When Night Is Falling","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The world is a den of thieves and night is falling. Soon it will be the hour for robbers and murderers. Evil is breaking its chains and goes through the world like a mad dog... So it shall be. Therefore let us be happy, let us be kind, generous, affectionate and good. Therefore it is necessary, and not in the least shameful, to take pleasures in the little world, good food, gentle smiles, fruit-trees in bloom and waltzes --excerpted from Fanny & Alexander by Ingmar Bergman.Camille (Pascale Bussieres), a professor at a Protestant college, is engaged to Martin (Henry Czerny), a sympathetic minister and fellow professor who clearly loves Camille. As career Christians, they are urged to get married and to become co-chaplains of the New College of Faith. But Camille is vaguely unhappy with Martin and her life, and when her beloved dog dies suddenly, she begins to lose her grip. As she sits weeping to herself in a laundromat, Camille meets Petra (Rachael Crawford), a flamboyant circus performer. Anyone who has ever lost a pet knows how intangibly devastating it can be, and Camille is sincerely shattered. Petra realizes this, tries to offer solace and is so attracted to Camille that she finds a way for them to cross paths again. When they do meet again Petra flirts brazenly with Camille, who is deeply offended, confused, yet curious as well. Petra, who lives in her own paganly decorated trailer, is part of a modern primitive circus, not unlike The Jim Rose Circus Sideshow filled with freaks, artists and jolly folk of all ilks. Petra, who is looking to have Camille under the moonlight with her head thrown back, balks when Camille sheepishly asks if they could just be friends instead (like Thelma and Louise, but without the guns?), wanting to take her time. The two do become friends and Petra takes Camille hang gliding even though she has to convince her that the price of adventure is fear. For the first time in her proper and very intellectual life, Camille's desire comes rushing forward. She is shocked to find that she is infatuated with Petra. Soon she believes that she is in love.But all is not well with the circus. Hounded by creditors, the circus must leave town, threatening to tear the new lovers apart. Meanwhile, part of Camille is still deeply attached to Martin, who is away trying to get a paper of his published in a seminarian journal while Camille and Petra discover each other. When Martin returns from his business trip and begins to figure out what has been happening, his frustration comes a hair's breadth from turning into rage and tries getting through to her that experimentation is one thing, but a three year bond is something else entirely. This is a beautiful little film by Patricia Rozema, who also directed the lovely 1987 character study I Heard The Mermaids Singing. Due to a strict Calvinist upbringing Rozema had seen no films before the age of 16, and this film almost serves as a dialogue for her muse, before and after she escaped the doctrines of the church. Pascale Bussieres is wonderful as Camille, who is able to tread that fine line between confusion and curiosity very well. She has an inner beauty that draws not only Petra, but the viewer. There is a calm in her soul that is so very soothing. There is no trace of anger or impatience in her character whatsoever, instead she turns inward and mentally reviews her situation on such a continual basis, always searching for balance, that her trepidatious innocence is the allure that Petra finds so fascinating. With Bussieres' almond eyes, auburn hair and porcelain skin, hers is a very classic sense of beauty that is so dissimilar to Petra's attractiveness (black, sexy, passionate, whimsical) that they make a very complementary match. Petra's initial impetuosity soon smoothes itself out and Camille's reticence begins to ebb as they both realize how much they can learn from each other if they can let their blossoming love develop naturally. There is such a well-measured sense of balance in this film that the love scenes are in turn very highly erotic, as well as touching and moving. Perhaps the most difficult thing a person can ever do is look their partner in the eyes while making passionate love, tell them 'I love you' and have it sound like the most intimate and genuine thing they'll ever hear. Bussieres is able to do this effortlessly. The character of Camille is so very obviously treading into deeper waters than she's ever fathomed before, but she proceeds cautiously enough so that she is able to slowly and wisely understand that the love and understanding she has already been able to appreciate on an intellectual and otherworldly level through the church need not mean that it must be denied to her sensually simply because it's a body of another gender. In fact, the lovemaking she shares with Petra is so unbridled that it unleashes her enough to be able to bring her new- found passion back to her fiancé, which he duly notices and appreciates.Don't misunderstand me She does cheat on her fiancé, and in so doing, Martin's anger is perfectly understandable, but by that time the world that Camille has tasted and chooses to be a part of is chosen simply because it is one that is not as blindly judgmental as the church. If anything I would say that the film is too short by half an hour simply because the end is more of an escape than a conclusion, but maybe that's the point. Or perhaps, in the tradition of Traffaut, Rozema plans to follow-up her story with Part Two.There aren't any evil characters in this film, each of the leading roles are characters that are drawn and performed so well that you do end up caring for all of them, so much so that when Martin realizes what has developed between his fiancée and her new girlfriend, the delight you feel for Camille is offset by the empathy you feel for Martin. No matter how painful it is for Martin to lose the love of his life, the film makes it clear that it is much more than just sex with another woman that has persuaded Camille away It is a way of life that has more to do with living than the cloistered, regimented facades she has grown to endure her entire life. If anything you wonder why Martin doesn't join them, too.I hope this film gets a general release and finds an audience in the shopping malls because it could very gently and significantly open up conversations across middle America about the relationship between desire and gender.  "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"25 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bought this film a few years back.  After viewing it, I came to the conclusion that it was by far one of the most beautifully and artistically directed films i have ever seen that deals with the subject matter of a girl meets girl.  The lead actresses Pascale Bussieres and Rachael Crawford had great chemistry and were equally beautiful which made the love scenes all the more believable and erotic.  There was no contrived or cliched dialogue and you sympathized with the characters and what they were going through especially when Camille was torn between choosing Martin and Petra. This is by far one of the best Canadian productions made.  "},{"Title":"How anyone can give this film anything less than an EXCELLENT rating perplexes me.","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the best lesbian films I've ever watched. What I love most about this film is how the love scenes are tastefully acted and filmed. In contrast, many - if not most - lesbian films leave little left to the imagination. Another stark comparison is the fact that there are no serial killers, psychotics, or otherwise deranged characters. As we all know, it's not only common but inevitably predictable that heterosexually created films depicting G & L characterizations will include at least one of the aforementioned. Another aspect I find tremendously appealing is that the women involved in the depicted lesbian relationship are anyone's woman - meaning, not mannish or ostentatious at all. The script, direction, and acting are immensely above average in the lesbian film genre! All of the actors portray their characters convincingly. The circumstances in which they come together are easily conceivable in a real life scenario. The way it's filmed is appealing and displays moments of arty elements. I am of the opinion that this is a definite must own DVD. "},{"Title":"Mind Opening.....","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first rented this film 2 years ago & I am still renting it today when I go to the store. I have never seen love portrayed in such an open,honest,wanting & unsured of their feelings kind of way. It is presented in a way most of us feel when we fall in love for the first time or when we fall in love with someone that is not the norm according to society. Even to this day I am impress with the way Patricia Rozema show the characters in such an emotional way, that leaves the audience understanding why these two people fall in love. By the way Pascale Bussieres and Rachael Crawford were GREAT in this movie! After seeing this movie a viewer truly stops categorizing this movie(in a genre such as lesbian/gay, canadian film, etc)and see that showing a love story is the true purpose of this film.Guys! Don't critize me too much!  "},{"Title":"a gorgeous, sensual delight","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A gorgeous, sensual delight. This is one of the most beautiful movies i haveever seen. It is hard to come by honest romantic lesbian movies and catchingthis one on TV was certainly one of the highlights in the past years.The movie managed to provoke many emotions in me, from joy, to anger, todeep sorrow and everything in between. It got me started to look into theCanadian movie scene more, especially on this type of topic, as there areexcellent examples out there, this being a prime one.Since accidentally buying this film a week ago, I've been watching it almosteveryday. It is a very moving piece, incredibly romantic and beautifully shot. I have no expertise on movie direction but all credit goes to Patricia for hercreativity. Apart from being incredibly gorgeous, the leading ladies gave a very moving performance, which intern moved me.  "},{"Title":"...and Falling in love","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have fallen in love with this movie.  Since I patiently waited til the price went down and bought the movie I have watched it almost everyday. This movie runs consistent on all levels from beginning to end.  The screen images embrace me and pulls me in.  The acting (need I say I love Pascale/ Camille)...the lilt in her voice, her facial expressions, subtle yet so enticing.  Petra! what a wonderful counterpart.  Perfect music that moves the film along.Camille's open-mindedness, and strong self-esteem exudes in this film. When her new sexuality is awakened - she doesn't suppress and feel guilty (which easily could have been due to her strong Christian background).  She meets it with some trepidation and yet she is an individual with her own mind and heart...and pushes thru the fear.I just happen to find this movie in Blockbuster...this movie should be seen round the world.  "},{"Title":"Visually Delightful, Lesbian Coming Out Story","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this in the Cinema when it first came out. I didn't know what to expect, I just saw this sensual looking movie poster and decided to go. I was not disappointed, in fact I was enthralled by the lushness of this most beautiful film. Simply put;a love story. The Protagonist, Camille is a Theologian, a Teacher of Mythology. Seemingly happy with her life pretty much mapped out. A handsome boyfriend, a tidy well kept life, a formal career within a religious school. Her world is shaken up by a chance meeting in a laundromat, with of all people a circus performer, Petra. What follows is Camille re-evaluating her life and her loves, the backdrop for her journey is the eclectic, vibrant, theatrical circus. Giving the viewer giddily beautiful scenes, from juggling orbs of light, to romantic interludes, amongst rich theater drapes. This movie took my breath away, I saw it 5 times in that cinema, then followed it to another one, when the run finished. In essence this film made it easier to come to terms with my own sexuality, because of that it will always have a special place in my heart. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, romantic movie","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is really tender, touching, and warm. The 2 lead actresses were very good and had good chemistry in between them. These 2 have complete opposite personalities with different passions for lives. Yet somehow, they come across with one another and fall in love with each other. Camille fought with her own inner feelings for Petra and finally, she went for who she really loved. The ending is very sweet, the true love staying with each other. Sometimes it is difficult to figure out what you really want but what is more importantly how you embrace it despite all difficulties in life. Camille had to go thru emotional battles with her feelings for her boyfriend and the Christian school job. The circus performances scenes were great and interesting. The lovemaking scene between them is very passionate and romantic. These 2 actresses were excellent. The dialogs are interesting. The director has done an outstanding job with both directing and writing. Overall, it is a great movie to watch and keep for collection. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Great lesbian recognition and romance film!","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A great romantic movie. This is not a slopped-together film for the sake of titillating the hetero male crowd with lesbian sex, nor a cheap, half-baked B-movie for the lesbian audience (I hate it when we settle for less). This is a real film by folks who know what it takes to make a movie (a romance, no less!), deliver a story, and develop its characters. Not since John Sayles' Lianna have I seen a movie of this caliber about a woman coming to terms with her sexuality. It has characters you care about, depth, and a subtle sense of humor. You'll find this movie enjoyable and refreshing, especially if you're tired of the straight movie industry's continued obsession with making gays and lesbians into murderers, psychos, weirdos and laughing stocks, and the gay subculture's portrayal of everyone as tattooed, leathered, and extreme. "},{"Title":"wonderful and beautifully shot film","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bought this film several years back.  It had played at several theatres during its first release but I never did get down to actually viewing this film.  When I finally bought the film and watched it, it definately went beyond my expectations.  Everything about the film was near perfect.  One could feel the emotions that each character was conveying on screen.  The film was beautifully shot.  The love scenes were incredibly erotic.  A near perfect film. "}{"Title":"One of my favourite films","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is tremendously human, and very beautiful. Watch it.That's really all I want to say, but the IMDb, in its wisdom, insists on an essay.While most lengthy comments truly are useful, considered and very detailed, they don't necessarily give you any better an idea of what a film is *like*, beyond what the blurb on a video box tells you. I saw such a blurb for this film and it dissuaded me from bothering to watch it until I'd forgotten about it.I like it. Other things I like are people, love, closeness. I'm white, Western, middle-aged, male, bisexual, middle-class.This is a film about people, love and closeness. It's tremendously optimistic, and it's completely devoid of the spiteful cleverness which seems to blight so many adult-targeted films. People rave about, say, The Godfather, which I detest, or Pulp Fiction, which I detest even more. If, like me, you find you have better things to do with your time than sit through three hours of gangster-related faux intellectualism, you might, like me, find that you very much enjoy this fabulously directed and produced feast for the sympathetic.Nothing, but nothing truly awful happens to anyone in this film. No vengeful, base emotion is indulged in the viewer, no cheapening of pain or trivialisation of death. The characters, though, are solid and believable.There are some delicious love scenes, and the plot is unashamedly up-beat. If you liked Nine Songs, you might not like this. If you liked The Dreamers or Holy Smoke or Gauzon Maudit then you might like this, although apart from sumptuous cinematography it's not that similar to any of those.If you're apt to be offended by a perhaps jaded (if sympathetic) view of a Christian church, or by homosexuality (lesbianism), love, women, interracial relationships or happiness then stick with pretentious films about murder or whatever. If you like people, I think it's hard to dislike this film. "},{"Title":"Beautifully shot, sweetly passionate film","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't usually like to watch movies more than once, but this is one I could watch over and over. So much of the film is visually stunning and incredibly atmospheric. Camille hesitantly overcoming her social conventions & fears to fall in love with Petra creates scenes that are heartbreakingly tender & erotic at the same time. "},{"Title":"Didn't work for me","Date":"9 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When Night is Falling is notable for one of the strongest and most realistic depiction of a lesbian sexual relationship ever seen on screen, and to its credit it portrays a lesbian relationship more naturally and positively than most films do, and if it helped any person anywhere feel better and more secure about their own sexuality, then it did its part and I applaud it. As a piece of cinema, though, it didn't really work for me. Pascale Bussières and Rachael Crawford are both quite good, but I didn't see any real chemistry between them; there's a sense of connection between the two only in the (very powerful and sensual) sex scenes, and since the film tries to portray their relationship as a romantic one in addition to a sexual one, I feel like it failed. Camille and Petra are clearly attracted to each other and Camille is in love with the concept that is Petra, but I never felt convinced that there's any genuine feeling between them. The romantic relationship between the two women remains a fairy-tale, and it doesn't have the realistic emotion that the film tries to achieve.It doesn't help matters that the film tries for a statement against organized religion for trying to repress same-sex relationships. The problem here is that in the same breath the church chastises heterosexual relationships with about the same fervor as same-sex ones, and the criticism comes off muddled and vague.The film tries hard to make itself memorable with some very pretty cinematography and tons of metaphors, but in the end it felt clumsy and amateurish to me. On one hand it strives for an honest and realistic depiction of a love affair; on the other it muddles it up with religious imagery and spiritual symbolism and it all feels like too much of an effort. It's all quite pretty, and the film indeed has some very memorable scenes, but it doesn't help the story or the message in any way, and it's not done well enough to make the film a real artistic achievement. For all the good it does, it stays on the level of an after-school special, rather than a true piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"By far better than chocolate !","Date":"26 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When Night is Falling is the most exotic love story I've ever watched. What I admire most is the idea of putting together two women of very different patterns and create a romantic masterpiece Camille Baker, a strict but sensitive university professor who teaches at a religious college and Petra, a charming circus performer.I reckon Camille Baker and Petra's encounter resembles a child's first visit to the circus. All those colored and glittering lights, the clowns who make him burst into laughter, the most risky numbers make him feel odd but happy. For Camille Baker, visiting the circus is entering the tunnel of love. Instead of thousands of lights, she sees only one and she's afraid of reaching it, instead of risky numbers she is dealing with love and hopelessly tries to deny it. She is no longer Camille Baker, the conservative figure, but plainly Camille. They are just two women, Camille and Petra, an expression of pure love.WNIF is an emotional and haunting film which also gives a fascinating a insight on circus life. I express my admiration towards Rachel Crawford who portrayed an intelligent, deadly feminine and independent woman who didn't give up her pursuit of happiness.There is a chemistry between Camille and Petra which is kind of rare. They are both beautiful women with loads of sex-appeal, but they're beautiful in different ways Camille is the sober type, betraying her chained passion by a pair of exquisite lips and Petra is the exotic beauty, like a panther in captivity which is left into the wild. Along with her appearance, she put Camille's boyfriend (Martin) into shadow and straight away, he becomes Camille's cat's paw in her process of denying her feelings for Petra. I give this movie 10/10 because it didn't come out as a lesbian movie, but as a gorgeous love story. "},{"Title":"Romantic, but not overly so. Engaging.","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the greatest movies I've seen. It's not just because of it's great writing and wonderful ability to blend all it's elements together seamlessly. It's not geared towards mainstream audiences. And that's definitely a good thing. It stays truly entertaining without sacrificing any of it's 'intergrity' and, quite frankly, if it was made any differently, I wouldn't like it half as much. You would have to watch it to know what I mean, so I won't spoil anything. It's a masterpiece. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Message Isn't Exactly Subtle","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Personally, I thought this movie was as bizarre as the Sirkus of Souls that was featured in it. Camille (Pascale Bussieres) is a mythology teacher at a Christian college. It is a typical movie-world caricature of all things Christian, so that the college is filled with rather unlikable characters, headed by the Reverend (David Fox). It's homophobic, and that part of the story is filled with cliché theological lines like love the sinner and hate the sin. Camille is also having an affair (outside marriage) with Martin (Henry Czerny) - a theology teacher who, aside from one sex scene with Camille, appears to have both the personality and passion of a fish. After Camille's dog dies (and for some reason she decides to stick the dog's body in her refrigerator) she goes to do her laundry, and at the local laundry mat meets circus performer Petra (Rachael Crawford). Immediately attracted to each other, they circle for a bit, and then become passionate lovers.I understand that this is a kind of finding yourself story. Camille is breaking free of her past and discovering her real identity, etc., etc. But this was really way too weird &#x96; beginning with the decision to put the dog in the refrigerator. I also found it &#x96; shall we say &#x96; disingenuous (because that sounds much nicer than dishonest) when I discovered that in an interview a couple of years ago, writer-director Patricia Rozema flatly stated that her intention in this movie was not to titillate &#x96; because that's something only porn movies do, she said. Balderdash. If she wanted to avoid titillation perhaps she should have left out the three sex scenes in the movie, the one between Camille and Martin, and two others between Camille and Petra. If she wanted to avoid titillation perhaps she could have stuck with a sensual rather than a sexual portrayal of the relationship between Camille and Petra. The sensuality and even Camille's growing interest in Petra could have been portrayed quite easily without the sex (the massage scene, for example, was totally innocent and yet perhaps the most sensual scene in the entire movie.) Rozema seems to be protesting a bit too much on that point.The movie's ending got its point across, but there was really no mystery to the movie's point. Camille falls asleep in the snow and essentially freezes to death from hypothermia, but she's revived by &#x96; among other things &#x96; lots of cuddles and snuggles from Petra and she re-awakens into a new life. Yeah. I got it. What I really didn't get was why the dog woke up after &#x96; and where the dog was going? (2/10) "},{"Title":"An Intelligent Look at the Fluidity of Erotic Love","Date":"14 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Camille is a professor at a conservative Christian college who is affianced to minister and co-worker Martin. When Camille meets and is attracted to nervy and vivacious circus acrobat Petra, an inner tension begins to build within her. One gets the feeling the film-maker double majored in Art and Theater as this film is bursting with circus-themed surrealist metaphors and intense use of saturated colors. The surrealism sometimes seems a little heavy-handed, but I understand the film-maker was trying to contrast the Christian college milieu with that of the circus folk. The acting is very good and the film excels at depicting the hesitancy and awkwardness involved in striking out in an entirely new direction. Can you simultaneously reach physical fulfillment and grow spiritually by finding your erotic center and exploring new sexual possibilities? That's the question this film deals with. To the scriptwriter's credit, the professors and ministers who espouse decidedly conservative positions with regard to homosexuality are not superstitious, fire- breathing gay-bashers. There are some beautifully filmed and - by U.S. standards - quite revealing scenes of lesbian love-making in When Night Is Falling, so if this sort of thing disturbs you, steer clear. In sum, this film works well and conveys the difficulty, awkwardness and joy of discovering new ways of being. To quote first Camille and then Petra I'm nervous. So am I; I think you're supposed to be. "},{"Title":"A good movie!","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie! I first saw it when it was released in a little art house movie theatre in San Diego, and wasn't exactly sure what I was getting myself into. I was surprised and moved by the experience. The direction, writing, and overall experience was enchanting. The sensuality of the picture was breathtaking and riveting! If you want a picture that makes you feel and root for the heroines of the plot this is the movie to watch. The story is written with a quiet push to realize the emotions of all involved and wanting to see what happens in the next scene. The cinematography and art direction only add to the well written story, and the acting was done with deft aptitude. The director allowed each actor to express and show the experiences of each character that only made the overall movie all that much more amazing! The emotion of discovering who you are and the ability to strike out for the unknown was done with an exacting gentleness that I have rarely seen in movies! "},{"Title":"Ordinary with you would be... wild.","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pascale Bussieres, a Quebecois actress makes her English- speaking debut, as Camille, a teacher at a Christian college that has never let loose.She is crying in a laundromat after losing her dog, when she meets Petra (Rachael Crawford), a circus performer. Showing up at the circus to deliver laundry that Petra left behind, Camille enters a world of fantasy that she has never experienced.Canadian film maker Patricia Rozema (Kit Kittredge An American Girl) gives us a strangely surreal world in which freedom and change battles repression and conformity.The film was given an NC-17 rating, ostensibly for the lesbian sex scenes, and this affected the ratings given by some reviewers, but the heterosexual scene with Camille's fiancée was much more graphic. The lesbian scenes are tastefully done in a soft focus and very beautiful.Everyone dreams of running off to join the circus at one time or another. In this case, it is a metaphor for being who you truly are. It takes courage, and we wonder whether or not Camille possesses that courage.A gloriously beautiful film with a marvelous love story. "},{"Title":"A very emotionally appealing love-story","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Seeing this movie was an emotionally breathtaking experience for me. The story line and character development, the tenderness, passion and at the same time tension between the two main characters are so appealing, warm, truly human that seeing this movie is a treat every time again. The first time I rented it on video was probably ten years ago, and I keep returning to it every couple of years. The images are beautiful, the music is and the main plot theme of falling in love with someone of whom you least expect it, especially if that person is of your own gender, continues to strike me. Both main actresses are very appealing and seeing this movie almost makes you want to experience the same emotions and going through the same process. A must see for admirers of a poetic love story filled with stunning images and deeply human emotions. "}{"Title":"Overuse of symbolism","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is so beautiful it could be enjoyed without sound. But what a shame it would be to miss the brilliant, sensitive dialog.Communication of confusion and insecurity is frightening in its accuracy. The only reason it's not a 10 is the obvious use of symbolism to compensate for a suitable ending. The connection with the lead character builds to an intense level and is suddenly abandoned when the story turns a corner.Camille fillets her life in front of us through one engaging scene after another and we deserve to see her in the resultant passion or pain (or likely both) that results. "},{"Title":"excellent cinema","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Excellent cinema... It's like a metaphorical exploration of what can happen when you least expect it and most need it. Camille finds this love and it's like finding money you've thought was lost; you rediscover yourself. Nothing is more precious than finding that you are every wonderful thing you always hoped you were. Petra is a gorgeous, unreal, ephemeral being that transcends physical knowing, she is pleasure and self confidence, notice how she balances herself in the air? She is the temptress that seeks to reinforce the new knowledge of self. There is no sin, here, and to suppose such a thing is silly. The Christian context serves to conflict the message ( how telling, Christianity is apparently more at odds with God than atheism/paganism)that nothing is wrong with love.To the other post-makers please be kind to each other. "},{"Title":"Opposites Attract","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Patricia Rozema, director and writer, is a genius in her field of work. Her first film astonished me, called I've Heard The Mermaids Singing. I've watched this film dozens of times, and I can understand why it received so many awards, and why Sheila McCarthy, star of the film, is now a star of television and stage.Ms. Rozema's 3rd film, When Night Is Falling, which she wrote and directed, starring Rachael Crawford and Pascale Bussieres, won 2 awards, and is a story about opposites attract, and the two young women falling in love in spite of their backgrounds. If you are looking for an innocent and beautiful lesbian romance that is unique, entertaining, and honest to a fault, then this is the film to watch. You will definitely want a copy for your library. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous romance! A joy to watch!","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie multiple times over the past several years, and it continues to be one of my absolute favorites.The story may have a hole here and there, and maybe the protagonists are not totally realistic (as some other reviewers have pointed out). However, that is really beside the point. You should see it because it is full of beautiful images, the characters are engaging, the lovemaking is truly steamy, and mostly because it is unabashedly, head-over-heals, romantic. Even the most ornery skeptic has to give in to the celebration of love portrayed by Ms. Crawford and Ms. Bussieres. It is rare for a movie to be truly erotic, and even rarer to stay sweet and gentle. When Night is Falling manages both these things.See it by yourself, or, even better, with someone you love. "},{"Title":"This movie is beauty itself","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning, contains statements that could be seen as spoilers.I love this movie.  I have to be honest here and admit that I am biased, I am a lesbian and therefore a sucker for any movie in which the girl gets the girl.  All too often there are women in movies unsure about their sexuality but they take the option that is easier and also more aceptable to the filmgoing public, ie going with the man.  However, even if you ignore all that it must be said that this is a beautiful love story.  The characters were so believable and their story so possible.  Who could not love this movie?Others would review this movie by talking about the beautiful imagery and incredible direction but I honestly didn't notice this, too busy being moved deeply by the story.  I cried often, both with sadness and joy and was left for some time later in a profound daze.Unfortunately, for me, this movie is kinda hard to find for purchase.  I would love to add it to my collection.  Guess I will keep looking. "},{"Title":"Simply heart wrenching. Keep the tissues ready.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the most beautiful movies i have ever seen. Living in Germany, it is hard to come by honest romantic lesbian movies and catching this one on TV was certainly one of the highlights in the past years. The movie managed to provoke many emotions in me, from joy, to anger, to deep sorrow and everything in between. It got me started to look into the canadian movie scene more, especially on this type of topic, as there are excellent examples out there, this being a prime one.Watch this movie with your girlfriend, or loved one and i promise you a wonderful ride through the life of two not so typical women ) "},{"Title":"A cut above the average awakening sexuality opus","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this film on Cinamax's Vangard Cinema and fell in love with it from the start.  The female leads are gorgeous and the story unfolds at a very even pace.  The poetic way the directer intercuts with the first night of passion the women share is very well done and the musical background used throughout the movie is well done.  This film is worth the time of any fan of the genre.  "},{"Title":"I'll watch it often....","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I finally saw the film and was very moved. The direction by Patricia Rozema celebrates the love between two women in a romantically subtle way intertwined with the most achingly haunting music I have heard in a long time. With kudos to the actresses (Pascale Bussieres and Rachael Crawford) for portraying the want and need, surrender,confusion, and finally acceptance of their love.  I'm sure I'll watch it often and recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"one of the most beautiful films i've ever seen - and i have seen a lot.","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Since accidentally buying this film a week ago, I've been watching it almost everyday.  It is a very moving piece, incredibly romantic and beautifully shot.  I have no expertise on movie direction but all credit goes to Patricia for her creativity. Apart from being incredibly gorgeous, the leading ladies gave a very moving performance, which intern moved me.  "},{"Title":"Surreal, Exotic, Sensual, a classic.","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A professor once tried to define what makes classic literature.  Timeless quality and value, stilted language... Whatever the definition, this is it. The intrinsic love forming between two women against race, religion, and promise.  The spark of love in unforgiving winds... flickering.  Captured in the surreal fashion that is too close to reality. "}{"Title":"The Best Movie ever made !!!!!!","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the best.....I thoroughly enjoyed the movie...I have to say that this movie is indeed a work of art...I would recommend it to anyone.....Anyone who sees this movie should be as taken by it as I was.... "},{"Title":"The best lesbian movie","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I´d like to thank P. Rozema for making such a beautiful movie. I can´t tell you how many times I´ve seen it, but it moves me every time. It´s my Nr. 1! "},{"Title":"Mature theme, inspirational and surreal.","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The women are beautiful, and tender.  One experienced, sure of herself, the other only beginning to explore life.  Two people from entirely different walks of life trying to start and keep a relationship going in a homophobic world.  The direction is sensitive and, at times, surreal.  One could almost tell it was directed by a woman because of its empathy and caring for the characters.  The metaphor of the two aerialists at the circus is perfect two women engaged in a beautiful, artistic, but very dangerous practice. The music was chosen carefully.   I will watch this film again, if only to see Pascale Bussieres as an intelligent, sensitive, erotic woman. "},{"Title":"I absolutely LOVED this movie!!!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was passionate, beautiful and sensual.  I was captivated by the generous spirit of the actors, director and the poignant story they told.What a risk to tell the story of the love of two women...to tell the story of true love.Brilliant! "},{"Title":"A wonderful story and one of the best movies I had ever seen.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a story of love that impressed me for its so delicate performance. It is a beautiful film, a very aesthetic film that shows how love between women could be so committed, sensual, true, and even legitime. Besides, Camille and Petra are both exquisite beauties.  "},{"Title":"What I felt seeing this movie...","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw the movie last week on TV and since, I can't help myself from seeing it at least once a day. I read on a site that it was predictable, that's true but I think that's not the important. The important is the beauty of the story, the play of the actors, the music, the images.It's a wonderful love story. I don't know if everything gets ordinary eventually, but I think that that movie will never be ordinay one day. "},{"Title":"Extremely sexy","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Vaguely familiar; all through the movie, I could have sworn that I had seen it before on late-night HBO or Cinemax while trolling for nudity as a teenager. But looking at its release year, I'm kind of doubting it. Still, this dreamy bit of 90s erotica feels like the kind of movies I was watching on pay cable late at night, after I was sure everyone else in the house was asleep. It's a Canadian film - I can tell because of the presence of Don McKellar (also it ends with a Leonard Cohen song). Pascale Bussieres plays a professor at a Christian college in Toronto. She meets up with circus performer Rachael Crawford at a laundromat. Crawford is instantly attracted to her and makes sure they are to meet again and, upon that next meeting, makes no bones about her intentions. Bussiere is intrigued, but, as a Christian, one who is engaged to be married, no less (to Henry Czerny), she initially resists. She's never met anyone else like Crawford, though, and the intrigue and excitement soon melt her defenses. Man, this film is HOT. There really isn't much sex, but when they get to it, it's blistering. Rozema builds it up just right. While, in its essence, When Night Is Falling is basically softcore porn, it is impressively artful. The circus performances in particular are great, and Crawford's costumes are awesome. The performances are pretty good, too. The writing isn't especially strong. The climax in particular is silly and relies on a ridiculous coincidence - not to mention an especially silly plot development that plays out in short snippets during the credits. I really liked the film, though. Definitely recommended. "},{"Title":"Great lesbian film","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this years ago at Brattle Theatre in Cambridge and never forgot it. My memory about the plot is vague but it goes something like this--It's about a woman living with a boyfriend who doesn't love or respect her. Then the circus comes to town and she falls in love with a woman working there. She tries to fight the feeling but finally gives in. It leads to a happy (if somewhat unbelievable) conclusion.This gained some controversy when it was first released because it was slapped with an NC-17. Why? The MPAA felt the sex scene between the two women was too explicit! That's absolutely ridiculous. I saw the uncut version and the sequence was soft core, erotic and not even remotely explicit. The director accused the MPAA of homophobia but cut out a minute or so to get the R rating. Sex aside this was beautifully done. The acting was good, the script interesting and well directed. It drew me in completely and the happy ending was great. If you get a chance see it. Wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"a turning point","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" By the time I was coming out, this movie was released. It was a great struggle for years...but the film made me understand the importance of accepting my lesbian identity, combating my own fears, and embracing my sensuality.The sensitive directing/writing as well as the excellent and sensitive portrayals of Pascale Bussieres and Rachael Crawford opened the floodgates of understanding and respect for the lesbian lifestyle. The lovemaking was tasteful and everything was just put brilliantly in place.Thanks, ever since no one has ever taunted me for my sexual preference and orientation. It was simply the self-respect and subtle political confrontation of the lesbian sexuality shown in the movie that helped me become. "},{"Title":"Old Story, New Twist","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This story has been told over and over again. This movie handles it very well. A woman satisfied with her life soon realizes that she's not so satisfied after  a tragic accident. What follows is a wonderful story of love. It asks the question 'Will you follow your heart or stay content with a life that may be happy, but lack true love. Ok i'll be honest what 1st attracted me to this movie was the 'Hot' sex scenes, but in watching to see them I was drawn into a well told & acted story. "}{"Title":"This is worth watching","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen it a couple of times, and is worth seeing again, a woman makes choices, about two completly differnt lifestyles and follows her heart. Yes it is about 2 women, but the story is more than that. Watch it and see "},{"Title":"The most poetic and thrilling movie I have ever seen","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I fell in love with this movie, the first time I watched it, dubbed in German in a small local cinema. About 2 weeks later I went to see it in its original English version, and it thrilled me even more. This is the most poetic movie I have ever seen. Even though up until now I must have seen it more than a dozen times (in German and English), it still has this power to grab me from the first second of watching...and I don`t think it will ever lose it.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful  and unforgettable movie...","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was undoubtedly one of the most beautifully crafted I have ever seen.  As a film student studying in particular the films of women directors, I have viewed many similar films, and this movie, directed by Patricia Rozema, is a precious and rare film.  The images intertwine with the fragile theme of this film and capture both the fierce passion and the uncertain softness created between Petra and Camille.  This film is going to be loved by anyone who understands the difficulty of freeing the human heart.  "},{"Title":"one of the biggest movie experiences of my life","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I accidentally stumbled on this movie. My friend was watching tv and contacted me through ICQ to tell me I should be watching this movie. I couldn't watch it so she promised to tape it for me. So she did and here I am. This movie was pure art. The story was interesting, and unpredictable. The director had many brilliant ideas (like the way he told us that a lot of time had passed we could see light move on a wall according to sun's placement!!) The scenery was simple but genius. And something in the end proved to me that the director was a genius. The dog was revived!I give this movie five stars and A+!As I always love to say... some movies are good. some movies are bad. but this movie really makes the life worth living! "},{"Title":"The real MUST-HAVE","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First time I saw this film was a few years ago in an Amsterdam theater. My girl-friend and I just loved it! Never before had we seen the love between two women depicted on the screen so poetic, so romantic, so full of simple beauty. We just had to have the video. We bought it, and watched it over and over again. Until we lent it to friends... "},{"Title":"Life is about choices.........","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life is about choices and this film open doors for you to see into other people's making of choices.  The film is pure art.  The director used every trick in the book and a few new ones to make this movie a joy to watch. It is well worth the time. "},{"Title":"slow burning lesbian affair","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Camille Baker (Pascale Bussières) and boyfriend Martin (Henry Czerny) are fellow professors at a Christian university. Martin could get a coveted promotion but they can't continue to live in sin. She's devastated by her dog's death. Circus acrobat Petra (Rachael Crawford) sees her breakdown at the laundromat and comforts her. They become friends and eventually even more.Camille is probably not conservative enough at the start. She's ill-fitting at the university. By starting her off as a liberated woman, her journey isn't as far or as dramatic as it needs to be. The style is rather bland. The idea of a circus in an industrial space could have been amazing. Overall, the movie is too slow and there isn't enough drama. It tries to be artistic which only drains the movie of any inherent tension. "},{"Title":"unitentionally hilarious ending","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretty average film, the lead seems like quite a decent actress, shame that her love interest was so wooden. There were attempts to make some sort of religious points but they never seemed to lead anywhere, the plot is basic and shallow. The carnival elements were really campy but served their main purpose so far that they contrasted with the lifestyle of Camille. I thought it was a made for TV movie to be honest but it looks like it is supposed to be an art house film.The best thing about this film ?, there is an absolutely hilarious payoff at the end (although I am sure it was not intended to be funny by the film maker). "},{"Title":"Does She Dare to Eat the Peach?","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A chick flick, and not a bad one. I don't mean that as a put down, just an observation. User Ratings show a total of 674 votes, with males giving the movie a rating of 6.5 and females a rating of 7.7. The difference is probably statistically significant.The story itself doesn't add up to much, and there are multiple holes in the plot. The holes aren't small ones either, not the kind that can be easily overlooked. One example Camille passes out in the snow and is in the process of freezing to death in a lonely woods when a couple of campers stumble on her mostly buried body. One camper runs to call an ambulance. Cut. Peta is daydreaming at home, gets a phone call, asks, Where?, and the next thing we know she is at the campsite, before the ambulance. Alone in the tent with her lover, Petra croons over Camille's pale face tenderly. How did this come about? The mind boggles. It takes me back to when I was an usher in the Yiddish theater in Newark. Last scene of the play a convict is left alone on the stage, strapped into an electric chair. Who then runs into the execution room? His mother! She throws herself on the floor and sobs onto the executionee's knees. I can think of no more reason for Peta to be alone with Camille than I can for Mom to be with her strapped-in son.By the way, just for the hell of it, what happens to Camille? She's evidently still alive at the end, though suffering from hypothermia. I know the dog survives because under the end credits we see the animal burrow out from under the snow, shake itself off, then perform various doggy gavottes on a field of ice.Wow, Camille and Petra make a striking couple. Petra is beautiful and sexy in a conventional way, like a model. Her performance isn't bad either. It's competent enough and there is one moment when her employer asks her how she feels about leaving Camille and her face seems washed over with sorrow before she lowers it onto the guy's shoulder.Camille could be a model too, but not an ordinary one. She looks like a cross between Anouk Aimee and Martin Short. (Maybe a founder effect in the gene pool.) Her features are sharp and angular, where Petra's are soft and pliable looking, but she is very feminine.I can't comment on their figures. Not enough, in my opinion, is shown of them. There is hardly any nudity. And the sex scenes are all tender and loving and consist of aesthetically correct caresses of fingers across a vast expanse of unidentifiable but still succulent-looking flesh. Nobody moans or talks dirty. Well -- no movie is perfect. I can't understand why this movie received a more restricted rating than a simple R. It's really not much more than a rather sweet soapy love story.I should mention Henry Czerny as the confused and angry boyfriend of Camille. He has been uniformly good in every movie I've seen him in. He has a distinctive actorish face that could go either way -- into reason and compassion or into the villainy that has been his usual lot.The movie deserves plaudits for avoiding two traps, however obvious those traps are. It does not bash men and it does not bash religion. Neither potential target does anything to help the situation, not nearly as much as Pure Love does, but both do their limited best.Plot holes and dialog solecisms (This morning was an anomaly. Cf Last night was a mistake.) aside, the story is nicely presented. The director, Patricia Rozema, takes it at a deliberate pace and decorates the screen with occasional arty images or unexpected phantasmagoria. (Arty in a good sense.) When the circus trucks leave town at the end her camera lingers on a poster of a huge eye which may not carry much symbolic weight but effectively grabs the viewer's attention.I wound up hoping that Camille could be revived without loss of limbs and that she and Petra would somehow make it together, although, as Petra had earlier observed, Everything turns ordinary after a while. The main impression the movie leaves is that Toronto has some thoroughly rotten winter weather. Any lesbians who think they've got it tough ought to consider the circumstances of the Iroquois. A winter solstice in Canada -- and no De Longhi. "},{"Title":"probably one of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" So much of the film bears little or no relevance to the plot which is poorly strung together. I suspect the scenes of the circus performers were added to give the film an 'artzy' bohemian flavor, but it failed miserably. I believe many of the scenes were added as padding to stretch it out to 90 minutes, 80 of which were thoroughly boring. The script coupled with the acting acting of the two leading ladies barely aroused any emotions. However, the sex scenes where done tastefully but let down by the appalling script. There were too many awkward pauses which lead me to believe even the actors themselves didn't understand what message or emotions they were intending to convey. By far the best part of the movie was the musical score. "}{"Title":"Psychotic women play mind games with each other.","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" These women are psychotic. They are selfish, codependent, and obsessed. There are 3 good things about this movie. The performances of the circus troop, the score, and, I agree, the sex scenes.However, the depiction of lesbian women (or bisexuals) is awful. This is nothing but demeaning. I am ashamed that this is what is shown to the world as an example of what a good relationship is about.Camille abandons her boyfriend, Martin, and her pet, Bob. (She can't even dig a grave for Bob down into the dirt but only buries him in the snow - more on that below). These women are self centered and clearly show no caring for the people around them or what they are doing to each other. Petra stalks, shoots arrows through apartment windows and hangs around outside until she, like a child throwing a tantrum is noticed. This is attractive? The woman is Psycho. Camille is no better. She persists in lying to Martin, and placing herself in Petra's path (even after the aforementioned psychotic behavior) and wants to be friends. Oh, c'mon. The kindest thing would have been to let Petra go on her own way. Really.One reviewer said, These are anyone's woman. What? You have to be kidding. These women are astonishingly beautiful, far from the average, and have fantastic jobs - how many people do you know that work for a circus?OK, now for the piece de resistance the end. Remember the dead dog, Bob? Guess what? He isn't dead. He resurrects himself at the end to the musical backdrop of Allellujah as Camille drives off with her new love in a circus caravan and leaves her boyfriend and resurrected dog behind. Absolutely ridiculous. I nearly peed myself. "},{"Title":"Square movie","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is sort of Disney fairytale kind of lesbian love.The director is certainly not a cleaver one, making Petra a symbolized Demon. But the actresses are good acting. "}]