[{"Title":"So sweet it's almost delectable!","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"58 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You have to be THE most die-hard, unrelenting cynic not to enjoy this movie. I love it when television networks play this film around wintertime because for some reason it doesn't suit any other time of year. In winter you like to have a comfort zone and this film is it! It tells the story of lonely singleton Lucy who daydreams of better things while working at a ticket booth and drooling over the secret crush of a local commuter (Peter Gallagher) One morning she saves him from a coming train and while he lies comatose she gets reluctantly cosy with his family. The deceit is understandable and by no means menacing, as it's Christmas the younger brother Jack (Bill Pullman) returns home and subsequently falls for Lucy. While you were sleeping is beautiful and sweet in so many ways You are reminded of the more old-fashioned romances of the 40's and 50's. There is not one hint of sexuality or lust in this as the love blossoms between Jack & Lucy is honest, pure and all together endearing. We all relate to Lucy on some level (a dream trip to Paris, Rome or in this case Florence) So it's hopeful to us all when she gets her happy ending. I absolutely loved it! "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock at Her Best.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"52 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lovely little film that has the lonely Sandra Bullock admiring high-class businessman Peter Gallagher from afar in her toll booth on the subway. Then one day he is attacked by a couple of muggers and Bullock saves his life by getting him to the hospital. Naturally Gallagher is in a comatose state after the attack. A true misunderstanding makes it appear that Bullock is Gallagher's fiance and typical confusion ensues. Now Gallagher's family all believe that Bullock really is his woman. Gallagher's brother (Bill Pullman) is suspicious though, but slowly starts to believe Bullock as well. He then starts to fall in love with her and vice versa. A great romantic comedy that is so pure and well-made that it is near impossible to say anything negative about it. It is not a perfect film, but it is a very likeable movie that delivers what it promises. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Ephronesque and Endearing","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"60 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A sweet and gentle, romantic film about how love sometimes slips in through the window rather than coming straight in through the front door, it's the one that put star Sandra Bullock into contention with Meg Ryan for the crown of America's Sweetheart.  And with good reason, because in `While You Were Sleeping,' directed by Jon Turteltaub, Bullock emerges as the epitome of the modern day `girl next door,' in the best and most sincere sense.  This is a film that explores one of the basic tenets of the human condition, the need to love and be loved, and makes no bones about what it's trying to accomplish along the way.  Clearly, the filmmakers want to make you feel good and entertain you at the same time.  And they succeed on both fronts.Lucy Moderatz (Bullock) lives alone in Chicago, where she has an apartment, a cat and a job with the CTA as a token taker for the train.  Her life is fairly uncomplicated and uneventful (read  Dull), and the one thing she looks forward to in her daily grind is seeing a certain young gentleman who rides the train everyday and always passes through her toll booth.  She's doesn't even know his name, and they've never exchanged so much as a `Good morning,' but in her mind he's become the Prince Charming she's always dreamed about.Then on Christmas morning he passes through, but while waiting on the platform for the train he gets mugged and falls onto the tracks, unconscious.  And a train is coming.  Lucy runs to his aid and saves his life, but the severe head trauma he's sustained has put him in a coma.  At the hospital, they refuse to let her in to see him, as that is a privilege reserved for family members only; so in desperation she tells them that she is his fiancee, which does the trick.  But when his family-- his rather `large' family-- shows up, her ruse creates something of a sticky wicket. Everything is moving so fast and becoming so emotional that Lucy simply can't get in a word of explanation.  The next thing she knows, to the family she is their beloved Peter's (Peter Gallagher) intended (even though he's never said a word to them about her), and because the situation is so frantic and there's such concern about Peter, besides which it's Christmas, Lucy can't bring herself to tell them the truth.  So in an instant, her life is suddenly changed; she's surrounded by `family,' and she's `engaged' to her Prince Charming.  Even if he is, well...in a coma.Turteltaub has crafted and delivered a thoroughly engaging film in the tradition of Nora Ephron's `You've Got Mail' (the second best romantic comedy ever made) and `Sleepless In Seattle.'  He sets a perfect pace, and presents his endearingly eclectic assemblage of characters in the best possible way-- he makes you feel at home with them.  Most importantly, though, Turteltaub manages to make this a `sweet' film without being `saccharin' about it, which would have sunk it quicker than a deflated rubber raft in an undertow.  Instead, he pulls out all the right stops to make his film entirely Ephronesque and entertaining, and it works beautifully.  The humor is warm, and as the story moves along he builds upon that strong sense of `need' that is universal, then triumphs by satisfying that need in the end.Sandra Bullock has never been more winning or winsome than she is here; there's a special quality about her Lucy that makes you want to reach out to her.  She is, without question, the most vulnerable character Bullock has ever played.  There is very little of Annie (`Speed') or Gracie (`Miss Congeniality'), for example, about her; the closest to Lucy of any of her characters, in fact, would be Birdee in `Hope Floats.'  That is not to say there is anything `weak' about Lucy at all-- quite the contrary, in fact. There is a decided strength in the very benevolence of Lucy's nature, even in the way she wears her heart on her sleeve and especially inasmuch as she is not afraid to admit to herself what she really wants and needs.  This is an independent woman who accepts and meets any and all challenges of life, but keeps an open mind and, above all, an open heart.  And that is what makes Lucy so endearing; she's the one who brings a cake to the office to share with her co-workers for no other reason than the fact that it makes the world and everybody in it a little bit better.  That's what Bullock brings to her performance here, and it's what makes Lucy one of her most enduring and memorable characters.As for sliding in through the window rather than coming through the front door, that's exactly what Bill Pullman does with his portrayal of Peter's brother, Jack Callaghan.  He's the one who shows up after the fact, as it were, but very quickly makes a connection and ingratiates himself with the audience.  Initially, Jack seems to be playing the role of devil's advocate, his suspicions aroused by the fact that Peter has never mentioned Lucy to him; but that begins to change with some very subtle undertones that prove to be extremely effective.  And Pullman does a terrific job of developing his character in real time, which makes Jack convincing, and a piece of the puzzle that fits in perfectly.  A `character actor' type leading man, Pullman has a resume filled with varied and colorful characters, but Jack is his most engaging role ever, and he succeeds entirely with it.The wonderful supporting cast includes Jack Warden (Saul), Peter Boyle (Ox), Micole Mercurio (Midge), Michael Rispoli (Joey) and the wonderful Glynis Johns, as beautiful and charming as ever as Elsie.  Warm and poignant, `While You Were Sleeping' is one to savor; this one's a keeper.  (BTW, the #1 romantic comedy?  Bonnie Hunt's `Return To Me').  10/10. "},{"Title":"Adopt this family...","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"55 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Next time you are depressed, this is the perfect pick me up.  If you like watching the same movies over and over, this is great for that also.  The chemistry between the two main characters is outstanding, much better than in this year's Two Weeks' Notice.  Laugh out loud and cry out loud. "},{"Title":"A Sleepy Little Slice of Bullock","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"37 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was the picture which proved things could be all about Sandra Bullock. Speed - one year earlier - showed this. This picture proved it. A lot of people nowadays make fun of a typical Bullock picture and speak of her as negligible in this day and age. They probably forget or were never aware that she was hailed as America's new sweetheart back in '95 and it was no idle chatter. There are very few actresses who can carry a picture on their own slight shoulders - I mean, really make it a success. Sure, Bill Pullman helped, but this really was Sandra all the way, in a sappy, soapy, cliché-ridden slight story of sudden romance usually very hard to buy into. But because Sandra is there on the screen throughout nearly every frame, it all works out, and you're rooting for her happiness in the final few minutes even knowing very well what is about to happen. It's like you've seen it all before, but Sandra makes you want to see it again. We are all very fortunate, those of us who have seen this story, that it was Sandra in the central role and not someone like (shudder) Demi Moore. And if a guy is really fortunate, he may meet someone like Sandra in real life. "},{"Title":"A Charming Movie About Misunderstanding","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock is a working girl who wants to travel. She has no family, and is usually stuck doing holiday shifts in the Chicago transit system (as a toll booth clerk on the elevated railway). She has noted one man who uses the station all the time (Peter Gallagher), and rescues him when he is thrown onto the train tracks just before a train comes into the station. Gallagher is in a coma and (due to a well-intentioned nurse) Bullock is introduced to the family of Gallagher as his fiancé. She tries to tell them the truth, but when she learns his grandmother (Glynis Johns) has a heart problem she hesitates. Soon she is treated as a member of this nice family as a member (well, she did save Gallagher, and she is thought to be his fiancé). Only his brother (Bill Pullman) has real doubts, and keeps mentioning them (and keeps apologizing for them. Bullock and Pullman find that they are also growing more attracted to each other. The film shows how these problems are resolved. And it is all done in a most charming manner.This is one of those films that would take only a few minutes to quickly resolve in the real world, where Bullock would have told the truth early on. But the audience is allowed to suspend it's disbelief because the characters are uniformly likable. Although Jack (Pullman) is constantly questioning Bullock's story, each time she gives a plausible explanation of what is going on, and Pullman likes her enough to accept these explanations. The only one who knows the truth is the family friend Sam (Jack Warden) and he too feels that the news has to be broken carefully (he loves the family and doesn't want them hurt). Oddly enough his one effort at meddling almost screws up the situation in the film for Bullock, Pullman, and Gallagher. Pullman also faces the truth and explains to his father (Peter Boyle) that he doesn't want to continue in the family business. Boyle's reaction becomes important too.The performances are flawless, and one finds oneself rooting for most of the cast (the sole exception is the actress playing Ashley, Peter Galagher's actual girl friend). Her opposite number, Joe Jr. is too comic a figure to dislike (in fact, at one point he thinks Pullman is annoying Bullock and offers to take care of him - not the act of a rat at all). For a sweet, lovable love tale WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING is hard to top. In the last decade only WHEN HARRY MET SALLY, WORKING GIRL, PRETTY WOMAN, NOTTING HILL, SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE, and YOU'VE GOT MAIL are on par with it, but the family becomes so important to Bullock in the plot this has a special warmth in it that is quite is different from most of the others. "},{"Title":"Essential Bullock","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Warm and gentle comedy that shows Bullock to her best advantage, in her favorite role of shy closet beauty. Bullock obsesses about a man she sees briefly every day; when he is knocked unconscious she claims to be his fiancée. Then sparks begin to fly with the brother. Wonderful turns by Boyle and Warden as older family members. There's a great line by Boyle in this movie, something like you always imagine you'll have these long golden moments in life and then when you get there it lasts about a minute. I think Bullock was never better than in this movie, in later productions her shy modesty seems a little artificial. She and Pullman have just enough chemistry together to pull this through. "},{"Title":"Good for a lot of laughs","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was an extremely underrated movie. There were so many funny little segments and happenings in this movie. Like when the newspaper boy was delivering papers, and when they had the dinner conversation. If you just watch the movie for some good laughs and don't try to expect some big, deep storyline you will find that it is a VERY enjoyable movie. It had us all laughing till we......well you know what I mean. Sit back, get some popcorn and enjoy the show. There's nothing wrong with silly, senseless humor, is there? Even my husband enjoyed it. I've seen this movie more times than I probably should admit. But I laugh every time I see it. Another good choice...How to meet a guy in 10 days. "},{"Title":"Sweet, charming, hilarious, and heartwarming romantic comedy","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"23 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING, in my opinion, is a sweet, charming, hilarious, and heartwarming romantic comedy. If you ask me, the way that Lucy (Sandra Bullock) and Peter (Peter Gallagher) met was very romantic. Also, in my opinion, Joey (Michael Rispoli) was a little crazy. This was because he just couldn't seem to leave Lucy alone. In addition, to me, Jack (Bill Pullman) was a really cute guy. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If you like romantic comedies or movies where people meet by chance, I highly recommend WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING! Now, in conclusion, when you see this sweet, charming, hilarious, and heartwarming romantic comedy, prepare to laugh and be touched. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Tale","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know, I know...You saw the name Bill Pullman and wanted to shove this movie a side too. In this movie though, he is absolutely a sweetheart. This wonderful fairytale really got me. Sandra Bullock, Bill Pullman and his entire kooky family sucked me right in. This movie is such a chick flick, but it is really funny too. (Joe Fusco Jr.!!!) See it! I think you'll love it. I did.  "}{"Title":"Delightful Romantic Comedy.","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock has redeemed herself in my eyes. I watched part of 'The Net' in a theater, but walked out in disgust. She is much more appealing in this film, which I have watched repeatedly.The plot is somewhat thin underfoot, but the cast overcomes this with some of the greatest efforts I have ever seen. Sandra is luminous as Lucy Moderatz, a woman who has suffered a great deal of loss in her life and seems doomed to a lonely life alone. Lucy eases her heartache by dreaming about wedding the handsome man who buys a token at her booth every weekday morning.When an improbable collection of circumstances result in Lucy being accepted as the fiancée of her dream man who is in a coma and in no condition to refute her claim; she gains the warm, loving family she has so long desired. Lucy makes such an instantly positive impression on the family of her supposed fiancée, they are delighted to make her part of the family. When her 'fiancee' wakes from his coma and fails to recognize Lucy, the family covers the gap by presuming amnesia rather than suspecting some subterfuge on the part of Lucy.I enjoyed many parts of this film. The best part was where the family gathered to exchange Christmas presents. Lucy had her name on a stocking and a present from Santa. The look on Lucy's face as she savored these moments was priceless. The next morning, Lucy meets Jack her 'fiancee's' brother and sparks immediately fly.This film really illustrated how deprived Lucy has been. When she needs personal advice, she has to rely on her boss at work. Basically, her fellow workers and her would-be boyfriend at her apartment complex are her only human contact. It would seem logical that Lucy would join a church or find some other social outlet.All the supporting cast is great here. The performers fit into their roles perfectly. Bill Pullman and Sandra Bullock really bring their characters to life. You find yourself rooting for the inevitable victory of true love over circumstances.This is movie entertains without the need to appeal to the baser instincts. It was grand to see an intact, functional family for once. We need more efforts like this to show that a great movie can be made using wholesome themes. "},{"Title":"Flawless movie!!!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While You Were Sleeping is almost flawless. The storyline is funny but at the same time dramatic. Sandra Bullock plays Lucy, a lonely el worker with no family at all. She sees this guy get mugged and pushed on the train tracks and she jumps on and saves his life. She follows him to the hospital, where it is mistaken that she is the man's fiance. She gets thrust into the family who accepts her with open arms. However, problems arise when she starts to fall in love with the brother of her fiance. This movie is perfectly cast with Brilliant performances by Bullock and Bill Pullman who plays the brother. The have great chemistry and just subtly looks and gestures towards each other during the whole movie add towards the sexual tension between them. I have not met anyone who doesnt like this movie and it has become one of my favorites. You can watch it a million times and never get tired of it. **** "},{"Title":"I love this Film!!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this for about the 5th time last night and would challenge anyone not to warm to the characters in this movie. Bullock and Pulman are perfect as indeed are the rest of the cast. If I had any criticism it would be that the pace slows slightly and it may be a fraction long but this is a minor flaw in what is a true feel good movie.  "},{"Title":"Most lovable feel-good movie ever!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  No matter how many times I watch this movie, I can't get enough of it! Whenever I've had a bad day or am not in a good mood... all I have to do is watch this fabulous, amazing movie! Makes you believe in fate and following your dreams... If you never watch another movie in your life, watch this one! You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has it all -- Comedy, Romance, even a good touch of Drama. The characters are vibrantly real, the situations believable, and the plotline both humorous and plausible. Sandra Bullock is dynamite, and Bill Pullman is at his hottest. Mrrawr. I highly recommend this for any fan of romantic comedies, at any time of the year.~Thanks, TSFPWDE "},{"Title":"High-concept screwball comedy a la Sandy B.!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING (1995) ***1/2 Sandra Bullock, Bill Pullman, Peter Gallagher, Peter Boyle, Jack Warden, Michael Rispoli, Glynis Johns, Nicole Mercurio, Monica Keena. Wonderful romantic comedy of mistaken identity and a lovely homage to screwball comedy with the winsome and sexy Bullock in a star-making role as a lonely subway token collector whose crush on a handsome commuter (Gallagher) causes her to rescue him from a mugging but when he falls into a coma is assumed by his family to be the fiancee they never met. Pullman finally breaks out of the typecast of nice guy-who-loses-the-girl niche and this time his good-humored charm shines through as he falls for Bullock.Funny, free-spirited and good-hearted. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Great Timing, Go See It!","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Was I shocked to read from the trvia section on this webpage that this movie was originally written for Demi Moore?  Of all the actresses in the world... Demi Moore???  She shed her innocence & sweetness when she made movies like One Night Stand (is it the correct title?) with Rob Lowe.  It's like seeing Rosanne Barr/Arnold as Lucy in this film.Great comical timing between Sandra & Bill.  The scene where they walk back to Lucy's apartment is especially brightens your day.  Of course, who can forget the whole Callaghan clan?  It's rare to see such a close-knitted family in US anymore.  It's heart-warming & touching & sweet & lovely & just terrific.This movie reminds me not to fall in love with a person just because of the looks.  Lucy was ready to marry Peter but didn't know that he was so self-obsessive (all HIS pictures in his wallet & home) and who would hurt squirrels & save them?  I'm on Jack's side when I say ye-wo.  Look at the soft spoken, sweet Jack who puts family first (remember his rocking chair?) & is more down-to-earth.Agreeing with the rest of the audience here who had posted their comments, this is THE movie to see when you're feeling a little blue, a little lonely, or just want to get out of reality for a few hours.Well, I'll be waiting for my Jack Callaghan now.  Wish you all enjoy the movie experience. "},{"Title":"What's not to like.","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very sweet movie, really there's not much not to like here. Its also one of those rare films that gives formula a good name, as its about as predictable a romantic comedy as it gets but also well made, with a great cast and just so darn likable.Sandra Bullock is Lucy, a lonely subway cashier who finds herself admiring high-class businessman Peter Gallagher from her turnstile. Secretly in love with him she is forced to come to his aid one morning right before Christmas after he is mugged and then pushed onto the train platform.Later in hospital through a series of (romantic comedy) misunderstandings Lucy is mistaken for Peters fiancée and while he lies in a coma his loud, rather dysfunctional family take her into their fold.To complicate matters Lucy finds herself drawn to the patients brother, Bill Pullman and (the lovely) Uncle Saul (Jack Warden) may have just learned her secret.Although the ending is a bit weak this is a totally enjoyable movie on just about every level. Special mention to Michael Rispoli as Lucy's neighbour Joe Jr, who is scene stealing hilarious and also randomly that bit with the paperboy wiping out on his bike really made me laugh, I smile now just thinking about it.3/27/16 "},{"Title":"It's pretty much just OK.","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I like Sandra Bullock and Bill Pullman and pretty much all of the members of the cast. It was especially nice to see Jack Warden and Glynis Johns again. The film's family interactions were amusing.The picture is supposed to be a romantic-comedy-fairytale type film and I suppose it is that BUT I found it hard to accept the gorgeous, vivacious Sandra Bullock as a lonely, family-less waif alone in the city with only a cat and an annoying stalker-son-of-the-landlord as company. Are there no at least moderately homely actresses in Hollywood to play homely characters ? That said, the story, if implausible is a way to pass part of an afternoon. If you like this sort of film go for it. It's OK. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, ageless film","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I adore this movie, it's easily one of my favourites. Another reviewer said that the best time to watch it is in the winter, and whilst I'm happy to watch it any time of the year, I would agree that it seems all the more magical when it's freezing cold outside, and you're snuggled under a blanket.I'm glad no other actors were given any of the roles in this film, it wouldn't have been the same. Sandra is adorable as Lucy. She has no sinister intent, she's just swept up in the commotion and in the end, falls in love with the whole family. Her speech toward the end chokes me up so much, it's completely heartfelt. Bill Pullman also shines, he falls for her gradually and their chemistry is so lovely to watch. If you want a gentle, unbelievably romantic film to watch on a cold evening, this is the one for you. "}{"Title":"Not only am I in love with Jack Callaghan...","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" &#x85; but I am in love with the movie.I'm kicking myself for watching this movie just recently. I was quite young when this movie was first released but that is not an excuse for overseeing this movie for so long. I am so glad I watched it. And I'm going to keep watching it over and over...I am a sucker for romantic comedies and a lot of them are disappointing. It's very rare to fall in love with a movie, and 'while you were sleeping' has that effect on me. The key to the Lucy and Jack's romance is chemistry, and boy did they have chemistry. The element to a great story, whether it is reading or watching is to show not tell. And that's what exactly what it was. The looks that you see Jack and Lucy give each other, their body language, the deep conversations they have, the way he describes her, and how she's head over heels for him. The tension they create when put together wasn't anything sexual; it was something much, much deeper. Something that will last a lifetime. The other key factors to this movie are the Callaghans and Saul, and everyone else. They bring out the comedy side to the movie. They are a hilarious bunch, and are not a tad annoying, not even the real fiancée or Peter; just really, really funny and fun to be with.Put two and two together, and they have formulated an almost perfect Romantic Comedy. (I am going to say almost, because nothing in this world is perfect)Now Bill Pullman&#x97;that's a different topic! "},{"Title":"Lovely, feel-good underrated Rom Com","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let's make it clear, this is a pure rom-com. But a cleaver, funny and not too sweet one. I watched it by accident and because I like Sandra Bullock. It is really nice, well written and with great supporting actors. The main character (Bullock) works in public transport, has no family and is secretly in love with one the customers she sees daily at work. When she saves his life after he fell on the track one day, she goes to the hospital to get some news; she gets to meet the family, which has some hilarious characters, and kind of gets adopted by them while her love interest is in the coma (while (he) was sleeping) Nothing philosophical. It just makes you feel good, and that is already a lot. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and predictable, but lots of fun anyway","Date":"1 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You should never judge a movie by it's title. This is exactly the case with While Your Were Sleeping. Despite the rather awful title, While Your Were Sleeping is a surprisingly charming movie.Lucy has no family. Few friends. And virtually nothing to look forward to in life except that cute guy (named Peter) who always comes down to the train station, where Lucy works, and buys a ticket for the train, every day. Then one day, Lucy sees Peter mugged and beaten and thrown onto the train tracks. Lucy ends up saving his life, but through a massive miscommunication, Peter's family thinks that Lucy is Peter's fiancée. But instead of explaining things to Peter's family, she begins to enjoy having a family. But things only get more complex as time passes.While You Were Sleeping is incredibly cheesy, that much is undeniable. But under the hammy premise (that only gets worse as the film goes on), While You Were Sleeping is lots of fun.While You Were Sleeping plays out like a long I Love Lucy episode. The filmmakers must have realized this too, as the main character is named Lucy, and there's a brief reference to Ricky Ricardo. Amusing twists (some more predictable than others) are inserted to keep filmgoers on their toes. The result is often hilarious.The best bits of the film are when the whole family is together talking. They're often rambling about random topics until the end of the conversation that may leave you thinking, What brought that up? To make it more amusing, each family member is having a completely different conversation with another. I have trouble describing these parts, it's something you'd have to see for yourself.While You Were Sleeping is very well acted. While there's nothing award-deserving here, the acting feels natural. The characters are memorable, and often funny. Sandra Bullock plays perfectly as a desperate young girl, and Bill Pullman is convincing as a secondary love interest.The score (composed by Randy Edelman), while sometimes fun (especially during moments of chaos), the score sounds incredibly dated. The music isn't bad, but the dated themes are a little less pleasant than the rest of the score.While You Were Sleeping manages to overcome it's cheesy premise and clichés. A committed cast and humorous situations makes While You Were Sleeping a fun, if predictable film. "},{"Title":"Good Romantic Comedy!","Date":"25 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock, Bill Pullman and Peter Gallagher star in this 1995 romantic comedy. A woman unwittingly pretends to be engaged to a man who ends up in a coma. Lucy (Bullock) is a train token collector who longs for romance. One day, she saves a man, Peter (Gallagher) who ends up in a coma. At the hospital, a nurse mistakenly hears Lucy say she was going to marry him. Soon, Lucy meets Peter's family and brother, Jack. She and Jack start falling for each other and Lucy tries to tell the family the truth, but can't. When Peter wakes up, he can't remember anything and meets Lucy learning she's his fiancée. Lucy tries to go through with the wedding, but reveals the truth to the family and soon ends up with Jack. The late greats, Peter Boyle and Jack Warden co-star in this as Ox and Saul. This is a good film, I think it's one of Sandra's best and She & Bill have great chemistry. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"An amusing movie","Date":"31 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As always Sandra Bullock was perfect, playing a lonely ticket office employee who falls for a regular passenger whilst he never notices her. She saves his life after he's attacked by muggers. Chance continues by allowing her to get to know his family as they believe she's his fiancé and they all love and welcome her into their family, She tries a number of times to tell them the truth but at the same time she's so lonely after the death of her father that she longs to stay with this family and marry this man she loves who's all this time in a coma. But then she falls for his brother..... whilst the brother seems quite hostile to her. A friend of the family who's guessed the truth promises to tell the family the truth but unfortunately he decides to meddle and instead persuades the accident victim when he's out of his coma to ask his saviour to marry him - the very last thing she wants now she's keen on his brother. The brother, attracted but completely confused, avoids the girl so she accepts the proposal. How this resolves itself I'd better not say.I felt the script was rather weak at times - the fencing between Bullock and the confused, attracted brother convinced this girl is a sponger could have been better and the actor is not I'd say entirely right for the part. However, it's still a delightful movie and I can't see anyone not enjoying it. "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock Charms Bill Pullman's Pants Off","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a shame that this movie has such a low rating at IMDb, because it deserves better.While You Were Sleeping is the kind of film that must be hard to pull off, because there aren't many of them solid, well-written and consistently funny romantic comedies.Sandra Bullock exudes buckets of charm and a whopper of a comic presence as the heroine of this particular romance. She ably carries the movie, even when surrounded by veterans like Jack Warden, Peter Boyle and Glynis Johns.Those who are familiar with Chicago will have fun with this film, as that's where it was filmed, and you could make a game out of spotting the inconsistencies in the movie if you actually know the city it's set in.A fun movie to pop in here and there during the holiday season.Grade A "},{"Title":"My favourite romantic comedy!","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie and can watch it over and over again. It is a gentle comedy full of lovely characters. I'm not surprised Lucy falls for Jack's family they and Lucy too are adorable. Sandra Bullock is at her best and really portrays Lucy's loneliness (you are just rooting for her all the way through). Bill Pullman is gorgeous (I cant understand why he has not done more leading man roles). He has the sexiest voice. I much prefer this film to Sleepless in Seattle, whilst it is not laugh out loud funny, it does have some very good comedic moments and has an excellent feel-good factor. It does not seem to have received the accolades of other romantic comedies such as Pretty Women and Sleepless in Seattle but I think it is a little gem which is worthy of viewing. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if silly romantic comedy that is consistently comic and features mostly charming performances led by the very down-to-earth and charming Bullock","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucy Moderatz works in the toll booth on Chicago's transit system. She lives alone and has no family in the area so is always the one to get dumped with the holiday shifts. Lonely, she has fashioned a fantasy around a man who gets the train at around 0800 each day. On Christmas Day she sees this man being mugged and falling onto the tracks. She manages to save him from an oncoming train even though he falls into a coma. A mistake at the hospital sees a nurse telling the man's family that Lucy is Peter's fiancé and, before she can deny it, she is taken to the bosom of his rather tumultuous family. Unable to tell them the truth and rather taken by this sudden sense of belonging to a group, Lucy plays along but the arrival of Peter's brother Jack sees her story being doubted.When aliens come to earth and demand to know what Sandra Bullock is for, this should be one of the films that you sit them down in front of because she pretty much makes it. This is not as easy as it sounds because on paper this is a ludicrously silly set-up that could have been as cloying and sentimental as one fears these things can be. However the film somehow manages to deliver it with a blue-collar, homely, charm. The light comic air helps because it gets under your skin by not appearing to take itself too seriously but then managing to weasel a story in there amongst the sweetness. This is not to say that it is a brilliant film of course but by general standards it most certainly is not. It is though, a good genre film that will please those that go in for rather sweet rom-coms. Those that don't should avoid but those in-between may find they that it amuses them.Turteltaub's direction of his actors is good and visually everything feels rather warm and safe (even the mugging is rather suburban and sanitised) which does suit the material. I didn't like the overuse of the kooky incidental music which seemed at times to be everywhere; I knew what I was watching I didn't need it musically rammed down my throat! I'm not sure how she will be remembered but on her day few can do romantic comedy like Sandra Bullock. If you don't like her you don't like her I guess but she does have good looks wrapped up in a sort of sweet, girl-next-door sort of thing and it is this that carries her in this film. She is vulnerable when she needs to be and mostly she is bang on with her performance. She works well with the rest of the cast and even manages to make the absurd relationship with Pullman work. He is not quite at her level but they have a good chemistry together that he works well. The support cast help create this rather comic world that makes the plot float better and features unspectacular if entertaining turns from Boyle, Warden, Johns and others. Gallagher is the focus and does his job well even if he has the thankless task of lying around for most of it.Overall then an enjoyable if silly romantic comedy. It works because it mostly avoids laying on the sentiment in a syrupy way, it has a consistently comic air and it features mostly charming performances led by the very down-to-earth and charming Bullock. "},{"Title":"Touching and heart-warming","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is touching and heart-warming.It shows you the importance of family in life.There are some moments when you laugh, and others when all you can do is say Awwww. Sandra Bullock is superb as usual.She makes the character so lovable.The people that play the family are great, too. well worth seeing! "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy with some charm","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am not really a fan of romantic comedies. I tend to find them lame most of the time. However, this one is not bad. There's something about this one that sets it apart from others of its genre. It isn't boring, lame or mushy stuff. This one is original, fresh, funny and romantic. Plus, it takes place at Christmas time. Actually, it captures the Christmas spirit and it shows us houses full of lovely Christmas decorations and lights.This movie is naturally more recommendable for those who like sugary stories or romantic stories and even for those who still believe in love. Yet, it is a reasonable choice for those who are unhappy in love or bitter about it.The soundtrack is quite good. One of the movie's best songs is Natalie Cole's oldie This Will Be (An Everlasting Love). The opening credits combine expressive and beautiful sights of Chicago with Natalie Cole's old classic.The actors are generally good and portray generally likable characters. Sandra Bullock and Bill Pullman form a perfect couple and their chemistry is faultless. The rest of the cast is not bad too Jack Warden, Peter Boyle, Jason Bernard (he's hilarious in this movie) and Glynis Johns (best known as Mrs. Banks from Mary Poppins). The role of Lucy Eleanor Moderatz was originally for Demi Moore, but I'm glad that it went for the beautiful Sandra Bullock instead. Sandy is perfect for this role. I don't see Demi in this role.There are many funny moments during the movie, including a hilarious one with a newspaper's boy falling off his bike. Then again, the movie is, in general, fun and amusing, aside some humor of discussable taste. "}{"Title":"The ultimate feel good movie","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you've just been dumped, had a bad day or not had the phone call from that guy, this is the movie to cheer a girl up.  Not many guys seem to like it much, but for a while, I watched this nearly every day.Unlucky in everything Lucy is played to perfection by Sandra Bullock.  To me, this is just about her best movie.  The actors breath life into the characters to the point you could almost believe they are real.  For someone who doesn't like admitting to liking romances, this is perfect.  It has just the right blend of comedy and romance.  Peter Gallagher even does as much with his character, the mostly unconscious brother, as possible and the small appearances of Ally Walker as Ashleigh give the movie what it needs to seem believable.So, forget reality for a couple of hours and watch this movie on a lonely day.  "},{"Title":"You can never get tired of watching it!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've watched many romantic comedies, but this film definitely takes the cake! I fell in love with the movie the first time I saw it and I still never get tired of watching it. My favorite part of the movie was definitely the Callaghans! They still keep me laughing in all the same spots each time I watch it! I also love the story b/w Lucy and Jack b/c it's more realistic than most. I definitely recommend this movie to anyone who hasn't seen it! "},{"Title":"Charming romantic comedy with Sandra and Bill at their best...","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Until I saw 'While You Were Sleeping' I had no great opinion of Sandra Bullock--or really felt one way or the other about her. But seeing the movie and falling under its spell, I realized what a fine comedienne she is. The mistaken identity theme has served many a romantic comedy well, and this film is no exception. But it isn't until Sandra meets Bill Pullman that the film really begins to click. The chemistry between them is undeniable and gives the film the lift it really needs to soar. A charming, harmless piece of fluff that almost seems out of place amid the harsh realities of the '90s--it's more like a throwback to the kind of comedies Carole Lombard did so well. The wintry landscapes of Chicago provide a perfect background for the story of a token booth clerk who falls for a handsome rich guy. It's all done with a light touch and, again, it's the teaming of Sandra and Bill that makes the slight tale really work. A real charmer with a romantic glow. "},{"Title":"While I was dreaming","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Saw this film for the seventh or eighth or ninth time yesterday. Sigh, certainly one of the best films in the genre. Sandra Bullock looks the part and plays it with all her endearing charms. Possibly one of her better performances to date. Bill Pullman acted with all the appropriately confused gestures of a man in love but feels that he shouldn't be. "},{"Title":"A product of its time","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's amazing to realize how much the rom-com genre has evolved over the last 10 or 15 years. Compare While You Were Sleeping, for instance, with Must Like Dogs. While still hewing to the traditional rom-com plot arc, the latter has subtlety, wit, depth, and a delicate touch. While You Were Sleeping Does not.Everything about this movie is predictable, including Bullock's performance. It's interesting to see the earlier work of someone who's been in the business for over 15 years. In her case (as is the case with the bewilderingly overrated Julia Roberts), Bullock seems to have developed a set of pat reactions early on and not strayed too far from them.The only redeeming feature of this picture is that it's not *completely* insulting to our intelligence. Plus there are some believable, though stock, performances by supporting players. Other than that, it has nothing to offer. "},{"Title":"A grin-from-ear-to-ear, hug-yourself movie!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie to watch when you're feeling low.  It's fun to watch Lucy and Jack slowly fall for each other while trying to do the right thing by poor Peter, the comatose fiance.  I'll just add that if you're looking for a movie to watch with your mom and dad, this is it!  No embarrassing sex scenes or unnecessary vulgar language, and it *still* manages to be a great time at the movies.  Now fancy that a clean movie that entertains!  _While You Were Sleeping_ restores my faith in moviemakers.  -) "},{"Title":"Completely charming throughout; very often quite funny","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Almost all of my favorite comedies were made in the 1930s or 1940s, but I adore this one. Some of the striking things how well the plot continues to work after Peter Gallagher's character goes through a change; the real chemistry between Bill Pullman and the delightful Sandra Bullock; the wonderful acting by Peter Gallagher as someone who comes to realize he's really NOT had a good character in his life so far (he's charming while also discovering this dismaying truth).Most of all it's the modesty and naturalness of Sandra Bullock - as a poor, lonely, still missing her late father, terribly sweet yet never coy, completely lovable, utterly sympathetic. We are WITH her in every frame. We want her to gain everything her heart desires - and we really LIKE Bill Pullman too.It seems to me that any romantic comedy rests largely on how likable the characters are - we must completely sympathize with them, feel with them - they can have difficulty deciding between love/career or love/location or between two people -- but we can't have difficulty deciding whether we yearn for them to be happy.In some respects, Sandra Bullock does seem a throwback - I could easily imagine this movie taking place during the Depression - though it would be a role reversal (in screwball comedies - which this really isn't - the woman are wealthy and the men are poor).There's an innate decency in the character played by Sandra Bullock - in that respect, it reminds me of the somewhat more genteel characters played by Irene Dunne in comedies like The Awful Truth or My Favorite Wife or Penny Serenade - you are watching a genuinely kind and thoughtful person when you see the characters - and it draws you in. (It's why I find it hard to imagine that Demi Moore was originally slotted to play this character - she has a toughness of heart that I cannot imagine for this character).This movie was written so well that I looked to see what else the screenwriters had done - nothing is listed! You can't go wrong with this movie - one of the top several movie comedies in the last half century. "},{"Title":"Stay Awake For This.","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While You Were Sleeping (1995) Dir Jon Turteltaub / Cast Sandra Bullock, Bill Pullman, Peter Gallagher, Jack Warden, Michael Rispoli Wonderful treasure suggesting the happenings one doesn't realize. Sandra Bullock plays Lucy who works at a subway where she looks forward to the appearance of one guy. After he is pushed on railway tracks by muggers she rushes to his aid and saves him from certain death. Due to a misunderstanding his family believes her to be his fiancé. She wishes to tell them the truth but complications arise especially when she falls for the victim's brother. Predictable but warm hearted with grand humour. It isn't littered with lame cheap sex scenes but rather it concentrates on the relationships. Directed by Jon Turteltaub in what appears to be a homage to the classic Audrey Hepburn films. Bullock is endearing in her dilemma. Bill Pullman is charming in his retrain. Peter Gallagher is hilarious as the coma victim who awakens to a life he doesn't recall. Jack Warden plays the family godfather who knows Lucy's secret but his attempts to set things straight are often botched. Finally Michael Rispoli adds a great degree of hysterics her landlord's son, a slob with good intentions. A beautiful portrait of family that gives the indication that while you were sleeping through the likes of Fair Game, Turteltaub was busy with a film that is worth staying awake for. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock's Finest Role","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A ticket-collecting romantic (Sandra Bullock) pretends to be engaged to an unconscious man (Peter Gallagher) but cannot fool his brother (Bill Pullman).Romantic comedies are judged pretty harshly. And they probably should be, as they are generally sentimental, unrealistic fluff. But this is one of those rare good ones. Is it sentimental? Yes. Unrealistic? Yes. Fluff? Yes. But it really cemented Sandra Bullock as America's Sweetheart, and may be her finest role. Well, this and Speed. She is going as strong as ever twenty years later, and it should be no surprise.Peter Gallagher is a bit off, but Bill Pullman really succeeds as a romantic interest. Odd, but he does it. And the supporting cast is excellent, from Peter Boyle to... well, everyone. "},{"Title":"While You Were Sleeping is a charming and entertaining film.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ticket collecting romantic pretends to be engaged to an unconscious man but can't fool his brother. Lucy's life consists of constant loneliness that is until she saves Peter's life. Now she is a part of his family, and with a strong heart and fate on her side, others begin to realize what a terrific person she is, especially Jack, Peter's brother. An extraordinarily true-to-life sequence of events begin to take place as Lucy and Jack become closer and learn more about each other and themselves than one would ever expect from such coincidental, yet believable events. Roger Ebert wrote While You Were Sleeping is one of those movies that blind-sides you with its charm. It starts out seeming sappy, and your expectations sink Is everybody in this movie going to be cuddly and sort of dumb? Is every emotion and plot development going to be given a long windup before the pitch? Seems like it, but then a funny thing happens. While you're making up your mind that the movie's going nowhere, it starts to go somewhere. While You Were Sleeping is a charming and entertaining film. "}{"Title":"So Sweet, I Loved It","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After supporting Sly Stallone in Demolition Man and Keanu Reeves in Speed, Sandra Bullock headlines her own movie in this enjoyable romantic comedy. Plot In A Paragraph Romantic Lucy's (Sandra Bullock) life consists of constant loneliness and daydreaming of marrying Prince Charming. That is until she saves Peter Gallagher's (played by Peter Gallagher) life. Now she is a part of his family, and with a strong heart and fate on her side, others begin to realise what a terrific person she is, especially Jack (Bill Pullman) Peter's brother. An extraordinarily sequence of events begin to take place as Lucy and Jack become closer. Of the cast, Bill Pullman is at his affable best, (this is the type of role that suits him best) Peter Gallagher doesn't have that much to do, but does it well enough. Peter Boyle is great as Ox, Jason Bernhard is brilliant as Jerry and Jack Weston is wonderful as Saul too. As for Sandra Bullock, she is at her charming, sweet self here. Today she remains one of the most talented and beautiful women in movies, and her ladylike sexiness is in rare supply. Any movie becomes promising just by having her name in it's cast.At must watch at Christmas, if you are feeling romantic. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I confess...this movie is cheesy, corny and cliché in every possible way. As an author, I should be appalled but you know what? I'm not! I love a good chick flick and this ticks all the boxes. The truth is, if you want a girly movie, you're going to have to put up with clichés. The moment Peter fell onto the tracks, it was clear what was going to happen yet somehow, it made the movie so much more enjoyable. I love the acting of Sandra Bullock and Bill Pullman. They both just work so well together. This movie is one I love to sit and watch on a lazy Saturday night when my husband is doing something else. An amazing, feel-good movie that has you grinning like an idiot at the end despite how predictable it is. "},{"Title":"More than a chick flick.","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am not really a fan of chick flicks. I think they are only good when it's raining outside. However, I am a big fan of Sandra Bullock so I watched it. This film did not make me laugh, or want to fall in love all over again but it sure gave me a warm smile in my heart. It doesn't bore you at all. Entertaining for sure you won't notice how much time you spent facing the screen. I was just surprised Peter Gallagher used to do this kind of role... you know sleeping. Hahaha! I was kinda hooked with his role as Arthur in Covert Affairs. It sure has the Sandra B charm. I will surely watch it all over again, and I recommend it to women who live alone and watch TV with their cats. or to ladies living with roomies. This could bring in some giggle. ) "},{"Title":"A very cute romantic comedy starring my all time favourite actress Sandra Bullock","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SO I was watching this movie last year(Dec 2013) on TV during the Xmas season and I had to do a review on it so here it is.While You Were Sleeping is a 1995 romantic comedy about a lonely woman named Lucy(Sandra Bullock)who is unlucky when it comes to love and men. As she is working in a booth at a train station in Chicago she meets a handsome man called Peter(Peter Gallagher) who is taking a train journey and she develops feelings for him as he comes by everyday to get a ticket from her booth.But when two teenagers thrown him off the train station,Lucy saves him from a train coming on the train tracks by jumping into the tracks to get him out and he goes to hospital. While she is there at the hospital she blurts out And I was gonna marry him and the nurse mistakes her for Peter's fiancé!! so Peter's family visit Peter at the hospital and from here on in they presume that Lucy is Peter's fiancé. As Peter is in hospital Lucy spends some time with his family and later meets Peter's brother Jack(played by Casper star Bill Pullman). But then she starts to fall in love with him and must decide how long will her facade with Peter end and which man does she love more Jack or Peter?Bottom line I loved While You Were Sleeping,similar to the 2009 film The Proposal where Bullocks' Margaret made out she was engaged to Andrew but later falls in love with him for real, I really enjoyed this film.Sandra Bullock was really good in this movie and her chemistry with Bill Pullman as Jack was so cute.I wish I could buy this on DVD but its impossible to get it only online but the next time its on TV I will definitely be recording it on VHS.Overall While You Were Sleeping is a thumbs up and a great film to watch at Xmas time as its always on TV at Xmas.Also without giving too much away the ending was so adorable but my only concern is the movie poster,its kinda making the film predictable as you know what man she chose in the end judging by the picture but still I loved this movie.They just don't make movies like that anymore only know and again.7/10Ps I finally got it on DVD and I really loved this movie. "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock is American's Sweetheart","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucy (Sandra Bullock) is a train token taker without a family. She pines for frequent commuter Peter (Peter Gallagher), but never speaks to him. Then on Christmas, Peter gets pushed off the platform, and she rescues him. In the hospital, the family mistakes her for his fiancée. While he's in a coma, she and his brother Jack (Bill Pullman) slowly falls for each other.This is a perfectly harmless Sandra Bullock rom-com, and she's so great at it. She can make any preposterous situations work. This movie is about Bullock's vulnerable charm. The biggest problem is that Bill Pullman doesn't get in the movie until almost 30 minutes in. They need more time together to develop the chemistry. I don't know why he doesn't get in right from the start. "},{"Title":"Semi parody of the genre that moves at a cracking pace","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite the opening song number being one of my own personal pet peeves, this is one of my favorite films. It is a genius parody of the romantic comedy genre that plays with your expectations. Now, this film has almost as many holes as the Dark Knight Rises, and more coincidences than the complete works of Charles Dickens, but the likable characters and the spot on comedic timing more than make up for any and all failings.This film looks at all the tropes and clichés of chick flicks and exploits them for well earned laughs, including one of the funniest breakup scenes of all time. All the humor lands perfectly and hits its mark. The only problem I can find would be the product placement. Dunkin Donuts, bringing families together for years, America runs on Dunkin.All in all, its an enjoyable film that will play around with your expectations and moves along at a perfect pace. This is a film you can just pop in and watch any time, you could watch it multiple times in a row without ever getting tired of it. The problem though, and the reason, I believe, for the 6.5 rating, is that people go in expecting a straight romantic comedy and see only the film's weaker aspects. I say, take a look. "},{"Title":"Awakening To Lucy","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jon Turteltaub directed this sweet romantic comedy that stars Sandra Bullock as a beautiful but lonely subway worker named Lucy, who is smitten with a handsome stranger named Peter(played by Peter Gallagher). One day to her amazement, he is mugged and knocked unconscious on the rails, and she saves his life, but he is in a coma. At the hospital, when she meets his family(played by Peter Boyle, Jack Warden, and Glynis Johns) she blurts out that she is his fiancée, and so begins a romantic comedy of errors, though his brother Jack(played by Bill Pullman) isn't convinced, even as he and Lucy find themselves falling in love... Modern-day classic comedy is both very funny and charming, with a wonderful cast and smart screenplay. Bullock is radiant throughout, and ends exactly as viewer was hoping. "},{"Title":"One of Sandra Bullock's Best!","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm 16 years old, and many years ago my mum introduced me to a movie, where it was made in a golden decade where almost all romantic comedies I've seen are treasured. This movie I watch every year at least 10 times, maybe more, maybe less. It is by far my favourite and I love watching it around Christmas time, since the movie is around the Christmas/New Year season. So if you're going to watch this movie, watch it around Christmas time, November/December should do. I watched it just now and it's October but still, it's a great movie anytime of the year )It will make you laugh, cry and sigh as you see her life and the magical events that happen evolve into a beautiful heart-warming story. If you are an ol' romantic and enjoy innocent humour then this is the movie for you )It's just amazing. I'm so glad my Mum introduced me to it. I can't wait to have a family and introduce them. That's how good it is ) "},{"Title":"That once in a while romantic comedy","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Over the year there's been no shortage of romantic comedies. Occasionally one comes along that stands out, as this one did, as evidenced by its tremendous box office appeal.I had never noticed Sandra Bullock until the film she made just before this one -- Speed. Not my type of film, really. Then she followed up with this film, and she suddenly was pretty high on my list of favorite actresses.This film is utterly charming, without being sweet. Bullock brings an innocence and sense of being lost to the screen without one feeling sorry for her. Then, through a series of misunderstandings, people begin believing she is the fiancée of a man in a coma...a man she has long had a secret crush on. Will they get married? It seems like the film is heading in that direction until she falls in real love with the brother of the man in the coma. One of the most special things about this film in the sense of family, even though the family is a bit odd.Bullock is tremendous here, and this may be her best film. Peter Gallagher has a key role here as the man in the coma, yet his role is not a strong one. Bill Pullman, not a favorite of mine, actually has a very good role here, and does exceptionally well with it. Micole Mercurio as the mother of the two men is very good, as is Peter Boyle -- another actor who was never high on my list. Glynis Johns is a hoot, though again, she's not one of my favorites. And perhaps the best supporting role in the film goes to Jack Warden -- a godfather and friend of the family, who becomes Bullock's friend, as well.If you like romantic comedies, you'll probably love this film. Highly recommended, with little to criticize. "},{"Title":"love this absolutely gorgeous woman","Date":"24 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" its been a while since i've written a review on this site,,but after seeing Miss Bullock in this film,,i felt a need to do so..i do believe i've seen her in every film she's ever been in,and at my age,,(82,,in 2 weeks)i may have 4gotten if thats true or not,,but it matters not,for she is needed to be seen..not only for acting ability,,but for her beauty as well..there is no doubt that her looks but her,,as far as i'm concerned with another beautiful actress,,who else but Liz Taylor..yeah,,you heard me,,this particular film,,also happens to be a great movie,,it's what true love is really about,,films of this venue,,usually don't reach that pinnacle,,Al Ziemer an old friend,,has given me permission to see it again.. love you guys "}{"Title":"Bizarre rom-com with the plot of a psycho-sexual thriller","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock - someone that only a Hollywood producer would envision as a lonely spinster who can't get a man - is a Chicago el train ticket booth attendant with a secret crush on commuter Peter Gallagher. When he suffers a coma after falling onto the tracks, she goes to with him to the hospital, and through a wacky misunderstanding, his family believes that she is his fiancé that he never told them about. While he is in the coma, she gets to know them, and eventually falls for his brother, played by Bill Pullman. Like Sleepless in Seattle, this is another romantic comedy where the writers and directors confused plucky and adorable with stalkerish and insane. The plot sounds like a bunny-boiler sex thriller (even the title, While You Were Sleeping, is creepy) and yet, this is a fluffy chick flick. My girlfriend, who likes this movie has admitted that the fundamental wrongness that permeates the picture is the reason for her enjoyment of this mid-90's favorite, but I was less enamored. I would have actually preferred to have seen While You Were Sleeping With Michael Douglas (thanks, Kim Morgan) than this movie, which is uncomfortable in a not-fun way. "},{"Title":"Pleasant movie that shows Sandra Bullock at her most likable.","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock is Lucy, a somewhat meek, unassuming person with a menial job that suits her. She sells tokens for the transit system. She has fallen in love with a man she never meets, but she sees him regularly as he goes to work. She would never be brave enough to strike up a conversation with him.The businessman is Peter Gallagher as Peter. But one fateful day he falls and Lucy sees it. She rushes to his rescue, to keep him out of harm's way. Later when she goes to the hospital to see how he is doing, they won't let her in because she is not a relative. So she makes up the story during the heat of the moment that she is his fiancée.This strikes all the family members as strange that Peter would have a fiancée and not have told anyone. Particularly suspicious was Peter's brother, Bill Pullman as Jack.Being the meek type Lucy doesn't reveal the truth and actually goes along with the ruse, which works because Peter has amnesia from his fall, and becomes adjusted to the fact that he is to marry her. But Jack remains skeptical.Gallagher and Pullman are excellent in their roles, but this is mainly a vehicle for Bullock. A good role and an entertaining movie.SPOILERS Peter and Lucy get all the way to the altar, friends and family in attendance, and Jack as Best Man. But LUcy can't go through with it, as she got to know him Peter was not someone she could fall in love with. However, she had in the process fallen in love with Jack instead, and the feeling was mutual. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had seen this movie quite a few years ago and I didn't remember it very well. It was nine o'clock and I was bored out of my mind. I checked the tv guide and saw that While You Were Sleeping was about to start. I sat down and smiled for a whole two hours. It may be the cheesiest movie ever, but it makes you feel so good and it's so sweet. Of course, a movie with Bill Pullman is pretty much always good ( I've always had a little thing for him, I don't know quite what it is about him though!). The only thing I don't get is this I've read all of the 48 reviews on this site and I can't understand why it got such a low rating. Everyone seemed to enjoy it (except one person) and it only got a 6.6/10. I would at least give it an 8.5/10 or maybe even a 9/10 because even though it wasn't THE best movie of all times, it truly was a feel-great movie and very recommendable to anyone who enjoys a good romantic movie! "},{"Title":"There is true love and then there is love at first sight","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has to be classed as brilliant.  Take a normal lonely girl one gorgeous male and add a sweet very cute brother and you get this film!  It is a good romantic film for all the family. The moral of the story - you may think it is love at first sight but try looking a second time! "},{"Title":"Melting Hearts in the middle of Winter!!","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sigh..this is an unabashed, for the die-hard romatics movie...! It has all the ingredients of one - the elusive Prince Charming, a hopeless romantic and Christmas! There have been many similar movies('Bed of Roses') but still WYWS holds its own and wins because of some excellent acting, witty dialogues and an aura that is so warm(maybe its just Christmas). Sandra Bullock is a really beautiful and talented actress, her confession in front of the whole family saying that she loves Jack(Bill P.) and not Peter(Peter G.) is really well rendered. And Bill Pullman, well the man really doesn't have to do that much, he's  just simply mind blowing! But as usual he does a great job as Jack. The rest of the supporting cast forming the Callaghan family have done a great job, but yes, the best among the supporting cast would have to be the guy who acted as Joe Fusco(Michael R?), he's really cute! There's just one thing I'd like to add, part of the aura of this movie is the fact that its shot in Chicago, the city is a lving, breathing, integral part of the movie and the reason for some of its beauty..This movie stands as one of those really heartwarming unadulterated romances that I hope will be made more often, with  someone like Sandra Bullock who, because she's not soo.. obviously beautiful as Julia Roberts is more endearing and human..very human..!     "},{"Title":"On screen attraction is the key","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  So it's a trifle predictable.  And saccharine.  And it's the stereotypical chick-flick.  But While You Were Sleeping is charming and cute, not deep, but enjoyable none the less.  Sandra Bullock and Bill Pullman have such a natural onscreen chemistry it seamlessly moves the story along.  I've made it a tradition to watch Sleeping exactly once every year, during Christmas, just to remind myself that sure, it may be just Hollywood fluff, but true love isn't always just a metaphor. Sigh! "},{"Title":"Delightful Cinema","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For simply delightful cinema one need go no further than While You Were Sleeping. Jon Turtletaub's film is far better than Nora Ephron's recent hit Sleepless in Seattle. There is no blatant predictability nor obvious contrivances, and this picture has considerable wit, being oft times hilarious.Turtletaub has turned the everyday, and the not so everyday, into a collection of very funny situations with apparent ease. While keeping the whole story very close to home, he has graced the movie with enough off beat moments and quirky characters to really guarantee the audience much enjoyment.Essentially though, this is romantic-comedy at its very best. While You Were Sleeping is most definitely romantic, and successfully deals with personal ideals and the awkward reality of love, and of course it's heartwarming in its humour. But what really makes the whole film work so successfully are the endlessly likable lead players.Sandra Bullock is totally charming and adorably lovable, and is just beginning to show some real versatility following her role in the action blockbuster Speed. The homely good looks she possesses mean that Miss Bullock has no trouble winning hearts with a mere smile. Equally agreeable is Bill Pullman, who plays second fiddle to the lovely Miss Bullock, an unsung actor who was well overdue a chance to play a lead role, after a string of impressive support roles including Ruthless People, The Accidental Tourist and Sommersby.Perhaps this picture does become a fraction contrived in the last ten minutes, though it still remains an absolute joy over all.Friday, June 23, 1995 - Waverley Pinewood CinemaAgain one of the most likable films of the year from director Jon Turtletaub. The film's simplicity is a big help, with an amiable script telling an easy tale of love at second sight.The movie's best asset is the very enjoyable cast lead by every girl Sandra Bullock, whose 'girl next door' charms will win your heart with ease. With no outstanding performances, support cast back up Miss Bullock most admirably, with Bill Pullman especially enjoyable as the love lorn Jack, who has fallen head over heels for the slightly nutty Lucy.The comedy is marvellously handled by all concerned, making the very most of this humorous pic, peopled with eccentric characters as it is. But it's the romance that will win you over in the end. Best romantic/comedy of 1995.Saturday, March 23, 1996 - Video "},{"Title":"Light-hearted Romantic comedy","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Nice movie for any occasion. A light-hearted romantic comedy for all ages. Not too diabetic or too bitter but just a perfect mixture of love, friendship, and family. Sandra Bullock is perfect in her portrayal of Lucy and so is Bill Pullman. Bullock and Pullman combination works very well. Michael Rispoli is fun in his Joe Jr. role. Glynis Johns,Peter Boyle, Micole Mercurio, Monica Keena, and Jack Warden make up a great family. Peter Gallagher looks real good when he is in coma.I have watched it over and over and simply never seem to get tired of it. Though the storyline is pretty predictable it is still kind of fun to watch it for Bullock. She really pulls it through and many could identify with her. The dialogues are pretty funny, especially the church episode, one during the Christmas dinner and the last hospital scene.It cannot the termed the greatest of all but if there is one movie I could recommend to watch again and again without getting bored it's this one. My only regret remains that I don't own the DVD. ) "},{"Title":"Predictable, But Extremely Entertaining","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING ****1/2 Though it may be predictable, this extremely entertaining romance-comedy snatches a subtle, heart-felt performance from Sandra Bullock, a strong supporting cast providing comic relief, and a sharp directorial by Jon Turteltaub. After coma victim Peter Gallagher gets rescued by Good Samaritan Bullock following an accident at the Subway station, his offbeat family mistakingly believe that Bullock is his fiancée, only she's falling for someone else. Granted things do turn out as foreseen, the shining ensemble of actors demonstrate that plot predictability can't restrain this film from exceeding the mediocre standard. It's funny, sincere, and heartwarming. "},{"Title":"The Only Movie I've Liked Sandra Bullock In!","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, I can't stand Sandra Bullock but I could watch this movie a hundred times. I own it. It is romantic and hilarious. The Callahan family is so funny! It's non stop laughter from start to finish. Plus it adds in a little moral of the story about living what you dream and how family is so important. A must-see for the hopeless romantic. Basically, the story goes like this On Christams morning, Lucy (a family-less woman) saves a stranger's life, but he still winds up in a coma in the hospital. The hospital staff won't let Lucy see him since she's not family. So by some strange misunderstanding, word gets around to the doctors that she is this man's fiancé, even though she's never spoken to the guy before! She stays by his side in the hospital and is accidentally introduced to his whole family as his fiancé. And that's just the first 15 minutes or so of the movie! And that's where the real fun begins! As for the rest of the story... you'll have to see for yourself! "}{"Title":"Save this movie for a rainy Sunday afternoon.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is for lovers of good old fashioned romantic comedies. I've seen this movie twenty times, so I obviously love it. Generally I save it for rainy Sunday afternoons. Sandra Bullock is at her most adorable and there are some scenes where you just want to jump into the screen and hug her. The support cast is great (don't you hate it when some small role is so badly acted that you loose your thread in the movie) and the plot is simple, if predictable (as it should be in a romantic comedy). What I love about this film is that it doesn't clog up the plot with unfaithfulness and over the top gross hummer. It's all nice and sweet and simple, and you just want the girl to get the guy. Good forget your worries pulp. "},{"Title":"See it! You will love it!","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is not about glitz or Hollywood fan fare. It is a wonderful clean movie without showing cleavage every 30 seconds. It's about good hard working, jeans wearing God fearing family people. It's easy to follow and I like that a lot. I wish I could come up with a new complement to describe Sandra,but; they have all been used. I believe what you see is what you get. Oh sure I'm sure she has her bad days and her crabby times. We all do. If she isn't the sweetest lady to hit the big screen I'd like to know who it is? When Saul says you jumped on the tracks. I lose it for a moment every time I see it. This has to the best romance/comedy of all times. One would have to feel sorry for Jack. When he first meets Lucy she bats her eye lashes at him. Doesn't he know what that means? Then she tells Jack she doesn't have anyone. Hint hint. At the dinner she gives him the I love you look. He still doesn't wake up. Then she asks him if he can give her a reason not to marry his brother. This guy is nice but dense. Oh well somehow he wins Lucy at the end. Who would have thought? "},{"Title":"A very funny, with many unexpected story turns","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very refreshing film, full of unexpected story turns that keeps you tied to your chair the whole time. Sandra plays her role so well that on many times you feel the joy, sorrow, pain and enjoyment she feels. The story about a lonely girl in a ticket box at the station. Silently in love with a man that comes by each and every day, without seeing her. When she saves the man from a deadly fall for the train, the man gets into a coma. In order to see the man in hospital, she poses as his fiancée. That works, but then she meets the family of the man who never seen his fiancée and instantly believe she is his fiancée. From that moment her life starts turning in many directions and she falls from one (hilarious) situation into the other. The story line and the hilarious situations are always unexpected, but never cheap or dull. A film to see a dozen times! "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock shines","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock is at her best when playing this kind of character. She's lovable, vulnerable, and real. She seems like someone you'd know instead of an impossibly glamorous movie character. We own this DVD and watch it over and over again. The supporting cast shines as well; Peter Boyle, Micole Mercurio, Glynis Johns, Monica Keena, and Jack Warden make the Callaghan family so endearing that it's easy to see why Lucy (Bullock) would want to be part of it. Peter Gallagher is great as the self absorbed object of Lucy's affection.This isn't a movie that's deep or thought provoking; it's just a lot of fun and sweet. Another of those rare movies that you can watch with your family (there are a couple of questionable instances regarding breast enhancement and accident involving a pencil; the movie would not have missed them had they been omitted, but there is more good than bad here). "},{"Title":"Wonderful and Romantic  Story","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the most romantic movie I have seen in many years. I love the actors and the story. I am 68 years old and this story takes me back when I was in my 20's and 30's. I watch this movie every day, when I have time. Jack Warden is a wonderful actor. Jack is the very best! I can't say enough about him. He is romantic, funny, good looking, ( he is the age of my oldest daughter). The story he tells Lucy about what leaning means is so impressive I could cry. No other actor could have put it over as well. I think he must be a very underrated actor, because I never hear anything about him. I am going to check out the names of the Mother, I know Peter Boyle is the Father, the sister is wonderful. The actor who played Joe Jr. is excellent. I have never seen him before. The Grandmother is as good as she has ever been and I have seen her in many movies over the years. I wish I had seen this movie when it first came out. This year I have found it and I am very, very happy! Thank you for listening. Florence Stockton, Reno, Nevada florriebbc@sbcglobal.net "},{"Title":"sandra bullock, wrongly known as the fiancée of peter, falls in love with peter's brother...","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this movie was a very good one and i love it very much because it has great humor and the romance makes you giddy. sandra bullock and bill pullman are the perfect leads to the movie. Sandra has the gullible sweetness that everyone could fall for and bill pullman has the charming lovable features that match perfectly with sandra. i also love the heartwarming parts where you can really go into the depths of sandra's happiness or loneliness. her acting is incredible, it gets you crying along with her. what i have to say i absolutely love is jack's jealousy for his brother AND joe jr. No parts are gushy, either. it's perfect to watch. "},{"Title":"Sandra is cute!","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the better movies of its genre. Sandra Bullock plays a likable girl whose main desire in life is to get a stamp in her passport from a foreign country. Having lost both parents, she lives with her cat in a small Chicago apartment with her cat and has to avoid the stereotypical Italian (a la Andrew Dice Clay) super's son's advances.She works as a token booth clerk and fantasizes about a rich passenger that passes her booth daily. One day he is pushed to the tracks by some teens and knocked unconscious. Bullock jumps to the tracks and saves him and then goes with him to the hospital. He is in a coma and when his family comes to visit, they mistakenly think that Bullock is his fiancée.Bullock doesn't have the heart to tell them she isn't, especially because they are so nice and provide Bullock with the family affection that she is missing. It gets real interesting when Bullock slowly starts falling for the coma man's brother. Tension mounts knowing that when the coma man wakes, Bullock will be exposed as a fake.This was a really fun movie. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not great either.","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While You Were Sleeping was by no means the worst of the romantic comedies but it did leave a lot to be desired.  It just seemed like the movie's plot was awfully convoluted to me.  Watching this film gave me a rather large headache.  "},{"Title":"Sweet, charming, romantic, hilarious, and heart-warming romantic comedy","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING, in my opinion, is a sweet, charming, romantic, hilarious, and heart-warming romantic comedy. If you ask me, the way that Lucy (Sandra Bullock) and Peter (Peter Gallagher) met was very romantic. Also, in my opinion, Joey (Michael Rispoli) was a little crazy. This was because he just couldn't seem to leave Lucy alone. In addition, to me, Jack (Bill Pullman) was a really cute guy. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If you like romantic comedies or movies where people meet by chance, I highly recommend WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING! Now, in conclusion, when you see this sweet, charming, hilarious, and heart-warming romantic comedy, prepare to laugh and be touched.  "},{"Title":"A much loved romantic comedy","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that I anxiously waited to see from the moment it was released in theaters and when I finally saw it a week after its video release, I was not the least bit disappointed.  This is one of my favorite films to come along in recent years.  It has many funny and delightful moments from start to finish and everyone in the film did a great job.  The lovely and talented Sandra Bullock was especially delightful.  I very highly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys romantic comedies and that's in need of some good, heart warming entertainment. "}{"Title":"A terrific Movie","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After repeated viewings, I've concluded that this movie is to its genre what Casablanca is to its genre.  Although a simple romantic comedy, it's set against the backdrop of THE  HUMAN CONDITION (loss of a loved one which happens to everybody) and shows the triumph of the indomitable HUMAN SPIRIT (portraying people who not only can but do cope).   For instance, the opening scenes show a skater falling on the ice.  Later, a newspaper delivery boy falls on the ice.  But Lucy and Jack fall on the ice together, and they fall in love.  Sharing troubles can be a bonding experience. "},{"Title":"This is a very good romance movie","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best romance films I've ever seen. I think a lot of romances are kid of goofy, they don't make any sense. But this one is truly romantic, funny, and the actors are really great, especially Bill Pullman. "},{"Title":"Love it Love it Love it Love it....!!!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember the night I watched this film about 4 or 5 years ago and eventually I made my own review after that and I said that this will be on my all time list....Recently i rent it again and I know that I was wrong, I dont love it but I love love love love it multiply by 1000.LOL. Sandra Bullock is one of my favorite actress and this film confirmed that once and for all. The chemistry is great, the comedy is flawless, and Sandra is my dream kinda woman. The story is cliche but the warmth that it left behind is lingering forever. I will watch this again and again.... 10/10 "},{"Title":"what an amazing movie!!!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen many famous romantic comedies like Never been kissed, My best friend's wedding,The wedding planner,etc,but none of them has impressed me as much as While you were sleeping.The movie is absolutely funny,brilliant,the casts are really great. Sandra Bullock has shown her greatest performance she has ever made. It seems that she was born to act romantic comedy. An amazing and gorgeous movie for everybody.My score 9/10. "},{"Title":"Guaranteed to chase away the blues","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film could easily be recommended as an over-the counter prescription against depression!  It is quite simply charming.  Before I saw it, I admit I was not the greatest Sandra Bullock fan; ten minutes into the film, I had more than changed my mind and made a complete 180 degree turn in my opinion of her.  Sandra Bullock is truly endearing in this hilarious case of mistaken identity romantic-comedy; it's easy to see how she has become a household name after it--there is really something fresh, sincere, and approachable but also compellingly vulnerable about her character Lucy Eleanor Moderatz.  Yet we cannot help but admire her integrity, her battle of conscience against continuing to deceive Peter's family, and wonder--Why *should* she be lonely?  Why is it so wrong what she's doing, since she's clearly come to love this family?  The interesting, unusual view of a typical Chicago winter and delightfully quirky writing in While You were Sleeping as well as the fine performances of the supporting cast, are also an integral part of the overall success of this film.  Bill Pullman's character Jack, the hard-working Everyman, is not presented in a patronising light, and I found this ordinary hero refreshing.  So many more patrician films tend to praise the likes of his elder brother, the highly successful, power/wealth-driven businessman Peter, and portray the hard-working everyman as nothing more than a crass boor with few, or with obscure ambitions.  Moreover, Sandra's portrayal of the sweet but unglamorous, next-door girl turned heroine Lucy, shines among a plethora of more common female performances in films (such as Pretty Woman) which more directly resort to an overt Cinderella storyline.  While You Were Sleeping is among the best romantic-comedies of all time.  Anyone with a sense of humor could not be disappointed by it.  My rating at least a 9/10  "},{"Title":"Bullock becomes America's Sweetheart","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While You Were Sleeping was the movie where Sandra Bullock stole the tiara of America's Sweetheart from Julia Roberts' head.  America fell in love with Bullock who portrayed Lucy, a young woman, orphaned and alone in the world.  She works at the rail station, taking tokens from the commuters, one of whom is Peter Gallagher (Peter Callaghan).  Seeing Peter enter the turnstile each day, Lucy develops a crush but is too shy to even speak to him.  Lovingly watching him one day, she witnesses Peter being mugged and she heroically saves his life.  Accompanying him to the hospital, she is mistaken by a nurse as his fiancee.  When his family, the Callaghans (each actor in this ensemble was absolutely loveable), burst into the hospital room, it is obvious that they don't see comotose Peter (a highly successful professional in the big city) often and they eagerly believe that Lucy is Peter's fiancee.  When Lucy tries to protest, then witnesses Peter's grandmother having a weak heart spell, she goes along with the lie.This is a heart-warming story that your entire family will love.  Bullock is so lonely yet so adorable, that you want with all your heart for her to marry into the wonderful Callaghan family.  Will her mistaken identity be revealed?  I won't tell you but I will tell you that this movie, with a Christmas-time setting, has joined my collection of videotapes that I pop in the VCR for family on Christmas day, along with A Christmas Story, It's a Wonderful Life, etc. "},{"Title":"Well, it always helps if you know you'll get along with your inlaws.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Usually I hate romantic movies. I got hauled in to see While You Were Sleeping by a friend, and was delighted. It's great to see a romance that focuses on something besides sex.The cast of Characters (yes, with a capital C) is a Dickensian delight. Joe Jr., who barbecues in the stairwell and claims to have invented aluminum foil, manages to be slimy and endearing at the same time.Most important of all, While You Were Sleeping features two lovebirds who try to do the right thing, even when it breaks their hearts. The scene between Lucy and Jack in the stairwell the night before the wedding is material for morals training. I hope Hollywood makes more like this one. "},{"Title":"The most romantic comedy I have ever seen","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING GIVES THE POSSIBILITIES THAT LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT REALLY HAPPENS.  BILL PULLMAN AND SANDRA BULLOCK GIVE GREAT CONVINCING PERFORMANCES AS TWO PEOPLE FALLING IN LOVE, KNOWING THAT THE CHANCE OF ACTUALLY GETTING TOGETHER IS SLIM. I RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE TIMES TEN, GO OUT AND RENT IT AND SEE FOR YOURSELVES.  "},{"Title":"Again and Again...it's still incredible","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I usually don't fall for romantic comedies, but I have seen WYWS every year' since it came out-twice each Christmas in fact.  Yes, I've read pro. reviews and I agree the plot is rather predictable, some snippets of dialogue clunky, but overall this movie gets better with each viewing.Reasons Two-Sandra and Bill. Both are stunning performers individually, and together they are dynamite.  Without hardly a kiss, they share this magnetism Hollywood is so hard-pressed to create these days.  Their expressions, gestures, every moment of screen time is superb.I especially love the leaning bit, the objections and of course that wrenching scene in Lucy's apartment. Also of note-Jack's illustrious family.  Elsie, the grandma is a riot.  They all are. My advice Buy the movie.  You can watch it anytime you like (I prefer the holiday season) and it never gets old.  Sweetness wins again. "},{"Title":"Humor, good actors and romance","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has everything a good romantic movie needs it has humor, it has good actors and it has the romance. Sandra Bullock plays a person who everyone would like to be who is shy and loving. The shots has been taken great and the music is terrific. The film gives a good Christmas atmosphere. It's a great movie to watch with your date or just with your friends. Watch and enjoy! "}{"Title":"Hard to believe a cutie-pie like this wouldn't have men lining down her street!","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock is adorable...but as a mousy working girl with no real romantic opportunities? Bullock is so charming in this film that she's a little miscast. She seems to have no real friends, no family of her own; a person this bubbly and sparkling would not be a house hermit. But, to buy into the situation as is means to be carried away by Bullock's performance--and that's an easy task. She lights up the screen, but in a quiet, easy way. There were few chances for her to really be easy and natural in Speed (although I liked her worried line to the passengers, Are we dragging him? when Keanu Reeves was under the bus) and her brief appearance in The Vanishing was just what that doom-laden movie needed. This picture seems to be tailored to her low-keyed effervescence, and Sandra's chemistry with Bill Pullman is exactly right. She becomes friends with a loud, jubilant family here, her face lighting up in surprise at her own enjoyment, and in these moments I couldn't have cared less about the trite set-up of the plot, the hectic finale or some of the wobbly writing (as with a bad caveat about a character having one testicle--not good material for a comedy). But, the movie is quite enjoyable and romantic and it works the audience over gently. With Bullock and Pullman in the leads it can't hardly miss. *** from **** "},{"Title":"A well- put- together, charming movie","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Since I was born in Arlington, Virginia like Sandra Bullock, I have been a fan. And, it happens, I have a sister named Sandra too. I find her role in this movie simply delightful and very, very well done. The vulnerability she displays in her character is played with poignancy and artistic sensitivity. Sandy shows me that her acting talent has a range that others might not see. Since she is very pretty, it is sometimes difficult to convince audiences that you have real, raw acting talent. I believe she displays her capabilities admirably in this role. Bill Pullman is also a great complement to her character. He blends his character into a caring, smitten, masculine, sensitive human being. One does not see this type of character developed by others in similar roles. He has accomplished it marvelously. His role is a real tribute to Bill's versatility as a character actor. The direction and script make this movie charming without overdoing and with real people that you feel totally connected with from the start. And yes I believe the chemistry between Sandy and Bill is just as electrifying as Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks in their romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"A must-watch movie for all romantics at heart.","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's a must-watch movie for all romantics. Its simple wholesome storyline uplifts one's spirits and leaves you feeling all nice and warm inside. The chemistry between Pullman and Bullock is magic. It's nice to see old-fashioned romance come to life in the interactions between the 2 lead roles. The scenes where they appear together are touchingly sweet, especially when they were caught under the mistletoe. The supporting casts are strong and often very funny. The dialogues and scenes with some of them are sure to bring a smile to your face. Though the ending is predictable, it did have a small twist when Pullman's (as Jack) family went with him to propose to Bullock as Lucy. Or maybe not as it's obvious from the beginning that having a family meant a lot to Lucy. This is one movie where you can watch and re-watch without feeling bored. "},{"Title":"sleeping beauty thinks he loves Lucy, but so does his brother.....and he knows it!!!","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While you where sleeping is a beautiful movie about Lucy, who has no family and secretly has a crush on peter. Peter, a business man who's always in a hurry, flies by her kiosk and hardly ever says a word to her. one day she saves him from the tracks, and after a couple of misunderstandings, she becomes sleeping peter's future wife. But she meets Peter's brother a handsome bloke who loves her the moment he sees her. Next is a story with great humor and great acting of Sandra and Bill. Peter,who's sleeping most of the movie, has some very nice lines which made me laugh out loud. ( a,b,c,d,e,f,g.. he tries to find out whether he lost his memory or not) That's one line, that popped into my head. When you look at this film, you feel the 'love' that is growing between Sandra and Bills characters. Their charisma is sparkling together! And also you meet a great family who instantly accepts Lucy into their family, no questions asked! More people should see this movie, you great afterword's! IF I HAD BEEN SLEEPING , I WOULD HAVE MISSED THIS Beautiful MOVIE! i'm glad i didn't! "},{"Title":"sweet, charming, and delightful!!!!!","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While You Were Sleeping, is the best romantic comedy ever made. it is sweet, hystrical, charming and isn't confusing. Lucy(Sandra Bullock) is a toll both collecter at the local subway. Every morning she sits there like a beal. she becomes fascinated with a man. He then is pushed onto the tracks. Worried Lucy one's to get him so that he doesn't get run over but he will not wake up so she decides to roll with it. He is brought to the hospital, where is diagnosed in a coma like state. One of the nurses overhears her saying how she was going to marry him, that's when the trouble starts. From then on it is a downward spiral of events form meeting the parents to becoming a part of their family to telling all of them the truth in the end. Sandra Bullock is at her best in this role, I love this movie. "},{"Title":"a sweet story","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favourite feel good movies. I congratulate the writers on producing a comedy-romance story that doesn't rely on the gratious need for sex, violence or  continuous swearing. It is just a really nice movie and I recommend this for anyone feeling a little low and in need of a pick -me- up. "},{"Title":"A really cute movie, proving somehow that dreaming is possible.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really like this movie, because it shows that dreams can sometimes become true. Moreover, the character of Lucy (played by Sandra Bullock who is so cute and sweet) is really touching. She is so lonely that she dreams her life, and once that it almost becomes true she can't dare to tell the truth. This movie is really cute. Every character is both funny and tender, Saul is funny when he's supposed to tell the truth, the whole family is very funny.. More than being a nice movie, it really feels true. This movie reminds me of some aspects of my life, and i do hope that I'll be as happy as Lucy.  "},{"Title":"Remains my all-time favorite movie","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  They don't make movies like this anymore! Just a wonderful, simple love story. Each time I see this flick... I fall in love with it all over again. No other movie has ever made me laugh, cry and cheer sometimes simultaneously!The bulk of this movie is set during the holiday season... In my book, it should be played every year without fail during that time of year. It's that special.While You Were Sleeping is still number one on my list. If you haven't seen it, and like a sweet, simple, wonderful love story with lots of smiles (and some tears)... give it a shot, you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful & believable movie","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite movie of all time.  I loved everything about it -- the comedy, the romance, the romantic-comedy aspect ... ... I can never say enough great things about this movie.  The chemistry between Bill Pullman & Sandra Bullock was the best.  Just that alone made this worth seeing.I have it on vhs; now, I just need to add it to my dvd collection!smiling "},{"Title":"the best movie ever!","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While You Were Sleeping is a wonderful charming and hilarious comedy that plays sunny side up with Sandra Bullock being her charming self as usual. The movie is excellent and I've seen it 81 times and I'm still not sick of it yet! The best movie ever! "}{"Title":" You've fallen in love with someone you haven't even met...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   While You Were Sleeping is a dazzling romantic tearjerker. Sandra Bullock is superb. She is lovely in this film. Bill Pullman is amazing. He looks great in this movie. Peter Gallagher does a fine job as well. The chemistry between Sandra and Bill is fabulous. The casting of Peter's family is nice, too. A wonderful romantic farce that will pull at the viewer's heartstrings. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Sandra Bullock at her sweetest","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are terrific performances from everyone in this romantic comedy. It's one of my favorite films in this genre. Sandra Bullock is at her sweetest, and the laughs are still out-loud even after seeing the movie many times. If its on TV...I'll be watching. "},{"Title":"The perfect holiday movie","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock stars in what must be the perfect winter holiday movie of our time, While You Were Sleeping. With some great laughs and an adorable storyline Sandra and Bill Pullman pull off one heck of a combined performance. I was also in tears near the end when it got more emotional, and the GF was getting a little misty as well. Great movie, that's all i can say. I would without hesitation recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"Cheery and funny","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well...a funny film, cheery and warmhearted, but without any depth. And that's just what it's about. It is entertaining and sometimes very jolly - the scene where Peter sings the alphabet song to see if he really has amnesia, or the paper boy who falls on his bike.However, the probability that someone looking like Sandra Bullock works in a subway station booth and spends her life alone is very low indeed. "},{"Title":"Very Sweet Romantic Comedy - Great Entertainment!","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock play Lucy (a sweet girl) who has recently lost her father and never knew her mother. She works taking tokens at a commuter train station. She sees the same guy (Peter Gallagher who plays Peter) everyday and fantasizes that he will one day notice her and they will fall in love.....and happily ever after will happen.One day she sees him pushed onto the tracks by a couple of hoods. He is knocked unconscious. Lucy jumps on the tracks and saves his life. From there he is transported - still unconscious -to the hospital and Lucy meets his family and they know she saved his life and they think she is Peter's girlfriend. The Gallagher family fall in love with Lucy and she loves the family.Peter Boyle does a good job as the father and Jack Warden is also great as the family friend, Saul.While You Were Sleeping is worth watching, it is just so sweet and light hearted, you can't help but love it. "},{"Title":"Sweet romantic comedy--Sandra Bullock's breakthrough movie","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bullock plays Lucy, a lonely Chicago transit worker.  She falls in love with a man she's never talked to Peter (Peter Gallagher), but sees every day at the train station.  One day she saves his life, but he slips into a coma.  His family mistakenly believes she's his girlfriend and she doesn't have the heart to correct them.  Then she meets Peter's sweet, soft-spoken brother Jack (a wonderful Bill Pullman) and falls for him!  Then Peter wakes up...  You can figure out the rest.  Utterly predictable but totally charming.  The script is funny, the film looks gorgeous and Bullock and Pullman have wonderful chemistry together.  Well worth seeing...a perfect date film.  One small complaint...it goes on a bit too long.  Still, well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A perfect romantic comedy","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought it was time to see this again after all these years, and it is just as fresh and wonderful as it was when it came out, like the smell of bread just taken from the oven. It is an exhilarating and essentially perfect romantic comedy. It comes off so wonderfully because of the central casting of the irresistibly charming Sandra Bullock. Whatever she lacks in Vogue cover beauty, she makes up for in tsunamis of personality. Who could say no to her? All she has to do is just smile or just look at you. Well, Bill Pullman certainly can't resist her in this film. And neither could his family. This film is so famous that most people know the story, which is the ingenious notion that Bullock saves the life of a handsome young man, played by Peter Gallagher, who is mugged and falls unconscious onto an overground subway track in front of an oncoming express train in Chicago. Bullocks leaps down, rolls over with him, and they just make it. She goes with him to the hospital but they won't let her follow him in because she is not a family member, so she pretends to be his fiancée. Then the story takes place while he is sleeping. i.e. in a deep coma, where Gallagher's family accept him as his fiancée and she is in countless comedic situations of having to pretend to know all sorts of things about him. In fact she had been in love with him for a long time, but they had never really met. It is a great idea, and it works to absolute perfection. There are many, many laughs. The film was magnificently directed by Jon Turteltaub (which means 'turtle dove' in German, just in case you wondered), who came from the unlikely background of having previously directed (gasp, gulp) 3 NINJAS (1992). Believe that if you can. This film is the only listed writing credit for Daniel G. Sullivan and Fredric LeBow. What happened to them? Surely they should have gone on writing stuff of this calibre. Did a hole in the earth open up and swallow them? The story and script are absolutely brilliant. Bill Pullman is also perfectly cast as the brother of Gallagher who falls in love with Bullock but nobly refrains from doing anything about it. Jack Warden provides heavyweight backup as family friend 'Uncle' Saul. The dotty family are all marvellous. Everybody is marvellous, everything is marvellous, the film is marvellous. Get the picture? "},{"Title":"Original and witty romantic comedy","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I did like this film despite it being the most obvious example of a 'chick flick' known to man! It is both original and very funny as well as the fact it has the gorgeous Sandra Bullock in the lead. She plays Lucy, a lonely ticket sales girl at a railway station who falls for a passenger she has never met. One day she witnesses him being mugged and while he is lying unconscious she alerts the emergency services and is somehow mistaken as his fiancée, his family get involved and she still plays along with the lie, that is until his brother (Bill Pullman) becomes a little suspicious!. Sounds sickly sweet?, well maybe it is a little but Bullock's irresistible 'girl next door' appeal makes it work. "},{"Title":"Warm, tender and funny.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was perfectly cast. From Lucy to the grandmother to the Hot Dog Vendor, it couldn't have been done any better. This is a must see. Great for couples.  "},{"Title":"Wake up.","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember a few years ago,my dad telling me that he was going to trade in ,what looked to be a romantic comedy the was in a very mucky big-box Ex-Rental case.Partly due to how nasty the case looked,I said to him the that was fine.Jumping a few years forward...And,I am searching on Amazon for fun looking romantic comedies,that are being sold cheaply on DVD.When I got to the end of one of the many pages,I suddenly spotted this film among them all.I felt,that,since I had missed seeing it on my first chance to,plus the fact that it had two very good lead actors,and a pretty good director,the it was worth giving the film a shot.The plotA long-time working subway worker called Lucy,has a crush on a very pleasant-looking commuter (Peter),though she is sadly unable to get the confidence to go and chat to him.One day,whilst he is waiting for his train to arrive,he gets mugged on the platform by a gang,who push him on to the rail line.Luckaly for Peter,Lucy is working there and she is able to bravely get him off the railway track alive.When Peter is taken to hospital,it is revealed to Lucy that Peter is now in a coma.When his family arrive,they are all understandable,very upset,but are all really hopeful that he will come out of the coma.With Lucy having been extremely sad since taking Peter to the hospital.The family ask that,due to how sad she has been,if she is engaged to him!!.With wanting to give the family something that can hopeful make them smile for a little bit,she decides to say that she is engaged to him.Thought as she gets to know the family more,Lucy stars developing feelings for Peters very sweet brother,Jack.Sadly for Lucy,questions are about to be asked,when Peter wakes up from his coma...View on the filmThe main thing that I feel made the film a lot more enjoyable than I was thinking it would be,were the great performances from Sandra Bullock,and,the very under-rated Bill Pullman.Each of the actors make their friendship/relationship feel very charming and they have some very natural chemistry in all the scenes that they are in.When looking at the supporting cast,it has to be said that the people the play Peter and Jacks family,give the film a huge warming hearts,that even warms up the very chilly Chicargo,that director Joe Turteltaub has,smartly chosen for the look of the film.Writers Daniel G.Sullivan and Fredrick Lebow wisely decide to not make the story into a grim TV-Movie-of-the-week,but instead,to give it a very Innocent feel.The only downside with the screenplay,is that the ending is just a little bit too rushed,which makes the last 15 minutes of the film feel like it is trying to fit into Cindellas slipper.Final view on the filmA very engaging romantic comedy,with a well-written screenplay and charming performances from the whole cast. "}{"Title":"A great romantic comedy which is underrated","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The genre of romantic comedies may not be a genre producing depthful insights, dramatic acting or meaningful morals....but it centers about the two most warm and nice emotions, humour and love. There can't be nothing wrong with this. Now many movies of this genre are just what you expect, they are cheesy, diabetes-inducing sweet, shallow movies. Sometimes the Humour outweighs the love so much it becomes intolerable, sometimes the love aspect is so heavy you are forced to vomit. Then many movies make the mistake of mixing love with lust or even replacing them. That does not go for romantic in my opinion. So the moviegoer is left with only a few notable movies, which make your heart glow There are PRETTY WOMAN, NOTTING HILL, WHEN HARRY MET SALLY, SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE, YOU GOT MAIL, THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY and of course WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING.Unlike some others in my listing, this movie sets his characters in a real normal life. They are all average people, who could live next your door. That's one point in making this movie memorable. Because if such a sweet love can happen to those guys, it can happen to you as well.The story may seem to be a bit far fetched (girl saves guy, gets mistaken for his fiancé, family invites her over for Christmas, she falls in love with the brother and so on) but it is not as far fetched as a millionaire falling for a prostitute, a journalist falling for just a boys story and drives through the US to Seattle or a movie star just walking in a normal bookstore...The humour is great, soft and loving instead of cynical. The only cynical remark (if you fit in my pants, I'll kill myself) is like you are kidding around with your friends. The love is also sweet. It never becomes sexual or lust-laden. Just pure love. Unlike all the aforementioned movies, here another love is playing a role, the love for and of a family. Anyone who, like Bullock's character, has lived without any family for some time knows what I speak of.The acting is good. Not great, as I said i don't expect that in a romantic comedy, but better than in most other movies of that genre (and many other genres as well).The last great point for this movie are the characters. The movie makes no point in creating a despicable, mean character. The family Callaghan are so nice and warm, even Peter (who the viewer gets to know only a lot later in the movie) seems to be able to leave his playboy life and settle with Sandra Bullock. Also heartwarming is the role of Joey Fusco. He seems to really love Sandra Bullock in his own way. He tries to protect her and be a real friend, though he is obviously not her type. Even the real fiancé of Peter Callaghan, Ashley, does not come evil just shallow and possessive. Her appearance lasts only a few minutes, too.All in all, if you're looking for a great movie to make you feel good, get this one. "},{"Title":"A perfect alternative for The Sound of Music","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though I'm not the biggest fan of romantic comedies, I do like to watch one occasionally. As long as they are at least somewhat original - which sometimes seems harder to find than you would like to believe - I really can have a good time with them. But for some reason I feared that this movie wouldn't belong to that category and that's why it took me almost ten years to finally watch it. Now that I did, I know that I shouldn't have waited that long.Lucy is already in love with Peter for a very long time. The only problem is that she has never really spoken to him and that he probably doesn't even know of her existence. He's a commuter to who she sells a ticket for the metro every day. When on Christmas Day he's attacked by some muggers, he falls on the rails and lies there unconscious. Lucy doesn't hesitate, but immediately goes after him and saves him from the oncoming train. Then he goes into a coma and is transported to hospital. And that's where all the problems start. The hospital staff confuses her for his fiancée, which they also tell to his family. They immediately welcome her into the family and Lucy, who isn't used to so much family happiness and warmth, isn't able to tell them that she and Peter haven't got a relationship. To make things even more complicated for her, Peter's brother falls in love with her and when Peter himself wakes up, he too believes that she is his fiancée...Even though the story feels a bit like all other romantic comedies, I must say that I like the new approach of a man in coma as the subject of affection. Even though he plays a very important role in this movie, his performance only consists of lying there with his eyes closed. And somehow that feels more OK than seeing yet another clumsy guy who is able to win the heart of the woman of his dreams. But not only the story is OK, so is the acting. Sandra Bullock, Jack Warden, Bill Pullman,... were nice to watch and even though Peter Gallagher didn't really have a difficult part, he too did a good job.I guess the only 'problem' that I had with this movie was that it was situated during Christmas time, while I saw it in the beginning of September. I'm not saying that I wasn't able to get completely involved in it, but somehow it felt a bit weird to see snow and to see them decorate the Christmas tree. That's also the reason why I believe that this is a perfect movie to play in that time period instead of THE Christmas classic The Sound of Music. You're already completely in the right mood then and I'm sure that such a movie would only add to that perfect feeling of family happiness. But than again, it's not that you can't watch this movie on another day either.All in all this is one of the better romantic comedies that I've seen lately. I had some good laughs with it, the romance was a bit weird but believable, the acting was good and the story original. What more can you expect from such a movie. Not much if you ask me and that's why I give it a well-deserved 7/10. "},{"Title":"A Chick Flick","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful chick flick.  Sandra Bullock plays a sweetheart and gives a terrific performance in this movie.  This movie proves that life has a funny way of working things out for the best, if we just hang in there when everything seems hopeless.  I also liked the Christmas setting.  It makes a great movie to add to any Christmas collection. "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies of all time !","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock's  While You Were Sleeping  follows in the tradition of the classic romantic comedies of the 30's , 40's and 50's, with a enough modern elements to make you believe this story could really happen. Old fashioned romance is played out in more than one way when you see not only the dynamics of Lucy's crush from afar, but with the family who adopts her for the holidays. Instead of focusing on who will win in the love triangle for the entire film, the viewer gets to enjoy the give and take between the other family members and the chemistry that attracts Lucy to them even though she knows she is living a lie. Even the smaller supporting characters are pillars in the plot development and take you on twists and turns as to who ends up with who in the end.  A great film that drives home the point that you don't just date a person - you date a family with all of its quirks and qualities that will determine your entire happily ever after. "},{"Title":"One of our favorites","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Clearly one of our family's favorite comedies. Incredible acting, so many memorable lines worth re-telling. My ONLY complaint about this movie is directed against the studio that made it. How could they possibly release this movie on DVD and not add one speck of additional information? I'm dieing to know how many takes the John Wayne dinner discussion took. I'd love to see outtakes from some of those scenes. Where is the full-length commentary by Bullock, Pullman or others? Please, please give us a Special Edition DVD of this incredible film! "},{"Title":"So great!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is simply the best!Sandra Bullock rocks in her role and all the others from Bill Pullman(who makes great chemistry with Sandra)to Peter Gallagher rock!And it is not only thatThis movie makes you heart warm and puts a smile on your face for the rest of the day!After seeing the movie life will seem much better...!  "},{"Title":"Its the best!","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie... Sandra Bullock's part is hilarious. The family she's  engaged to is hilarious.. The whole thing is great, and you've *got* to watch (i.e. rewind 10 times to review) the part where the paperboy falls off of his bicycle, which is totally unrelated to the whole thing. Its just a wonderful movie.. the plot is awesome, the characters are developed well. My favorite movie, ever. "},{"Title":"What a romantic comedy should be like","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While You Were Sleeping (1995) is a romantic comedy about this ticket seller Lucy (Sandra Bullock) who saves the life of her dream man Peter (Peter Gallagher).At the hospital a big misunderstanding happens when the man's family thinks she's his fianceé.Now she's part of the family and living the life she's always wanted to live.She also begins to have feeling's for Peter's brother Jack (Bill Pullman).Jon Turteltaub's While You Were Sleeping is a very enjoyable romantic comedy.Sandra Bullock gives a really sweet performance as Lucy.You really start liking this character.And there's some chemistry between Sandra's character and Bill Pullman's character Jack which makes a big deal in the movies of this genre.The two late great actors Peter Boyle (Ox Callaghan) and Jack Warden (Saul) bring some more glow into this movie.Michael Rispoli is funny as the neighbor Joey who digs Lucy.There are also such names as Glynis Johns (Elsie), Jason Bernard (Jerry Wallace), Ally Walker (Ashley) and Dick Cusack (Dr.Rubin).This is a true feel-good movie.I saw it on the last day of 2007 and I felt good until the clock hit twelve and the year was all new. "},{"Title":"Amazingly underrated","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sandra Bullock plays a lonely lady who works in a toll booth for the elevated train in Chicago. Her life is so empty that she begins fantasizing about having a relationship with a handsome customer. One day, this customer is robbed and thrown onto the track as a train is coming. Sandra pulls him off the track and accompanies his to the hospital, as he's in a coma. Through a funny mistake, the hospital staff thing she's his fiancée and the problem quickly snowballs when his family arrives and they, too, think she's engaged to their son.This is a lovely romantic comedy--one of the best of the last several decades. Also, despite this very simple plot, the film does a great job of setting the mood and creating characters you will love. It's very engaging and sweet and I enjoyed it significantly more than SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE (another fine film)--mostly because the film has such a great sense of humor. Oddly,despite having so much going for it, the rating for this is surprisingly low her on IMDb AND Leonard Maltin's guide also gives it a pretty low score. While I may sound like a fathead, I really can't understand why the score is so low as the writing is so clever, the acting excellent and the ensemble supporting cast so sweet while not being saccharine.A wonderful and nearly perfect film--a terrific date movie or just a film if you could use a laugh or smile. "},{"Title":"Fabulous, Thoughtful, Engaging and Funny","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the film that really made Sandra Bullock a star. I believe Speed came out just before and it got her noticed, but this was the movie that really made her career. It is too bad she has had nothing quite as good as this since.The dialog in this film is extremely clever. The humor and the musical soundtrack are perfectly orchestrated with each other. It is true that the family that Sandra's character meets is rather silly -- but they are SO endearing, it is impossible not to appreciate them. Glynis Johns and Peter Boyle -- what great character actors they have been over the years. They were delightful.Sandra's character sneaking to the back entrance of her Chicago apartment to avoid her scrungy, icky neighbor; her accidentally letting the Christmas tree fall out of the window; the music at the party stopping at a VERY inopportune moment for Bill Pullman; Sandra's character saying hello to her boyfriend's cat for the first time; there are several comic moments in this movie too numerous to mention.What ties the whole movie together is, however, the thoughtful parts of the script. Sandra's character is lonely and for some reason, it comes across as being very human; many of us can relate to her, and that is why I suspect that this film was held over in theatres for as long as it was. I saw it 5 times in the actual theatre and enjoyed it all 5 times. She wanted a family for Christmas and not to be alone. I know this sounds so cheesy, but it is portrayed brilliantly. Hats off to the marvelous people who wrote this screenplay. They know their craft well.It is EXTREMELY sad that Richard Roeper has bad-mouthed this movie as an obnoxious Chicago movie. Nothing could be further than the truth. There are MANY obnoxious movies set in Chicago, but this is definitely NOT one of them.GREAT SCRIPT, GREAT SOUNDTRACK, GREAT MOVIE. If you have not seen it, it is worth a look. "}{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is what I'd call a real Christmas movie. Sandra Bullock at her best (and she can do best!), and Bill Pullman looking particularly handsome. I'm fed up with films that are dirty, contain swear words for no reason at all, and try to make statements using shock tactics. This, on the other hand is ideal for aeroplane journeys, as it has none of those things. Non-marital sex isn't even advocated! I also absolutely love the stereotypical American family which support the film wonderfully. Meal time conversations, present openings, and visits to church are pulled off in hilarious style. A fantastic bit of mid-90s 'nostalgia', which creates a warm feeling inside. People may sneer, but there's nothing wrong with that! "},{"Title":"Bullock's Auspicious First Starring Vehicle Still Retains Its Charm...So Does She","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even though she showed a deft touch for racist vitriol in Paul Haggis' Crash, Sandra Bullock will forever be etched as the lovable girl-next-door from this winsome 1995 romantic comedy directed by Jon Turteltaub. In a vehicle that was written originally for Demi Moore by Daniel G. Sullivan and Fredric Lebow, Bullock shines as Lucy Moderatz, a lonely token collector at a Chicago L-train station. The plot focuses almost completely on Lucy and how she becomes involved with not only Peter Callaghan, the object of her romantic fantasies, but his loving family as well. It all turns on a train platform incident where muggers have pushed Peter onto the tracks at which point Lucy saves him from an oncoming train.The seemingly innocent deception begins when a hospital nurse assumes that Lucy is Peter's fiancée. Since he is comatose and she is smitten with the man she thinks he is, the charade gets bigger as the Callaghans welcome her with open arms. However, the inevitable complications ensue when Peter's brother Jack enters the picture at first suspicious but then...well, you can figure out the rest. There are definitely some narrative lapses that make this film less than logical, for example, the Callaghan's somewhat blasé attitude toward Peter's comatose state once they meet Lucy. Regardless, Turteltaub manages to make the lightweight film feel like a throwback to an earlier era of romantic comedies.Bill Pullman makes a nice, casual leading man as Jack, and there is genuine chemistry between the two stars. The rest of the cast is sharp and funny, in particular, Peter Boyle as the Callaghan paterfamilias, a far warmer variation than his Everybody Loves Raymond curmudgeon; Glynis Johns as the dotty grandmother, not that far removed from her maternal suffragette in Mary Poppins; Michael Rispoli as Lucy's persistent suitor and wannabe cross-dresser, Joe Jr.; Jack Warden as understanding Uncle Saul; and Peter Gallagher nicely underplaying the less-than-ideal Peter. But it's Bullock's show, and no matter how many times she has recycled her persona on lesser comedies since then, it's her sincerity, self-deprecating manner and plain-faced beauty that makes this movie one of the better studio confections of the 1990's. The 1998 DVD has no extras. "},{"Title":"Just perfect romance!!","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Now this is a movie which will always be close to my heart.This a perfect romantic movie which will fill your heart with love and excitement.Lucy,the character played by my favourite actress Sandra Bullock is more of a shy closet beauty....the perfect girl i would want in my life!Sandra Bullock fills life in this character.She just plays this character with so much perfection that you just cant help but love her.While Bill Pullman plays a sweet brother character which shows his talent as a good actor.This sweet couple played by both actors and the magical romance which is their in the story of this film is beyond words. All i can say is that this movie is worth watching at least once in life!! "},{"Title":"one of my favorites","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this was an excellent movie. It was funny and entertaining as well as, well casted. There are not too many movies that I want to watch again but I have seen this over 100 times and will watch it many more. It seems to be so well written and directed that even when you know the ending, you still get caught up in the emotions of the characters throughout the movie. The late jack Warden was fantastic but Sandra Bullock showed us how wonderful of actress she is and convinced the audience how she could fall in love with a family. I think it is that it is more than just the average romance film where a man or a woman falls in love and has to overcome some obstacles to fulfill that love but how a woman can fall in love with a guy as well as his family. "},{"Title":"A wonderful and lovely film","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Believe it or not, it was the first time I saw Bill Pullman acting. He was just terrific as well as Sandra Bullock. The movie is a lovely comedy in which Lucy (Sandra Bullock) falls in love with Jack's (Bill Pullman) brother (Peter), a successful businessman. Every day her love grows as she always sees him on the subway while she works in a toll booth. After an incident with Peter, Lucy dives into his family as if she were his fiancé. Confusion begins until Jack (Peter's brother) notices Lucy and falls in love with her as well. It is a wonderful film, full of surprises. And Bill Pullman is simply great! This is undoubtedly a must-see movie. "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie of ALL Time, Great at Christmas","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I told my husband the plot of this story, the mistaken identity didn't sound plausible. Yet they did a wonderful job of making this believable. The chemistry is amazing between Sandra and Bill Pullman. Peter Boyle was perfect. I liked him so much in this role; he was lovable and has some lines in this movie that were memorable. The scene at Mass was so funny.I now watch this every Christmas. It is romantic, warm and funny. The family was kind, silly and loving toward one another. Lucy sees the value of family and the film does a great job of relaying this to the audience. It will make you feel warm and tender about those you love, and you will smile.The music is classic! It fits the story perfectly.I LOVE THIS MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"the best film you will see","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is great it has a bit for everyone it has love, comedy and tears. If your one for the soopy films then this film will be the film for you it doesn't have a lot of action its more the film you would sit down with your girlfriends or even your boyfriend. With a cup of coffee i watched this film once on Christmas eve and for 2 years me and my mum were trying to find it but we counldn't remember the tite of it (which didn't help.)I have had this film for about 3 weeks now and i watch it with my mum every Sunday with a box of tissues not far from use. Its really a family film that you watch with your kids its more something you watch by yourself or with some friends its about 88 minutes long and its worth watching it all when you start watching you won't want to turn it off i promise you. "},{"Title":"Great Cast, Fun Movie","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an entertaining, feel-good romantic comedy featuring a wonderful cast that work together to perfection. Sandra Bullock does this kind of movie as well as anyone, and she has Bill Pullman, Peter Boyle, Jack Warden and others along for the silliness.The plot has a wild premise, but this great cast makes it work. The story navigates through constant misunderstandings between characters, driving the plot forward with more and more chaos ensuing as the movie progresses. Bullock and Pullman, as the lead characters Lucy and Jack, have both comedic and romantic chemistry. Everybody in the supporting cast is delightful in their roles, as well. Two of the most hilarious characters are Lucy's neighbor and Jack's great-aunt.Like any romantic comedy, sentimental moments are interspersed with the craziness. My personal favorite is when Lucy joins the Callaghan family for Christmas. The close-ups of her while Christmas music plays in the background, along with the family's banter, is endearing.It's a great popcorn movie, and a great date movie. Highly recommended for those who like romantic comedy and for Sandra Bullock fans. "},{"Title":"Romantic comedy drama","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my very favorite movie! It`s true! I think I have been watching it one hundred times at least. I just loooooove it! Bill Pullman and Sandra Bullock is the perfect couple and the story is fantastic. The ending could maybe be more romantic but but..It is great all over)For all the new-in-love couples I will say- run to the nearest video-shop and rent it now!This is in my eyes the best movie-performance Sandra Bullock ever have done. I don`t love any other movies she has acted in. No. Bill Pullman also do a great performance in the film as the man she fall in love in at second sight...)For the people who don`t like this film I will say..It`s okay, not everyone can be romantic, because if you doesn`t feel anything while you`re watching the film you can not be a romantic person. The story is too breath-taking to not touch  you at all! Enjoy watching it! "},{"Title":"One of the most wonderful movies of all time","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen While YWS maybe three or four times during the last few years - I liked it much. Two days ago I decided to watch it once again as it was on TV, and I liked it even more, actually I loved it!! This is a wonderful romantic film with a beautiful score and a beautiful cast, especially Sandra Bullock does a great job - she presents Lucy as a very beautiful character -)To me, While you were sleeping is, next to Sleepless in Seattle and Titanic (if you consider it a romantic movie) the most wonderful romantic movie of all time!!10/10 "}{"Title":"It's all good.","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites because of the plot, and the characters. Sandra Bullock was lovely in this film, as she is always. I love the way she portrayed her character, her smile, her crazy laughter, her twinkling eyes.. And Bill Pullman was great as Jack Callaghan. The way he looks at people, his stance.. Both were amazing and they definitely have chemistry together! If other people portrayed the roles of Lucy and Peter, I doubt the movie would have been as sweet and romantic. I never get tired of watching this movie! ) It's one feel good flick and never fails to make me smile. ) And of course, the other characters were fantastic and it seemed like they were all family. Really family. Hilarious scenes with Joe Jr. Ah, yes.. He's not all that bad. The Callaghans were extremely nice and I wish, really wish, I have a family like that. Even the woman with a surgically improved nose helped in making the movie funnier. If you guys are looking for something romantic, funny, and Christmasy.. this is the movie to watch.  "},{"Title":"Fairy tale type romantic comedy.","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all, the main weak point of this movie is an initial not-so-convincing misunderstanding between Lucy (Sandra bullock) and the Callaghan family, and the entire movie is standing on this persistent misunderstanding. The Callaghan family may be funny but did not necessarily have to be stupid. However, if this initial weak point can be ignored, the rest of the movie is a simple fairy tale told in a charming and lovely way. The activities of the Callaghan family is hilarious. Although it seems to be a problem to understand Sandra Bullock's babbling (she mumbles most of the time), she is cute in her over-sized outfits carrying a lonely, bored, puzzled, craving-for-love type of a disposition. It is totally impossible to imagine Demi Moore in Lucy's role, which was originally written for Ms Moore. Bill Pullman is irresistibly attractive in the role of Jack Callaghan. Bullock and Pullman make a real romantic couple. (Pullman has lovely hair and a great smile). The ending, however, has lost its intensity and was not so thoughtfully projected. The movie is overall entertaining. I rate it 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Why can't they do a film like this from a GUY'S point of view?","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wonderful romantic comedy - but sometimes I wish the characters had been reversed.  I'm a guy in the same position as Lucy - dead parents, no family - but this is never explored.  Sure would like to know why.  Excellent film, however - great comedy, even some drama involved.  But let's do a guy film, OK? "},{"Title":"MY FAVORITE SCENE","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just love the scene when she's about to marry Peter and after she objects. How much do you just love when she says, I'm in love with your son...not that one...That one... She looks so adorable when she kind of curtsies as she points around Peter to Jack! I just Love, Love, Love that scene and the adorable look on Jack's face upon hearing her words, too! It's got to my in my top three of Best Romantic Movies Of ALL Time!! )) Hey, but maybe I'm partial. I love Sandra Bullock and I love Bill Pullman, too)) "},{"Title":"Excellent romantic comedy!","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my top 10 movies.  The chemestry between Bill Pullman and Sandra Bullock is wonderful, the scenes with the two of them together were my favorite.  Jack's family is one of the funniest parts of the movie, especially his father, played by Peter Boyle of Everybody Loves Raymond. I highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Such nice people","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At the beginning this movie looks like another silly watery pseudoromantic one with that unplausible story of a girl saving a man of being killed by a train after having fallen to the railway line and then trying to pass for his fiancee in the eyes of his family while he is in the coma at the hospital. But as far as the plot develops itself we become conquered by the girls simple and naive behaviour and her display of nice sentiments. We become also conquered by the wonderful family of the man in the coma who are such nice people that make us also wish to have had a family like that. Well after little time the story changes direction and takes a somewhat predictable one which is mildly interesting to follow and which I won't reveal here of course. The end is also predictable but it will be dear to very romantic hearts. Well this is not a great movie because the story is too simple for that, the characters are merely sketched and there is no deep insight of minds and behaviours. But it will remind you of those old movies in which everyone was good and nice and there were neither villains nor violence of any kind. "},{"Title":" Can you give me any reason that I shouldn't marry your brother?","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock is brilliant as Lucille in this amazing romance movie. The following cast is flawless. The costumes are elegant. One of the excellent films in the genre, While You Were Sleeping will urge the viewer to close their eyes to love. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie, You will to","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very heart-warming story about a CTA worker Lucy(Bullock) who is in love with a man that she has never meet Peter(Gallagher). When he is put into a comma and wakes up not remembering much at all what other choice does he have but to say he remembers proposing to her?? Meanwhile Lucy makes her way into Peters family, which includes very attractive Jack(Pullman). This makes it a love triangle impossible to not like!!   "},{"Title":"Charming '40's style romantic comedy","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this film was utterly predictable, it oozed charm from every pore, definitely enough to make one overlook its faults. This was the first Sandra Bullock film I have seen, and her charm and regular girl beauty are really something. The director made some good moves, contrasting Sandra/Lucy, often seen alone, to the family of Peter, usually sweeping into a scene four or five at a time. But the main attraction of this film is, of course, the winsome Sandra Bullock. I will have to see some more of her work. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Lollipop movie - sweet and funny","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If going into a coma would lead to waking up engaged to a loveable woman like Lucy (Sandra Bullock), I would go searching for an accident right away.This movie is a sweet romantic film, based on misunderstandings, yet avoiding being embarrassing. The main character, Lucy, is a lonely, dreaming romantic, with whom I can easily relate. The Callaghan family, which she is suddenly and rapidly becoming a part of, is portrayed as the very opposite, though in a warm and loving manner. Maybe that is what appeals most to me in this movie; the romantic dream becomes a wish for a caring environment rather than for a perfect life.Watching this movie, one may find it unrealistic that a person as likeable as Lucy would ever need to be lonely, but the truth is that there are lots of real people just as likeable and just as lonely. This movie may give some hope.  "}{"Title":"Enjoyable fluff (Includes spoilers)","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not fond of movies where the entire plot is dependent on a silly misunderstanding.  This is the case here, when Lucy (Sandra Bullock) saves the life of a man she has a crush on and is mistakenly thought to be his fiance by his family.  Not of the family is convinced that she is who she says she is, especially Jack (Bill Pullman), who has designs on Lucy for himself. Through some funny, dramatic and painful moments, it all has A Happy Ending.Don't dwell too much on anything going on or question it.  It will ruin whatever enjoyment this movie holds.  Concentrate on the comedic turns by Glynis Johns, Michael Rispoli and Ally Walker.  Bullock is adequate to the movie and is believable in her big monologue when she explains why she did not come clean with the family. The character played by Peter Gallagher, who is in a coma for at least 3/4 of the movie, is the least appealing - he has pictures of himself in his wallet and in his apartment - what kind of guy does that, unless he's completely self-involved?  Don't worry, Lucy ends up with the other guy.  "},{"Title":"My best romantic movie ever!!","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie when it first came out, I absolutely fall in love with this. Sandra bullock and Bill pullman's chemistry is Great!! This movie is so warm and sweet. Whenever I see this, I can barely sleep. If you feel depressed or lonely.. See this. You'll love this. "},{"Title":"sunshine movie","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this film. It's the sweetest, cutest, most loveliest romantic movie i've ever seen. I can't imaging anybody not liking it. Sandra Bullock is as sweet as ever making a perfect couple with the cute Bill Pullman. Even if you are not too much into romantic movies you'll love this one! "},{"Title":"Warm movie melted my icy cold heart","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, yes, this film is implausible and makes a virtue of its lying heroine... yet this is one of the sweetest romantic films of the decade, played winningly by all actors concerned. Put aside your cynicism for a moment, watch it with your sweetie, and don't be such a grump. "},{"Title":"This just show that there are still clean movies out there...","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While You Were Sleeping is an excelent movie with good values and holsom clean humor... In this day and age you don't see many good clean movies. I recomend this movie for people of all ages. enjoy... "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While You Were Sleeping is my all-time favorite movie!  Sandra Bullock was perfect for the role of Lucy, the endearing character whose confession at the wedding makes me cry every time I see it.  The whole cast really brought the charactes to life and made it easy to feel the emotions they display. I love the way Lucy begins the story by telling us of her one true love and ends the story by telling us,Thank goodness my father was right.  Things don't always turn out the way you plan.  She had planned on Peter, but Jack was the only one for her!  He gave her the one gift she wanted so badly---a stamp on her passport! "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just LOVE this movie!! It's a simple, funny and beautiful story. It makes me feel good about myself, and makes me realize that if happiness is not present in my life now, it can arrive soon, and life is really beautiful. I love Sandra Bullock's work, especially in this movie she's perfect!! She's so sweet as the next door cute girl Lucy, that I'm not surprised that Peter Callaghan's family adopted her so quickly, cause when I see her in this movie I just feel like hugging her -)) This is the movie for a perfect night on the cosy couch, alone or with someone special, some nice food and drink if you want, and you will have a really nice feel-good feeling ;-)) "},{"Title":"best thing that Sandra has done yet","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A woman mistakenly tells the family of a comatose man that she and he are engaged to be married. When he comes to she is in a big predicament; made even worse as the man's brother becomes attracted to her. Very cool and funny romantic comedy. Sandra was so cute in this film, I just loved her. "},{"Title":"Bill Pullman  and Sandra Bullock go together like a wink and a smile!","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Lucy, Sandra Bullock (Hope Floats) works in the metro station in Chicago. Lucy is a really adorable character down to earth, nice. She has a platonic love for Peter, Peter Gallagher (To Gillian on her 37th Birthday), who comes every day to the train station every day. She knows nothing about this guy, except that he has a nice coat!  She has no family. Something happens and she ends up meeting his entire family and falling in love with the entire family, specially Jack, Bill Pullman, (Sleepless in Seattle, Casper). Jack is the nicest guy around. He instantly falls in love with Lucy. His face lights up when they meet. He glows like Annette Bening did in The American President. The chemistry between Pullman and Bullock is unbelievable. They should make more movies together! The family has this friend Saul, Jack Warden (Mighty Aphrodite + 97 other movies),  a guy that any family would like as family friend. He is like  part of the family. Michael Rispoli, plays Joe Fusco Jr., is the most lovable jerk you will ever meet! He is really good at this part. Ally Walker(The Profiler, Singles)  plays  Ashley and did a good job as wicked woman! My favorite scenes the newspaper boy falling off  his bike; Lucy and Jack carrying the couch; Jack fainting as he donates blood; the family conversations at the dinner table such as those mash potatoes are so creamy, Dustin Hoffman was 5'5..., Jack likes brunettes, and Jack says blonds,  chubby ones; the leaning conversation where Joe Fusco Jr.,  comes up say that is leaning! Jack going to the train station and giving Lucy  a token to go inside the station. Overall this is a really enjoyable movie. This movie talks the language that women like and it is a great chick movie.  "},{"Title":"Another girlie feel good film","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have probably watched this film about 30 times now (sad I know), but it's still the best film I have seen in a long time.  It's filmed in Chicago and having visited there once brings back wonderful memories.Sandra Bullock once again plays a single girl looking for love.  She falls in love with a man (Peter) who she has never even spoken to but who she sees everyday waiting for a tube on the Loop.  He falls, she saves his life, and the nurse at the hospital gets confused and thinks that Lucy (Bullock) is his fiancee.  All through you keep thinking 'why on earth would she fall for a man like Peter in the first place especially when you see his brother Jack who is just sooo lovely'.But it all turns out well in the end when Lucy (Bullock) admits at her wedding to Peter that she can't marry him as she is in love with Jack (Pullman) who in turn is also in love with her. "}{"Title":"Love on second sight","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There isn´t much that I need to add to the previous comments regarding this film I bought it last week and have seen it 3 times since, and I´m still not bored. Of course, the performances of both Pullman and Bullock are great. However, after a couple of times of watching this movie, I notice more details, like the music. The next time you watch this film, try listening for the music score music sometimes tells you more than the actors on your screen. The music to this movie is humor itself and reflects the atmosphere (the tensions between the main characters, the misunderstandings, etc.) very well!  "},{"Title":"MY ALL TIME BIGGEST MOVIE!!!","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I simply love it!!!! I've watched it over 10 times, and the feel-good touch is still fabulous!! The excellent elements in the show are the homey Christmas feeling, the superb score, the excellent portrayal of the characters by each and every cast member, the romantic and sweet story, and the whole package makes this movie the ultimate romantic comedy ever!!! And especially after watching it more than 3 times, the jokes are really naturally put and better understood and makes the show even more worth watching. This movie must be watched. The best time to watch it is with your family or loved ones, at night, and best if during the Christmas season with everyone all snuggled up and feeling great. And prepare at least a piece of tissue if you're an easy tearer...... "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"4 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While You Were Sleeping has everything I need in a movie... Really nice and cosy feeling, comedy, romance and some action. It's one of the best movies I've ever seen and it makes me feel really good when I watch it.  "},{"Title":"I Liked It","Date":"20 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I consider myself a romantic, and maybe that is one of the main reasons I love this movie so much.  Sandra Bullock is one of my favorite actresses, if not my fav, and she is delightful in this.  The story is cute, the acting is wonderful, and everything falls into place where and how it should.  I highly recomened seeing this movie, especially with a date.  Have fun! "},{"Title":"I use quotes from this movie all the time!","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Who told? I remember when I was still with my ex wife, we would watch this movie together thousands of times. I loved her as I had no other woman before her. The obvious love between Jack & Lucy was the way we were. You can see it when they were standing together at the top of the steps outside of her apartment. Again, when they do the slip and slid routine on the ice and again when they area moving that ugly sofa into Peter's apartment. Sol was a gerat sidenote in this comedy. Between him and Joe Jr., they keep the comedy flowing the right way. I didn't like Peter's character even before he woke up. Peter was everything we weren't, him with his perfect apartment and loving himself with all those pictures. How could he have room for anyone else? Family meant everything to my ex. Her family was just the opposite of Jack & Peter's. I just wish that my ex could realize all she gave up for her dogs! Does anyone have some dead people's furniture for sale? This movie was great and still is 10 years later! This movie is a must have for all of us sensitive idiots. I thought guys don't cry- "},{"Title":"Works  because it combines feel good romance with great character development with the occasional fall down in your seat funny scene","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'll admit I have a soft spot for romantic comedies that Sandra Bullock stars in. I think that's probably because she really is the queen of romantic comedies and can do the feel good stuff in a way other actresses don't. While You were sleeping was one of her early ones and although it drags on a bit, is really a genuinely warm fun movie mainly because it combines three great things. One, it has romance-and plenty of it. Two, the characters are both fun and funny and very human in a way that many characters in movies such as this aren't. The people in While You were Sleeping are all so adorable without being larger then life or unrealistic. I liked that.Third, this movie is wittier then you might expect and every so often a line would be thrown in that actually had me roaring, which I didn't expect. I knew this would be complete feel good stuff just from the previews but I didn't expect the wit. And the funniest lines come so unexpectedly. I like romantic comedies that can do witty and feel good simultaneously. I also like screwball comedies much more then slapstick and this movie is built around that so it appealed to me.The movie is predictable as anything but interestingly even those I know who don't like romantic comedies seem to be charmed by this. I'm not sure why that is except maybe because there's such a likability about everyone in this movie and the premise was so original and Pullman(who I really like a lot as an actor) and Bullock are so natural together that the movie just appeals to many, even many of those who don't normally like romantic comedies.I was drawn to each and every character and liked the way everyone was developed-even Peter for the brief time he actually wasn't sleeping managed to have a developed personality and some really funny scenes. This movie isn't going to win any Oscars but for what it is, it's very much worth watching and a strong 7.5. Bullock's very good at doing these types of movies and this is one of her better ones. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite movie EVER. I can see it over and over and I still laugh my ass off. The table scene where they have 10 conversations about one thing going on is just hilarious. The parents are sweet and yet they are just insanely funny! It also has a great love story and family storyline. Watching this movie warms my heart. I know I'm just a wimp but I cried when Bill Pullman gave Sandra Bullock the snowglobe. The landlords son is great too. I love the leaning story. There are so many things in this movie that we used in our conversations for years after seeing it. These mashed potatoes are so creamy. I don't drink any less either.  "},{"Title":"So romantic when you need a feel good movie","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anytime I feel alone, I watch this movie and feel like I am not the only one who feels that way. This movie is pure and simple, no sex or complicated scheming characters.This is a movie I can watch with my kids or my parents in the room. You cant say that for most movies these days. I think Bill Pullman and Sandra Bullock should do another movie together as they have a lot of on screen chemistry.Anytime I feel alone, I watch this movie and feel like I am not the only one who feels that way. This movie is pure and simple, no sex or complicated scheming characters.This is a movie I can watch with my kids or my parents in the room. You cant say that for most movies these days.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful film!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie!  It is my absolute favorite and my family's favorite too.  We watch it at least three times a year, especially at Christmas time. I laugh and cry every time I see it.  While many people quote Austin Powers and Tommy Boy, my sisters and I quote this movie (Nice . . . sweater, Know her? I'm dating her)  But all personal bias aside, the thing that makes this movie so enjoyable and memorable (and something that other moviemakers should consider) is the development of all of the supporting characters.  From the paper boy who falls off his bicycle (which many movies copied after this one) to the snotty hot dog vender to the sweet well-intentioned nurse--each adds something to the plot, to the main characters and to the overall humor.  Many of the funniest lines are said by minor characters (the hotel doorman, Joe jr., Peter's hospital room buddy). I look for this in other movies and don't see it much these days. Jon Turtletaub is a wonderful director.  Another one of my favorite movies that he directed is Disney's The Kid, which also has some great supporting roles.  I recommend that one too. This is Sandra at her best.  See this movie! "},{"Title":"Originality is what makes this film good.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"    Despite some great acting talents, the other thing that made this film enjoyable was the sheer originality of it. There are a lot of romantic comedies with stupid plots. While this-like all romance film is very predictable-the plot of the film is quite funny, and the acting helps a whole lot! 3/5 stars.JOHN ULMER "}{"Title":"There's a lot of things people do awake especially if they are in their sleep (dvd)","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Thanks Daffy for this (nearly) quote from one of your best cartoon (You were duckier), because it resumes well this movie how after rescuing a man, Sandra is drowned under a flood of misunderstandings and little lyings that lead her to marry him, and all that while he is sleeping in coma! I thought that this movie would be a disaster because the cover looks cheap and on the contrary, it's as good as a Christmas gift it has everything i like Winter holidays, Chicago (more and more present in my movies and really a great town behind NYC and well ahead of LA), cats, a funny brunette, the in-law relationships and the pain from loneliness.The writers found a very original and funny idea and manage to sustain the drama and the comedy without stop. Unfortunately, they don't write anything else after. Maybe they fall also in coma and get married ? "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the first review i've ever done on this site but after reading some of the comments I would like to add mine too. There was nothing worth watching on the box this evening so I dug out my copy of WYWS and settled down on the sofa. Although I know this film pretty well having watched it a few times it never fails to give me a wonderful warm glow. Although Peter is a handsome guy the chemistry between Lucy and Jack is, without doubt, very real and the two characters play their roles brilliantly. There are so many quirky one liners in this film and the family scenes are well scripted and well acted. How I wish I could be adopted by a family like that even if it were only for the holiday season. If you're an old romantic like me (and hey i'm not that old lol) give this a try. I've given it a 10 because there isn't anything to dislike. "},{"Title":"Fun and enjoyable and lovely","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have often wondered why Bill Pullman didn't become a bigger star than he is. He's played the romantic interest in a few films, starring opposite two of the romcom queens &#x96; Meg Ryan and Sandra Bullock. He was even great in Independence Day. And he is great in this film too, with enough charm and likability for viewers to understand why it is Lucy falls in love with his character. Sandra Bullock does well in her role, too. It's not an outstanding performance, but as an actress and person she is so likable that really all that matters is that she's cute and easy to watch on screen. Recommended for anyone who enjoys romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Absolutely loved this movie. Have always been a fan of Sandra Bullock and went out and bought this film with relatively low expectations. I was watching it thinking, this is the best fun i've had watching a movie in a long long time. All throughout I could not wipe the giant grin on my face, I found it very very funny at points and as I say again, one of the best feel good films i've seen in a long long time. Very well acted by all that were involved, especially Sandra Bullock and Bill Pullman. At the ending of the film i almost shed a tear with happiness. I would recommend this film to anyone who is feeling down in the dumps as it is a perfect pick me up and can be watched over and over and over again. "},{"Title":"This film doesn't do anything exciting for the romantic comedy genre.","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" W.Y.W.S. is not a bad film. Sandra Bullock and Bill Pullman are competent enough to believe. However I think this film is showing its age (even though it was made in 1995), and there are simply better films in the genre out there. Want my opinion? Watch KEEPING THE FAITH instead. Brilliant acting, much funnier, but at the same time touching and real. That film does everything much better than 'While you were sleeping'. "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story  line might be mushy to some ) I really like this movie as the setting is so simple, but, the story delivered  excellently! This story seems to touch me, as Sandra Bullock is not cast in typical role (such as lawyers, or etc.) ,but someone who we can meet everyday.The relationship between Lucy and Jack is shown, how it was developed slowly and become  love to both of them. I was not attracted  to watch this movie when it was first released in year 1995, but I had nothing to do, so I borrowed my friend's tape and I was stuck! The next day, I repeated watching the movie and last year I just bought the VCD version, and I think that I might be continuing watching it even though, I had watch it for more than 10 times!    "},{"Title":"It's all Sandra Bullock!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What else can I say, I love Sandra Bullock! She could make an hour and a half long video of herself trying on different outfits and I would buy it in a heartbeat! While You Were Sleeping is Sandra at her sweetest and loveliest! It has become one of my favorite Christmas movies. I didn't care for Bill Pullman in his roll as the brother/love interest. Pullman makes a great clown, as in Ruthless People but should leave more serious roles alone. I think it's that silly toothless grin of his- he comes off too uptight. The hardest thing to believe about this movie is that Sandra wouldn't have anyone in her life! I could maybe imagine her working in a token booth. I've known other attractive women in real life who take on jobs that might be considered beneath them. She explains in the movie that she had to drop out of school when her father got sick and go to work for the Transit Authority. It just makes her more human and obtainable which I find irresistible! "},{"Title":"The Best Romantic Comedy","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excessive use of sweetness and cuteness has destroyed a romantic comedy many times. Sometimes this genre needs those elements to work. When director and writer can dose just right amount of sweetness and cuteness, they call it sense of style. While You Were Sleeping (1995), directed by Jon Turteltaubin, is good example of successful dosement. Pinch more and the soup would be spoilt. Charismatic and sympatic, but wrong kind of characters often choosing, Sandra Bullock plays this time in a suitable role as a metro ticketseller. Job isn't very interesting. All day long sitting in a small booth and getting cold. The ticketseller is little crushed on some handsome regular customer (Peter Callagher) who one day gets hurt. Crooks attacks at him on a platform, takes the money and throws the man on the rails.Fortunately the ticketseller sees that and saves the man when train is almost colliding with him. The man goes to a hospital, where doctors tell that he's in a coma. Patients family arrives to the hospital and assume that the ticketseller is mans girlfriend. The woman doesn't deny the misunderstanding and that way she gets to know the patients brother, Jack (Bill Pullman).Of  course here I could be cynical and ask, why on earth the woman doesn't fix the misunderstanding when it would demand only one sentence. Of course because then the plot would be messed up. The coma lasts exactly as long as the plot demands. But this is a movie. To this genre it is supposed to watch through the fingers and forgive the holes of the plot.Sandra Bullock and her character which she plays are so lovely, that you would not want to make bad faces to them. That is the reason why While You Were Sleeping works. When you care about the people of the movie, you care about the movie. It doesn't matter if the plot can't take closer observating. Bill Pullman is the the right partner for Bullock. "},{"Title":"Love and laughs...","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is such a good movie on so many levels that you can't help but fall in love with it.  While You Were Sleeping came out a little after Sleepless in Seattle but holds onto the same old-fashioned story of love, romance and starry nights while mixing them with sentiment, smiles and big laughs.  And there are lots of all of these qualities here.Sandra Bullock....  Ahh, is there any red-blooded American man who can help but fall for her?  She's beautiful and strong-willed and just as confused about love as the rest of us.  Here she plays Lucy, a single subway attendant whose only wish is to see the world... and to catch the attention of a handsome man (Gallagher) she takes a subway token from each every morning.Then, in circumstances too myriad to get into, he falls into a coma and everyone, including his family, believes Lucy is his fiancee.  Then, her lonely life is changed forever by her adopted family and by the Vegetable's brother (Pullman), who suspects something fishy is going on but doesn't let that get in the way of his feeling strongly for Lucy, too.The whole cast is strong right down the line, including Boyle, Warden, Johns, Bernard, Rispoli (who is hilarious) and even Walker as Gallagher's ex-girlfriend who expected this kind of comedienne in TV's The Profiler?As far as its comparisons to Sleepless, it's justified to be sure, but for comedy quotient, Sleeping is the obvious winner.  Just watch when Gallagher comes out of his coma to see misunderstanding brought into a whole realm of comedic bravura all its own.Of course, true love wins out in the end and all is well with the world.  As if there were any doubt.  And Bullock becomes the love of every movie-going male's life.Nine stars for While You Were Sleeping, for the incurable romantic in all of us who also likes a good laugh once in a while. "},{"Title":"Best romantic movie ever","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the best romantic movie I have ever  seen. Watch it to raise your spirits when you  feel down and out. A very clean movie. Bill  Pullman and Sandra Bullock make a great pair. "}{"Title":"Great casting!`","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie very very fun to watch, one of the main reason might be the casting. EVERY cast in this movie was simply great! awesome! Sure, its ending is predictable like almost any other Hollywood romantic movie, but the acting made this movie more believable and Sandra Bullock is just amazing (I think this is her best acting that I ever saw). Way to go! "},{"Title":"Gets better each time!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie again, and I still love it. Sure, its ending is predictable like almost any other Hollywood romantic movie, and the Callagher family is a little too idyllic, but that's where any similarities to other movies in this genre cease. In themselves, all of the characters are believable and fun, and the chemistry between Sandra Bullock and Bill Pullman is unique. Michael Rispoli's performance is also commendable. He manages to make the Joe Jr. character very funny and at the same time lovable. There are countless scenes in this movie that makes it suitable to be seen over and over again. The plot, the lines, the atmosphere... It's a feel good movie, and I give this movie my best recommendations.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie/It's for EVERYONE","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I totally love this movie. The chemistry between Bill Pullman (my favorite actor) and Sandra Bullock is very believable. One thing I truly loved about this movie is that every character had a funny line. It was nice seeing a movie where every character has a sense of humor. That seems to be pretty rare these days in the movies. This is my favorite Bill Pullman movie (with the next best of his being Zero Effect). He is so great as Jack Callaghan. Also, one of my favorite characters is Joe Jr. He is PRICELESS! (Great job, Michael Rispoli!) I could watch this movie over and over and it gets better each and every time. This is one movie you can watch in front of children without being afraid of them seeing/hearing suggestive content (maybe 2 things maximum). Great film.  "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite movie!!!","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everyone in this movie was perfectly cast. I loved the one-liners of Lucy's boss (You're cheating on a vegetable!), the goofiness of Joe Jr. (I LOVE black underwears!), the delightful music, but the secret love of Lucy and Jack tops them all. Especially when he drives her home after Peter wakes up, when he gives her the snow globe, to when she admits that she loves Jack, and the happy ending. The chemistry of Sandra Bullock and Bill Pullman rivals that of Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan! EXCELLENT MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"I loved it!!!","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this film was absolutely great.  Watching it makes me feel that the world isn't such a bad place.  I think that Sandra Bullock is wonderful, as is Bill Pullman.  The ending was a little predictable, but I don't care.  I think it is great because it makes me feel good about myself when I have watched it. "},{"Title":"Funny, original, charmingly romantic","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best romantic comedies that I have seen in years. The plot is lively, funny and original. Sandra Bullock and Bill Pullman are witty, vulnerable and charming while the plot is sweetly romantic. I recommend it highly! Add this to any home video library. "},{"Title":"Brilliant romantic comedy","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, I can't believe that it has taken me so long to write something about this film, since it is EASILY my favourite romantic comedy of all-time, and one of the best films of any genre that I have ever seen.  I don't think that I've ever seen a film that I have liked so quickly and totally.  I mean, this film had me smiling less than a minute in, and I don't think that the smile ever left my face for the remainder of the picture.  I just found everything about this film to be completely irresistible, especially the devastatingly charming performance by Sandra Bullock.  In all fairness, the entire cast is great, but this is Bullock's film and no one else could have possibly done as great a job as she did. This film is undeniably formulaic and predictable, and yet, I loved it anyway.  "},{"Title":"Don't pass it by","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had a quite low expectation because(1)I didn't like Harry met Sally, Sleepless in Seattle very much.(2)the Title really put me off. But this film was great. Setting, actors,story,music everything seems so natural and warm. And small roles like Lucy's boss and Joe Jr. shines. Even Peter's fiancee didn't annoy me. What can I ask more? There are some film(good or bad, doesn't matter) which made people boundlessly generous (loyal? obsessive maybe?) towards them. It is the one of mine definitely. This is one not to miss.  You will probably like it.  "},{"Title":"Swooner Set in Chicago","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The casting director for this film deserves a medal. Every single actor in it is perfect.  Who could imagine a better handsome, clueless rich guy than Peter Gallagher? Or his equally handsome and very sexy brother Bill Pullman? And America's Sweetheart, Sandra Bullock, in her finest moment so far, makes every line believable. Even that falling on ice bit... Everyone in the supporting cast is great. And memorable. The shots of Chicago are incredible--it's quite possibly my favorite Chicago movie. True love, of course, conquers all. All right, everybody swoon...  "},{"Title":"Why not to be continued?...","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love romantic comedies, and this was one of the best I've ever  seen.Full credit for the performers, cast & crew. Stunning Bill and Sandra! And Peter Callaghan - a must! Notwithstanding...I became a little frustrated with what I think was an abrupt ending. I would like to know more about Peter, the sleepy brother, and his reaction to the loss of the bride to be. I suggest another film based on this WYWS plot, or even TV series. Why not?  "}{"Title":"Pretty good performances","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though I wouldn't call it 'the best movie ever', I must admit I was pretty impressed by the performances of Bill Pullman and Sandra Bullock. They really convinced that there was a spark between them, something which is absent in a lot of other movies. Great fun, must see !  "},{"Title":"Not since 'When Harry Met Sally'...","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'While You Were Sleeping' is an absolutely superb movie!! Not since 'When Harry Met Sally' has there been a movie that has been this funny, romantic and brilliant!!After watching it in the cinema I knew that I had to have it on video! The dialogue is witty, Sandra and Bill are sooooo sweet together and the best thing is that even after watching it over and over again, you don't get bored of it!!A great movie to watch with those you love - it makes you think about family - and especially good during holidays or when you are feeling down. A 'rags to riches' story that you just can't miss... it's sure to win your heart as it did mine.   "},{"Title":"While You Were Sleeping","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just a year after her role in Speed, the leading actress came out with this charming romantic comedy, and I adore it. Basically Lucy Eleanor Moderatz (Golden Globe nominated Sandra Bullock) a lonely ticket seller, and one day she sees the man of his dreams, but she also sees him get mugged. This mugging sends this man, known as Peter Callaghan (American Beauty's Peter Gallagher) into a coma, and when she goes to hospital to visit him, the nurse tells his family that Lucy is his fiancée. Lucy cannot get the courage to tell the truth, and the family, including Peter's father Ox (Peter Boyle), his mother Elsie (Glynis Johns), his godfather Saul (Jack Warden) (the only one who finds out her secret before everyone else), and his brother Jack Callaghan (Bill Pullman), have all taken her in as a (new) member of the family. While spending a lot of time with the family as Peter is still in the coma, Lucy is falling head over heels in love with Jack. Peter does eventually come out of his coma, and Lucy doesn't know what to do because he doesn't remember her, except go along with the idea that he is suffering very mild amnesia. Eventually, it seems Peter does accept that there should be a wedding, and he can see himself falling in love with Lucy as the years go by. So the big day comes, Lucy knows she truly loves Jack, but she doesn't know that before his coma, Peter proposed to another woman, so this is when Lucy confesses all, but says she fell in love with the family ever since the engagement. She does eventually get her happy ending, where she finds a new husband in Jack, and a new loving family. Also starring Michael Rispoli as Joe 'Joey' Fusco, Jr., Jason Bernard as Jerry Wallace, Micole Mercurio as Midge Callaghan and Ally Walker as Ashley Bartlett Bacon. With some good giggles, and a good message that love can be at first sight, but getting to know someone is the much better idea, this is a film you can't help but enjoy. Very good! "},{"Title":"While you were waiting, someone DID make a very nice romantic comedy for you!","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucy (Sandra Bullock) lost her father a couple of years ago. Since her mother is also gone, Lucy lives alone in an apartment with her cat. She works for the Chicago transit system and, generally, feels very alone in the world. One day, a handsome gentleman falls on the tracks near her ticket booth. A train is rapidly approaching. Lucy jumps onto the tracks and pulls the man to safety. However, he hurt his head in the fall and is in a coma. Rushing to the hospital to see him, Lucy is mistaken for his fiancée and allowed into his hospital room. But, oh no, here comes his big family, including mother, father, sister, grandma, and a close neighbor. They are intrigued that their relative, Peter, never mentioned that he had become engaged. But, they also welcome Lucy with open arms, a welcome so big that lonely Lucy does not have the heart to tell them she is an impostor. But, what will happen when Peter decides to come out of his coma? And, when Lucy meets Peter's brother, Jack, is he already suspicious that she is not Peter's type? This is a lovely, lovely movie with a great cast. Bullock is very fine as the lonely lady, although, with her winning looks and personality, one could never imagine her being without a bevy of friends. The rest of the players, including Peter Gallagher, Bill Pullman, Peter Boyle, Jack Warden and Glynis Johns, is an absolutely marvelous ensemble that contributes highly to the film's enjoyment. Then, too, the script is quite clever and unusual, the costumes are well chosen, and the production values are top notch. Everyone who loves romantic comedies will not want to miss this one, no doubt. But, even those who think they can not stomach a chick flick will be enchanted by this loving and very funny movie. While you are awake, run down to the store or library and secure this film. You will go to sleep with happy dreams, after any viewing. "},{"Title":"adorable, lovable, funny and perfect for all ages!!","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the cutest, most endearing and funniest movies I've seen. It has the greatest mix of characters, old and young all outstanding. How could you go wrong with Jack Warden and Peter Boyle etc.. The timing on events and what the characters say is perfect. It shows how real Sandra bullock really is as an actress, just herself without frills but naturally beautiful and funny, funny!! Bill Pullman is so adorable to. I hope Sandra Bullock makes another movie similar to this one cause she plays this type of character perfect!!!! Seriously go get the movie, pop it in the DVD player, sit back and enjoy the ride. It is good for the soul!!! "},{"Title":"One of my FAVORITE movies!!","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of my most favorite movies!!!!! Having been introduced to it only last year, I have fallen in love with it and have since seen it numerous times. This film is a great love story. While I do admit that it can be predictable, this movie is so fun that it really doesn't matter. The on-screen chemistry( Yes, it DOES exist!!!) between Bullock and Pullman doesn't hurt, either. I personally think that this movie, in it's wacky and zany ways, is one of the best date-movie/chick flick ever made. It will make you smile, weather you're single, married, or in a relationship. I highly recommend this unforgettable and truly unique love story!!!! "},{"Title":"Fine romantic comedy with Sandra Bullock","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After seeing 15 minutes of this movie, I wanted to turn it off because it looked like another cheap romantic comedy. But I kept watching and after I while I started liking it... It wasn't a bad movie, although you can't deny the fact that it is after all a pretty predictable movie. Even though I'm not really a Sandra Bullock-fan, I thought she was pretty good and perfectly suitable for this role.While you were sleeping is a fine romantic comedy, not as good as for instance Nothing Hill, but much better as Alex and Emma. I would say that this movie has the same level as How to lose a guy in 10 days funny, entertaining, predictable but acceptable.6/10 "},{"Title":"Another timeless classic to be","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The theme to this story is simply timeless. Lucy (Bullock) is a ticket attendant at the train station when suddenly, her life changes. Her heroic act of saving Peter's (Gallagher) life lead to a whole-hearted acceptance into Peter's family by portraying herself as his fiancé. Lucy feels so obliged to the acceptance that she is afraid to tell them that she has no affiliation to Peter. The rest is history.Thirty years from now, I bet this will be a timeless classic and an inspiration for other filmmakers to be. Just when you think your life is meaningless, you live for a new purpose. As the timeless saying goes life doesn't always turn out the way you plan.-(Bullock) "},{"Title":"Bullman & Pullock are treat gogether","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very enjoyable movie from start to end. Even the cliché'd parts are cute. I might be childish but I do like the message -- dream men are sometimes very shallow and clueless, and their less charismatic, less perfect brothers (or friends or neighbors) are oftentimes much, much more inspiring once you get to know them. Fortunately for girls, the handsome clueless bunch usually spends a lot of time sleeping or otherwise misplacing or misdirecting their charms.The movie relies on a silly premise that a good-natured lie won't be discovered, and when discovered, it won't be ridiculed. However, this premise is treated fairly. The viewer doesn't feel stupid, as the lead character, Lucy, has a silly idea which leads her to the silly lie; so it isn't only the audience who is duped -- the audience is just asked to engage in Lucy's silly idea, and explore it as if it was just a dream. And at the end, it's all good for real - since Lucy doesn't need her silly idea anymore, you feel relieved of the whole silly premise.There is plenty of chemistry between lead characters which makes the romance believable.Who is this movie for? Best fits people in their late 20's; boys might be interested if they like Sandra Bullock. She's adorable in the movie, very natural, seamless. "},{"Title":"The Best Romantic Comedy Ever!","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The guy who commented that this movie could have been written from the guy's point of view, meaning making the girl who'd be the one in the coma, well, that could work, but, for the writers Frederic LeBow and Daniel Sullivan it took them five years to figure out that the guy should be the one in the coma and the girl the one whose identity is mistaken.  I don't think it would work if it were in reverse.  Maybe if they make a few changes, it might.  Two sisters instead of two brothers?  What do you think?Anyway, since watching this film four years ago, and many times since then, I try to equate every romantic comedy I watch with this film.  Nothing could ever surpass it, in my opinion.  The nearest one is ONLY YOU starring Robert Downey, Jr. and Marisa Tomei, and a distant third is MRS. WINTERBOURNE, starring Ricki Lake, Brendan Fraser, and Shirley Maclaine.  Another one would be THE CUTTING EDGE, starring D.B. Sweeney and Moira Kelly.  So far, not even HOW TO LOSE A GUY IN TEN DAYS, MAID IN MANHATTAN, and even PRETTY WOMAN can come close.  I've yet to find the next best romantic comedy.It's a good thing the Mr. LeBow and Mr. Sullivan took five long years to write this screenplay.  No wonder it became a hit, because they thought about it carefully.Bill Pullman is wonderful in this film!  I would love to see him so more romantic comedies in the future.  He has great comedic timing.  And Jason Bernard, who played Jerry, Lucy's supervisor, was unbelievably hilarious!  It's too bad he has already died.  He was a great talent.  I love the eccentric Callahan family, and the crazy neighbor (Joe Fusco, Jr.)  I would love to see a sequel (though, that's unlikely). I would love to know what has become of Lucy and Jack and Peter and even Ashley.I can't wait to see this film again.  I have to buy a new copy, for I have worn out mine.Three cheers for WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING, the romantic film ever!  "}{"Title":"loved it","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. That's maybe cause I am a sucker for a good romantic movie. This is one of the best Sandra Bullock's movies. If you want to see a funny and romantic movie I think you should rent this one. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While you were sleeping is the best movie I've ever seen...I loved the story,  the actors everything...I thought that While you were sleeping makes you  believe that the world is not all that bad and that you are responsible for  making your own dreams come true "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but not good enough","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lucy Eleanor Moderatz (Sandra Bullock) is grown-up, who works at a train station. On Christmas Day, she meets Peter Callahan, (Peter Gallaugher) a young man who comes to her window everyday. He is unfortunately mugged by robbers, and is left unconscious. Lucy saves him, but is caught up in the middle of confusion. Everyone thinks that Lucy and Peter are engaged. Peter, meanwhile is in a coma. His brother, Jack, (Bill Pullman) is wanting to give up the family business, a furniture company.Eventually, Lucy tells the godfather of Peter, Saul. (Jack Warden) who wants to tell the family, but is lackluster at it. When Peter wakes up, he doesn't remember Lucy. They think he has amnesia, but he starts naming several things before the accident, the alphabet, his eighth grade locker combination, and the like.THis is a chick flick, so I'm not a huge fan. Avoid it, unless you like any of the actors/actresses.My Score 5/10. "},{"Title":"Script fails the concept","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found it difficult to identify or sympathise with any of the characters in this movie, coming closest to one of the cats, and that no doubt colours this review. However, I (and my wife) found that the script simply lacked humour, using contrivance to make any progress (the ice scene is pure klutz) while potential resolutions or critical events were chopped or ignored as if the audience were expected to have its collective brain in neutral. Of the main characters not even the mostly comatose Peter seemed plausible in his role. Even the other woman was eventually rendered silly and pointless by the scriptwriter despite a promising start and enthusiastic approach by Ally Walker.Perhaps Julia Roberts should have taken this role and brought her scriptwriter with her. Her lightest comedies such as Runaway Bride are still better than this. I would not see this movie again nor recommend it but then, it will probably do you no great harm to see it for yourself when at least you can make up your own mind. It had a chance to work and it is a pity the execution failed. "},{"Title":"NEVER MIND THE BULLOCK","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I hate romantic comedies, first of all they're not comic at all and secondly you just know that the girl will have her prince at the end. Am I the one to blame? Perhaps but certainly not in the case of this vehicle. Problems enough here... Sandra Bullock looks pretty but she can't act, how else would you explain that she only will be remembered for Speed. Bill Pullman has the same appeal as the role he plays....exactly a carpenter! And then the scenes... First of all do they miss all sense of reality...girl who works in the metro sees a rich advocate who's beaten, he fells on the rails (no signs of any danger to be electrocuted!) and Sandra Bullock pushes him in pure Indiana Jonesstyle on the other side. Well, we saw scenes who were more stupid but at the hospital, some nurse introduces madame Bullock as his financee because otherwise she has no right to visit her prince charming. Don't ask me why but I still decided to watch further, perhaps I was in for torturing myself as the story goes on and on and gets more ridiculous...at the time the poor man is in coma (which is a good thing as Peter Gallagher is one of the most horrifying actors to look at) the family believes it all and poor Sandra becomes part of the family. But not her so called brother in law as he starts investigating if she's the real financee or not and look what happens...Sandra Bullock falls in love with mister Pullman. Okay no further revealing from plots (well if they can be called like that anyway) but the movie gets sillier and boring (and knowing the start was already terrible). This can be perhaps the ultimate movie for desperate women who wanna have their dose of romantic but for chrissakes  get a life....  "},{"Title":"While You Were Sleeping describes me at this movie.","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While You Were Sleeping describes exactly what I was doing through parts of this movie. The plot was more predictable than any other movie I've seen, and the acting in it was so monotonous, that I could barely stay awake. This movie was definitely a chick flick, if even any women could like it.  "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie Of 1995","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"14 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I nominate this as the absolute worst film of the year for 1995, or at least The Dumbest Film of 1995. I remember taking this lady I was trying impress to see this film at the local theater, thinking it would be a good date movie since I had heard people were flocking to see it. Wow....both me and my then- girlfriend almost threw up leaving the theater. We both agreed this was the most ludicrous, stupid and over-hyped movie of the year. The fact this was a hit movie is a sad comment. Who can account for taste? Maybe the public was just desperate for a nice love story, even if it made no sense. Folks, this movie made NO sense. It was the dumbest story I have ever seen on film with the possible exception of the cult movie, Sorority Babes In The Slimeball Bowl-O-Rama.Sandra Bullock was a great choice for the female lead, however, because nobody-but-nobody is more of a brainless bimbo on film than Miss Bullock....role after role. Add the stupid-sounding Bill Pullman and these two were made for this film.If I explained to you what this was about, you might not believe me. Check the Never Mind The Bullock review elsewhere here on the user comments. He explains it well.In over 3,000 reviews, I have never used the phrase worst movie of the year on any title, so take that as a warning if you have not seen this movie. Save yourself the money. "},{"Title":"A Great Love Story!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sandra Bullock stars in this great love story about 'love at second sight'. Sandra plays Lucy, a lonely woman who works at a train station. For a few weeks a certain customer comes to the train station, she doesn't know him or anything and they have never spoken before but Lucy has fallen for him in a big way. One day, on Christmas, Lucy has to work and her dream man, (Who's called Peter, by the way.) comes in and is suddenly attacked and then falls on to the train track, which leaves Lucy to save him. When he taken to hospital he is unconscious. The whole family then seem to think that Lucy is Peter's fiancé. Lucy can't bare to tell them the truth so the the rest of the film follows with everyone thinking Lucy is Peter's fiancé. When Lucy meets Jack though, (Peters brother.) he doesn't think Lucy is all she seems. While You Were Sleeping is a great and very funny film and Sandra Bullock is wonderful as usual. I give the film a 20/10.  "}]