[{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"65 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I loved this film by Roger Michell. Adaptations of great literary classics are fraught with dangerous shoals which have all been blithely avoided in this superb adaption of Jane Austen's masterpiece about love.There isn't a false move in the entire enterprise. The casting is perfect and the performances flawless. Special kudos to Amanda Root's brilliant, subtle performance as the heroine Anne Elliot. Ciaran Hinds, as Captain Wentworth, is virile, handsome and highly attractive as the lonely sea-farer come to land after years of fighting in the Napolianic wars.Not only is this a ripping love story it is imbued with great humor and pathos as well.There is nothing high-fallutin' about it either. Not for one instant does the nasty face of preciosity enter in. The film speaks TO the viewer not at him from a high place.There are some brilliant vignettes, notably in the person of Cinnamon Faye as the honorable Miss Carteret. She doesn't have a single word to utter but in her facial mannerisms conveys a hilarious portrayal of the empty-headed daughter of the nasty Viscountess Dalrymple. Only in the very last scene does Ms Faye utter and that is simply to emit the silliest sneeze I've ever heard. One of the brilliant and rare moments of exquisite comedy to be seen in a film. Other standouts in the cast are John Woodvine and Fiona Shaw as the Admiral and his devoted wife. Sophie Thompson turns in a wonderful performance as the ever-whining, obnoxious younger sister, Mary, who, along with the elder Elliot daughter, Elizabeth, burden the long-suffering Anne with their uselessness. Phoebe Nicholls, of Brideshead Revisted fame (she was Sebastian Flyte's youngest sister Cordelia) contributes yet another wonderful performance in her career, as the ill-tempered Elizabeth, ultimately conveying the tragedy of the burgeoning spinster in the last scene.Even if great literary classics aren't your bag don't miss this minor masterpiece if you happen to love great film-making. "},{"Title":"Best Jane Austen adaptation of late!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"60 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  This has got to be the most watchable Jane Austen adaptation since the recent influx. Amanda Root and Ciaran Hinds are simply the best at conveying unrequited love. One is not blindsided by the big names and distracting beauty of those that have filled the roles of more recent Austen films, and that's how it should be. The performances by Sophie Thompson (Emma's sister), Phoebe Nicholls (remember Brideshead Revisited?), and Corin Redgrave is enough to make this movie recommendable, but the 2 main characters are absolutely superb and sympathetic without being sappy or gratuitous. The other supporting cast is phenomenal; what one expects from a nice little English film. Cinematography and soundtrack are fitting as well. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Beautifully observed portrayal of Jane Austen's mature tale of devotion","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"66 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  Following in the BBC's fine tradition of producing outstanding costume dramas through the 1970's and 1980's, including versions of Jane Austen's novels, this Bafta award-winning co-production, with WGBH and Sony amongst others, of `Persuasion' (her final complete work published mid rewrite in 1818, the year after her death), was made in 1995 with a stellar cast of British stage actors, many from the Royal Shakespeare Company with numerous TV credits. The film's events converge on the time Napoleon has been banished to Elba and the Battle of Waterloo of 1815 is still a year away.  Among the servicemen returning home is Captain Frederick Wentworth (Ciaran Hinds) who has been at sea for eight years since Anne Elliot's (Amanda Root) rejection of his marriage proposal.  The Captain is now a man of prosperity and social rank while his former nineteen-year-old love interest has matured into a &#145;faded and thin' old maid of twenty-seven in service to her family.  Anne has lived to regret her mistake in being persuaded by her friend and patroness, Lady Russell (Susan Fleetwood, `Heat and Dust', who sadly died the year `Persuasion' was released), to refuse Wentworth as a man of unsuitable temperament.  Whilst his affection would now seem to be directed towards her brother-in-law's sister, Louisa Musgrove (Emma Roberts), Anne's only romantic hope lies in the dubious and underhand attentions of her cousin William Elliot (an obsequious Samuel West, who was memorably the ill-fated Leonard Bast in `Howards End').  However, the accident on the Cobb at Lyme Regis requires Anne's sensible advice on how to handle the crisis and eventually leads to a second chance for her.   Incidentally the Cobb was to play another starring role in John Fowles' `The French Lieutenant's Woman', with Karel Reisz' 1981 dramatic movie version embellishing it with a strikingly cloaked Meryl Streep braving the elements, ensuring that it will remain a tourist attraction in perpetuity.Ostensibly with concern over the intellectual inequality of Captain Benwick's sudden attachment to Louisa after the accident, Captain Wentworth makes the impassioned declaration to Anne regarding his friend's broken hearted loss of his fiancee `A man does not recover from such a devotion to such a woman, he ought not, he does not', but is patently reflecting on his own lasting strong feelings for Anne.  Surely it is wiser to recognise when adoration for one person is no longer appropriate and a chance may lie with someone else.  The supposed difference between the sexes regarding fidelity is discussed with Jane Austen adding the comment to her argument that the authors who view women as more fickle, have all been men.  This last remark in the film is rather improbably but modernly given to Anne, who also makes the bold claim for her sex that it is capable of `loving longest when all hope is gone.' It is not a question of gender but of genetic makeup and whether you are truly monogamous, as Western religions and society would decree us to be, or true to yourself. Although comfortable, life must have been dreadfully dull at times for the women in this world who could not relieve their tedium as their menfolk would by going off to war.  This observation is endorsed by the couple of scenes depicting a concert and an evening of card playing, tinged with amber candle light infusing gentle nostalgic warmth to the proceedings which is at odds with the atmosphere of bored ritualistic entertainment.  The different levels of lighting are used to subtle effect here and contrast with the cold glare of Ang Lee's brilliantly lit interiors in his working of Austen's first novel `Sense and Sensibility', also produced in the same year.Amanda Root (`Mortimer's Law', and as Fanny Price, another of Austen's independent women, in `Mansfield Park' for BBC Radio 4) is brilliant as the quiet understated heroine with luminosity to her face that beautifully transcribes the full gamut of emotions she experiences from servitude to the blossoming of love.  Her co-star, Ciaran Hinds (`The Cook, The Thief, His Wife & Her Lover') is equally gifted of expression, with a barely repressed anger and resentment towards Anne, under the guise of curt civility that eventually he is forced to recognise masks his continuing passion for her.  Interestingly over the next two years both leads went onto appear in different versions of Jane Eyre, with Amanda Root well cast as the kindly schoolteacher Miss Temple in Franco Zeffirelli's 1996 version and Ciaran Hinds as a suitably anguished Mr Rochester in Robert Young's 1997 TV adaptation.Jane Austen's fable may be recognised as the classic fairy tale of Cinderella, of a good hearted and dutiful daughter put upon by her foolish and snobbish father and cruel sisters, but who is eventually saved by her true prince.  With great effect, the author adds to the romance her wit and sense of humour to explore the characteristics of the genteel world she lived in with all its human frailties.  Nick Dear's screenplay, together with Roger Michell's necessarily less frantic direction than in `Notting Hill', adroitly captures the essence of Austen's narrative to provide one of the finest visual interpretations of her work.  Strong supporting performances are also given by the ensemble of Corin Redgrave (`Enigma') as the supercilious father; Sophie Thompson (`Emma') and Phoebe Nicholls (`The Elephant Man') as the far from ugly sisters of hypochondriac Mary and haughty Elizabeth; and Fiona Shaw (`Jane Eyre') and John Woodvine (`Wuthering Heights') as the companionable Crofts. Obviously complying with its `Beautiful People' culture the original cover of the American video version replaced the demure leads with two glamorous models, as a spokeswoman for Columbia Tristar in California has said, `I guess to make it a little more seductive to us over here'.  Nonetheless, it is pleasing to read that this film was well received in the States especially as it remained true to its British identity, and therefore set an exemplary standard in not pandering to an anticipated overseas market by using well-known international stars.  "},{"Title":"Charming but Unnoticed","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"53 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  For some reason, people seem to leave Persuasion out when they are naming Jane Austen adaptations.  I find that lamentable, since it is such a wonderful film.  It is exceedingly British, which means that Americans might find it a little hard to understand, but personally I think it is superb. All the acting is stellar; I can't really identify a bad performance.  Ciaran Hines especially shines as the warm but reserved Captain Wentworth.Of all the Jane Austen adaptations (except Pride and Prejudice) I believe Persuasion is the truest to the time period.  The characters act within the conventions of regency England and seem to be comfortable doing so.I would recommend this movie to any Jane Austen lover or a person who enjoys period films or classic literature.  A person who does not fall into those categories might enjoy it as well, but is likely to find it slow and difficult to understand.   "},{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"43 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  I enjoy Jane Austin best of all when it is free of the Hollywood temptation to populate her cast with handsome men and beautiful woman.  Anne Elliot is attractive not because she is some buxom blonde, but because her character is intelligent, quiet, and generously caring.  The photography in this film is extraordinary as are all the performances.  Colin Redgrave is fabulous as Anne's father, a sniveling social climber, and Samuel West as the seedy relative who tries to get back in the families good graces to make sure that his fortunes are preserved.  The actresses playing Anne's two sisters also do a praise worthy job.  I recommend this film highly even if you aren't an Austin fan. "},{"Title":"Two lovers rediscover each other after 8 years apart.","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"34 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  This is Jane Austen's most adult work, and therefore most subtle. The movie adaptation is faithful to her story, taking it's time to develop the characters, and it is beautifully acted and staged. The strange changes to the Mr. Eliot story from book to screen make no sense whatsoever but are hardly a detriment to the story as a whole. This is one of my favorite Austen books and Austen adaptation. The casting is perfect; particularly fine are Ciaran Hinds as Wentworth, Amanda Root as Ann, Sophie Thompson as Mary and Corin Redgrave as Sir Eliot, but truly, the entire cast is flawless. I consider this a must-see movie for anyone who loves Jane Austen, or intelligent screenplays.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful adaptation, terrific casting.","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" And the celebration of the ordinary and the idea that true love will out itself whatever the obstacles put in its way.The casting was inspired and utterly believable in this wondrous adaptation. I never tire of Ciaran Hinds, there seems to be so many layers in what he brings to his far too infrequent roles in films. I believe he is mainly a stage actor.The story bears truth to Jane Austen's original work, and I am a long time fan of Austen.Amanda is not glamorous in her role of Anne Elliot. But her truth and honour stand steady in the ebb and flow of the values, minor complaints and minutiae of her family life. It is clear from the beginning that she is the one with all the missing qualities in the others.Fiona Shaw also captivates in the role of Mrs. Croft who strikes out in a completely different kind of lifestyle for the era, sailing the seven seas with her husband and sharing his adventures.8 out 10. Well done to all concerned. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and understated","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  This is a very well put together, and yet very fragile movie that shows its budget constraints all too well. Beautifully acted and written, the direction unfortunately reveals the boxy nature of a TV screen. But despite the lack of impressive cinematography, the scenes are set up extremely well. The use of staging and visual metaphor are jaw-droppingly fantastic. Austen's relatively simple potboiler has been turned into a work of visual art that reveals the director's love for the material.The music is done perfectly - it doesn't overpower or ever impose interpretation, instead it is just enough to maintain focus on the story. And I love the understated nature of the characters. It is easy to spot the hypocrites, but you can see why they are the way they are. It would be very easy to make Mr. Eliot into a simpering, unctious idiot - instead, he is played as a gentleman. It makes Anne a better character, and it makes the movie a better experience. "},{"Title":"A particular favorite","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  The recently released DVD provides a wonderful opportunity to revisit this exquisitely done Austen.  Her usual themes of elligible young women and men, their social positions, and their incomes, are very much in evidence; however here there is something a bit quieter and more deeply felt, as two special people get a second chance at happiness.  The direction is remarkably fine-tuned, and the production makes a welcome attempt to portray a more realistic glimpse of the life of various classes during the period than is usual.  The flamboyant period costumes are particularly amusing, and the sight of the naval men striding along jettys in uniform with their very striking hats is one that has always stuck in my mind. "},{"Title":"Root Shines In Normal Jane Austen-Fare","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Being a Jane Austen novel (this edition brought to the screen courtesy the BBC), you know it's primarily a chick flick, a romance novel with old English spoken, very nicely photographed with nice period sets and scenery and some interesting women to view.This seems to be the case in most of the films, a la the famous combination of Merchant-Ivory. While this isn't that duo, it's still a decent version of this famous story.What's different about this is the leading actress Amanda Root, who plays Anne Elliot. In America, this is not a lady whom we are familiar with, so she was a new face for me, as well. I liked her. I've heard criticism of her looks. You don't have to be glamorous to be accepted as a fine female actor. She was excellent in her role and just the looks on her face, particularly the sad looks, spoke more volumes than any dialog could manage. "}{"Title":"Excellent adaptation of Jane Austen's novel","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I found this to be an excellent adaptation of Jane Austen's powerful novel. The direction was 'spot on' in interpretation of 19th century England and I found the scenery and props to be very realistic and not at all polished or gilded. The cinematography was very personal with lots of close ups and movement with character, although I did find that the lighting at times was quite dark - not enough candle light used; creating very realistic, but somewhat difficult to see, scenes at times. Amanda Root's portrayal of Anne Elliot was divine. She managed to portray the heroine exactly as I pictured her from reading the novel itself. Her understanding of the complexities of the character and how her past choices in life had created such a sad and lonely figure were very believable. She began the movie in a trance, doing her families bidding like the amiable servant they made her out to be, while in the end she comes into her own and is able to resist any further persuasion by her 'friend' Lady Russell. Ciaran Hinds was superb as Captain Wentworth, and to date I think this is his best role played. He is distant and yet subtly caring and put enough aloofness in his manner toward Anne that at times his callousness was almost uncomfortable to watch. This adaptation of Austen is definitely one of the best produced anywhere. "},{"Title":"Subtle and beautiful","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" This is as near perfect a film as I have ever seen. The acting is natural yet conveys the characters' inner states perfectly. I especially enjoyed Ciaran Hinds' portrayal. He is the dashing and likable Wentworth carrying concealed anger at his treatment eight years ago. He never openly expresses that anger except once to Lady Russell, yet you can see it in his eyes. A masterful actor.I also especially enjoyed Corin Redgrave's portrayal of the supercilious and shallow Sir Walter.I enjoyed the look the 'available light' cinematography gives the film. Once again it was very natural.The choice of actors made the characters look real and believable. and the choice of soundtrack was subtle and period appropriate.This film is superbly produced and directed, yet does not look like Hollywood. It is a truly refreshing change. This is one I will watch again and again. "},{"Title":"Georgian, not  Victorian England","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" It is annoying to read the comment describing this movie as Victorian since Austen died before Queen Victoria was born. It is remarkable that all her novels describe rural English life almost untouched by the violence of the Napoleonic Wars raging on the continent during her lifetime. This one at least alludes to the careers of British naval officers. It also calls attention to the great age for poetry in which the characters lived. This is one of a small handful of truly beautiful love stories on film which end happily; An Affair to Remember and A Room With a View are two others in my canon. Every actor/actress in this movie should have been nominated for an Oscar, a perfect ensemble cast, typical of the best subtle British cinematic style. "},{"Title":"Total Immersion","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  This movie really clicked for me.  Felt like falling into a great novel that you can't put down.  Well organized so you could follow all the characters, the dialog and the subtle nuances of the time. "},{"Title":"love jane austen","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I have been in love with this movie ever since the first time I saw it. Now I watch it whenever it's on. Ciaran Hinds is thoroughly likable, albeit a bit stiff, as the captain, and Amanda Root is subtle and sympathetic. Phoebe Nicholls may be the meanest sister since Cinderella's and she seems to do it effortlessly. That chameleon of an actress, Sohie Thompson, is at her whiny and annoying best. One of the things I enjoy most is the subtle changes in Roots character. You must watch as she goes from plain to pretty before your eyes, without ever a hint of acting. This movie is all about subtly and closeups, and facial expressions are the key to many an unspoken word. Even those with small roles last indelibly. "},{"Title":"Best of the Best!","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" This is an EXCELLENT MOVIE! And it is an excellent adaptation of Austen's novel. All characters are very good indeed! Specially Ciarán Hinds. I don't know why Hinds don't get much first roles, because he is an excellent actor! The way he represents Capt. Wentworth here is superb, and he did capture the character's essence. Wentworth changes along the movie, he starts to think about what happened in the past, and what kind of choice he will do.Maybe it is too exaggerate to say that Hinds is the perfect Wentworth, he is exactly the way one imagines it when one reads the book He is intelligent, a bit rough but with a tender heart, tall, robust.Anyway, anyone who love Austen's Persuasion should know that there's a very good movie out there that they should watch... this one. "},{"Title":"One of the best adaptations ever made.","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" The essence of the novel is condensed but not compromised. The faces chosen to portray the characters are disarmingly human. The connections between the characters are focused and believable. The interiors that the characters live in and the clothes they wear seem lived in and commonplace rather than a production designer's fantasy. The same can be said for the telling of the story. It is still about romantic love but it has an edge of the battlefield about it. The soulfulness that lies under the surface in Austen's novels is brought to the forefront. In it's own way, this is a very radical film... radical in its simplicity and in the care taken to make Austen's world come alive on it's own terms. "},{"Title":"Magnificent adaptation","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Jane Austen's novels lend themselves to cinematic adaptations. This production, directed by Roger Michell, and with a screen treatment by Nick Dear, comes close to be what Ms. Austen wanted us to see, if she had any saying in the matter. The film is blessed with great talented English actors who feel quite at home interpreting for us the rich text of the novel.Amanda Root, is perfect as Anne Elliot, the down to earth woman at the center of the story. Ciaran Hands is a virile presence that plays well in the story. Their romance is seen coming all through the proceedings and their love seems to be real.Corin Redgrave is perfect as Sri Walter Elliot, the fatuous man who was impressed with money and power. Susan Fleetwood has some excellent moments as the kind Lady Russell. Fiona Shaw is perfect as Mrs. Croft and Samuel West excels at his portrayal of the impoverished Elliot cousin.Ultimately, the production has a great view because it was filmed in the area that is described in the book. The beautiful city of Bath is seen in glorious exteriors.Recommended to all Jane Austen's fans because the beautiful job Roger Michell did in bringing the novel to the screen. "},{"Title":"A visual delight from beginning to end","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  I love this movie.  I love the cinematography, the acting, the story..Persuasion is a visual delight from beginning to end with fantastic characters, wonderful direction (finally a director who knows when silence and significant glances are worth morth than pages of useless dialogue)...The greatest thing about this movie is that it gets better every time you see it.  Amanda Root's soulful eyes become even more affecting, Ciarin whatshisname becomes more handsome and likeable, and the annoying hypochondriac sister becomes more hilarious (if that's possible, which in this movie, it is!).I know this review is very vague.  Suffice it to say, I've seen this movie a dozen times and I can't wait to see it a dozen more times.Definitely my favorite Jane Austen movie. "},{"Title":"The most natural of Austen adaptations","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  When I was a girl, Pride and Prejudice was my favorite Austen novel. Now that I'm grown, Persuasion is my favorite. And this movie just knocked my socks off.The acting is superb all the way around. Amanda Root (Anne) and Ciaran Hinds (Wentworth) are terrific. My favorite supporting players must be John Woodvine (Adm. Croft) and Fiona Shaw (Mrs. Croft).I particularly enjoy the natural lighting used in the film. The movie lacks the fairy-tale air that many Austen adaptations carry -- it seems more immediate, more real.I also enjoyed the music -- not the usual English parlor period tunes, but those suited to the energies of the film.  "}{"Title":"More than a good adaptation","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" After reading the book - an excellent book which only lasts two days in your hands - and re-watching the movie, I've realized how extremely good it is. It not only takes all the atmosphere of the novel it adds some pieces, some characters, moves phrases from one character to another to add more layers, and fills the story gaps with simple details. This way the Crofts seem even most adorable than in the book, Mary is even softened - Persuasion is, without a doubt, the Jane Austen story where she's more bitter about the society, manners and such - and Anne becomes a lively character, one woman you really care about and you learn to fall in love with. Persuasion is not just another chick movie about love and people with flamboyant words and clothes it's a multi-character story, one piece of cinema that takes care of every fictional people that wanders in every shot, one film that makes you feel happy or makes you cry without using easy tricks, one film that manages to be aesthetically beautiful without being cheesy, and one script that takes everything from the book and manages to make the story richer with wise additions. It's incredible, and not only, I insist, a BBC adaptation of a classic book it's the best piece of cinema Roger Mitchell has ever made, a delight of passions pitifully hidden and wonderfully shown. Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Jane Austen at her best","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Persuasion, one of Jane Austen's later works, receives excellent treatment in this movie adaptation. The story of a lost love discovered again is poignant and moving. Of all Austen's novels, Persuasion is definitely a favorite of mine, and this movie is very well done. One of the most attractive things about it is the casting. Ciaran Hinds plays the staid, composed Wentworth struggling with his feelings to a T. They have also kept the plot very close to the book, especially in Anne's visits to Mrs. Smith, which I was afraid would be missing. Anne is portrayed in the movie as she should be, a sweet and steady woman who holds her family and friends together and is sometimes overlooked, but knows her own worth and so does not let these things bother her. Anne Elliot, a woman who, in the view of her Napoleonic society, is past her prime and an old maid, meets again with her first love, Captain Frederick Wentworth. Eight years ago, she had been persuaded by her family and friends to reject him because of his lack of fortune and connections. When they are reunited, she sees him begin to court her brother-in-law's sister and at once receives the attentions of her wealthy cousin, the heir to her father's estate. She must then decide whether to chance a reunion with Wentworth or make the match that society is urging for her. "},{"Title":"One of the very best Jane Austen adaptations","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" There is little to say except that it is one of the very best Jane Austen adaptations and a must for anyone interested in the genre.Well acted and well made.An excellent ensemble. What is fascinating is being able to see how very many of the story elements in Emma, Mansfield Park, Pride and Prejudice, Sense and Sensibilty re-occur here as well and perhaps even more clearly.My only regret is that it is not longer. I was enjoying this world and it ended all too soon. But, on the other hand it told the story well and there was really no need to go into more detail. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" The 1995 Persuasion movie is not only my favorite adaptation of that particular book, it's one of my top five Jane Austen adaptations. And one of my favorite period movies. And just one of my favorite movies! It's just that good. The cast is excellent. I love the look and feel of realism it has too, similar to the 2005 Pride and Prejudice and Bright Star movies- realistic lighting, no makeup, messy hair, etc.Every adaptation has its flaws, and I guess I should just get them out of the way beforehand. This film contains one big historical error! The sailors often go about in their naval uniforms. While this looks really nice on screen, it is actually not accurate. As we know from Mansfield Park, these uniforms could only be seen while the officers were on duty. Probably most casual viewers wouldn't know this and it's cool to see them though. Another issue that doesn't really bother me in particular is the somewhat lacking exposition. I feel a little bit, that this movie was written with book fans in mind. If you weren't already familiar with the story, you might find it a bit confusing, especially in the beginning, what was going on between Anne and Wentworth. As I said, I had no problem following anything but since I had already read the book that doesn't really mean much.The casting is admittedly not perfect. Many of the actors are a bit too old, but nothing jarring like in 1971. Their brilliant performances more than made up for this- with one big exception- Phoebe Nicholls as Elizabeth Elliot was way over the top.Both the canceled and actual ending of the book were used. Some liked the addition, but I could take it or leave it, personally. Some of the other changes from the book may have worked as just a movie, but were lacking for me as an adaptation. Actually, I can say that about pretty much everything- there's nearly nothing in this movie that I don't like as just a movie.Before I say again how much I love this movie (I ended up rewatching it 3 times!), I remembered another scene that bothered me. Anne is taken to Upper Cross in a farmer's cart instead of Lady Russell's carriage. Really? That was stretching it quite a bit. I know Sir Walter doesn't pay much attention to her, but he would never allow his daughter to be seen traveling in that way! And Lady Russell would never have allowed it! She couldn't spare her carriage to go 3 miles away?? All in all, admittedly, this movie is not perfect. But it's still a darn good movie and it's the closest to perfection any of the adaptations of Persuasion have gotten so far. "},{"Title":"Perfect ensemble performance","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" It is hard to name another film in which every single actor is cast so well and performs so well. Even the smallest roles are a treat. A miracle. And watching Amanda Root reminds me of that wonderful assertion by Judi Dench Acting isn't what you say; it's what you don't say, --- and Amanada Root can speak volumes without a word. The Musgrove family, and their home, constitute everyone's favourite dream of English rural paradise; and at every viewing I am riveted by that fabulous carpet. Charles Musgrove is so beautifully acted --- yes, you know he is a bit of a fool and insensitive, but you love him for his heartfelt honesty and generosity. Likewise, Admiral and Mrs Croft --- the married couple everyone wishes to be. When Mrs Croft (Fiona Shaw, a genius)is regaling the dinner party with her memories of home and sea, John Woodvine, as the admiral, is visible in the background, listening quietly, not looking at her, but permitting himself an exquisite, reticent, almost humble smile of contented happiness. There is not a single weakness in this wonderful PERSUASION. "},{"Title":"Superb movie! A must-see!!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  Although the movie plot moves very slowly, it is as it should be.  The characters weave a web of storyline intricacy, and then resolve things at the end. The actors are excellent, the dry, sarcastic British humor is hilarious! I almost can't believe how mean Anne's family is to her!  This movie is sweet and funny, hopeful and happy...I would recommend this movie to anyone as a must see!! "},{"Title":"A quiet, beautifully accurate adaption","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  There is nothing quite so satisfying as when a novel adaptation is done with both accuracy and finesse.  Both can be found in Persuasion.  This film manages to convey not only the plot, but also the nuances that Austen infused into the book.  The relatively confined lives of women, the parallel between Anne and nature, and the shifts in the balance of society at that time can all be felt as this beautiful love story unfolds.  "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites.  A truly beautiful film.","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  This is one of the best adaptations of a novel I have ever seen. Each time I watch it, I see something new. The casting is wonderful, the music is wonderful (I never liked Chopin until I saw Persuasion), the acting is incredible.  The producers are to be praised for not bowing to the trend of casting beautiful (but dull) actors in these roles or glossing over the grittiness of life in the early 19th century.  I will admit that Amanda Root and Ciaran Hinds are not classically beautiful, and I find this to be a plus. I just can't say enough about her eyes.  They are incredibly expressive and are capable of moving the viewer to tears without her saying a word. They show both the pain and the joy Anne feels through the course of the film, and I can't say enough about Ciaran Hinds as the dashing sailor who is responsible in part for both the pain and the joy.Yes, some things from the book were left out, and I thought the portrayal of Anne's sister Elizabeth left something to be desired, but on the whole, this film is perfection itself.    "},{"Title":"Subdued, tender romance of the classical period","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  Well I like it just fine! This adaptation is so very subtly done, and understated is the best term to describe the acting and actors. Amanda Root's gentle portrayal of Anne Elliot as the insecure young lady with aspirations of a love's reawakening is so appealing.Also, I am very interested in the actress Fiona Shaw, the Mrs. Croft here, as she is outstanding as a character actor in my opinion. I've only seen her elsewhere, in Jane Eyre so it will be interesting to explore her role accomplishments further. Her screen presence seems to stay in my mind more than others. Ciaran Hinds is very good too in his role as the reserved Captain. I prefer his restrained performance which is more in keeping with this story than in other subsequent roles which I need not name.The film's scenery is at times almost a work of art, from the rustic home settings to that of the elegant dining rooms and salons, all is so beautifully presented.A charming story of romantic love in the classical era.  "},{"Title":"The best of the Austen films","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  Persuasion stands head and shoulders above the crowd of Jane Austen film adaptations, certainly far superior to Ang Lee's much-cheered Sense and Sensibility.  Whereas Lee seemed in love with pristine, well-lit interiors and manicured landscapes, Persuasion director Roger Michell keeps letting his camera stray to the unkempt masses constantly lurking underfoot, and to the lonely corners of the dim rooms the characters inhabit.  One of the opening scenes is telling Admiral Croft walks along the deck of his ship, the crew standing at attention, the camera moving from one face to the next.  They're faces we won't see again, but they're given considerable attention, before we've seen any of the main characters.  We're urged to recognize that England's affluent society has a hidden subtext.  It's a bold vision, one noticeably lacking in Michell's successful comedy Notting Hill, which is equally and oppositely enamored with the struggles of super-celebrities.But this is just the icing on the cake.  The performances are superlative, the dramatic tension is translated perfectly.  I don't know how many times I've seen this film and I still relish the unfolding of almost every scene "}{"Title":"An excellent Jane Austen adaptation","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" This is one of my favourite Jane Austen dramatisations. I really like it for three reasons 1) Amanda Root is outstandingly good as Anne Elliot. She really captures the character to perfection, and it is a hard part to act, too, since in many scenes, especially in the first half, she is simply listening to other people, and all of her emotions are conveyed by means of facial expressions and body language.2) The musical score. So many Jane Austen adaptations use an orchestral score. This one sticks to simple piano accompaniment and it works very well indeed.3) The supporting cast. A lot of the supporting characters really come to life, thanks to excellent ensemble playing from the likes of Susan Fleetwood as Lady Russell, Robert Glenister as Captain Harville, Fiona Shaw as Mrs Croft and Simon Russell Beale as Charles Musgrove. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Wonderful The very best Austen adaptation ever !!","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I actually loved this even more than the book ,which has always been a favourite with me.It is almost flawless-the casting is perfect,most of the acting superb (Amanda Root as Anne,Ciaran Hinds as Capt Wentworth,Sophie Thompson as Mary,Corin Redgrave as Sir Walter,the Musgrove sisters,Samuel West as the oily but charming Mr Eliot and, most of all,Simon Russell Beale as Charles Musgrove.The staging and camera-work is wonderful too-the sense of place and the fact that you often see an interior,such as the kitchen and parlour of Mary's house,filmed at different times from several different places,making it feel very real.The costuming is fabulous -from the tousled muddy-hemmed day-dresses of the Musgrove girls to Lady Russell's mature and icy fashion-plate perfection and the beautiful tailored details of Anne's cuff or a glimpse of a buttoned canvas ankle boot on a step.And it is the first Austen adaptation I've ever seen where a character goes to the toilet(bathroom)!!!! (check out Capt Wentworth at the dinner party)I could go on and on. Every time you see this film there are new details and subtleties to notice.And Amanda Root makes it. I think her performance can never be bettered.The only flaw is a silly kiss scene at the end,but even that was delicately done.If you like atmosphere and detail-if you want to feel you could almost walk through the screen and into the Regency era (the real Regency era,not the bonnets and frocks one) you will adore this film too.I cannot recommend it too highly. It is the benchmark of Austen adaptations "},{"Title":"Refined romance for true Austen fans","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" This movie does an excellent job of portraying Austen in all of her glory. This is by far my favorite of Austen's works. Love doesn't die with age; it gets stronger with time - - is the main message to this gentle and oh-so romantic tale.The strength of Wentworth is such a wonderful balance to the delicate Anne. It is just like a fairytale from the wicked stepsisters to the awful father! Who doesn't enjoy that? Plus Anne is so real, as are the rest of the actors in this film. So realistic that it is like being within the book itself. I could not find fault with any aspect of this film. Pace, screenplay, detail, scenery, etc. were all superbly done.A+++++ "},{"Title":"Lovely film","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Gosh, how I love this film. I just watched it for something like the 15th time in seven years. Someone mentioned it's like a good book that you can't put down, and indeed it is. It seems to conjure up the quietude of this past era, with its natural-light photography, realistically dirty and worn costumes and small-scale domestic interiors - note the scene when the family are taking tea in front of the fireplace.All the performances are lovely, especially the heart-breaking Amanda Root and Ciaran Hinds, whose repressed hurt and anger are simmering beneath the surface as Captain Wentworth. Great piece of work, which I watch whenever I'm down, or tired or can't sleep. "},{"Title":"best Jane Austen adaptation","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" my sister is a Jane Austen obsessive. as a result i have seen all the adaptations around. i even bought the 80s BBC adaptation of Mansfield Park and sat through the whole thing. that was a painful experience, one i would never encourage others to inflict on themselves.so i return to persuasion. this is by far the best adaptation of Jane Austen that i have seen. women of my generation from england would go for the BBC adaptation of pride and prejudice. we are in love with Colin firth and the lake. but the adaptation of persuasion stands the test of time. where p and p looks dated, persuasion is beautifully shot, the sequences at sea particularly stay with me. the thing i particularly love is that our heroine is not beautiful, she is plain, just as she is in the book, which i find so satisfying. watching this, you feel the real-ness of their love story. every performance is beautifully judged, i even enjoy Fiona shaw's performance, of whom i am not a great fan. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Absolutely lovely addition to the Jane Austen book-to-film canon. Amanda Root and Cieran Hinds bring to their respective roles fruits of their dramatic training and experience. Truly a delight to the senses! Movie, for the most part, faithful to the book, always a difficult task to accomplish, especially when dealing with an iconic author such as Austen. However, in this BBC production, it succeeded and then some. Overall casting, music, costumes, and segueing from physical location, Kellynch Hall to Upper Cross to Bath, also set the emotional and psychological tone for the movie as well. The mini-plots, machinations, and perceived emotional needs of some of the characters made for very interesting viewing. "},{"Title":"I'm persuaded that this film is subtly perfect.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  The adaptation of Jane Austen's work from book to screen by Nick Dear is a standard that all other adaptive screenwriters should try for. The subtly of the direction and acting is simply mesmerising and for a lover of the complex Austen I felt this film did her book justice. Ciaran Hinds has been a favourite actor of mine since Cold Lazarus and the incredible romantically pained man (Captain Wentworth) he portrays is simply subtly perfect. I can't recommend this enough, for the words, images and love it expresses. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the Austen films","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  This is a quiet, but wonderful film. Its a modest film in terms of budget and production, but it is able to project a level of genuine emotion that no big budget could possibly buy! It moves at a pleasing and appropriate quiet, country-lifestyle pace and features near-perfect supporting performances by Sophie Thompson and Corin Redgrave. The leads, Amanda Root and Ciaran Hinds are excellent as well.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Austen adaptations on screen","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  This is an excellent film, true in spirit and characterization to the original work by Austen. The subtleties of the performances are excellent, in particular Anne's father, Sir Walter, and her sister Mary. Both the lead performances are also excellent understated yet witty, in keeping with the characters portrayed in the novel. One of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Alternate video box cover","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  The glowing reviews I had read of this film prompted me to rent the video from my local store. The moment I glimpsed the video cover I was confused! I had read that this film presented it's characters as real people without the glamour of using beautiful stars to portray them. But what should I see on the cover but a representation of two beautiful actors clutching each other in a typical mass market paperback book bodice ripper attitude! I rented the video anyway, and was relieved to find that the film was all the reviews had said.... but the two people from the video cover were NOT in the film. How can the production company allow cover art with characters who do not even appear in the film? The cover art was a confusing mis-representation of what the film really was. I greatly enjoyed the film, but was immensely irritated by the cover art.I'm happy to see that it appears as if later releases of the video version have fixed the cover art problem. It now represents actors who are actually in the film. "}{"Title":"Great!!","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  After seeing the film again, I read the book (again) and I'm struck with how good they translated the book into the film. Almost every important scene is there. And as for the kiss, which should be scandalous, who would have noticed with the circus coming by? Don't they deserve a little kiss after 8 years of misery? "},{"Title":"Not a fan of Amanda Root","Date":"28 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I really enjoy period movies; I really enjoy Jane Austen stories. It's hard for me to dislike anything that falls in these categories. I would not say that I did not enjoy this movie; Ciaran Hinds is wonderful, the Crofts are immensely lovable, I was amused by Sophie Thompson as the self-centered Mary Musgrove, I even liked to dislike Sir Elliott. But Amanda Root as Anne Elliott sometimes gets on my nerves, with her poor me expressions and her sad puppy eyes. It was too much; Jane Austen heroes - and heroines - are all about hiding true emotions in public in order to appear as composed as possible at any time. I had a really hard time to believe people would not have seen through Anne's displays of emotion. However, I must say that as I've watched the movie several times, I notice it less, and it doesn't get on my nerves as much anymore. But I have to say it's the one thing that stuck out for me on first viewing, and I found it very distracting, and hard to identify with her because of that. "},{"Title":"Flawless","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" This film is so flawless, it's hard to think of a place where it misses a single beat. I'm a great fan of the Merchant/Ivory cannon, and believe them to be unbeatable in their perfection of the Ideal. Here we are given a masterful lesson by Roger Michell in the perfectly Real. And it's OK to like both. I do not agree at all with the premise that romance and long dresses make any movie a chick flick, which is a fairly modern invention - both in grammar and a particular vein of shallow popular movie making. This is not that, and I cannot watch a true chick flick - they're not even good movies, none of them will be named here, you know which ones they are.Most of the well known period pieces made in the last 20 years are some of the very best movies we have. I think them not so much an acquired taste, as an appreciation that must be learned. Like many of the finer things and varied seasons of your life, it took someone showing you before you knew what you were looking at, or looking for. It is that way here. Once you see the truth they have to tell, then decide you don't prefer them - at least you've validated your own choice through actual experience. But to dismiss them out of hand from ignorance, or prejudice, or misplaced masculinity makes such a view less relevant. And I think more importantly, causes you to miss out on something you might find quite beautiful, had you seen it.For the uninitiated, let me take a moment to explain. It is the inner beauty of good people, the proper behavior and right conduct toward others as a societal norm - just because they are others like yourself, not because you wanted anything from them. Real Gentleman and True Ladies. This all happened for the first time in history on this scale and at this level within the Victorian and Edwardian eras. Though this is the period right before the Victorian, they are directly connected and that's what is on display here. It will feed your spirit if you let it. All of which comes out of the ethics and morality of Christian nations, and does not trace back to any other cultures on the earth.Just as the West came out of the Greece of Alexander, the modern world was birthed by the Britain of this time, and everyone knows it. The turn into the 20th century is the end of the England we Americans as a society, came out of. We did not get this goodness in us as a nation from ourselves, we got it from someone who had it before us. Good Infection as C.S. Lewis calls it. There is hypocrisy, contradiction and cruelty, of course, and people who are not so nice - that comes with a fallen race. But that is not what you are being shown. There is no excellence in the error of men, there is no light in their darkness. Darkness is the absence of Light - Light displaces it. All of the bad that men have done to each other is hardly worth making a film about, on it's own.Good films come from good stories, and stories get their strength from the Power of Words. Like the ones I'm using here. It's a power that God put into words, man had nothing to do with it. Films and stories are important only because Words are important. If it sounds like I'm preaching a little, you can't fault me for that - that's what Preachers do. So do film makers, film goers, writers, and people - like you. All with something to say, when given a chance - will say it. And everything ever said will be Judged.Thus ends my attempt at persuasion, for those of you who might give great period pieces a view. Let their good words minister, let their morality speak. In an age where people have become products, and talk is cheap. You'll get a little bit of help from the Light that is in them. A spoonful at a time is all we are given, because a spoonful is all we can handle. Pictures, and words and stories of the way people used to be. The goodness of God is the goodness that you see. Including the goodness in films like Persuasion - an example of how good film making ought to be. "},{"Title":"The best of the Austens","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  Of all the recent Jane Austen adaptations, this is the most honest and tender. Amanda Root is a wonderfully modest Anne, and Ciarin Hinds a great hero as Captain Wentworth. Anne and Wentworth's constant love is explored with patience and reserve, whilst keeping the film true to the novel. Though not as bright and colourful as Sense and Sensibility, and certainly without the light comedy of Emma, this film has virtue elsewhere. A gem, and an absolute must-see for romantics and lovers of period drama alike. "},{"Title":"Touching, subtle, and deep","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I felt a very strong connection to the characters in this film, the character of Anne, in particular. I was experiencing her emotions right along with her; more so than in any other film I've ever watched. Amanda Root does a splendid job in conveying Anne's emotions from mere facial expressions and gestures. She has very little dialog in the really emotional scenes. This reminds me of old Hollywood style films the director paying special attention to the actress's reactions with closeups. You rarely see closeups that mean so much in newer films, newer Hollywood films anyway.Anne is quietly in love with a man 8 years after she was persuaded to refuse his proposal. When he unexpectedly arrives in her social circle once again, she must stoically bear the consequences. Knowing that she cannot tell him how much she still loves him, she sees fit not to call attention to herself, and certainly never to tell him how she feels. Her regret for having denied his love once before causes her to think that she deserves to stay out of his way, and therein suffer a penance for refusing his proposal years earlier. Perhaps most of us can relate to the jolting reality apparent on Anne's face when her rejected love's name is mentioned in conversation. Her careful mask of an expression when he tells of his life at sea is so relatable. I know that I at least, have felt similar emotions before. She tries her best not to display her feelings for the man she loves and must wait in pained agony while she listens to him speak, her love amassed merely by being in his company.Anne's character is one which is unlike most shown in film. She is kind, quiet and complacent. She isn't confrontational. But that does not make her love any less real than that of your standard heroine.This film is lovely to me. It displays two characters whose story speaks to us universally, a love story which may seem simplistic, but doesn't need all the bells and whistles found in most romances. These individuals are confined by their circumstances and are not able to tell one another their feelings. Their struggle is fascinating to watch. This film is done well enough that you're enveloped by the characters' struggle, and distracted by nothing else within the film. Unrequited love's inner struggle is a reality portrayed beautifully here, in a way I've never seen equaled. "},{"Title":"A Suitable Persuasion","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" PERSUASION together with NORTHANGER ABBEY were posthumous novels by Jane Austin (published 1817) and reflect the position of a novelist whose latter days mirror a younger, wonderful bright spirit and yet soften the social and feminist darts she so successfully hurled at society in her famous earlier works. This particular film adaptation by Nick Dear of PERSUASION respects not only the spirit of the novel but also the station of the author. Under Roger Mitchell's keen direction this cinematic reenactment of the belated flowering of a Anne Elliot's eight year thwarted longing for the love of naval officer Frederick Wentworth, all due to the 'impropriety' of Wentworth's financial standings of the past, is placed before us as a quietly gentle song, one that still places the scrutinizing Austen microscope on the social mores of the time and the bows to class distinctions that serve as the matrix for Austen's novels.The cast is excellent, with Amanda Root suitably in the background as Anne Elliot and Ciarán Hinds as the wise and slightly weathered Captain Wentworth. But their superb performances would not be as credible were it not for the large cast of fine actors playing the superficial silly sisters and cousins and the haughty ladies as well as the warm and worthy ones. This is first rate ensemble acting, allowing the quiet pulse of Austen's Anne to beat softly behind longing eyes, making her plight and ultimate reward for perseverance step stage front at the end of the film. The music of Chopin and Bach flavor the score by Jeremy Sams and the presence of Rosa Mannion, soprano, singing arias and songs lends both an aural and visual credibility to the atmosphere so ably captured by cinematographer John Daly. This is a satisfying Jane Austen adaptation. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"not just a chick flick","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" My husband walked through the room while I was watching Persuasion years ago, was immediately intrigued, sat down and watched the rest of it with me. He still enjoys watching it (which is amazes me because he's really more of a Lethal Weapon type) and repeatedly comments on how Jane Austen sketched such realistic characters. (Don't tell anyone, but he also likes the Jennifer Ehls/Colin Firth Pride and Prejudice for the same reason.) Although Austen wrote at a time vastly different from our own, the trials faced by people, the strengths and weaknesses of their characters, and how they deal with the adversity in their lives, remain unchanged. One can always appreciate the constancy and commitment portrayed in this story. "},{"Title":"A sweet, romantic movie","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  I happen to love Jane Austen's books, and I think the movie version of Persuasion is just fantastic!  It is about a woman, Anne Elliot, who used to be engaged to a man named Wentworth, but then was pressured into breaking it off by her friends and family.  Several years later, Anne is still in love with Wentworth, and when he comes back, he wants to fall in love with anybody except Anne. The actors are all wonderful, and I think Amanda Root is great at showing how Anne's self-confidence rises as the movie progresses.  There is a lot of comedy here, as well.  Jane Austen's secondary characters are always humorous, and there is no lack of foolish ones in this story.  The only problem I have with the movie is that while the makers spend a lot of time developing the story and relationships between the people, they seem to rush the ending.  But other than that, there should be no reason why you wouldn't go and see this sweet film!  "},{"Title":"The gentle art of Persuasion","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Although I have read all of Jane Austen, I am not a particular fan; I prefer her over any Brontë, but far prefer Eliot, Dickens, and Hardy over the lot of them. My favorite of her novels is her last, Persuasion, so I was poised to have my high hopes dashed. But this film exceeded even elevated expectations for reasons visual, verbal-- and reverential (the marvelous Ciarán Hinds as Captain Wentworth).First, the visuals. Film adaptations of Austen (and her ilk) generally deliver a touch of grime along with glamor, but it's invariably picturesque the tattered and torn peasants and ruffians are museum-quality. Not here. Director Roger Michel gets plain old mud on the skirts of his ladies during their long walks. Bad and/or yellow teeth abound, as they did in 1814, nowhere more notoriously than in England. Such small details are big indicators of how Michel, like Austen, prefers honest naturalism to pure aestheticism. Ivory-tower film-making is left to the likes of Merchant and Ivory.I hasten to add, however, that Michel also left the costume design to a very talented 33-year old, Alexandra Byrne, who went on to win an Oscar (for Elizabethan togs). Her Empire dresses and Royal navy chapeau-bras will not leave you wistful for Greer Garson wearing Adrian.As to the verbal The screenplay perpetuates, as it should, Austen's repair to caricature for her satire. It is one of the author's failings, and it is writ large here; protagonist Anne (delicately brought to life by Amanda Root) is the only member of the Elliott family who isn't a grotesque vain Sir Walter, strident Elizabeth, narcissistic Mary--all lack complexity, as do most of the women and many of the men. The caricatures do, however, provide comic context for the heart of the story. The number of times dutiful, plain Anne is influenced by persuasion from one buffoon or another is effectively stifling, and is therefore one of the ways in which this film adaptation truly reflects the novel. But this is cinema, not literature. Certain key moments in the film, some of them silent, reveal more than the dialog does to attentive viewers . At the shore in Lyme, all characters but two play with the sand and the surf; the two are Wentworth, who stares out at his true home, the sea, and Anne, who also simply gazes serenely out over the water toward&#x97; freedom? adventure? Wentworth's true home? It sets Anne apart with lovely subtlety. Another moment occurs at the end (which returns to the opening scene, with ships), when she and Wentworth set sail. At the sight of their the full-rigged ship, I felt a tug toward freedom, too, away from all the persuasive pressures of society. Wentworth's ship, now her home too, truly did feel like independence, perhaps especially for a woman whose horizons in the early 19th century were still barbarically circumscribed. "},{"Title":"Another Excellent Movie based on Jane Austen's Novel","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" This screen adaptation of Jane Austen's novel, Persuasion, is excellent. I love Amanda Root as Anne Elliot. She plays the part to perfection, displaying her feelings and regrets, but never showing disrespect towards her family. This is just as Jane Austen wrote it.The entire cast does a great job, and the story plays out so beautifully. The longing of Anne Elliot for Captain Wentworth is so real and meaningful. As are Captain Wentworth's feelings for Anne.I also enjoyed Fiona Shaw as Mrs. Croft, Capt. Wentworth's sister. She has such an unusual look that she always stands out on-screen, and she is a great actress. She plays the part wonderfully in this movie.As always, I urge you to read Austen's novel before watching a screen adaptation. Why not enjoy the original first? It truly is a wonderful experience to see such beloved characters come to life on the screen. "}{"Title":"One of the best period dramas around","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Ciaran Hinds and Amanda Root were born to play these roles (although if you see them in The Man Who Cried you'll REALLY experience the depth of their acting). This is a staid period piece and if Austen dialog bothers you, you may not make it through this one. But Anne Elliot and her 'lost' hero are real heart breakers here. There is an underlying maliciousness that is appealing to see in the society hierarchy as well. Try getting past those well placed curls on the men and the knee britches. It's worth the time and trouble to watch! If you enjoy this movie go for Jane Eyre with Timothy Dalton, a little dated but still outstanding. While I'm not a Wuthering Heights fan, the Fienne version is I understand, fabulous. Oh and pay attention, just when you think this movie is completely dry, there is a little drama going on other than who's marrying whom. Stay with it. "},{"Title":"I thought that this was most enjoyable.","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  I really have liked Persuasion since watching this film for the first time. I wanted to see the movie at the cinemas, but by the time I could it was no longer showing. Thank goodness for television. I watched it, and now have a copy of it to watch any time I feel like it. My mum, also, whenever she and I are alone and want to watch a movie, it is always one of the ones that we consider. She has never read the book, but she enjoys the movie every time.I read the book after watching the movie, and I think that, after that, Persuasion turned into one of my all time favourite Austen novels. I think that she portrays her characters beautifully in it, and I believe that the movie picks up on the important parts that the characters play/reveal to the audience. The movie keeps to the book well enough for any class, if it is necessary to study the book, to be able to watch the movie and understand the characters and interactions.I hope that other people watch the movie and enjoy it as much as I did, and I hope that they will take the time to read the novel, and not be disheartened that the book and the novel are not quite alike. It is at leastbetter than some adaptions from book to novel.  "},{"Title":"Classic romance","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  Touching film of Austen romance, with the usual combination of meddling, snobbery and social bias that thwarts the happiness of two people. After seeing this film, anyone who has let someone they loved slip out of their life will be wondering, What if I had a second chance?  "},{"Title":"Mmm.","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I had read the book also listened to a BBC Radio version of some years ago with Juliet Stephenson which was very fine. But as I began to watch this film version I had an increasing mixture of admiration for the costumes, interiors and cast yet misgivings. The dramatic centre is Louisa's plummet from a height onto cold hard stone at the Cob at Lyme. Here in this film version following the fall, Captain Wentworth steps back and stands gazing and silent like a spare person at a wedding. Louisa is lying on her side pink-faced but unconscious. Anne has immediately rushed forwards, attends to Louisa and at the same time barks out urgent clear directions to everyone else. The book however tells it very differentlyThere was no wound, no blood, no visible bruise; but her eyes were closed, she breathed not, her face was like death. The horror of the moment to all who stood around! Captain Wentworth, who had caught her up, knelt with her in his arms, looking on her with a face as pallid as her own, in an agony of silence. She is dead! she is dead! screamed Mary, catching hold of her husband, and contributing with his own horror to make him immovable.....Is there no one to help me? were the first words which burst from Captain Wentworth, in a tone of despair, and as if all his own strength were gone. Go to him, go to him, cried Anne, for heaven's sake go to him. I can support her myself. Leave me, and go to him. Rub her hands, rub her temples; here are salts; take them, take them.Not an exaggerated description of people frozen in horror, Jane Austen hardly needed to add The horror of the moment to all who stood around!, it is powerfully clear from her description. Instead the truly daft film treatment of this scene robs it of almost all its drama and believability Captain Wentworth had just fought in the Napoleonic Wars, presumably thoroughly used to injury, death - and killing*. His evident horror was an indication of the depth of his emotional involvement. That he stood back and did nothing while Anne instantly rushed forwards with the practised speed of a Mash medic is entirely preposterous. In the book, Wentworth is first to move but even as a Man of Blood, is almost overcome with emotion. Anne's thoughts and words are first for him Go to him, go to him then to give directions for others to attend to Louisa. The scene unites Wentworth and Anne in their mutual concerns and as the only two taking effective action. What a piece of writing! It is clear to see why Persuasion was such a best seller as well as respected literature.Of all actors in the world who could have played this heady mixture of horror and anguish, Ciaran Hinds is surely the leader, yet he is denied it here. He is though superb in the excruciatingly awkward encounters with Anne, all the intricate nuances of the halting delivery as he struggles with himself over choosing the right words is absolutely precise. Amanda Root as Anne unfortunately is just not right, not in acting in presence or in appearance, not in this part at least. Anne was strong self contained and wise but Jane Austen deliberately had placed her in possibly the most testing circumstances, torn in all directions, as her readers all understood and thrilled to. Strong people who are nevertheless tested to their limits is the trick to convey drama - as Jane Austen at least knew well. She was a very artful and skilled writer.6.5 out of 10*I have just discovered C S Lewis's description of a Knight "},{"Title":"I'm sure it's a good film IF you can understand British muttering and mumbling","Date":"19 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" It's great to have such natural acting, but a shame that this means a lot of mumbling and muttering in the British accent and vernacular. I have to turn up the volume very loud and still cannot make out so much that entire scenes go by where I have no idea what was said.Otherwise, just from trying to watch this film I can tell it is probably a very good movie -- IF you can understand it. If one could get a copy with good English subtitles it would be well worth it, no doubt, if your first language is not British English. (Unfortunately the only copy I have access to right now is mechanically translated, which machine is worse than me at making out what is being said!) "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Amanda Root is perfection along with the rest of the cast in a very faithful looking version of this Jane Austen opus. Lighting in particular is natural - apparent use of candles in a dining room scene, in another there appears to be only the natural light coming into the particular room. This gives the viewer the feeling of the lighting of the period. Costuming and makeup are not overdone to make the production look too glamorous with the performances more than making up. I can watch this again and again! Only one beef the aspect ratio of the DVD is obviously from a VHS master and is 43 (screen ratio of 1.371) so is cropped off at the sides, as the title is right at the bottom of the frame indicating that a full frame negative has not been used for this DVD release. Certain shots are telling with obvious chopping off of actors and items and doesn't look like an ideal frame composition. Time for an update! The cinematic release ratio was 1.851 (widescreen ratio) and all TV's since around 2002 of course are close to this (1.771 or 169) "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I agree, this film is the best! Every time I watch it (at least 7 or 8 so far) I like it better. It is a spare film and never bores. Since the DVD has been available, the darker scenes and undertones are no longer a problem to understand. Ciaran Hinds brings perfect tension to his role of Frederick, like a taut spring, pretending to be aloof, while inside crying out for Ann. Amanda Root perfects Ann's self-effacing, self-denying, patient and kind character, who honestly makes no claims on the man whose hand she turned down eight years earlier except the right to silently love him. The film masterfully builds to and illustrates The Conversation and The Letter scene, in which Frederick and Ann find their hopes restored.For another masterful love letter scene, see Ralph Fiennes' Onegin and read Pushkin's poem. "},{"Title":"beautiful love story","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"","Review":" i really liked this movie and thought that i might not at first. the story was very well done by the actors, Amanda root was an excellent choice for Anne Elliot as was ciaran hinds for captain Frederick Wentworth. i loved watching how Frederick tried not to show his feelings for Anne and how Anne tried valiantly not to show how he hurt her. so real life . i was a little disconcerted by the display of emotion at the end as i thought that would not have actually happened in Jane Austin day but was delighted on a personal level. i loved the costumes and the scenery of this movie, it was well directed, and the sub plots were just strong enough and did not interfere with the main story line. that is an important thing for me. i felt i would have liked this movie as i have seen ciaran hinds in Jane Eyre and he had done an excellent job in portraying Mr. Rochester. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"8 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"","Review":" I absolutely loved this Persuasion, for me it is a winner both as an adaptation and on its own merits and one of my personal favourite adaptations of the books of Jane Austen. The story is beautiful and emotional, and while not always true in essence the characters are interesting and not dull. The adaptation is rather short though, but it doesn't entirely matter when it is done so well. Persuasion looks wonderful too. The costumes, locations and photography look stunning, while the piano music that accompanies the adaptation is simple and beautiful without ever being repetitive. The dialogue is sophisticated and the acting is great, complete with solid support turns from Simon Russell Beale, Susan Fleetwood, Sophie Thompson and Corin Redgrave and wonderful lead ones from Amanda Root and particularly Ciaron Hinds. In conclusion, a beautiful adaptation. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Best movie I've seen to date.","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"","Review":"  After seeing this movie I understand why Sense and Sensibility is/or should be required  reading material in literature class in school. These movies give a real dose of how  things were back in these times. In Persuasion (1995), and this release of it, the acting is  on the money, You will find yourself immersed fully in their lives as it progresses. Your  emotions will be felt as they go through the gamut of their emotions. It's a rare thing to see how a book can be so beautifully sewn into  a movie, and that the movie compliments it. My only complaint about this movie is I don't have my own huge theater  to see it in. "}{"Title":"More in the video than the version on television","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  I love movies of the works of Jane Austen, the Brontes and Agatha Christie murder mysteries on cold winter afternoons. Having seen Persusasion on tv, I decided to add it to my collection. I was pleasantly surprised to find that the video offered more than simply the ability to view the film at any time. For instance, I'd never realized that Charles Musgrave had also proposed to Anne. That and other information help shed light on some of the comments that seemed a little awkward before.  "},{"Title":"A great adaptation.","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  This is an excellent adaptation, and in the ranks of Austen films/TV ranks with the recent P&P adaptation. The performances are great across the board but particular standouts are Amanda Root's Anne and Sophie Thompson's hilarious Mary. Considering that it is fairly short, the scripwriter has done well to keep all the important bits of the book. "},{"Title":"Perfection","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  Absolute perfection! Wonderfully cast and filmed. My favorite film from this era that didn't get the notice and attention it deserved. It vividly captures the timeperiod it portrays.  The two leads, Root and Hinds, have wonderful chemistry together.   "},{"Title":"Forget the book. Enjoy the movie.","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  Persuasion , another Jane Austen novel knock-off, is a romantic dramady about a twenty something spinster, Anne (Root), in Victorian England whose quiet demeanor leaves her and her secret affections eclipsed by the busy prattling and affectations of her polite society family. At issue is whether the unrequited love of the quiet, true, and intelligent protag will succumb to the rigors of societal manipulation and die in obscurity or win out over all the false pomp and circumstance. The film offers excellent production value, is skewed toward reality and away from melodrama, and provides a sumptuous feast for anyone with a taste for English period flicks. I personally have Persuasion right after Sense and Sensibility and Mansfield Park in my list of favorite Austen adaptations. (B+) "},{"Title":"Jane Austen's characters come to life","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" In this adaptation of Persuasion you get the book almost entirely verbatim. The scenery is lush and alive but at the same time dull. It represents wonderfully how our heroine Anne sees life both before and after her Captain has come home, and both before and after he wins her heart a second time.You really see how embarrassed she is upon his return, you see how much she still loves him but how she will not be the one to stand in his way of true happiness. The characters all come to life and the actors bring their own take on all of them. Any lover of Jane Austen will appreciate how well this movie was made. This is one of the best book to movie translations ever seen on screen. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Understated adaptation of a classic","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Persuasion is perhaps not so obvious a choice to adapt from Jane Austen's work as her better known novels, but it still a rattlingly good love story. Like Mansfield Park, it features the navy for many of it's main male characters, but the heroine, Anne Eliot, is an older and wiser girl than Mansfield's Fanny Price.This adaptation is fairly short, around 1 hour 40 minutes, but it does remain fairly close to the book. Amanda Root is an excellent Anne, while her snobbish father, sister, and friend are played respectively well by Corin Redgrave, Phoebe Nicholls, and Susan Fleetwood.Captain Wentworth and Mr Eliott are perfectly cast - Ciaran Hinds shows reserve, regret, and restraint in his portrayal of a man already scarred by rejection and scared to hope, while Samuel West is foppish but not silly as the opportunist cousin seeking a fortune.Persuasion looks great despite it's limited budget, and engages itself to viewers in an understated way - all the better for it. "},{"Title":"suspense meet romance","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Persuasion Persuasion(1995) After a year obsessed with film noir movies- I have found a suspenseful romantic movie- unlike most of today's cookie cutter meet cute flicks- this one follows the put upon wallflower and shoulder to lean on Ann Elliot and her unspoken obsession with the dashing Captain Wentworth.Based on the final Jane Austen novel- this movie does a swell job of building tension and yearning- that for most of the movie you keep thinking that things will go horribly awry.We slowly learn that Wentworth and Elliot have a history.Like other books and movies set in this time- we learn that position and money and family concerns have a huge influence on marriage- love is merely a luxury.Beautifully shot and well acted this is worth seeking out -packs a punch .The DVD set I purchased has the novel bundled with it.So many storytellers should learn to slow down- there is a reason they serve appetizers with meals- there is a reason that lingerie is popular- it is not always necessary to blurt out the whole freaking plot in a trailer ,nor is in the best interest of the story to give away the ending in the first five minutes(I am thinking of Romantic Comedies).Cirian Hinds(Rome Season 1) & Amanda Root are excellent in this. A+ "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed but the leads are completely unromantic","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Firstly the good points. Beautifully filmed with authentic on location shooting in Bath and the countryside. The village scenes are straight out of an 18th Century painting. Simple and effective use of piano music as a score.The great fault is the casting of the leads. Cirian Hinds is the least romantic looking actor. He has such a fierce forbidding face suitable for character roles but totally wrong for a man in love. Amanda Root is just too plain. I know she is supposed to be bordering on old maid but she is just so insipid looking no one could carry a torch for her. There is no chemistry between them.What a waste of a good production. I don't recommend you watch this or it will spoil your image of the story. "},{"Title":"Best Adaptation","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I just finished reading Persuasion and watched this version and the Sally Hawkins' version to see which version was best. This Adaptation was hands down the most accurate. Not only was it accurate, but it is a good movie that I would recommend to those who haven't read the book. Amanda Root does a fantastic job portraying Anne, I think Cirian Hinds was meant to play Wentworth, and it was altogether a good casting job. One thing I did not like about this version was that Lady Russell was much more severe in this adaptation than in the book. The Sally Hawkins' Lady Russell was closer to what I imagined. The other thing I did not like about this version was how subdued and unemotional Anne seemed upon seeing Wentworth again. She was clearly shocked and upset, but I liked how Sally Hawkins' portrayal showed her crying at the thought of Wentworth moving on. That seems more natural. Though the book (to my recollection) doesn't say that Anne cried, it seems like she ought to have cried. Very, very good movie! "},{"Title":"Charming, romantic adaptation.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  A film I can watch again and again, wonderfully romantic and the leads are super. A definite for Ciaran Hinds fans, he is quite the handsome sea-farer. Jane Austen fans would not be disappointed, as I feel it gives a real feeling of the times.  "}{"Title":"Ironed Out","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" This is a magnificently successful film, I think. Its one of the best films of a book that I know, in the sense that it is a good film and its story comes from a book. I liked it, well, perhaps for the last couple minutes.But it misses the tone of the book. Austen invented irony in the novel and that has been reincarnated in film as noir. Its perhaps the single most prevalent characteristic of narrative today, with incredible elaborations. Irony is inflationary, and the effects that could be subtle then, don't work at all now, and surely not through something like cinema.At the same time, film is a tighter medium than literature. There's simply less conceptual room for narrative layers, and in film they have to be more close in terms of the way they are conveyed. (Music is at the other end, even roomier.) This means that if you want to convey rich irony in film, there are fewer choices in terms of key features. More devices but fewer features.That makes the essence of Austen a bit of a challenge to convey in film. The 2005 Pride and Prejudice decided to use spatial layers and I thought that was a clever choice. It wasn't novel, copied from My Brilliant Career, but it was a solution. What this film has decided to do is transmute the story into a Dickensian form. The characters don't constrain reality, not even the vile Lady Russell. They are instead characters that exist in reality. The irony in Austen was that she had both sides society and persons constraining each other, and the irony being in how each gets it wrong.Here, the odd characters are merely odd or colorful. That makes them entertaining of course, in the Dickens mode. But it pulls the legs out from the ironic dynamics.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"OK, but not the best.","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" Granted, I have not read the book, but I have read several of Jane Austen's novels and have seen many movie/TV-movie remakes of her work. I find this to be one of the lesser remakes (though to be fair, the only Persuasion adaptation I've seen- maybe it's the fault of the book.) I did kind of like the fact that all the characters were meant to look like real people. No one was unrealistically attractive. And I enjoyed the subtle transformation of Anne from unattractive to relatively attractive at the end of the picture, a detail I only barely noticed consciously. The actors were fine. My main problem was the pacing/editing. Now I'm not the kind of person who needs an action flick pacing where every second is exciting - I do like to see the characters grow, to see the passing of time, to see them just being themselves, and I also realize that life (at least for women) was much more sedate back then..... but even given all that it was just too slow. For example, the scene where they all just stood around on the beach. Maybe I am missing something by not having read the book but I felt that that scene had nothing to add to the movie and it was just wasting time.Once again, this may just be how the book was, but I found the ending to be very abrupt. I felt that the scene in the Elliot's party was a set up for a huge confrontation, with cousin Elliot's behaviro revealed, with the snobby dad refusing Wentworth, etc. Maybe this is just the Hollywood trained mind, but I was actually very startled when the last scene (don't want to ruin it by saying) came on.In summary, it was decent enough, but I think I'll stick with Sense & Sensibility (yes, they are too beautiful, but I adore Ang Lee & Emma Thompson!) or the BBC version of Pride/Prejudice as my favorite Austen adaptations. This viewing has inspired me to steal the book from my boyfriend's bookcase to read - perhaps it will give me a fresh perspective on the film. "},{"Title":"Almost Perfect!","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  I loved this film, as the book is one of my long-time favourites. The film gives a great impression of what the book is like, and I couldn't help being touched by this film. Too bad  Anne Elliot was cast too old to be a match for Ciaran Hinds, whom I despise. To all Austenites SEE this film, it's better than Emma and Sense and Sensibility better actors, better film. Evens Pride and Prejudice, but it is not suitable for boys and men too romantic. "},{"Title":"Huh?? Did I miss something??","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  OK, I've liked the Jane Austen novel-adapted films I've seen (read my comments on Emma and Sense and Sensibility), and there were good points about this one. The filming technique was perfect, and it was so unglamorous, just like the film itself. But that's what made it work. (Emma and S&S do seem too glamorous.) The costumes and sets were great, and Sophie Thompson is funny in a complete departure from her later role as Miss Bates in Emma.OK, I have to agree with the reviewer below. The main characters are so dull and passive that it's hard to root for them. (But I think that's the writers' problems, not the actors.) The viewer keeps waiting for the Anne and the Captain to really lash back at the family and let them have it, but we never get to see a true confrontation. It just fizzles out, and the film ends. Did I miss something?All in all, it's not a fantastic film, but you could certainly do worse! "},{"Title":"A plain Jane lead and many people talking with their mouths full...","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" I am marking this only with a 6, mainly because of 2 things a) The plainness of the leading actress's appearance that I know it was the director's decision. You are going to tell me that the leading man was not exactly Prince Charming... Correct! However, it was very bothering watching for two hours a supposed 26 year old young woman appearing and behaving like she is 46!!! OK, at the start of the film she was on the edge of becoming a spinster... However, near the end of the film she was more appreciated and confident and she also had two suitors literary running after her... Not even THEN could the director let the poor actress put on some make up, wear something else than those old curtains and do something with that bloody hair of hers?b) Why the director wanted every character that he wanted us to dislike TALK WITH THEIR MOUTHS FULL? Anne's sister Elizabeth, her father, Ms Pain, Mary, Louisa, ALL of them are at some stage doing that. However, is was not them that I wanted to slap, but the director - that believed that having people behaving like this he would have a worthy Jane Austen novel adaptation... What's next man? Directing a Shakespeare play adaptation, where the villains defecate in frond of us? Having said all that, the performances and the overall production were OK. The story could had been told with more lively pace (=less boring), though... and Anne could had been portrayed less than a cold Plain Jane girl... The only time we see her laugh is when she visits that widow, and to be honest I am not very well convinced that her heart was in it )If you ignore all these, it is actually a watchable film )) "},{"Title":"Too many changes","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  Whoever adapted this for the screen did a BAD job.  He left out some very important parts and just flat out changed others.  This is my favorite Jane Austen novel, so any adaptation I see should be as true to the novel as possible.  He turned Mrs. Smith into an insignificant, silly gossip and she was very important in the novel.  If he was going to do this to her he should have just thrown her out all together.  I also thought the casting of the main characters was very bad.  He is too old and ugly to be Captain Wentworth and she is not pretty enough to be Anne.  It is just a shame. "},{"Title":"Love the book hate this movie.","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  'Persuasion' is one of Jane Austin's more sombre and mature novels, and required reading when one is suffering from a gentle melancholy.  Seriously though, I have really received an awful lot of pleasure from reading this book over the years, and I cannot understand why nobody has produced a film that does it justice!This version is so diabolically poor that I cannot find anything positive to say about it.  The characters were either insipid or exceedingly unpleasant.  Most of them were nothing more than hideous caricatures, more 'Old Curiosity Shop' than 'Persuasion'.  Where on Earth did they find so many ugly actors!  Amanda Root, who plays Anne,  is not even interestingly ugly, she's just dull, dull, dull.  Even the 1970's serial is better than this.  It's worth watching just for the talented actress who plays Mary.  Even though it's obviously made for tv and is extremely dated (Anne's hair screams early 1970's), it at least ATTEMPTS to capture the gentle dignity of the original story.Marks out of 10 - minus 4 for such an abomination. "},{"Title":"The fans will love it","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":" If you have to believe what they say in the trailer 'If you adored A Room with a View', than you will cherish Persuasion, than this must be an excellent movie. Well, perhaps most people believe that is correct (although I believe it is only some good promotion talk), but in my opinion A Room With a View was a lot better than this one. I already hear several of you think that you know what kind of a person I am. A young male (that part is true) who doesn't like romantic movies, but who wants cheap action flicks with a lot of action and shooting. Wrong, I've got several romantic movies in my private collection, but this one will never be a part of it...The story is situated in England in 1814. The 27-year old Anne Elliot lives an oppressive life with her snobbish father and elder sister Elizabeth. She should have been married eight years earlier, but being the daughter of a financially troubled aristocratic family, she was persuaded to break off her engagement to Frederick Wentworth, a promising young seaman with poor family connections. Now, eight years later her father rents out the family estate to Admiral Croft and Anne finds herself confronted with Wentworth again, because Mrs. Croft is Frederick's sister. The only difference now is that Frederick has made a nice career at the navy and has become a rich and successful Captain. He is a highly eligible bachelor now and can choose the hand of every lady he desires. At first he courts one of Anne's distant relatives, but soon he realizes that he still has feelings for Anne...I'm sure that many people, and especially women, will love this movie. It's a love story situated in the 19th century and for many that's already enough to like it. Personally I'm not too keen on it (it gives me the creeps if I'm honest), but I know that there are many people who love the high society uniforms and clothing, the architectural style, the way of interaction between people,... as they are shown in this kind of movies. If you ask me it is all too pompous and over the top, but that's only my opinion of course, you are allowed to have your own. And even though I don't really like the way everything looks or the story on itself, I must admit that the acting in this movie is more than OK. In fact, I might even say that it is the acting that saves it from a bad score. I don't really know any of the actors, I guess they play in this kind of movies more often, but they certainly know what they are doing. That's why I still give this movie a 6/10. The fans will love it, but I'm not one of them. "},{"Title":"Boring. Excruciatingly painful. Crappy.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"","Review":"  Bad screenplay. Bad acting. Bad teeth. These are the phrases which come immediately to mind when I think of this 1995 adaptation of Persuasion. The movie conveyed none of the beauty and grace of the original novel; Jane Austen's unique and endearing characters become bland and lifeless when played by actors who are bland and lifeless in reality. The movie leaves you wondering, Did the casting director find his cast last minute at the Edinborough branch of Denny's? The actress portraying the main character, Anne, is so meek (and such a major woof-woof appearance-wise)that the viewer doesn't really care if she snags the equally dullsville Captain Wentworth. Likewise, the movie generates such apathy that I found myself wishing for a surprise twist ending Louisa dies from her fall in Lyme, Anne and Wentworth drown at sea, and the Elliot family is struck with an epidemic of influenza. Bottom line You want good Jane Austen, read the novels or watch Gwyneth Paltrow's Emma, Emma Thompson's Sense and Sensibility, or A&E's Pride and Prejudice- all well-acted movies complete with actors not found at your local IHOP. Let's give this movie, with its mousy Anne and inane Captain Wentworth, a swift burial at sea!  "}]