[{"Title":"Silly, trashy, but fun b-grade exploitation. If you loved 'Lifeforce' you'll enjoy 'Species'.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"50 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Is 'Species' a groundbreaking, visionary SF movie? No, of course not. Is it silly, trashy, but FUN b-grade exploitation SF in the tradition of Tobe Hooper's 'Lifeforce'? You bet! It isn't quite as entertaining as 'Lifeforce', the original naked space chick movie, but it's a still pretty good way to waste an hour and a half of your life. Why it gets slammed so much is beyond me. Maybe people just don't have a sense of humour. The opening of the movie is terrific. In a lab we see a cold scientist (Ben Kingsley) overseeing the murder of a young girl (Michelle Williams), imprisoned in a glass case. Only she escapes by showing some super human strength. She is immediately pursued by dozens of soldiers, but manages to elude them. We then learn she is in fact a genetic experiment, a mixing of extraterrestrial and human DNA. Kingsley heads up a task force consisting of Michael Madsen, Alfred Molina, Marg Helgenberger and Forest Whitaker, each a specialist in a different field. Pretty soon our alien fugitive mutates into a gorgeous blonde (Natasha Henstridge), who spends most of her time topless. Kingsley and company face a race against time, they must capture the horny alien girl before she screws guys to death(?) or something... Who knows. Henstridge is great to look at and the above average cast give it their best shot with the lame dialogue and cliched scenes. Whitaker's empath character quickly irritates with his constant stating the bleedin' obvious, but I always get a kick out of watching Madsen, here in stereotypical tough guy mode. 'Species' is big dumb fun. "},{"Title":"Kind of cool and pleasant.....","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"41 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Species has a hopelessly derivative premise that makes it a completely unnecessary view for anyone who has ever seen Alien or The Predator (or their sequels), but it does have some things going for it. To be short and specific Natasha Henstridge is dreamily, extraordinarily beautiful; the rest of the cast is distinguished, with a very cool Michael Madsen stealing the show; the special effects are convincingly yucky; and the pacing is fast and unrelenting, with the search-and-destroy team being always only one step behind the pursued alien monster. A forgettable film, but not nearly as bad as many reviews have suggested.      (**)  "},{"Title":"One of the Best Sci-Fis of the 90's","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"42 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For thirty years, powerful telescopes have been scanning the space searching from signal of alien civilization. In 1974, the SETI (Search for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence) team sends a message to the space with the human DNA, map of our solar system and other information. In return, they receive two messages the first one, with a catalyst for methane; the second, a detailed alien DNA together with instructions to join it with human DNA. The result of the experiment is the deadly creature Sil. When Dr. Xavier Fitch (Ben Kingsley), who is leading the research, decides to terminate the experiment, the girl Sil (Michelle Williams) escapes to Los Angeles. Dr. Fitch joins the mercenary Preston Lennox (Michael Madsen); the anthropologist Dr. Stephen Arden (Alfred Molina); the scientist Dr. Laura Baker (Marg Helgenberger); and the empathic Dan Smithson (Forest Whitaker) to chase Sil (Natasha Henstridge). Sooner they discover that the predator Sil has grown-up and became a beautiful woman, trying to copulate to generate an offspring.Species is one of the best sci-fis of the 90's. Full of action, sexy and with a great cast, this film introduces the stunning Natasha Henstridge, one of the most gorgeous and sexy actresses of Hollywood ever. Her debut could not be better, and together with the cult Michael Madsen, they make this pleasant movie work. The story recalls those B-movies from the 50's, but spiced with erotic and very sexy scenes. I have just watched this movie for the fourth time, and I do not get tired to this attractive story. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Experiência (The Experience) "},{"Title":"Kind of fun","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some scientists working for the government tamper with a DNA sequence they got from a message from outer space. The subject turns into a little girl with amazing superhuman powers. She escapes and turns into a beautiful woman (Natasha Herstridge) who wants to mate and produce others like her. A team led by a head scientist (Ben Kingsley!) try to track her down.OK--it's kind of silly but this moves quickly and is well-done. There are many excellent, if gruesome, special effects and the SIL creature at the end is truly astounding. The script is good (considering) and it actually makes sense...if you don't think about it too much.Acting varies--Kingsley is TERRIBLE in his role. Michael Madsen is pretty good as part of the team as are Marg Helgenberger and (especially) Forest Whitaker. Herstridge is certainly beautiful but can't act--but the role doesn't call for acting.I'm giving it an 8. It's no classic but it moves quickly and I was never bored. "},{"Title":"Sexy B-movie thriller, great fun!","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Species is like a meeting between an amateur low budget film, and a big budget horror movie. On the one hand; the film has a great cast and is professionally produced, but on the other - the special effects wouldn't have looked out of place in an eighties film, and the plot concentrates mostly on its sleazy and often silly by-products. That being said, however, the movie is lots of fun; and overall I wouldn't hesitate to call it one of the best horror films of the nineties. The film takes obvious influence from a range of similar films, such as Tobe Hooper's Lifeforce and Jack Sholder's 'The Hidden', but it brings all of it's elements together well and somehow manages to feel fresh and inventive. The plot is pure hokum, but it works well; as alien-human crossover 'Sil' escapes from a testing lab with a team of professionals, comprising a psychic, an action hero, a woman etc, on her tail. Sil's ultimate goal is to reproduce, and to complete that aim she must find a man. So basically, what we have here is a sexy, horny, naked chick being chased around before she can have sex with someone. Sounds good to me...I'm not quite sure how director Roger Donaldson managed it, but he's managed to get quite a few names to appear in his film; and most of them do well with their roles. Despite the fact that she probably isn't really, Natasha Henstridge looks clean and pure in the lead role; and this both ensures that she looks the part, and the film is great in that it carries off the juxtaposition of having a sweet-looking virginal woman act like a prostitute. Ben Kingsley is the biggest cast surprise, as the former Ghandi actor looks slightly out of place in a B-movie like this. Michael Madsen is absolutely great in his typecast action hero role and the cast is completed by a memorable performance from Alfred Molina, and a rather annoying one from Forest Whitaker. Marg Helgenberger fails to make much of an impression as Madsen's love interest. The two plots that run concurrently are played out well, and climax nicely. The special effects are key in a film like this, and even though they're cheap throughout - they do look fairly realistic. It's not until we get to the end and the director decides to spoil it with some abysmal CGI that the effects become a problem. But even so, Species takes its plot well and isn't too serious, and I've got to rate this as a really fun flick overall. "},{"Title":"It's already a cult-classic.","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For some reason I've always loved watching Species, even though I very well realize that it isn't a particularly good movie. Still due to its approach and handling of a really unoriginal concept and story, the movie can be regarded as one of the best science-fiction movies from the '90's.If you need to compare this movie to something, you can easily compare it to any of the Alien-movies. Of course over the years Alien and its sequel Aliens have been ripped-off countless times and film-makers often tried to cash in by making basically Alien and Aliens clones, using the same concept, settings, characters, locations, complete sequences and whatever more that it was that made these two science-fiction movies such an highly acclaimed success. Yes, in my opinion Species can definitely be seen as an Alien clone but out of all the movies that ever tried to rip off the Alien movies in any way possible, this is easily the best movie, that at times even makes you forget how unoriginal it actually truly is.Also no big wonder that the movie should remind you of Alien at times, also since the alien in this movie got designed by the same man who designed the original alien for Alien and all of its sequels. So perhaps this is also part of the reason why you so easily can forgive this movie from ripping off Alien in parts.It's a surprising movie from Roger Donaldson, who had never done any science-fiction or horror before and he also hasn't done any ever since. Donaldson is these days mostly known for directing more serious movies.It's perhaps its horror that also makes this movie work out so well. The movie is not just a science-fiction movie about an alien on the loose but truly knows to create a dark moody atmosphere as well and puts in a couple of true great and effective horror moments, which makes the movie tense and in a way also unpredictable to watch, also since the movie is not too afraid to kill off its main characters.There is also some gore in the movie that is good looking, with its often graphic killings. Also the make-up effects are great and the movie uses some early special effects, that especially for 1995 standards seem like pretty good ones, even though the movie itself somewhat feels and looks like a low budget production.The movie makes a choice not to only follow the team that is called in to hunt down the alien but also shows things from the perspective of the alien herself. She's constantly learning things, which she uses to adapt and blend in and to eventually get what she wants. This approach gives Species a nice extra dimension. It's like The Day the Earth Stood Still, only with a not so friendly alien. The movie also has an amazing cast with actors such as Ben Kingsley, Michael Madsen, Alfred Molina, Forest Whitaker and Michelle Williams involved. Whenever I hear the name- or a thinking of Ben Kingsley, I'm not thinking about Schindler's List or Ghandi but I'm thinking about Species. I don't now, I just find it to be a very amusing role by him, despite the fact that he plays his character totally death serious.I love this movie!8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Amusing Alien Sleaze","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let's face it, SPECIES is a B movie with an A list cast & production design to match. It's a deceptive entertainment that finally shows it's hand during the boring, silly showdown in the sewer level from Quake II where you have to find the red key & beat the boss monster without the quad damage. I'd always drown before I could find the biosuit. Why this was never made into an adults oriented video game is beyond me, other than the obvious problem with marketing it to teenagers.The whole SPECIES franchise was meant to cash in on the success of the ALIEN films, obviously, and go straight for the amniotic fluid in the reproductive cycle at the expense of logic, probability, and science. It's probably a better movie than it had to be and I'm sure that multiple viewings will bring out more nuances, though that's probably not the idea they had in mind when making it. Once will suffice for most viewers.I enjoyed seeing Natasha Henstridge naked, however, and the H.R. Giger creature designs are fabulous as always. In fact I wondered, is the whole film really a contrivance just to get to see Giger's aliens mating with humans? Why yes, it probably is. And for some people that's enough to warrant watching it regardless of whom the lead body actress is. Giger's designs were sexually suggestive to begin with and with this movie he finally got to see them doing the nasty. I trust he was well paid.In any event it's a wildly popular film for reasons that have nothing to do with the professionalism of the cast & crew. Which by the way someone should have told them before prodding us with their serious, emotive performances that serve as buffer zones between the sex & ooze scenes. Only Michael Madsen seems to be aware that it was essentially an exploitation film and acts accordingly. He's spoken of his pride in the work and it shows, especially when considering that he turned up for SPECIES 2 with it's bonus deathmatch levels and Capture The Flag mod.6/10 "},{"Title":"Worth the watch","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now I'm not a big Sci Fi buff but species wasn't to bad, it mainly focused on the story of how some alien woman was trying to mate on planet earth and of scientists were trying to stop her. It is just your average story but it was fairly entertaining and suspenseful. Species is fairly gory and at times is quiet frightening but it all adds to the entertainment of this horrific Sci Fi. At first the audience does believe that the alien means absolutely no harm but as the story goes along you discover that if the deadly alien is not caught then it could very well mean the end of humanity forever, this frighten's the audience and makes you more eager for the crew of scientists to catch the alien before it mates.In conclusion, 'Species' is at times entertaining and suspenseful but there seems like there is noway to catch the alien after a while which frustrates you. "},{"Title":"Not just a ha-wt body...","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Species, for its time, was an extremely well executed Sci-Fi Thriller, with action packed WoW-in special effects work. It is extremely underrated as most people's first recollection was that they were taken aback at how much skin Henstridge's shows throughout the movie. I mean, c'Mon... she's a horny alien, trying to propagate, for chrissake... and yes, your husband was thinking about alien sex later that night with you, ladies.Okay, I'm losing my train of thought, let alone my focus...; This is what most people do when you bring up this movie, most viewers soon forget how awesome, by definition of the term... that the movie really is, and therefore, it's NOT just some trashy R-rated B-movie, like so many were from the mid '80s to the early '90s.The story balance is very well kept from beginning, with solid character development... throughout the crazy plot, to the climax, and quickly to a unexpected, yet fitting finale. Natasha played the role to a T, with her almost, perfect appearance, and bright, and justly glowing & huge green, also already (alien-ish), eyes. Action scenes, and special effects are top notch, as is standard execution by Steve Johnson, who created costumes, robotic structures, prosthetics and effects for this and a cache of blockbusters like Spider-Man 2 (Easily arguable as the pinnacle of the trio), War of the Worlds, the 1989 classic - The Abyss... and definitely not to be unlisted here, Pet Semetary II, the best one in my opinion, and a personal favorite scary thriller of this reviewer. Sorry for the TLDR; run-on movie-geek splashing there.Check out those Green eyes http//tinyurl.com/6hntl7qOverall, Species follows the winning recipe for great Sci-Fi Action Thriller, by combining great complimentary casting in Kingsley, Whitaker, and Molina, oh, and Micheal Madsen... shoot! That's a Sci-Fi cast, what? Something must've smelled good, right! oDThe acting and follow-through by scriptwriters from story-2-screen, showed balance... extremely important for movies of this genre. It also stands up to the test of time, which for many of these Special FX Blockbusters, expected to explode all over the tail-bone of a 3-day weekend release for maximum payoff and publicity, it usually does NOT hold true. I'm gonna watch this right now! AND, I want you to watch it again for the 3rd time, but you need to pay for it; you can even watch it on Amazon... see the free preview on IMDb first and get your mouth watering for 'Ol Green-Eyes gonna get ya! - Sir SmokeAlot.Reruns on FX while cooking dinner for the kids doesn't count. Get your Netflix, OnDemand, Hulu, Meebo, Boxee, Apple Video, Torrent, Direct Download, or Newsbin on ASAP on a cold dark 'n scary night. Don't get raped by a ha-wt-bodied alien sex machine! "},{"Title":"Not as original as you may think!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"29 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Admittedly you would either need to be 50 plus with a good memory, or to be a well-versed student of older sci-fi but in 1961 Miss Julie Christie made her screen debut in the British TV Sci-fi serial A FOR ANDROMEDA. The plot?  Signals are received from deep-space seemingly the blue-print for the creation of human life. Scientists of course find the opportunity way too tempting and before you can say Told you that was a dumb move! we have a genetically engineered, rather stunning young blonde walking around the lab, causing all sorts of political and scientific unrest.....sound familiar? Yep, SPECIES was a total conceptual rip-off and to my knowledge, either no-one has ever noticed the fact OR has failed to put such view into print. Certainly not a solitary film critic worldwide that I read at the time was aware of the fact! That said, SPECIES wasn't a total flopperoo although Ben Kingsley looked majorly uncomfortable, if not stunned for the greater part of the flick, as the head science honcho really wanting his creation (the delectable and statuesque Miss Henstridge) dead on sight....a task he bequeathes to Mr Madsen who always enjoys work of this sort!Never really scales the heights. Neither a major gore-fest or a jaw-dropping ALIEN-wannabe. It labors on beneath its own mediocrity and when it finally finishes, about the only emotion left to the viewer is..Hmmmmm, OK, now I've seen SPECIES....what's for dinner?  Compared to its sequel however, it remains a rare masterpiece! "}{"Title":"Deadly Dull And Cliched","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ***** CONTAINS SPOILERS ******SPECIES is an extremely dumb and derivative SF horror film . Not only that it`s extremely predictable  The plot is this  human egg is mixed with alien DNA which leads to the creation of an alien girl ,alien girl escapes and a bunch of spook types have to hunt her down because the future of humanity is at stake . Think of a medley megamix of A FOR ANDROMEDA , FRANKENSTEIN , THE QUATERMASS EXPERIMENT , LIFEFORCE , THE X FILES and a climax that rips off ALIEN and you`ve got the idea. Or should that be several other folks ideas ?Most of the actors try to do their best with their sketchily written characters , well apart from Michael Madsen who may very well be doing his best , but the more films I see him in the more obvious it becomes that Madsen lacks any range , and he plays a government hitman in SPECIES , oh gee hope I didn`t spoil anything for you there. Without doubt the best performance is by Michelle Williams who plays the young Sil and who manages to communicate the fear and suffering the hunted alien must be going through , such a pity she turns into a bimbo non actress .The one really bad thing about this film - with the exception of the dialogue - is the CGI , it really is bad in some places like the tendrils coming out of the young Sil`s face , and it never ever rises above being mediocre at best .Still despite its many flaws SPECIES is an absolute masterwork compared to the sequel   "},{"Title":"Cliche science fiction with confused messages","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Species follows a team of scientists and killers in their attempt to capture a home-grown alien.  Most of the time the alien, called Sil, looks identical to a regular human woman (well, okay, a regular supermodel), making her a difficult target to locate.  The team is concerned that Sil is out to breed, and they're main goal is to stop her before she does.One of the members of the team, Dan (Forest Whitaker), is an empath who feels things deeply.  He provides intuitive commentary on what Sil is up to and why.  His presence creates the impression that there is more to this alien than breeding and destroying humans, and that there is more to this movie than finding the alien and blowing her away.  But, as we find out when the credits start rolling, the alien really has been only interested in breeding and destroying humans, and the movie was really only about finding the alien and blowing her away.  A movie doesn't have to be about more than that, but it shouldn't pretend to be something it's not.I guess the biggest conceit of this movie is that someone who looks like Natasha Henstridge could wander around L.A. for a week without finding someone to have sex with.  She eventually hooks up with one of the team members (Alfred Molina), pushing credulity even further so, the team has been looking for a beautiful woman who supposedly acts like a nymphomaniac because she needs to breed, and some stranger shows up in my hotel room and starts removing her clothing.  Am I the only one who hears alarms going off at this point?Species also contains what must be the grand-daddy of all science fiction cliches the overnight transformation of a child alien into an adult alien.  This trait is so advantageous (especially to the plots of poorly-written science fiction movies), you wonder why humans didn't develop it eons ago. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad!","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really liked how they got the female as the main villain of this film. I also really enjoyed most of the acting. The only person that had no point in being in this film was the worst actor ever, Forest Whitaker! He had absolutely no point in this film! He should of got killed I think because otherwise his character had no meaning at all being in this film! There's this one scene he says, She walked over there! Then I said, No duh you stupid idiot! My god I don't know how he ever got in the acting business because he is the dullest and worst actor I have ever seen in my life! I hope to never see him in a film ever again because he really destroyed the film for me. I liked everybody else though because they all were very believable scientific characters. It's a 7 out of 10 due to all the violence that happened all because a female alien just wants to have kids. "},{"Title":"Failed to reach its vast potential, but worth one viewing...","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie's trailer left me rather curious.  After seeing the film, I noticed  some of the contents of the trailer never made it to the film's final cut.  A  shame.  They were some of the interesting plot elements that went missing. The  actors are a great line-up and do great work.  The plot is a very interesting  concept and the first time I'd ever seen it. The failure was in taking that concept, one that should have been wonderfully  psychological, and turning it into an action movie that tries to follow up on the  likes of Aliens.**SPOILER ALERT FOR CONTENT BELOW THESE LINES** The back-story, the scientists' experiments and Sil's quick maturity into her  adult form are all interesting and thrilling, though rushed and not given nearly  enough development time.  Sil's dream sequences were one of the places this film  shined.  They were stylish and very revealing into the psychology of this tortured  and instinctively driven main character/antagonist/creature.  It is too bad that  the film's creators chose to pursue their own blind instincts and rush into the  action genre. Instead of resolving character conflicts (Ben Kingsley's character  clearly expresses remorse for his role in abusing Sil, leading to her escape, yet there is zero development of the relationship between them - and it ends rather  abusively to the characters) or even allowing Sil to grow-up psychologically  (despite actually meeting the only nice guy in LA) the film-makers turned to a  cliche of hunt down and kill the monster with a lame it's not dead yet ending  (the rat - how lame). Overall, a massive disappointment to those of us that were looking forward to a  thrilling science fiction movie with intelligent undertones.  Though I hear the  guts and blood action movie lovers were thrilled... Has Species II attempted to take more of a psychological approach?  Doubt it,  though there appeared to be actual character interaction between Sil II and the  woman scientist in a brief glimpse on the Sci-Fi Channel... maybe I'll give it a  shot some day... If you liked Natasha Henstridge and would like to see her in a more active role,  clothed, try The Whole Nine Yards.  Charming and funny. "},{"Title":"Stupid fun","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Contains a SPOILER!Let's face it right now this film is the most stupid film I have ever seen! Well, maybe not... but it comes very close. I mean, the story... Silly, silly, silly. Natasha Henstridge's acting... Scary. Special/visual effects... Laughable, especially in the birth scene at the end and the scenes following that. But I have to say even though Species is a stupid film it is also entertaining, dumb but fun, you know? And then there's Forest Whitaker... One of my fave actors. Always nice to see him in a film. (4/10) "},{"Title":"Good actors turn this cheesy science fiction horror film into a fun ride.","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film has a rather low score here, but I thought it was a rather good science fiction/horror movie that also has good action and comedy too. Scientist have created a new form of life based on some strange signals received from outer space. Though at the beginning of movie they are trying to kill this life as I do believe they have figured out that his new life is a threat to the human race. They get a group of scientist, a psychic and a guy who takes care of things a great character played very well by Michael Madsen. He really added something to this movie and I really enjoyed his character. Natasha also is very good in this movie as the very sexy and sultry alien who is out to find herself a mate. The story is somewhat cheesy, but it is still fun thanks to the good actors in this movie who include besides Madsen and Natasha Forest Whitaker, Ben Kingsley and Alfred Molina. The alien is a bit different too, as it is not a seemingly bad creature, only doing what her instincts direct her to do. She is not a kill first creature though bad things will happen if she is allowed to mate and bring about more of her species. There are also some very memorable scenes in this one, the most memorable being the one involving the guy with asthma and that wonderful kiss he shares with Natasha. A lot better movie to me than a lot of horror movies here that get a lot higher scores than they deserve, I think this one deserves higher, but I would never want to watch the sequels as they did not look good at all from the previews I saw. "},{"Title":"Introducing Natasha","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a young girl, Sil (Michelle Williams, who of course would get nude herself in the horror chick flicks, If These Walls Could Talk 2 and Me Without you), a human/alien hybrid, escapes her government captivity. In a matter of days, she turns into Natasha Henstridge who yearns to mate. Micheal Madsen is among the crew assembled to find and kill her. Both Forest Whitaker and Ben Gandhi Kingsley are pretty much wasted, but Madsen does alright and Natasha getting nude copious amount of times make this a fun, if brain dead little sci-fi flick. Nothing ground-breaking here, just enjoyable b-movie popcorn fare.My Grade B- DVD Extras Commentary by Director Roger Donaldson, Micheal Madsen, and Natasha Henstridge; Second commentary by Donaldson, Frank Mancuso Jr, Richard Edlund, and Steve Johnson; Sneak peek at Species 3; Theatrical Trailer; red-band trailer for the Howling; trailer for Jeepers Creepers 2; one for Earthsea (a scifi channel mini-series); and a few montage trailers Eye Candy Marg Helgenberger gets topless; Natasha Henstridge shows it all. "},{"Title":"why such a low IMDb rating?","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i remember when i was younger and my parents had the VHS of this movie and i was always asking them if i could watch it but they said i was to young, i instead watched the copped up version on TV, now recently i found this on DVD and i decided to buy it, i watched it again, and i realized that this movie was brilliant, especially for saying that it was made fifteen years ago.Michael Madsen and Marg Helgenberger play a convincing couple, Forest Whitaker deserves an Oscar, Alfred Molina does very well for his small but somewhat funny role, Ben Kingsley does great as a crochity old fart, and new comer Natasha Henstridge is/does beautiful(y) as the Species. I here a lot of people put this movie down because they think that its just filled with sex and nudity, but really if you think about it its reasonable, thats SID's mission in the movie.also the special effects are astonishing for fifteen years ago, though sadly i feel it's just a matter of time until they remake this gem of a film.i give SPECIES a 10/10 because i cant think of anything that i didn't like about this movie. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, weak story","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Watched this movie on video, and I found it entertaining.  5 years after its release, the genetic engineering is even more scary as humanity has now (year 2000) discovered properties of the DNA that makes the movie more believable in the beginning.  The monster's resemblance to the monsters in the Alien movies is striking, although more human in design (Giger).The storyline is weak, but it still is an entertaining movie.  I don't think this movie appeals to the viewers intellect.  It is a cross-breed (as is the monster in the movie) and draws on elements from Sci-Fi, splatter-movies, thrillers and soft porn movies.The special effects are not as impressive anymore, and is where the movie shows its age.  Although the end is almost a pure Alien rip-off, it fails to provide the suspence of the Alien movie.  The cliffhanger-rat at the end is a little funny, but contributes to the impression of a weak script with intellectually cheap solutions.All in all an entertaining, almost-no-brainer movie based on a very interesting idea.  "},{"Title":"Sexy science fiction. Volunteers to be a victim?","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Donaldson directs this sexy slice of science fiction for MGM. In the early 1990's a Search for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence Project gets an answer from millions of millions mile away. If not disturbing, but eye opening, information details to scientists how to take alien DNA and splice it with human DNA. A creature(Natasha Henstridge)is formed and given the name Sil. This armor-plated creature, quick as a whisper, turns into a sensual vision of womanhood with one thing on her mind...reproduce. Sil manages to escape her containment and Xavier Fitch(Ben Kingsley), her primary creator, demands she be found and destroyed before she has the chance to breed.Violence and strong sexuality are mixed with sci-fi sequences that sustains attention. Henstridge is making her acting debut and surrounded by an apt cast featuring Michael Madsen, Marg Helgenberger, Forest Whitaker and Alfred Molina. And briefly, the young Sil is played by Michelle Williams. "}{"Title":"Wiping out the galactic weed","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Released in 1995, Species chronicles events after SETI (Search for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence) receives a transmission from outer space detailing alien DNA structure, along with instructions on how to splice it with human DNA. This gives birth to Sil, a girl (Michele Williams) who escapes and rapidly grows into a statuesque blond obsessed with mating (Natasha Henstridge). Government agent Xavier Fitch (Ben Kingsley) assembles a team to locate and destroy Sil before she finds a mate and breeds. The team includes a tough mercenary (Michael Madsen), an anthropologist (Alfred Molina), a molecular biologist (Marg Helgenberger) and an empath (Forest Whitaker).I saw Species years ago and, for some reason, developed an eye-rolling attitude toward it; maybe it was due to Roger Ebert's negative review, I don't know. In any case, I'm glad I gave it a fresh viewing because this is a top-of-the-line sci-fi/adventure/horror flick. People look down on it because of the nudity and mild sex scenes, which prompts them to disdain it as exploitive and trashy. While Natasha Henstridge is a good-lookin' woman, she doesn't do anything for me (I prefer shorter, rounder women) so I was able to totally overlook this element and focus on the film's other attributes.For one, the score by Christopher Young is excellent. Secondly, the A-list cast is a highlight and their characters are increasingly fleshed-out in the story. Lastly, while people understandably write-off the movie as a Grade B plot with Grade A production, there's more here than meets the eye. For instance, Sil is the innocent pawn of the extraterrestrials who sent the DNA (more on this below). Another example is the excellent character of Dan (Whitaker) whom whiners complain about as always pointing out the obvious when the movie shows over and over that he DOES know things the others don't and they ignore him to their own peril. Dan is necessary so that the team knows what direction the creature takes on repeated occasions; without Dan we'd see them pursue one boring dead-end after another.While snobby film critics love to hate Species it's a thoroughly entertaining sci-fi adventure with an interesting moral and a great cast of characters. If you like films like Alien, Aliens, Terminator, Terminator 2 and Predator you'll probably appreciate it. It may not be as good as Aliens, Terminator and Terminator 2, but it's on par with Alien (and marginally better IMHO) and superior to Predator. Then again, it depends on what you want in a sci-fi blockbuster. As far as I'm concerned, Species delivers the goods.The film runs 108 minutes and was shot in the areas of Los Angeles and Brigham City, Utah.GRADE A- ***SPOILER ALERT*** (Don't read further unless you've seen the movie) The theory is postulated by the mercenary and biologist that the alien DNA was sent as a biological weapon, a weed killer from outer space to wipe out the galactic weed of earth or, more accurately, the human race that inhabits it. It's a fascinating concept and the film compellingly realizes it. "},{"Title":"Natasha Henstridge Was Perfectly Cast","Date":"28 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Using information received from an extra-terrestrial radio transmission, scientists on earth are able to reconstruct alien DNA and then inject it into a human egg in accordance with the instructions from their source. The scientists are then shocked by the rapid rate of growth from the humanoid creature and fearing that they may have rushed too quickly into this experiment decide to destroy the young female before it can mature. Unfortunately, she escapes and within just a matter of days has attained full adulthood. It is at this point that the scientists realize that they have created a true monster with little concern about destroying anyone who gets in her way. They also discover that she wants to mate. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that Natasha Henstridge was perfectly cast as the beautiful but psychopathic creature named Sil. I also liked the performance of Forest Whitaker (who played the empath by the name of Dan Smithson) and Marg Helgenberger (as the micro-biologist named Dr. Laura Baker). In any case, I thought this was a pretty good Sci-Fi/Horror film and I have rated it accordingly. Above average. "},{"Title":"Severely underrated","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dennis Feldman's 'Species' is a severely underrated science fiction film from the 90s. The film touches on many themes, including the meaning of life, human desires, specifically procreation, human interaction, kindness/empathy, selfishness, fear, manipulation, intuition, following orders. It does so in a way that is mostly sublime enough that it comes across as genuine. For example there is a fairly believable romance buried in there underneath layers of alien slime. The dialog is mostly well written and to the point, the actors are great and there's lots of attention to detail. Combine that with some great and grotesque visuals, courtesy of the late Hans Ruedi Giger and some Cronenbergian body horror and you're in for a fascinating ride through Los Angeles.The dialog doesn't always work, like when they're trying to track her down and are quickly jumping to conclusions about things that the audience already knows. Scenes vary in quality, some feel a bit rushed. While the effects are mostly excellent there are some subpar ones, too.Overall I highly recommend it if you can get something out of sci-fi horror. "},{"Title":"We made Her Female...more docile and controllable.","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a B Movie trapped in an A Production. It tries to break free of its Fancy-Pants foundation and succeeds with some Charm. There is a Name Cast here headlined by an Oscar Winner, Ben Kingsley giving what must be the worst Performance of his Career. The Scene in the Lab when the Scientist are trapped with the New Alien is downright deplorable and He and the Director should be ashamed.The Movie is a lot of Sci-Fi and Horror Movie Fun. The central theme here is Sex overlaid by all the Gore and expensive SFX and Action. It is a Sex Story (think Kinsey and Freud on Acid), and is the prime of this pump.The Sex is sexy, the Violence is violent, the Gore is gory, the Alien looks Alien, and the Script is, well that's the rub. The Dialog is sometimes so Corny, Clichéd, and Bad that one can only hope that it was an attempt at Cheap Laughs and aimed at less than the usual Cerebral Sci-Fi intellect. But who knows. Most of this isn't even as good as those penny a word Pulps.Overall this will not disappoint Fans of Fangoria and Cinefantastique and casual Folks slumming for a Thrill, but this isn't really anything more than an Entertaining Movie based on past expectations to do nothing more and nothing less at the Drive-In or a Saturday Matinée. "},{"Title":"The Female of the SPECIES Is More Deadlier than the Male","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I rather enjoyed this story about scientists taking the extra-terrestrial advice about reshaping DNA and then growing something from it only to have it escape, destroy, kill, kill, kill, kill, and have all the moral empathy of a rock. Producer Frank Mancuso Jr. does a pretty good job here bestowing a generous budget for special effects(H. R. Giger designed the creature), the cast which includes heavyweights like Ben Kingley, Forrest Whitaker, Alfred Molina(SOOO young here) as well as always fun to watch Michael Madsen and beauties Marge Helgenberger, newcomer Natasha Henstridge and a very young Michelle Willimas, a decent script, very workmanlike directing from Roger Donaldson(who generally does a good job creating suspense and action). All of these add up for a roller-coaster THAT did keep me on the edge of my seat. I cared about the characters, the story was inventive, and the acting was very good for a vehicle like this. Are there some big holes in the script? You betcha! Are some of the lines and the ending in particular a bit troublesome to swallow? Yes, again, but I liked the movie nonetheless. Kinglsey is very good in his role as a bureaucrat. Whitaker excels as an empath. Henstridge is absolutely stunning and very fresh. This is your typical government makes-a-mistake-then-gathers-a-group-of-experts film, but one that I thought was very well done and highly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Enjoyably Scary Sci-Fi/Action/Horror Yarn Of Escaped Alien Seeking A Mate","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A secret US government lab receives a transmission from space of a coded DNA strand and grows a female alien, which it names Sil. Sil's growth rate is fantastic, and when the nervous eggheads try to terminate her, she escapes and makes it to Los Angeles. A team comprising the head boffin, an assassin, an empath, a biologist and an anthropologist are scrambled to track her down before she can reproduce &#x85;I really like this movie, but then I'm a sucker for this type of material - it's got mystery, action, clandestine operations, sex, scares, gruesome special effects, intriguing characters and most important of all, a terrific and quite original monster. It may be an Alien knock-off but it has more than enough variety in its premise and depth to the people to justify itself. Sil is a fascinating protagonist as she is forced into a desperate situation, must use all her predatory instincts to survive but also has to confront who she is and the point of her existence. Henstridge is terrific in her debut role, wisely keeping Sil's dialogue pared down but still exploiting the pathos of her monster, not to mention handling the frequent nudity and action scenes with aplomb. The team of experts are a great bunch of character actors, with Madsen the quintessential tough guy, Molina a great comic foil who meets a gleefully sticky end, and best of all Whitaker in another great twitchy oddball part as the guy who can sense people's feelings. I must admit I think this film has a liability though, and it's the third act. For ninety minutes it moves admirably fast, setting up and exploring the story and the character dynamics without any chaff and moving logically on with the chase. The finale though, as our heroes hunt an impregnated Sil through a gloomy sewer system with guns and flamethrowers and all decide to wander off in different directions is much too familiar from every other such picture, starting with Them! forty years earlier. Donaldson's touch slips a little here and this sequence lacks focus and suspense, so for me the movie fizzles out a little. Nevertheless, it's still great science-fiction / action fun, with brilliant special effects by Richard Edlund and Steve Johnson, and horror music fans should savour another fantastic choral string score by Christopher Young. Extremely well scripted by Dennis Feldman, who also wrote The Golden Child and the delightfully crazy Real Men. Whilst not in the top drawer of alien monster movies this is a fun flick, and would make a great double-bill with Tobe Hooper's Lifeforce, which also features a sexy young woman out to destroy the world. "},{"Title":"Babelien","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Natasha Henstridge, eh? What a woman! She likes to wander around topless which is rather nice, but is a little too demanding in the bedroom and swimming pool departments for my liking.This film is as daft as they come. Henstridge plays a comely lab-created alien desperate to procreate before she becomes a victim of accelerated ageing. Having escaped from the clutches of Ben Kingsley's rather ineffectual Dr Fitch, Henstridge roams mid-90s LA looking for suitable mates, only to find herself repeatedly foiled for a variety of unconvincing reasons while Fitch gathers together a motley crew to help him catch his runaway alien. There's Preston Lennox (Michael Madsen), a government hit-man, Laura Baker (Marg Helgenberger), some kind of doctor (for whom Lennox unaccountably falls), Arden (a wasted Alfred Molina) another doctor, and, most hilarious of all, Forrest Whittaker as a childlike 'empath.' Having been given their mission, these gallant five set off in their transit van (conjuring memories of Scoobie's gang for some reason) in lukewarm pursuit of Henstridge.If it wasn't for the fact that Henstridge spends a decent amount of screen time without her clothes, I would be tempted to say that Whittaker &#150; or, more accurately, his character - is the best thing about this flick, although probably not in the way that writer Denis Feldman intended. Sitting in the car recently abandoned by Henstridge, Whittaker points in the direction in which the car is facing and, in a dreamy voice, intones, 'she walked&#133; she walked that way.' I mean, come on, what a man! Lesser psychics would have pointed skywards and declared 'she hopped&#133; she hopped that way,' but not our Forest.The film 'borrows' little snippets from a host of other, better, movies, and tries to mesh them together into a coherent whole, but Feldman is not a particularly talented writer and possesses neither the imagination or wit to create anything even remotely interesting. The film's climax is particularly badly bodged. "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  a decent little flick is gory it has decent acting a hot chick lots of nudity but it seems familiar still this is a fairly entertaining  timealthough not anything special it's not garbage either so if you see this at your local video store (which is very likely) pick it up **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Well crafted Alien Hunt!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Aliens never looked quite so much like supermodels, even down to having the perfect complexion and being blonde and naturally (?) hairless, I suppose to make the transition to slit-eyed, spike-spined swamp thing especially disturbing.  But even more impressive than Sil (Natasha Henstridge) is the attention given to the supporting players, an unlikely fivesome that develops and interacts realistically and will probably grow on you as the thing moves on.  The supporting lady lead (Marg Helgenberger) probably could have been cast better, but Forest Whitaker's neurotic empath is downright lovable, and Mike Madsen  has the burly Tough Guy nailed and the female viewership well in hand with his usual gravel-voiced, doggy-eyebrowed masculinity.  There are a few gratuitous scenes (Examples include the repetitive nudity, and the happenstance of a pool of oil, while our heroes just happen to be carrying flamethrowers.) but there are just as many instances of real-life nuance that make it believable, such as the awareness of odor (Our heroes actually react to the scent of death... Which never happens in, say, Species II.) and the follow along story method, which has us observing the alien and gradually learning more and more about it and trying to figure out its behavior on our own.  The deceptive sympathy is a nice touch, too, as we often find ourselves thinking of this blonde beauty (Especially when she is a child.) as an innocuous victim of scientific exploitation, rather than the predatory and remorseless antagonist it truly is.  The overall execution of Species is sufficiently intimate due to the easy, build-up pacing, and it looks very polished and professional.  This is not an all out gore party, and not a babbling Sci-Fi picture either; it's a pleasant montage of several different genres, and well worth a Movie Night with the lights off.   Please skip the sequel, though-- it's very far from this, and so shoddy and quarter-assed that the two couldn't possibly interbreed.Score B "},{"Title":"Fun Scifi Horror.","Date":"1 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm amazed that Species has such a low rating on IMDb! I saw this film last night for the first time in about 5 years & I still think it's great despite various flaws. The story & basic plot are pretty predictable as with any Bunch of people hunt monster type movie. Plus, it gets a little corny at times. However, the cast is great & in general, so are their performances. The Alien is HOT in human form & looks very cool in Alien form. Action sequences are good and there's some decent spine popping, skull cracking gore too. Also, I was impressed at how good the CGI is for a film from 1995. It stands the test of time much better than Blade which was made 3 years later & now looks very dated.A very enjoyable film for a late night watch. "}{"Title":"Sexy Natasha endangers the male species!","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah finally! An excuse to stare at gorgeous boobs, cleverly disguised as Sci-Fi cinema! Well maybe that's a tad bit exaggerated but, still, the multiple sequences in which Natasha Henstridge walks around topless are unquestionably the most memorable moments of the entire movie. In her debut role, stunning Natasha plays a secret government project, namely the very first scientific hybrid of human and alien DNA. During the opening sequences, she's still a teenage girl but already incredibly strong and too dangerous to keep alive any longer. When project leader Fitch (Ben Kinsley) attempts to destroy her with gas, she escapes on a train and Michelle Williams transforms into Natasha Henstridge. What's the sole thing on a sexy blond alien's mind when she drifts through L.A. all by herself? Procreate, of course, and thus Sil (her codename) hooks up with random men as she's looking for the perfect sperm donor. Meanwhile, Fitch assembles an elite squad that'll be charged with hunting down Sil and annihilate her before she copulates the entire male population to death. Species is a pretty bad movie, yet horror and Sci-Fi fans will definitely find it entertaining due to its large amount of gore and trashy sleaze. The action-sequences are well illustrated and exciting but, as soon the script tries to be intellectual, the whole thing looks stupid and dreary. Especially the characters don't make much sense. Michael Madsen is (again) supposed to be a tough and merciless bounty hunter, but he has a gingerbread heart and falls for a dull female doctor. Kingsley is profiled to be the cold and heartless scientist but he can't even force his authority on a four-headed crew? Oh, and Forest Whitaker is the lousiest spiritual medium ever! Something has happened here, he says whilst staring at the bloody aftermath inside the train carriage. Well duh! You're staring at corpse and the juicy leftovers of an alien cocoon! The special effects are blobby and they regularly brought back memories of cheap B-movies from the 80's, which was nice. Like I said, Species is a lot of fun as long as none of the characters open their mouths to speak. "},{"Title":"bad because of what it could have been","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" species has an interesting premise, and apparently had the involvement of HR giger... according to another reviewer, the plot was stolen from an old BBC production... i can't say how true that is, but one thing is for sure... plagiarised or not it could have made a great movie, and with giger on board it could have been the alien of the 90's...it seems to be content with being a b-grade killer monster flick, with tired clichés and a lack of suspense...i loved the idea of the aliens propagating themselves by a signal, which other civilisations use to bring the creature into being... i loved the alien dreams scenes, and natasha henstridge is a good choice to be the lethal seed bearer... instead of delving into the fascinating realms the premise offers, like the alien's character and feelings (and the internal struggle with its human aspects), it merely hints and tantalises us with them...instead we get the standard race against time... a squandered opportunity, and probably the reason why this movie fails rather for what it could have been, as opposed to what it is...contrary to what other reviewers have said, i think this is one of the few horror/sci-fi movies that actually required nudity... although i think gratuity is a ridiculous concept when applied to nudity in films anyway... "},{"Title":"Sensual,erotic science-fiction thriller. Great viewing.","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The main attraction of this film is Natasha Henstridge. In parts it reminded me of Aliens, at least the bursting of alien lifeforms out of human bodies and the cocoon.The main disappointment with the plot was that the scientists tracking her were so knowledgeable about her movements-just a few minutes late. I think more hysteria could have been built up if her whereabouts were unknown.That aside I loved the mating scenes with at least a topless Henstridge there for all to see. I would like to be the 'victim' of an aggressive sexual female like that with a strong urge to mate.The ending left the way open for a sequel. "},{"Title":"Groundbreaking","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the better sci-fi efforts of the previous decade, SPECIES is a suspenseful, slam-bang effort about an alien on the loose. In this case, the alien happens to be an extremely beautiful woman who appears unclothed in various scenes and is hot to trot with a series of Earth males in order to produce an offspring to perpetuate her race. Great script and good acting by a first-rate cast that includes Marg Helgenburger, Mchael Madsen, Alfred Molina, Forest Whitaker and Ben Kingsley. Model Natasha Henstridge makes an auspicious debut as Sil, the sexy alien. The equally beautiful Michelle Williams appears at the beginning as a juvenile version of Sil, and the filmmakers wisely keep her clothes on. The discerning viewer will undoubtedly see similarities to TERMINATOR. No harm, no foul. A note-perfect sci-fi actioner that has had its share of influence and spawned two sequels to date. Great use of early CGI for the no-holds-barred finale. "},{"Title":"Gory goody","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Species is a sci-fi/horror tale in the tradition of B-movies that comes off as good fun. It's about an experiment that's gone terribly wrong when an alien in the form of a young woman escapes from a scientific laboratory. This alien wants to mate with a man so it can produce offspring and if that happens, the world is in deep big trouble! The scientist in charge of this experiment (Ben Kingsley) assembles a team of experts (an assassin, an anthropologist, a biologist, and an empath) to try and stop the alien before major hell breaks loose. Well directed and well cast, Species is an entertaining science fiction movie. It's gruesome to be sure, but very exciting. Stay away from the dreadful 1998 sequel. This is the one to see.*** (out of four)   "},{"Title":"Coolest alien since ALIEN (1979)","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a pretty cool movie, the Sil monster is one of the coolest monster designs since ALIEN, Giger created this creature as well. The character are mostly likable. There are some minor character issues I like to mention, but nothing to go nuts over. The basic plot is a tad weak but workable. There really is nothing to point out bad about the plot except for the fact they were stupid to create SIL to begin with. But of course, if they didn't, we would not have a plot. The cast is outstanding and Natasha Henstridge is a real hotty. I think this is best thing Ben Kingsley did since GHANDI. All and all an almost perfect flick that is worth watching over and over again. This is a must for any fan of ALIEN or Giger. I give it...9 STARS "},{"Title":"90's Commando","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems that every ten years a movie is being put out which I can fully enjoy over and over again, despite it's silliness. And it seems the TV executives know exactly what those movies are, as both 'Commando' (with the Governator and Alyssa Milano) as well as 'Species' finds it's way to the small screen in the Netherlands a couple of times every year.'Species' is nonsense played out great. A secret governmental group, led by Kingsley, is mixing human DNA with a code they received from outer space (why is not clear), creating 'Sil', a young woman (Natasha Henstridge) who has a serious appetite for eating and mating. When she escapes the lab she was in, a group of experts set out to hunt and eventually kill her.Great over the top performances by Kingsley, Madsen and in particular Whitaker, who's whispering incoherently to the camera while wearing some sort of silly hat. Meanwhile, Henstridge is a nice surprise as a first-timer, and not that bad for the eye either.When the team finally faces battle with 'Sil' (in an underground oil cave?) all logic is thrown overboard, but what remains is a fun movie. I'm sure I'll catch it again in 6 months or so...6/10. "},{"Title":"Seductively, sinisterly clever and deadly!","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie puts the S SULTRY, SINISTER, SLY, and SEDUCTIVE! And don't forget, Species. Playing with mother nature is always one thing, but playing God is more severe. When you work with with a doctor who tries to make the perfect person, the consequences comes in at a price. The cast of the movie were great, but the main focus is on the ever sultry Natasha Henstridge. After all the stages Sil went through, being the beautiful blonde she is, she wouldn't have any trouble find a mate right? After buying the clothes and finding a club, she would find someone, after she kills one woman in the ladies' room, then removes her sweater out in the open virtually shameless. I'll have a hard time waking up. Knowing she's a fast healer and a master of changes, she can give the law a slip just in a snap! The other made this movie worth its while, Ben Kingsley, Marg Helgenberger(China Beach, CSI!), Alfred Molina, and most of all Forest Whitaker. The Empath who remains alert for all his teammates, except for Dr. Arden who fell for Sil seductive trap, who not only impregnated her, found out too late it was her! It was a very intense movie and the plot was great all the way I wouldn't ask for anything else, except it's a HUGE keeper in the video/DVD library. Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Could it get any worse?","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this film started with an interesting idea, it rapidly degenerated. It failed to be very scary, and mainly seemed to look for new ways to get the lead actress naked, not something good in a horror movie.  Further, this film failed to take advantage of the wonderful resources they had in H. R. Giger's art and design cooperation. One of the all time worst, in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Great Thriller","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Finally a decent sci-fi movie this is the only film I liked with an alien in it. Most of them are all rubbish e.g. Alien part 1-4 and ET a lot of people liked them but I didn't. I was beginning to dislike having aliens in films but not after watching Species. Natasha Henstridge acting was terrific for her first film she was the best. It has a really good story-line about a half woman half alien Sil who is more intelligent than beautiful seeking unsuspecting males to mate and spawn more species to destroy mankind. The whole movie is charged with pulse-pounding suspense, ingenious special effects and riveting performances from a first-rate cast. Definitely the one of the best sci-fi movie ever! The sequels are OK but the first one is the best out of all three of them. "}{"Title":"Sci-fi monster with breasts","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you like gory shlock horror you'll love Species. If you like unnecessary nudity and bad acting you'll love Species. If you don't like these things you will hate Species. Okay, it's kind of purposely cheesy and over-the-top. The performances are tongue-in-cheek (at least I hope they are supposed to be!). The sex makes it watchable for guys (more so anyway) and the I want children pool scene is downright memorable.Nevertheless I couldn't really get into it all that much. Ben Kingsley and co. all seem to be kind of embarrassed. I know it's supposed to be cheesy but there should be a limit...also the ending is a mess and the special effects are poor.The new species of babe is hot but the movie is pretty lame... if I were you I'd rather watch The Relic, a similar movie (in approach) that is much better in terms of entertainment. "},{"Title":"Alien in a pretty package","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1993, SETI program receives a transmission documenting how to splice alien DNA with human DNA. Xavier Fitch (Ben Kingsley) leads a secret government project to do just that. They created Sil (Michelle Williams). Her growth is extremely rapid. When Fitch tries to destroy her, she escapes. She metamorphoses into a grow woman (Natasha Henstridge). She learns quickly in a world she doesn't know. Fitch gathers a diverse team to find and kill the potentially dangerous creature. Dr. Stephen Arden (Alfred Molina) is an anthropologist. Dr. Laura Baker (Marg Helgenberger) is a molecular biologist. Dan Smithson (Forest Whitaker) is an empath and Preston Lennox (Michael Madsen) is the mercenary.There is enough backstory to justify it. I really like the idea that she's interstellar weed to kill off humanity. It's Alien in a pretty package. Alien is one of my favorite movie and I certainly don't mind the pretty package. Natasha Henstridge is a little more than simply pretty. She shows both wide-eyed innocence and a bit of murderous spark. The empath is ridiculous but I still like the hunt and the thrills. "},{"Title":"She was half us, half something else.","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this first came out I had high hopes that it would be a sci-fi thriller along the lines of Alien or Predator, but sadly, that was not to be. In fact, it's more comparable to a blend of soft porn and sci-fi gone astray, what with the inner Sil resembling an Alien knock-off in those mesmerizing dream sequences. I don't think we can blame it on the high power cast with Ben Kingsley, Michael Madsen, Forest Whittaker and Marg Helgenberger on hand. I think they needed more to work with.Now as far as Natasha Henstridge goes, think what might have happened to her movie career if she didn't debut with this effort. Not exactly a household name, even if you could pronounce it. The thing is, she's simply stunning in the film, and that's with her clothes on. Notice I mention nothing about her acting.It's almost inconceivable to me that there were a couple of sequels to this movie, though the ending obviously begged for it. I may get around to them at some point, with the same kind of urgency I attach to Japanese Godzilla flicks, beach movies and Seventies martial arts films. Which is to say, I can wait a while. "},{"Title":"Solid Sci-Fi Action Thriller","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Take a few themes from other films add a decent cast of actors sprinkle some H.R.Giger then hand it over to Roger Donaldson to direct. What you get thanks to fairly good script is not as bad as some have said here. The chemistry of with the team gathered to capture Sil is spot on the movie never gets to slow delivering shocks action and some good old fashion makeup FX. The film tries to be original and in some ways it is it had been a few years since last saw it, I found myself engaged throughout, lots of sexy scenes for the beautiful Natasha Henstridge. 18 years later still worth watching I got the boxset for Christmas so having a marathon let's see how Part Two holds up. "},{"Title":"Darwin never looked so good.","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's ALIEN with a spectacular pair of natural knockers.Designed by H.R. Giger - the alien species, not the knockers - a half-human, half-alien life form called Sil (Natasha Henstridge in her human form) escapes from a SETI facility and goes on a rampage screwing everyone. In the Biblical sense. And then screwing them in the Hollywood sense.Spreading her alien seed, doing what every species on Earth has been designed to do by genetic engineering since life began, somehow she is regarded as doing something wrong. Only because she is not of the human species.And it only confuses the issue when non-humans have such great knockers.Specialists are called in to hunt down the alien Michael Madsen as the Tough Guy, Alfred Molina as The Dork, Marg Helgenberger as The Hot Scientist and Forest Whitaker as The Empath, all led by Ben Kingsley The Brain.SPECIES hangs our credibility by a thread by initially mating human DNA with alien material to spawn Sil, but we can live with that in a haze of scientific jargon; that thread is cut when The Empath is introduced, tracking mud all over the science and jerking all over the jargon. Whitaker is only here so that the alien hunters can glean clues to Sil's movements without hard evidence and stay hot on her hot tail. That spoils an otherwise good story centered around the most basic tenet of natural selection.Sex.The message at the core of SPECIES is that every living thing's purpose is to mate; continuance for the genetic code. It's what Marg Helgenberger aches to do with Michael Madsen all movie.We've grown so inured to that mating message with all our displacement and duplicity and political correctness that when Sil asks a captive woman why she is here on Earth, the woman tearfully laments, I don't know! And people don't! They think they are here to make money, to worship false gods, to get married, work a job, buy a house, blah blah...Writer Dennis Feldman got it right - the purpose of life is to propagate more life. And the organism in this story trying to copulate copiously is designed correctly as well - she is the most alluring thing on two gams. Genetic engineering at its best. Henstridge is so strikingly beautiful, there is nothing else on screen when she glides past. Helgenberger is a tasty specimen herself, but in this movie, Henstridge is in a league of her own.The message gets a little lost when the person on the team who eventually has mind-blowing, unprotected sex with Sil is The Dork. Who promptly explodes with alien bodybursting.There's the other message the more beautiful the chick, the more painful the disease.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"Is she the cure?","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The beginning is stunning. I'm sorry, Ben Kingsley says, a tear flowing from his eye, while men in white suits try to kill a young girl with poisonous gas. Sil is half alien, we are soon told, and the experiments with alien DNA went wrong, but in a way that was probably intended by those who sent it. Marg Helgenberger notices what a perfect biological weapon Sil makes, and Madsen continues She's the cure and we're the disease - from the alien point of view, mankind must be removed from earth. Natasha Henstridge played the innocence of the creature believably, when she goes shopping for the first time, then learns quickly how to survive, but she doesn't get an answer why she's here. In one scenes she asks one of her victims before she kills her if she has nightmares, too. Knowing she's different, she nevertheless feels those beings around her have something in common with her.The idea is by no means new have something dangerous or evil appear in the shape of a beautiful woman - that goes back centuries to witch hunt and vampire myths. However, after the 1980s where aliens were either sweet and nice (E.T., Close Encounters) or ugly and aggressive (Aliens, Predator), so that the outer appearance was telling everything, it was good timing by the producers of Species to create an alien in perfect disguise. The design by Giger for its biological phases is amazing. But Species isn't perfect. It tries on one hand to be scientific and on the other hand introduces a guy with supernatural psychic gifts. And then, fast biological growth and learning a language in two days are two different things - the audience will hardly be convinced that could actually happen. Nonetheless, Species is a memorable, important film for the genre in the 1990s. I voted 8/5/6/7 for the 4 parts of the series. "},{"Title":"Russ Meyer Should Have Directed","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Meyer could have made this a truly great movie. 'Faster Pussycat, Kill, Kill' meets 'Alien'. The director is a good, competent VERY COMMERCIAL director but Meyer had the fire in the belly. Also his specialty was this sort of sexy death stuff. Could have been truly memorable instead of merely solidly watchable. The movie should have had emphasis squished around here & there; First, we see way too little of young Sil. Her character development needed to be extended by at least a sequence or two. All the neat nuances of daddy (Kingsley) vs daughter conflicts could have been brilliantly riffed on. The young actress (Michelle Williams)was way capable of doing this. All sorts of other delicious bits about the pre-pubescent American girl pop into mind almost unbidden. But no all we get is a little train ride & then the metamorphosis. I shudder to think what old Russ could have made happen here. Second, Grown up Sil's romp thru the LA club scene should have been the whole rest of the movie; death sequence & all. I mean what's up with this cave thing? Caves are such CHEAP sets. When I was dragging scenery around on the old 'Santa Barbara' series they got into a stupid cave thing about the time they canceled it. Half the stuff in the old 'Flash Gordon' movie series was done in cave sets because they're so CHEAP. The final hunt & alien pregnancy thing would have been so wonderfully gory (& incidentally so much better for some great comments on the people mating scene) if staged in disco sets. The alien birth on a bottom lighted & strobed dance floor; WHOA what a cinematic moment. The tyke scuttles off into the shadows. In short the movie had way too modest of a scope. Don't be no ant man, an ant man has low horizons. My personal favorite Gumpism. "},{"Title":"A 90's science fiction flick that could be better.","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen this movie when I was younger and I have only seen parts of it and rediscovered this movie on the internet. I decided to go see the full movie of Species to see if it would be a good 90's science fiction flick.It started out with a beginning where it has been done quite a bit of times. Some scientists decide to experiment with alien DNA and Human DNA without thinking that there could be some serious effects after wards. They decided to keep her locked up for study and then decide to kill her until she breaks out of the cell with abnormal strength and somehow escapes a military research facility with a lot of security judging by the soldiers as security. I have seen this technique before in other movies that I have watched when I was younger. The premise was simple stop the alien/human hybrid before she mates with a normal human or she'll have a baby that will destroy the human race. This of course means that there is tons of nudity and sexual content. As for destroying the human race, I must admit that this is a weird way of death by alien situation considering that all she needs is a baby so the human race will be destroyed by a hybrid having sex. This then turns into a cat-and-mouse theme for a team of people have to search and destroy her and thus ending up to be a film full of car chases, walking around in Los Angeles and some sets of female nudity along with short-lived sexual relationships with men who want to get jiggy. It also uses some repetitiveness such as that the team nearly tracking her down but ends up a few minute late so she gets away until the next time they meet. She also seems to go after the rich men. The story could definitely be better.Long story short, it's a cat-and-mouse scenario with a team of people who are always one step behind of an alien/human hybrid who wants to mate with a human so she can have off-springs that can harm the human race with recycled elements from previous movies with the same scenario.Some of the special effects were quite nice and pretty gross for those who are easily grossed out, especially at the chrysalis parts and such. Some of the times Sil in her alien form seemed a little bit computer generated without the finishing touches to it so it turns out to look fake.Now for the good parts. The acting was good (though the actress for Sil could of done a better job) the action was good and had some scary moments that surprised. These made the film more watchable for me.My overall opinion on this is that this is an alright movie even though it has quite a bit of flaws and has not a lot of logic and has a story and elements that have been used before. It is watchable for men who really like watching flicks with sexual themes. It was an alright movie but it isn't something I would want to watch again. "},{"Title":"A B-movie of epic proportions","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think it's fair to say that you can't spell 'Species' without a capital B (and that's B for 'B-movie'). And, for an out and out B-movie, Species has to be up there with the best of them.There is nothing particularly 'stand-out' about anything in it. An alien &#x96; or rather the most ATTRACTIVE alien you've ever seen &#x96; is unleashed on an unwitting L.A. population and we follow the rag-tag bunch charged with the task of tracking her down before she reproduces (and, if you're interested, the 'reproducing scenes' are worth watching this film from most red-blooded males' points of view!).Absolutely nothing new to see, just a hell of a load of cheesy fun that, albeit quite serious, never gets heavy enough to drag the film down into a melodrama. It just manages to stay slightly above 'tongue-in-cheek' to allow everyone (and when I say 'everyone' I probably just mean men) to enjoy the crazy, corpse-strewn ride.There are plenty of memorable moments, but most of those involve a nude woman. Yes, you're completely right in thinking that 'Species' is hardly a deep and meaningful film, filled with Oscar-worthy dialogue and complicated character arcs. It's cheesy, tacky, low-brow, but ultimately great fun.Enjoy with popcorn.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"The Film Created By A Horny 13 Year Old Boy...","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" With its hilariously bad CGI, over-the-top alien designs, oh, and a young gorgeous blonde who spends well over 50% of the movie fully naked and/or having sex, you really would think its been made by a 13 year old boy. But, despite these B-Movie staples, this big screen movie is actually quite fun to watch. The storyline is pretty good, but to savour it, you'd best not care about it and just stare at Sil's bare butt. Forest Whittaker is in there too, although annoyingly states info that is painfully obvious. I gave it 8. Its got some A-List celebs, crazy story, sore-on-the-eyes CGI, and shameful nudity....and thats a winner in my book. "}{"Title":"Species","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For three million years, the human race has been at the top of the evolutionary ladder. Nothing lasts foreverAt a top-secret Utah facility headed up by Dr. Xavier Fitch (Ben Kingsley), scientists have created Sil (Natasha Henstridge), a half-human, half-alien product of experiments with DNA codes obtained from beyond the stars. Unfortunately, Sil has escaped. Her primary objective is to mate, and, with the ability to transform herself into an incredibly powerful alien creature, puny humans can't stop her. So Dr. Fitch calls in a quartet of specialists (Forest Whitaker, Michael Madsen, Marg Helgenberger, and Alfred Molina), to attempt Sil's capture. At the same time, Sil is leaving a trail of mostly male corpses in her hormonal wake. The organic-flavored alien designs for Species were provided by H.R. Giger, the artist responsible for the memorable creatures and spaceships of Alien (1979). When MGM decided to cut the spectacular train birth sequence in the interest of budget-trimming, Giger personally financed this $100,000 showcase of his work.This campy, cheesy, B-grade movie starts off strong. The major players are introduced, the comedy was well-timed and the thrill was executed with precision. The first half was impressive if I put it so bluntly but its sad to say, the second half drags the whole movie down. The ending scene inside the sewer was shoddy and ridiculous. The acting was okay. Doctor Octopus (Alfred Molina), Mr. Blonde (Michael Madsen), Idi Amin (Forest Whitaker), Gandhi (Ben Kingley) , CSI lady (Marg Helgenberger) and blonde bombshell Natasha Henstridge who made her debut in this movie was okay in a cheesy, sci-fi/horror kind of way. Species was fun at first, but then it got tiresome when it entered the second act. Watch it at your own risk. "},{"Title":"Fun, if flawed.","Date":"30 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If a killer Alien is gonna escape from a high-security government lab, procreate incessantly, and then kill Oscar-winning actor Ben Kingsley (he played Ghandi don't cha know?), then at the very least you'd hope it would look like gorgeous nubile supermodel Natasha Henstridge. Which it does in this highly enjoyable slice of Sci Fi hokum. And as long as you're not expecting Citizen Kane an easy-going viewer should find plenty to enjoy here.Best line by a mile is from Forrest Whittaker as a psychic analyser surveying a scene of absolute blood-drenched carnage in a train compartment Something bad happened here... Well duh. "},{"Title":"Fun, dozy tripe","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What do you get if you make a B picture sci-fi romp with an A list cast? Species.The plot is fine, albeit nothing we haven't seen a hundred times elsewhere.The dialogue is risible, as are many of the actions of characters (the lady ticket inspector, on seeing the monstrosity stuck up in the corner of the compartment runs screaming off down the corridor. Whoops, my mistake - that's not what she does, she creeps closer for a more careful look, of course).Whitaker and Molina, fine actors both, are utterly and hilariously dreadful.Henstridge's boobs are superb. Helgenberger's aren't bad, either.It's a hoot. Cheesy, but a hoot. "},{"Title":"Sexy, gooey & a heck of a lot of fun!","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In a laboratory in Dugway Utah, Dr. Xavier Fitch (BEN KINGSLEY) watches on as he asks his team to pump a copious amount of Cyanide gas into a chamber, in an attempt to kill a terrified pre- teen girl (who was only born three months ago)! however employing supernatural strength, she breaks out of her imprisonment & escapes the compound where she then hops abroad, taking shelter in a passing train. From there she jumps onto another train where she hides out & forms into a cocoon, only to re-emerge as a full grown adult (Played by NATASHA HENSTRIDGE) mere hours later! Arriving in L.A. she immediately tries to fit in with the outside world, learning how to dress & survive in our world, but more importantly, she must find a suitable male to mate with & heaven help those who do not meet her criteria, since the wrong mate will find himself suffering a bloody death! In his attempt to catch Sil before she mates & creates offspring, which could lead to the destruction of mankind, within a matter of a few months, Fitch employs a team which includes Molecular biologist Dr. Laura Baker (MARG HELGENBERGER) government assassin Dan Smithson (MICHAEL MADSEN) anthropologist Steven Arden (ALFRED MOLINA) & empath (another word for Psychic) Dan Smithson (FOREST WHITAKER). He reveals to the group that S.E.T.I. (Search For Exterterrestrial Intellegance) had received messages from space, containing a DNA code which was then implanted into an female human embryo, which in turn aged the creature at an incredible rate a creature he named SIL. On the hunt, the group discovers a trail of mangled bodies & discovers that Sil is onto them & will do whatever it takes not to be found & captured, even if it means hunting them down in return & the group discovers that while planning to catch Sil is a relatively easy plan, executing it will be anything but.Make no mistake about it, SPECIES is really nothing more than a direct to video B movie, more similarly akin in both plot & execution to a low budget ALIEN rip-off, that someone like B movie king ROGER CORMAN would have come up with, for one of his low budget quickie knock-offs. The difference here is, is that SPECIES was given a huge theatrical release & boasts a strong A list cast! It's plot varies very little from a typical B movie monster plot, a few gory kills, naked females, a couple of raunchy sex scenes & a monster predator from another world is all here. The creature (miraculously done) is a creation of ALIEN creature designer the late H.R. GIGER, it really is a nice piece of work. The gore effects here can get a little nasty, as we get a chopped off finger, a torn out spine, an alien tongue is fired into a guys mouth & thrusts itself out the back of his head, plus many other fun gory moments. Best of all, SPECIES includes two elements left out of practically all the B movies that usually deal with this type of plot - Suspense & tension!The plot itself (which rips off the plot of A FOR ANDROMEDIA (1961)) is a lot of fun, as we watch Henstridge trying to adjust to life, trying to figure out what people wear, learning about money & credit cards, how to drive & more importantly how to pick up guys, even if she has to do it the way a hooker does! all the while constantly alluding the authorities & getting naked a few times & then violently killing those who don't meet her requirement as a perfect mate. There's some very impressive stunt work on hand here & the gory kills are fun & very well done. The direction by ROGER DONALDSON is very good & the acting is perfect all around, with fun characters & enough plot twists & turns to keep the viewer hooked. Plus there's a decent enough amount of suspense & tension on hand here & Henstridge is gorgeous as SIL & plays the part well. CHRISTOPHER YOUNG'S score is really good, while RICHARD EDLUNDS visual effects are a knock out at times. All in all, while it is by no means a masterpiece (at least in terms of it's plot execution) SPECIES is just plain B movie fun all around. It's sexy, it's gory, it's gooey, it's suspenseful & it has copious amounts of tension & stunts on display, great direction & visual effects, great monster make-up & a drop dead gorgeous Natasha Henstridge going around killing a bunch of guys, when they fail to live up to the perfect mate. I mean what's not to like about this flick? it has everything any hot blooded horror/sci-fi fan could ever want & never once manages to lose it's footing. If you haven't seen this movie stop reading this review, get off the internet & go see this now!The ending leaves a set up for a sequel, which with it's incredible box office success & positive fan & critic word of mouth, led to three sequels, starting with SPECIES II **** stars "},{"Title":"Great action, impartial acting...","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I own this movie on DVD, but don't have a player. I have already seen this movie, and suffice to say, it is divine. I'm a die-hard fan of science fiction, and this was a bright new spin on the whole idea. Natasha Henstridge is wonderful as the elusive Sil, a creation that's half human, half alien. Hats off to H.R. Giger, who designed the alien Sil. A wicked movie with great action, impartial acting in the supporting cast, and excellent focus on the lead. "},{"Title":"Not a great movie, but a great-looking alien!!","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS - I couldn't pass up seeing Species so I rented the DVD. With Ben Kingsley as Xavier Fitch, Alfred Molina as Dr. Stephen Arden, and Forest Whitaker as Dan Smithson, the guy who can feel things, the cast is first-rate. Aliens send a code for DNA splicing which results in a quick-growing species which is bound to reproduce. After lots of chases and near-misses, she/it is apparently cornered in a cave and burned to oblivion. However, since there were sequels, we know the species's DNA must have survived. As the film ends, we see a messy-looking young boy with a glint in it's eye, then a long tongue reaches out to zap a rat. We know the species survives.The main attraction in this film is the beautiful Canadian Natasha Henstridge, who at 20 was in her first film. Her character's (Sil) mission is to be impregnated, and she quickly learns that taking off her top is a good way to start. Henstridge is a true trophy girl, looks great with her top off, and looks far more mature than her age. I noticed the same thing with her in The Whole Nine Yards. She was a perfect choice for the role, however I could never quite get used to this beautiful woman turning into an ugly, evil monster that could devour a man. On second thought, real women do that with regularity, so I guess it wasn't such a stretch after all! I rate it 6 of 10, primarily for Sil. "},{"Title":"great freaky and sexy","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great movie it is freaky and very sexy the sex scenes are great Natasha Henstridge is sexy this movie shows alot about an alien which has been a sentific experimant which escaped has decided she wants a baby so see has to mate as many men as she can lucky guys  its great freaky Natasha Henstridge is very sexy you just well like it if you like sci-fi thrillers with heaps off sex scenes "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Now I knew this was going to be another alien movie. And of course, I was correct. It was another alien movie only one that no one has done before. A scientist who has found a DNA or something that is unknown and expieriment with it on his own daughter...Well the unthinkable happens. She escapes and no one can find her. She is loose in America and wants to mate with any male that she can get her hands on to. A group of people have to find her before she has her offspring. With some cool scenes of death and computer special effects this movie has it all.7/10 Rated R for vioelnce, strong sexuality and language Also Recommended Species 2 and Alien  "},{"Title":"good but different","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a good but different sci fi movie. I liked it a lot. The special effects were very good. Half Alien and half human. That is different, but good. The acting was pretty good. All i have to say is that don't watch the second species movie. I haven't watched it but i heard that it stunk. I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes Sci fi movies, and likes half alien half humans. "},{"Title":"Shameful.","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't wanna sound rude, but this is one of the junkiest movies I have ever seen!  It's also not the least bit scary.  I know I have a lot to say, because I bought this movie(which I never should've done).  I couldn't rent movies on my own yet, and it sounded like a good sci-fi film.  What I got was a cross between a Playboy magazine and a barf-bag movie.  Forest Whitaker is good as a psychic, but the presence of a psychic in this movie is just another thing to add to the overall ridiculousness of the film. Natasha Henstridge is hot, but the gore and alien effects are strong(or disgusting) enough to put you off your food.  The sickest scene in the movie is probably when Sil is on the train, and the tentacles(whatever they are) start to poke out through her flesh.  It wasn't scary, and it simply made the movie harder to enjoy.  H.R. Giger's work is good, but it misused in this film.  The Sil alien is probably one of the worst special effects I've ever seen in a film.  It looks so fake.  Director Roger Donaldson thought that the more they showed the alien, and the more it hissed and screeched like an animal, that it would be much scarier.  Quite the opposite of what I think is scary.  The official Alien films were great, because it was rare that you even got a glimpse of the creature.  Here, they have full frontal nudity with the alien(and Natasha Henstridge).  Bad move.  It's a shame, because this was a unique opportunity for a good film.  It's OK, I guess.  It's not as horrid as some of the other ill fated junk I've seen on the Sci-Fi Channel.  But if I had simply rented this film(which I wish I could've done), I wouldn't have ever thought about buying this.  "}{"Title":"Learn to accept it as a near porno flick, and it's quite fun","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" While Species has as its actual plot a group of scientists looking for an escaped alien specimen - did somebody say Alien ripoff? - I derived that the whole movie was really an excuse to show off Natasha Henstridge's breasts. If in fact that was the film's purpose, then they did a pretty good job with it (seriously, not many movies get sexier than this). If the flick was supposed to have any real purpose beyond that, then I don't know what they were thinking. Just accept that the movie probably got made with the aim of sexually arousing teenage boys, and it'll be perfectly easy to enjoy the flick. Personally, I wouldn't mind getting slinky with that alien babe! Also starring Ben Kingsley, Michael Madsen, Marg Helgenberger and Forest Whitaker. I don't know whether or not they want to stress this film when discussing their careers. "},{"Title":"one of the better films of the genre","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" i liked this movie much more than most of the people on this site,judging by the low rating(5.4/10)it's no master piece,to be sure,but i did think it had some originality not so much with the basic premise,but rather what they did with it.i liked the story and the characters.the acting is good all around,and there's lots of action.i will mention that there is one really disgusting scene that nearly made me blow chunks.even with repeated viewing,this scenes still has the same effect on me.one big bonus of this film is that it introduced the world to Natasha Henstridge,who is truly stunning.obviously,this is not the first movie in the alien genre,so it can't be completely original,but like i said,how they dealt with the subject matter was unique.this is one of the better movies of the genre.Species is a 8/10 from me. "},{"Title":"Natasha Henstridge is a real man-eater. Literally!","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Species was made a whole 16 years after Alien. And it was the success of Species that led to a whole new batch of revivals (ripoffs!) on that same theme. Alien predator on a killing spree. The novelty of Species is this is an alien/human hybrid. Its a woman. And there's even a hint of Basic Instinct thrown in for good measure.Although Species has been trashed in quite a few corners, its not an altogether bad film. In fact, its a guilty pleasure of mine. Its got a little bit more going for it than your standard, run of the mill B-Grade creature feature. Its got good direction. Some stunning conceptual designs from Alien man H.R Giger himself. The haunting musical score from Christopher Young is effective. And there's a surprisingly good cast.We've got Ben Kingsley as Dr Xavier Fitch, the sinister scientist who's let this monster loose on the public. He's the last person you'd expect to find in a film like this.Michael Madsen is good as always as Preston Lennox, a freelance troubleshooter. With all the best lines.Alfred Molina puts in a humorous turn as anthropologist Dr Stephen Arden.Marg Helgenberger is OK as biologist Laura Baker.And Forest Whitaker, in a role 100 light-years away from his Oscar winning Idi Amin, puts in a rather irritating performance as empath Dan Smithson. A psychic who seems to be one step behind everybody else.Species brought to light the previously unknown Natasha Henstridge as Sil, the shape-shifting sex-bomb desperate to mate with a compatible male and start a whole new species. She's certainly physically matched to the role. She spends half the time topless, peeling off her clothes at every opportunity. When it comes to actual acting ability, Henstridge expectedly comes up a bit short. She never really generates much of a threatening presence. Famke Janssen would have been more ideal to the part. With her exotic good looks, she can tantalise and communicate sinister intent all at the same time.Also Sil picks up driving and accessorising in a surprisingly short amount of time. She's designed to be threatening or fragile depending on the needs of the moment. Which is pretty poor writing if you ask me.But despite the utter predictability of it all, I for one rather liked Species. Its quite easy to get into, and there are moments that hold an intensifying charge. The scenes of a teenage Sil about to be killed through Cyanide by Fitch is a real corker of an opener. As is her escape, and her eventual metamorphosis into the beautiful, adult Sil.Its nice to see H.R Giger back in SF again. And with Species, he does manage to craft more of his customary striking imagery. Sil's nightmares are interesting but much too brief to leave any real lasting impact. Except for the image of a train that almost looks like carriages engaged in a sexual act. When it comes to creating the alien half of Sil, he's less successful. She looks like a poor imitation of Giger's own designs for Alien. And the special effects are so variable they never instill an inhuman, unearthly horror in you like they're supposed to.Species is at its most effective when the plot is moving along. And for the most part, it moves at a brisk pace. Like the team's investigations and Sil's discovery of her alien half. Some scenes don't work. The scene where Preston and Laura are trapped in a lab with a growing alien DNA sample begins on a suspenseful note, but it goes on for far too long. And Ben Kingsley's annoyingly bureaucratic performance saps the scene of all its shock value. Compare it to Ripley and Newt's similar situation with two face-huggers in Aliens. That's the way to do it!Also, what exactly are Sil's nightmares supposed to represent? The film never bothers to explain. I get the impression at perhaps some early stage, they would have played a more important part than they do. Even Sil questions what they mean at one point. But obviously any further development on that subject has been left on the cutting room floor. So Sil's motivations are maddeningly incomplete. We're never even sure why she wants a baby so badly. She just suddenly decides she does. (An excuse to include some sex scenes probably!).Species does make up for some shortcomings in other areas. The byplay between the team feels natural and easygoing. And Michael Madsen saves a lot of scenes with his droll delivery. When Fitch tells them they made Sil female because she would be more docile and controllable, Preston replies You guys don't get out much!They are really just a bunch of stereotypes, but because they're such a good bunch of actors, they help to make Species more enjoyable than it has a right to be. Shame that at the end the film heads straight for B-Movie territory. Beforehand, there are some genuine jolts. Like the horrible scene when Sil cuts off a woman's thumb just to see what will happen.But at the end, it goes for the mundane. Starting with a faked death. Stolen from Alien. And then a final shootout. In some caves. In LA! Anyway, because of the poor optical effects, it robs the climax of any tension, and by that time you're half wishing the film were over.When it finally is, does Species leave a lasting impression? Natasha Henstridge's perfectly shaped arse certainly does. I suppose the film doesn't completely fade from memory. But its not something you'll be revisiting all that often. "},{"Title":"Basic Instinct Meets Alien Sci-Fi Horror","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Species (1995) Starring Natasha Henstridge, Ben Kingsley, Michael Madsen, Forest Whitaker, Marg Helgenberger, Alfred Molina, Michelle Williams, Virginia Morris, Herta Ware, Shirley Prestia, David Selburg, William Bumiller, Whip Hubley, Anthony Guidera, Don Fischer, Jordan Lund, Scott McKenna, Jayne Luke, Melissa Bickerton, William Utay, Stogie Kenyatta, Gary Bullock, Susan Hauser, Matthew Ashford, Richard FAncy, Leslie Ishii, Marliese Schneider, Ed Stone, Pamela Cook, Dendrie Taylor, DAna Hee, Jellybean Benitez, Jimmy Chunga, Coati Mundi, Zak Knutson....Director Roger Donaldson, Screenplay Dennis Feldman.There are some science fiction horror films that, try as they might to appear like a sensational, top-notch thriller with serious Hollywood actors, fail miserably due to reasons such as a poor script and weak premise. This is the case with Species, from Director Roger Donaldson, released in 1995. It was not a surprise to many when this film went straight to video or the airplane movie feature. Possibly inspired by the more successful blockbuster hit Alien (which had starred Sigurney Weaver) and its sequels, Species starred A-list actor Sir Ben Kingsley and then popular actress Natasha Henstridge. Ben Kingsley won the Oscar for his role as Ghandi in the 1985 film. Here, Kingsley portrays the British Doctor Xavier Fitch, who together with Doctors Laura Baker (Marg Helgenberger) and Stephen Arden, decide to play God and create a hybrid- a perfect specimen of a woman (Natasha Henstridge) who has one human parent and one space alien parent. The alien side of her, of course, takes over completely. Before long, Dr. Fitch and his crew realize what a monster and global threat they have unleashed. The creature assumes the body of the seemingly innocent, blonde beauty Sil who immediately sets out to mate and populate the earth to a degree they will destroy all the humans, whom she believes are inferior. She seeks out nightclubs in LA to find the right mate. Dr. Fitch, Dr. Baker and Dr. Arden have a strong hero on their side- Preston Lennox (Michael Madsen) who wishes to put an end to the alien's predatory game. The film did not do well at the box office because the script by Dennis Feldman is nothing noteworthy and borders on camp. It's likely he was influenced by episodes of the popular series The X Files but he is clearly trying too hard and produced nothing good. The photography and cinematography is by foreign, no-name Andrzej Bartkowiak, who is clearly attempting to make this film look like a thriller modeled after Basic Instinct and Alien. Natasha Henstridge behaves like Sharon Stone in Basic Instinct when she is after what she wants- which is a sexual partner. Nevertheless, she is wooden and robotic in her performance, even when she attempts to behave like a normal human female. The music by Chris Young is rather dramatic but not memorable. This movie is now mostly enjoyed by young sci-fi fanatics who don't mind the cheesiness and appears on TV and cable in the late night hours. It is nothing worth raving about but it has a certain badness that also makes it good. I give it at least a 7. "},{"Title":"Natasha Henstridge... oo la la","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ben Kingsley heads a team who tampers with DNA and creates a superhuman girl who escapes and turns into adult Natasha Henstridge, nicknamed Sil. All Sil wants to do is mate to produce an offspring. A team of Michael Madsen, Alfred Molina, Forest Whitaker and Marg Helgenberger go after Sil. Sil leaves a path of death as she flees.Species is an interesting though gruesome movie. It moves along quickly and is better than average for a movie of its type. The movie isn't suitable for young children because of the nudity, simulated sex, and gruesome deaths.Very watchable sci-fi/horror film. "},{"Title":"Wow, Natasha Henstridge was literally born naked into the movies.","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Species starts out with a great premise. Scientists receive radio signals from outer space that, when decoded, include an alien form of DNA and instructions for combining it with human DNA, resulting in attractive human creatures that have attributes of the alien species. In the opening scene of the movie, scientists are trying to gas a cute little blonde girl to death, having learned that this particular alien species is far more than we can handle and, my god, making it female didn't make it more docile and controllable after all. I find the beginning premise fascinating to no end, but probably because I always forget that such story lines are dreamed up by people who have no more clue about what's out there than I do, so I'm probably not going to learn anything. That's why movies like this tend to go downhill in the second half.One of the most startling characteristics of this new species is its rapid growth rate. The subject has grown to the size and appearance of a 10-year-old girl after only a few days, and then before long into the statuesque form of Natasha Henstridge not long after. At this point, still well within the confines of the first act, it may become apparent that, if she has grown to maturity almost immediately, you might think she would grow into an old woman and die of old age before the week is out. Later in the movie you may also wonder how a few cells can grow into a bubbling mass of organic matter before the very eyes of shocked and frightened scientists with no nourishment whatsoever. What is being metabolized to allow it to grow like that?No matter. It's strange that the movie started off with such an interesting premise, a radio signal from a clearly intelligent alien species, and then all of a sudden we realize that that intelligent species is nothing but another slimy Hollywood alien. Try to imagine this alien, in its own form, sitting down to compose a radio signal including instructions for how to combine two types of DNA, and you have the chink in this movie's already thin armor. Forest Whitaker is great as the movie's resident psychic, I don't know why, he just fits roles like that really well. He's got one of those faces that always seems to be deep in thought, and is clearly not someone who easily fits in with the mainstream. He's very good at conveying emotion, from extreme sadness to gleeful happiness, and interestingly one of his best scenes is one in which he's drunk. Alfred Molina is also very good as the anthropologist, a very different role from the one he may now be better known for in Spiderman 2. There is a young actor named Michelle Williams who gives a wonderful performance as Sil, the human form of the alien, as a young girl, effectively portraying her fear of her sterile surroundings. Once she turns into the blonde bombshell that is Natasha Henstridge, the majority of the rest of the film is concerned with her burning desire to mate and create babies and with everyone else's growing desire to stop her before they lose containment even more completely. One thing that I found interesting about the movie was the locations. It was filmed mostly on location in Hollywood and the Santa Monica area, which is where I live, so it was interesting to see all of these street locations that I know so well. I found it a bit odd, though, that in one scene Michael Madsen's character reads Dr. Baker's (his romantic interest in the film) home address, which is a real address in Simi Valley. My grandparents live in Simi Valley, and over the Thanksgiving holiday this year I decided to ride my bike by the house that was mentioned in the movie. It's just some house, in case you were wondering, but the address is real.There are some strange scenes in the movie, such as the one where they find the crashed car that Sil was in, find the tip of one of her thumbs in the car, and assume that she's dead. What do they figure happened to the rest of her body? Vaporized? There is some great poetic justice, you might say, in her choice of a mate, but my favorite part of the movie was the part at the end when the woman wonders which half of Sil, the human or the alien, was the predatory half. Pretty interesting question about humanity, although a bit jarring to have come from what is at best a second rate science fiction film. "},{"Title":"great for it's type","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  For an alien B movie it's quite good. Some nice effects, good casting, action, and some creepy moments. A team of nerdy scientists (one of whom is a great looking woman),a psychic, and a contract killer team up to hunt down an escaped alien before she can breed. It's a fun movie.Marsden is his normally great self, the woman playing the alien is fantastic to look at. The alien doesn't arrive in a space ship but in a dna sequence that is transmitted to the earth and some type of secret US military group creates it. Good idea, very similar to a computer virus - it requires the recipient to open the executable then not have enough protection on the PC so that it's allowed to escape.  "},{"Title":"An endangered specimen - 47%","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having heard all about Ben Kingsley's Oscar nomination in the oddly named House Of Sand And Fog, it was interesting of the BBC to show one of Sir Kingsley's less respected films. They could have shown Gandhi or Sexy Beast but instead, we get Species - a modern version of those monster movies from the Fifties when it was a guy in a rubber suit. Here, the suit in question is the frequently nude Natasha Henstridge who is a human-alien hybrid, running rampant in downtown LA looking for a mate. And that, I'm afraid, is as deep as this film goes.The biggest let-down for this picture was the central premise, an idea almost as bad as that naked Keith Chegwin show on Channel Five a few years back. While the assorted cast (including Kingsley, Forest Whitaker as an apparently Muslim empath and Michael Stern Chops and Deep Voice Madsen) sleepwalk their way through the material, the audience stare slack-jawed at the screen for the next scene involving Henstridge's bare breasts. Well, the male audience. It almost suffered the Backgammon effect - the signs of a really boring movie when I reach for my mobile and boot up a game. I got to the menu but remembered my reviewing duties and so re-locked the keypad.Considering how flimsy the script is, it would almost be forgiven if it wasn't trying to be exactly like another, more successful monster movie. In its attempt to emulate Ridley Scott's superb Alien, they even bring in H.R. Giger (who designed the original Alien beastie) to design the alien creature here. Sadly, it looks rubbish. This new alien, called Sil, closely resembles the Alien queen - it gives birth through its chest and has a protruding set of teeth within its jaws. Giger's earlier monster looks like a creature from another world. Here, the alien has highlighted nipples mounted on a pair of perfectly formed milk-mounds (of course) and spikes protruding from its spine - about as scary as a six-week old baby that's fast asleep. The needless nudity is the only thing left to grab the attention as the good guys appear more and more incompetent and you end up rooting for the alien to eat them all up. To cap it all off, the ending was sign-posted from the beginning and left wide open for a sequel, which duly arrived. I'm not a big fan of this type of movie making. Make a film as though it were a one-off, unless you intend on making one story last over more than one film like Lord Of The Rings, for example. It's cheap and gives the impression that the film you're watching is nothing more than an exploitative money-making scheme. That feeling stank like high Hell come the end of Species.As you may have gathered, I did not like this film. It's dull, predictable and insulting to your intelligence. It isn't the worst film ever made, not by a long stretch - McCinsey's Island still holds that dubious honour by my reckoning. It's just not a very good one. Throw in some clunky special effects, the return of rubber suits (or what looks very similar) and possibly the worst bunch of heroes assembled for an action movie and Species will slip your mind faster than a new PIN code. "},{"Title":"a likeable B-movie and a showcase for Natasha Henstridge","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  while this movie is far from a masterpiece, on a B-movie level i found it enjoyable.the plot is not that original and the actors seem to act like they think they're in an important film sometimes instead of a B-movie.one of the keys to this movie's box office success was due to the frequent nude scenes by the stunning Natasha Henstridge. a lot of my guy friends watch this purely for that fact alone. the other actors are okay, but Forest Whitaker's character got on my last nerve. the special effects were a mixed bag with the CGI effects being the biggest culprit.but, i enjoyed it nonetheless for what it was and for that reason recommend as a good time waster.rating7   "},{"Title":"2/5","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Species is about a group of 4 people assigned to destroy an alien woman named Sil in order to prevent her from causing further trouble by mating. This film is not much the kind on which viewers will truly appreciate. For one reason, the plot is shallow. In addition, the film makes no essence for its spectators to appreciate.  "}{"Title":"When will you people learn alien/human hybrids are a bad idea?","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay. Sil was amazing, courtesy of H.R. Giger's designing, other than that this movie reminded me of a bad X-files episode. Not very original but there was lots of blood, nudity and gore to substitute for the lack of a plot-line.  "},{"Title":"Hot alien babe attacks L.A. single scene","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Natasha Henstridge shows her breasts. A lot. That is the single most important thing to know about Species. The scientists get a recipe for making aliens from outer space. So they decide to use the most babe potential DNA they can find and mix it with lizard alien DNA. Why they do this is unclear. What is clear is that what comes out of the oven is Natasha Henstridge, hot alien babe.So Natasha breaks loose and attacks the L.A. single scene looking for a guy. Thankfully for the viewer, she wants to mate. Badly. This gives her a chance to get naked on numerous occasions. There is the motley crew of scientists and others hunting her down. But again, the movie is about Natasha Henstridge making out and getting naked.As far as an alien movie goes, it was OK. I could have gone for some more action scenes with the alien. But I keep going back to naked Natasha. She was a sight to behold. Overall, Species is a decent horny alien on the loose flick.Natasha naked alien rating 9/10. Normal movie rating 6/10. "},{"Title":"Based on a highly original idea - Just not theirs.","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The fact that space is so vast and would be so difficult to traverse, the idea of sending radio signals to the target civilisation, so that they can assemble something that can present a message/launch an invasion (trojan horse) whatever was a highly original one and quite a radical new idea - when used by the BBC in A for Andromeda IN 1961. (It even pre-dates Dr Who). This movie shamlessly rips this off right down to the fact that a hybrid alien/female human is produced from the information. I'm surprised they weren't sued (though I did hear there was legal action about something). The movie is quite terrible after a promising first half and Forest Whitaker gives one of the worst performances of all time. The logic of the film is suspect, how does a thousand soldiers from the base manage to be in the all the places, the escaping Sil is not at the start and why do you need to get the bunch of no hopers in this film who had nothing to do with the project to find her. Why not just use the army who are trained to do it - or even the Federal Marshals. This lot would be the last on any list? Worst of all, the end of the film seems to just be that of the film post-production party where everyone goes to get drunk and tries to bonk each other. Everyone in this film has done much better work elsewhere and couldn't sink any lower (at least until I saw Natasha Henstridge in Maximum Risk). Woeful. "},{"Title":"A sci-fi classic","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The movie that introduced the world to the gorgeous Natasha Henstridge, SPECIES is essentially the 90s version of ALIEN. While it isn't quite as good as ALIEN, the special effects are certainly better than the ones in ALIEN. The special effects are the main reason to see SPECIES, which was one of the surprise hits of 1995. I did not see the movie until 1998, but I had heard some of my friends talk about the movie so I decided to check it out when it was on television one night. I was quite surprised how good it actually was. I expected it to be stupid and while there are some scenes where the movie seems to be approaching B territory, it's for the most part a solid sci-fi flick. Natasha Henstridge seems to be having fun with her role in her acting debut here. Recommended for sci-fi fans. *** "},{"Title":"I love this movie !","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the best horror movies EVER. Ancombination of horror movies , thriller movies , erotic movies ,and maybe more , the story is pretty good, any horror fan must see it ! The actors are great m and the designer is from Alien movies. "},{"Title":"Cheap Erotic Science Fiction","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Amazing how such talented actors (Forest Whitaker and Ben Kingsley ) participated this movie . A moronic script , coupled with a desperate attempt to emphasize the humanity of the alien , through sentences as bad as  I don't know why I'm here , do you ? ... This is still ten times better than the sequel , so you can imagine how bad that one is .  "},{"Title":"Has a few flaws but still highly enjoyable fare","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After escaping from a government lab, a team is gathered to track down he half-human, half-alien being disguised as a beautiful woman as she leaves a blood-soaked trail of carnage looking to mate.This wasn't all that bad and certainly has a lot going for it. The action-movie focus during the latter half results in some fine moments, as they chase her around town leading to scenes like the freeway chase into the hillside or the spectacular series of stalking and shoot-outs in the underground caves at the finale, among other top choices. The underground scenes in particular are among the film's best parts, as the disorienting caves, dark pits and waterways provide some great locations to generate some amazing shootouts and spectacle amongst it all. Other big action scenes are spread throughout the film and really help mask the fact that this is slightly too long, it's only big flaw, since there's several subplots that last too long or don't need to be included at all. Fortunately, the marvelous special effects for the alien being, abundant gore in the graphic kills and copious nudity also manage to overcome the film's rather weak CGI for the finale, and with enough tension and suspense from the main, make this one rather entertaining.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity, several Sex Scenes and animal violence "},{"Title":"She'll kill anyone who gets in her way","Date":"7 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When a lab experiment goes awry, two doctors, an Empath and a man who excels at killing are sent to retrieve the escaped specimen. She has the appearance of a normal woman, but Sil has half the DNA of an extra-terrestrial(I know, when *will* those eggheads learn?), and we don't know her limitations. One thing is for sure. She wants to mate. While this cheesy little sci-fi horror flick(reminiscent of those from the 50's) is silly and clichéd, it is also surprisingly engaging, and effort was put into making the script hold up... unusual for this sub-genre. We get a great and talented cast, and they deliver fairly good performances. Madsen is cool, Kingsley is determined, and Whitaker is hypersensitive. All three do well. This is downright creepy and scary, with tension, several nice jumps and some truly grotesque sights and sounds. The creature is built up well, with a chilling design(and who could forget the nightmare train sequence?) courtesy of H.R. Giger, famous for fathering the Alien for Ridley Scott's classic. This has reasonably solid production values(even if one explosion seems to get turned into three with the use of cheap zooming in), with great practical FX. The CGI is dated, and perhaps it wasn't impressive to begin with. This is genuinely funny. The concept isn't bad. And this was the first role for the incredibly stunning Natasha Henstridge. What she may lack in skill she more than makes up for in willingness to strip in front of the camera and appearance. She's naked for half her screen-time! This is pretty exploitative, as you may have guessed. We get plenty of bloody, gory violence, nudity and sex, several hot chicks and a bit of strong language. The DVD comes with a trailer for this and its direct sequel. I recommend this to any fan of this type of movie. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Entertaining, if not exceptional","Date":"5 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A genetic experiment crossing human and alien DNA, in the form of an attractive woman, escapes from a research facility with the intention of procreating. Unfortunately for her would be mates, she also seems to kill during the mating ritual.Species is a fun, rather low budget, exploitative science fiction horror movie along the lines of Life Force, with a fairly straightforward plot, a lot (for a theatrically released movie) of nudity, some interesting special effects and a bit of gore. A couple of well known actors such as Ben Kingsley and Forest Whitaker are in this and perform well. Natasha Henstridge is beautiful and does well enough as the human-alien hybrid.There are some suspenseful moments, some comedy and a bit of action that make this an entertaining, if not a particularly classy, movie. Well worth seeing for those who like this kind of b grade science fiction horror with nudity and action. "},{"Title":"An Okay Movie!","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Believe it or not but I was pressurized to see the movie by my peers because of Natasha Henstridge. I was told that her role in the movie was amazing. And I being that straight thinking guy, I had come thinking that she might have done some tough role in a nice way and I soon realized why my peers had admired her. They admired her for her body and nothing else. For you see, there is nothing in Natasha's character that makes you identify with her or sympathize with her. And thanks to the concept of the movie, nor does the movie make you feel like sleeping with her unless of course you are foolish enough.The plot of the movie is loose. You have an alien who is a girl child. She explodes through the time line growing up really fast. Soon, she is old enough to copulate and reproduce. And there is a bunch of guys who want to make sure she does not reproduce for the simple reason that you do not want the earth to be full of alien kids. Now, in all her desperation to copulate you get to see Natasha's character with bare minimum clothing. And just you are getting in the mood she turns into her alien form and then does something that leaves a bloody mess. It takes away the whole mood. So, in the end neither do you have the scope to appreciate the depth of a character and neither do you have the will to dream about spending a good time with her! The movie could have gone in a different direction. Instead of a mindless struggle of the character to have sex and a mindless chase of the agents to catch her and prevent her from doing so, the movie could have shown some kind of a struggle between the human side and the alien side. After all, the girl was shown to be an end product of some kind of a symbiotic combination of the human and the alien DNA. Or the movie could have made the sensual part more sensual and the movie would have had a cult following among some. At the same time, I must confess that the movie is a one time watch. But there is nothing in the movie that will make you go back and see it again. "}{"Title":"Movie bad, Natasha Henstridge good!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Alright, when I go to my movie and i want to watch a movie that has several nude scenes which have a very VERY hot woman in them, namely Natasha Henstridge, I pull out Species.  The movie itself as in plot, acting and such... isn't so great. But if you judge the quality of a movie by how hot the women in nude scenes are... Species is for you! "},{"Title":"sci-fi winner could use help but holds up well enough","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'A' list character actors and a slumming Ben Kingsley combined with an interesting twist to the whole 'maybe we aren't the top dog on the universal evolutionary ladder' trope make this a winning sci-fi picture.  Kingsley is under-used but effective, perhaps because the creators of this film knew the target audience would be more responsive to the numerous partially nude sequences with Henstridge.  The latter was an excellent casting decision for more reasons than the obvious physical charms; for the same reason Reeves was a bullseye for the overwhelmed Neo(phyte) in the original _Matrix_, Henstridge's naive Sil speaks little and gets away with being believably awkward.  The ending starts to spiral this ride out the tightly wound spool it started from, and leaves room for the obligatory sequel (which I'm not likely to rush out see, though not for the quality of THIS movie. More for the nature of slap-dash sequels all in the name of monetary profit for which the obvious exception is _Aliens_ to which _Species_ is already the progeny of.  Both were helped out tremendously in the creature design by the artist Giger) which is fairly annoying but doesn't sink the ship.  "},{"Title":"'Species' is pure garbage","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have only seen this Species. i have not seen the 1998 sequel yet, but i honestly don't plan on it. This movie was pure garbage and it made absolutly no sense. I usually enjoy sci-fi action movies but this wasn't even good. It was like gore and porn. Here are the good parts and flaws of SpeciesGood -NothingFlaws -Bad acting -Bad plot -Bad EffectsI give this film a rightfully deserved 0\10Species is rated R for sci-fi violence and gore, sex and lots of nudity "},{"Title":"Enjoyable trashy sci-fi/horror.","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  5.5 out of 10Species is nothing special, but the addition of Natasha Henstridge as a nubile space alien who often appears in the buff will probably highlight many a man's day.  That itself explains much of this movie's popularity, though it certainly has more going for it than just that.  The entire cast, for instance, is really quite good, particularly Michael Madsen as an efficient bounty hunter and Forest Whitaker as an empath.  The plot, while something of a rip-off of Lifeforce, is generally well-written, as far as these types of movies go and there are enough tense chase scenes to satisfy action buffs.  There are, however, still some major flaws.  The special effects from H.R. Giger are often distractingly bad, there's a subplot thrown in late in the film that pushes this movie far too close to soap opera levels, and Henstridge herself never feels like a very threatening villain in human form.  That's in contrast with Lifeforce, which featured Mathilda May (an actress who's actually considerably sexier than Henstridge) as both a gorgeous, nubile space alien AND as a terrifically creepy villainess. Still, see Species if you're in a T&A, blood and guts mood.   "},{"Title":"Perfect MST3K Fodder","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Gloriously bad! A great cast wasted (or were they?) in fact it appears these fine actors took a look at the screenplay and as a group decided not to take any of it seriously!Had the director lost control? It looks like they didn't care! There is no direction around the action only indication. The cast just hammed it up, to almost brilliant heights.Don't miss this hilariously flawed, car-wreck of a movie. If you love bad movies, it is not a waste of time.I have it on DVD and show it to all my friends, they love it! "},{"Title":"I have seen better sci-fi movies","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't think this movie was great. I think a lot of people over rated it, or thought that it was better than it really is. The special effects were pretty cool. I thought there would be more blood and killings, but there was still some. I say 4/10.  "},{"Title":"Good idea bad movie","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was really looking forward to seeing Species; I was 14 when it came out, so I couldn't see it at the cinema. I finally saw it on video the other day, and boy was I disappointed. I realised it is a straight-to-video quality exploitative B-movie with a 90's twist of the alien killing a few blokes. The unconvincing alien is yet more of HR Giger's sick,  self-indulgent weirdness, the universally poor performances are all either bland, irritating, embarrassing or all three. The movie is too fast paced for its own good, and too reliant on obvious gimmicks of gore and nudity.Basically, an alien/human hybrid escapes from a top secret lab, and a 'special' team of c-grade actors set out to catch her. Now, who would you send after a deadly alien killing machine? Something like Arnold Schwarzenegger's commando team from Predator, proberbaly? Not here. In Species, the team tracking the alien consists of a Captain Picard-lookalike, an EXTREMELY irritating fat guy who has a phsychic link with the alien, an embarrassing rugged tough guy, a Hugh Grant-type and some woman.The movie starts off fast and doesn't slow down, but this is not in its favour. The suspense should have been built up about Sil, the alien creature in the lab at the start, so we wonder WHY she is so dangerous - and then she escapes. It happens so fast and casually, it's not exciting. The action scenes are small, unoriginal, unimportant and badly shot.The worst thing about the movie is the acting.Natascha Henstridge is okay as the alien, but everybody else  is shockingly lame. The supposedly macho-hero guy is embarrassing - before the end he stops to mutter  cringe-worthy attempt at being cool and hard with the  line''Let go of him you motherf**ker.''  Even worse is the fat guy helping him hunt Sil. He is unbelievably irritating.There are only two good things about Species; they belong to Natascha Henstridge and appear quite a few times throughout the movie. The rest is lame.  "},{"Title":"Too much of a good body.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know this is a sci-fi movie and everyone here is talking about the concept, but the plot is basically that a gorgeous woman gets naked a heck of a lot.Of course, it isn't marketed like a sex film.  When my friends and I were watching and the first glimpse of naked Natasha breast is seen, everyone exclaimed Ooh! Pause it! Rewind it!. A half hour later, the exclamations were more along the lines of Oh, she's naked AGAIN?  What's the excuse this time?  After an hour and fifty minutes, we all finally understood how hanging around on a nude beach just might ruin the fun of seeing naked women.Oh, and as for the plot.  Eh.  "},{"Title":"ugh","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How does dialogue this terrible get into the movies these days?  Are there actually people who'd put their names to a script this bad?  Are they proud of what they've done?Species had an excellent premise, albeit one which heavily borrows from the classics in the genre (ie. The Hidden, all three Alien movies).  Natasha Henstridge is a beautiful young model/actress and plays her part well (thankfully, having little of this terrible dialogue to spew).  The special effects are well done, especially the transformation scenes from human to creature.The rest of the casting should have put Species over the top, with Michael Madsen, Marg Helgenberger, Forest Whitaker, Ben Kingsley and Alfred Molina. All have done so much better work than is on display in this film.  I guess they were all picking up a paycheck and trying hard not to break up laughing at issuing this slop.  Forest Whitaker's character was particularly embarrassing and poorly written.Strangely, I came away from the movie with some interest in seeing more of Henstridge's work.  And the actress who plays the younger version of Sil does a nice job (again, zero dialogue to gut her performance).  "},{"Title":"Aaah, Marg Helgenberger!","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, this movie was a great occasion to see Marg Helgenberger outside from China Beach where she starred as the long-legged K.C. Kolowski. At that time (1994) she was 36 (she was born in 1958) and expressed a mature beauty. What a pity, we couldn't see well her body (such a dummy this cameraman!) But, fortunately we've seen Natacha Henstridge at the top of her beauty (she was 20). The plot of the movie was not bad although people think it is a remake from Alien but 1 - There is a human dimension in Species. 2 - We haven't seen Sigourney Weaver's breast in Alien "}{"Title":"Just another unoriginal Alien ripoff","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Species is a long, lame science fiction film that is short on imagination. It wastes the good talents of Ben Kingsley (Gandhi), Michael Madsen (Reservoir Dogs), Forest Whitaker (Bird), and Natasha Henstridge. Kingsley is a scientist whose experiment goes awry and must assemble a small group to track down Henstridge who is out to mate and reproduce.  Even the special effects are repulsive.  My evaluation *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"One of the worst pieces of crap to come down the pipe","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie would have been great if there had been more of a campy element to it.  Instead, it strove oh-so-hard to take itself seriously, which makes it very painful indeed.  Considering the cast, one would expect a better movie.  At least Natasha Henstridge is not hard on the eyes... "},{"Title":"Early promise of this Species soon becomes extinct","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Species' features a fantastic cast, and it gets off to a reasonably strong start, but it very quickly begins to deteriorate and eventually limps through its drawn out finale with all of its early promise wasted and forgotten.Kingsley, Madsen, Helgenberger, Whittaker and Molina do what they can with their stock characters and thin script, and (then) newcomer Natasha Henstridge is flat-out breathtaking as Sil. And though she's not given much to do save for walk around in various states of undress, Henstridge does a reasonably good job as both a curious blank slate and a deadly black widow predator. But unfortunately they're not enough to lift 'Species' to the next rung of the evolutionary ladder. "},{"Title":"Better Made Than It Deserves.","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A surprisingly strong cast of solid actors(past & future Academy Award winners Ben Kingsly & Forest Whitaker among them!), and a good director(Roger Donaldson) all involved in a trashy Sci-Fi story about an alien replicated from captured DNA in a secret government experiment, being pursued by a crack team of scientists and soldiers after she escapes, and wrecks havoc across the city as it becomes determined to reproduce its species on Earth, or die trying...Nothing new or original in this story at all, certainly not thought-provoking Science Fiction, but is slickly put together, though why such fuss was made about such low-rent material is unknown... "},{"Title":"Don't take it too seriously...","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The key to watching this film is to not take it too seriously. Experiments conducted by a group of scientists (led by po-faced Ben Kingsley) on a little alien girl called 'Sil' go disastrously wrong when she escapes from their lab, develops and has only one thing on her mind mating. A group is assembled to hunt her down before she manages to have a baby with some unfortunate human male. What follows is simply a bit of sci-fi fun. The film is full of action and the action scenes and special effects are well done. The cast is surprising, simply because it is so good! Michael Madsen, Alfred Molina, Forrest Whittaker, Marg Helgenberger and Sir Ben Kingsley. Yet with this ensemble cast, not one of them turns in a particularly good performance. Blame for this should in part be attributed to the awful script. Nevertheless, Helgenberger is bland, Whittaker is irritating and Ben Kingsley (of Gandhi, House of Sand and Fog, Sexy Beast and Schindler's List fame) is absolutely terrible. The characters fail to be fleshed out and fail to be likable. Alfred Molina's character is somewhat endearing though. Making this film popular with the male population is perhaps Natasha Henstridge as the alien Sil. She spends a large portion of the film without any clothes on trying to seduce various men she picks up. Her acting ability is questionable but that's probably not why she was chosen for the part! Anyway, if you overlook the flaws, its just a bit of a laugh. "},{"Title":"Twaddle","Date":"29 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" If this had been made as a comedy it might have worked, but as a serious sci-fi/monster movie it's pretty dire. Lack-lustre acting and directing combine with a weak script to produce a rather amateurish and only mildly entertaining film.It does at least move along at a decent pace, which makes it undemanding viewing. The sex and violence is moderate but gratuitous, and one has to wonder what sort of story has to rely on a beautiful young woman frequently exhibiting her natural assets in order to maintain interest.A total lack of humour suggests a certain pretence of plausibility that simply doesn't exist here. Watchable, but won't appeal to serious sci-fi fans. "},{"Title":"very sexual film","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this film when I was 9 then the last half again when I was 12 and I have to say this film is really scary. I was pissing myself when I saw it at 9 but at 12 I was just a bit cautious, the main thing I liked about this movie was of course the sex. Honestly this is the one movie I've seen which is 2nd closest to xxx porn. (1st is the movie 9 Songs which I haven't seen). Most of the movie was just literally just fifteen minuet sex scenes. There's a scene where a woman gives a man a blow-job,one where Eve and a man are having actual sex in a hotel room, sex scene in a pool. She even rapes a few men! It is a violent movie though but has extreme sexual content. I had an erection through out most of the movie! "},{"Title":"Great Si-Fi Film","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" There is plenty of action in this film dealing with people from another planet who send information to some scientists who are interested in UFO's and communicating with them. These scientists obtain information from outer space about a DNA embryo which they fertilize and a baby by mistake is born and escapes into the world. Xavier Fitch, (Ben Kingsley) is in charge of this experiment and calls in a group of people who can help him locate where this baby has disappeared to. Dr. Laura Baker, (Marg Helgenberger) assists Xavier in their search and finds out that this baby is no longer a child but a full grown woman and they have to locate this person quickly because she has already killed quite a few people and desperately wants to have a baby whenever she can find the most suitable man. There is plenty of blood and guts and very romantic scenes which usually wind up in a blood bath death. Marg Helgenberger, star of CSI Las Vegas gave an outstanding performance in this film and I can fully understand why she was selected to star in the CSI TV Series where she deals with DNA all the time. "},{"Title":"Lets just say I'm a freelance solution to some of our Governments problems. Enjoyable mix of horror, Sci-Fi & female toplessness...","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Species starts at 'U.S. Government Laboratories Dugway, Utah' where a young girl named Sil (Michelle Williams) has been created by altering human DNA by Dr. Xavier Fitch (Ben Kingsley) & his team who are using a blueprint in a message sent by extra-terrestrial life from outer space. The decision has been made to terminate the experiment, that means Sil has to be killed which is an idea she isn't keen on so breaks out of the lab & disappear into the darkness of the night. Sil manges to make it to Los Angeles by train having now reached adulthood (Natasha Henstridge) where she becomes intent on completing her life cycle by reproducing & having a baby. Fitch assembles a team to find & kill Sil, a professional hit-man called Preston Lennox (Michael Madsen), a molecular biologist named Dr. Laura Baker (Marg Helgenberger), Dan Smithson (Forest Whitaker) an empath & finally Dr. Stephen Arden (Alfred Molina). Together they trace Sil to Los Angeles where they must find & stop Sil before she mates & infects the human race with the strain of deadly alien DNA...Directed by Roger Donaldson I thought Species was a good solid horror Sci-Fi film. Why does the IMDb list Species main genre as drama? Horror is the last one it lists when it should be the first. The script by Dennis Feldman moves along at a fair pace although I must admit my interest started to wain towards the end & there are some gaping plot holes that annoyed me. For instance why is it so hard for Sil to have sex? I'd have thought having the looks of Natasha Henstridge would mean she could have sex morning, noon & night if she wanted! I don't know about Los Angeles but where I live we'd be queueing up round the block! Also when she knows that Fitch & his team are after her why does she deliberately seek them out, even after she has faked her own death? Why attract the attention of the only people on Earth who know who she is & want to kill her? On a positive note Species provides good entertainment & Natasha Henstridge naked, what more do you want? With an estimated budget of $35,000,000 director Donaldson does an OK job but fails to create much tension or atmosphere, Species looks & feels rather bland & forgettable throughout. A sequence when Lennox & Baker are trapped in a isolation chamber with some mutant alien DNA falls particularly flat & is distinctly ineffective. The special effects are a mixed bag, some of the CGI Sil alien effects at the end are poor by todays high standards although the special make-up & creature effects look better. The alien Sil was designed by H.R. Giger complete with exaggerated red nipples one of which shoots out & acts like a tentacle isn't exactly a million miles away from the look of the alien from Alien (1979) which Giger also designed. There is some violence & gore here as Sil leaves behind a steady supply of bodies, a ripped out spine, tentacles bursting through the back of peoples heads & a chopped off thumb. The acting is OK by all involved although Kingsley isn't given that much to do, Madsen makes for a likable hero. The sequel Species II (1998) came three years after this & in my humble opinion is better. Species is definitely worth watching although I think it plays a little longish at times & I doubt I'll be sitting through it again anytime soon. "},{"Title":"Laughably hammy and just plain shoddy excuse for cheap porno.","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Talk about a bad film! `Species' is just plain awful. I can't think of a single redeeming quality that is present. This was simply a poor attempt from all concerned. The appearance of the alien was actually taken from the one from the `Alien' movies, surprisingly enough. But the special effects and visual images all look very cheesy. For about an hour and a half of the running time, the film takes on that all too unimaginative `cat and mouse' scenario with the heroes of the movie always being one step behind. This wears thin very quickly and leaves with nothing worth any attention.How could low budget nonsense like this, afford to get such a cast in it? Ben Kingsley, Forest Whitaker, Michael Madsen and (the next Doctor Octopus) Alfred Molina all appear in the film. I think they were tricked or maybe even blackmailed into signing on. The names of the characters are even worse; Preston Lennox, Professor Xavier, Sil(icon?).  They consist of a hopeless romantic, a rather untalented psychic, a dumb broad, an over-macho over-cool scientist (?), an 11-year-old girl (played by a 28-year-old) and an all too typical brainy professor.It's so bad it's almost unintentionally funny. Either way, `Species' is a hopelessly bad movie that is doomed all the way from it's opening sequence. 3.4/10.   "}{"Title":"Great cast..","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure this is a genre movie but as genre movies go this is a very good one....start with a great cast Michael Madsen, Marg Helgenberger, Ben Kingsley, Forest Whitaker, etc...and add in a gorgeous Natasha Henstridge...some minor character developement and some cool effects and grab the popcorn.. "},{"Title":"Interesting and action packed Sci-Fi...just skip the ending","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie has a nice blend of intrigue and action. An interesting science fiction premise; aliens send radio message in response to our radio signals being sent out into space. This alien message details how to combine human DNA with Alien DNA. A Top Secret government project ensues and follows the direction to create Sil (half human/ half something else). Orders come from above to terminate the creature, but Sil escapes as her abilities were drastically underestimated. The rest of the movie follows a special unit as they attempt to track the rogue creature, and it attempts to situate itself in modern Los Angeles. Natasha Henstridge is excellent as the awkward but vicious creature Sil. It was interesting to watch her character learn by observation the habits and practices of humans. Generally competent performances all around. Michael Madsen plays the badass character quite well again. Forest Whittaker is also good as the psychic.Good directing, interesting art direction, and decent characterization provide an intriguing story line. The action sequences are pretty solid and engaging. Kind of violent and gory, but I happen to enjoy these elements in a horror flick. Several scenes of Natasha's beautiful nude body, but it fits into the story (Sil wants to complete her life cycle by having a baby, so sex scenes are inevitable). The creature design itself is excellent. A CGI creature designed by the immortal H.R. Giger, I greatly approve of the monster. My only complaint is it looks a little too fake at the end of the movie (not the most realistic CGI effects). My main complaint is the story completely falls apart at the end. I suggest turning the movie off once they enter the sewer for the final showdown. The ending is rather dull and sadly predictable (not to mention a complete rip-off straight from Alien with the metal grate walkways and the creature lurking above). We see the creature more clearly, but less would be better considering the unrealistic CGI effects. FINAL RATING 7/10 - This movie could have been great if only it had a better ending. As it stands, it still remains a intriguing and action-packed Sci-Fi adventure up until the last twenty minutes when it all falls apart. Fans of the Sci-Fi/Horror genre (as I am) will probably like this film very much despite its flaws. Recommended!Noob Aalox  "},{"Title":"The New Predator","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film brings back memories of 80's classics such as predator.  However, this doesn't mean that the film is a cheap rip-off like most predator clones.  This is in fact an original film that has a fast-pace and plenty of action in the story.It has simple direction, nothing fancy or new, except for the scenes of Sil's inside feelings.  The acting is also good, especially from Michael Madsen as the hard government assassin Pres, Forest Whitaker as the psychic Dan, Alfred Molina as the mumbling British scientist and Ben Kingsley as the misfortunate leader.Don't miss Michelle Williams in a pre-Dawsons Creek role as the young alien Sil, and it would be impossible to miss Natasha Henstridge as the fully grown Sil.  Wow. "},{"Title":"Lighten up people, this movie is a blast!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Why is everyone complaining about this movie?  All these user comments whining about how dumb it is and how bad the acting is are missing the point.  It's a classic Sci-Fi B-movie!  It's supposed to be fun!I agree, this movie isn't perfect.  I'd say most of the actors are slumming it (especially Ben Kingsley - who knew Ghandi had such a mean streak) but they seem to be having a good time (this is the only time I've seen Michael Madsen smile).  My biggest complaint is that Forest Whitaker's empath character seems to have a real gift for stating the obvious (She walked... She walked that way.)I like intelligent science fiction too, but I think that Star Trek and The X-Files have ruined some peoples ability to enjoy a fun, 'check-your-brain-at-the-door' Sci-Fi/Action flick like this one. "},{"Title":"Very Good!","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought that this was a very good movie,one of the best in it's Genre.Great Actors, good storyline, it's really worth seeing. Michelle Williams from Dawson's Creek is in it and that makes it better.I give this movie a 8!!! "},{"Title":"The action makes up for it!!!","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This started of as a promising story line and did not end in disappointment. Shame about the middle.Lots of unnecessary sex turned this film into any other typical Hollywood movie, however the effects were at times stunning and Ben Kingsley puts in yet another grand performance. "},{"Title":"Spine-ripping alien sex schlock horror.","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Any film featuring a creature designed by H.R. Giger has got to be worth a look, even more so if it also features plenty of nudity from hottie Natasha Henstridge and a decent cast including Michael Madsen, Alfred Molina, Ben Kingsley and Forest Whitaker.In Species, a female human/alien hybrid, created by meddling scientists (when will they ever learn?), escapes from a high-tech laboratory in order to procreate. With the fate of the human race at stake, a group of 'specialists' (some more scientists, an empath and a mercenary) are gathered together to try and trap the creature (named Sil) before she can successfully mate with a healthy male.As a popcorn flick, Species is a success, delivering plenty of thrills, some gratuitous nekkidness, and a touch of nice juicy gore. Towards the end of the film, like all good movie monsters, Sil heads for the sewers and here the plot becomes a bit strained (and the CGI effects a tad weak), but for the majority of the time, this sci-fi/horror is very entertaining. After all, this is pure schlock, albeit with a budget, and as such the story shouldn't be dissected too thoroughly.I had deducted one point from my rating due to a couple of ridiculous mechanical scares (a squirrel jumps onto one of the characters(!) and a tramp lurches from behind a dumpster), but reinstated it after hearing Molina deliver the immortal post-copulation line well, I enjoyed that immensely. So it's a decent 8/10 from me for this unpretentious slice of scaly alien fun. "},{"Title":"A midnight movie to enjoy","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why good? Original story. Well designed female creature. Good special effects that are very effective. Artistic touch to the whole production (the nightmare train sequence is a highly memorable scene). Though, a bit disappointed with a very faint presence of Mr Giger in the whole project. It could have been the gallery of Giger horrors on screen (The Tourist anyone?). If it had been like that, the movie would have easily become an even more precious experience for the faint-hearted.The movie, as it is, seems to be not recognized (it's fate is similar to The Lawnmower Man) but it is almost as good as Alien. Even the sex scenes are very to the point (essential to the plot). The follow-ups stink, of course.As to the mark, it lives up to a 9. Thank you for attention. "},{"Title":"And you thought Godzilla was bad ...","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very bad movie. The acting is poor and the directing is even worse. If you've got a bunch of buddies over and just want something to laugh at, then this would be a good movie to rent. It's my thinking that the makers of this movie wanted this movie to be taken seriously, as some attempt at a sci-fi/thriller. The attempt fails miserably. About every fifteen minutes during this film you will ask yourself What else could I be doing? "},{"Title":"GREAT!!!","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I admit though it is not the perfect movie to watch, I bet everyone is drooling to watch the show as it concentrated mostly on sex. It is normal to get attracted by it, especially with the nice figure of Natasha Henstidge. But, we also have to admit that Natasha is really seductive as she is wanted by everyone. With her beautiful face, how could anyone say this movie is not attractive. "}{"Title":"Natascha Henstridge naked, but otherwise the worst movie ever made.","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie does everything wrong. Terrible, corny dialogue, which results in terrible performances by actors trying to keep straight faces, a nauseating cast of supporting characters, Forest Whittaker's psychic (who sees the alien has abandoned her car and predicts she walked; sees two people chatting intimately at a bar and predicts they like each other, and is the last to realise that the alien wants to have a baby), Michael Madsen doing his pretensious sunglasses-wearing, brow-furrowing, i-used-to-be-in-Reservoir-Dogs aren't-i-a-toughguy thing, Ben Kingsley with a strange hybrid accent doing an impression of Patrick Stewart and Alfred Molina and that chick from CSI looking young and old respectively, yet both still quite annoying.This movie doesn't even have the appeal of fun bad movies - it takes itself by far too seriously for the rubbish it is an evil government agency man (mad scientist) injects a beautiful girl's DNA with Alien DNA and it escapes and starts killing people for no good reason. Michelle Williams from Dick and TV's Dawson's Creek is one of the only two highlights, the other being the beautiful body of goddess Natascha Henstridge (who seems happy to partake in many let's take our clothes off for no good reason scenes, always a sign of a quality production).So yeah, the really only appeal of this movie is if you want to see Natasha Henstridge naked. Granted this appeal is a fairly incredible one, and there is quite a bit of it to be seen, but the corny dialogue, posing and posturing instead of acting, and sex and violence exploitation style of filmmaking might make the rest of this movie (those few parts that don't involve Natascha Henstridge naked) a bit hard to put up with. "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What on earth is Ben Kingsley, that tremendously talented actor, doing in this piece of garbage? Species is put together on the principle that if you have enough violence, sex and nudity, you do not need a coherent story line. There is not even a pretense of making sense. I have not seen and will not see Species II, but apparently that's even worse.  "},{"Title":"Not impressed.","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a sad day it is when a movie like this becomes famous simply because the main woman is so ridiculously hot.I don't understand how some many great actors got involved with this movie? Kingsley, Molina, Whitaker, Madsen all these guys have been in wonderfully memorable, even culturally significant films.How did this happen? It's a movie about and alien who dresses up like one of the hottest women on earth in order to kill us men and make a big mess. She is very hot but acting is not her strong suit.The effects look dated these days and since the story is so stupid the movie ends up having no redeeming qualities.I just don't understand how a movie like this happens? "},{"Title":"Feces Would've Been A More Appropriate Title","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's certain films that I like to call trailer flicks -- films that look like terrific fun as a ninety-second trailer or preview, but make a rotten ninety-minute movie.  Species is a terrific example of a trailer flick.  Lots of action, lots of science fiction technobabble, alien monster designs by H.R. Giger (of Alien), good actors, a drop-dead gorgeous, sexy babe to play a sex-crazed alien . . . what more could a filmgoer (or, at least a sci-fi filmgeek) want?  As it turns out, quite a lot, actually. Like a plot.  Or a sense of direction.  Or an ounce of common sense.  Or a clue.   Species features none of these commodities, which makes it unappealing for the vast majority of filmgoers; it also features precious few moments of excitement, gratuitous violence, and gratuitous nudity, which makes it unappealing for the teenaged male filmgeek audience.  Either way, the movie is pure garbage, little more than a Friday the 13th, Part 5 film with a sci-fi label slapped on its side.The convoluted mess that passes itself off as a story in Species actually starts off with a slightly interesting premise Radio telescopes pick up signals from deep space that, when translated properly, reveal a formula for an alien DNA string that can be combined with human DNA. This DNA combination, in theory, should produce a hybrid creature that has both human and alien characteristics, allowing humans to learn about this alien species in a manner that is at least slightly familiar ground.  The premise, though, quickly devolves into schlock as the alien hybrid -- named Sil (Natasha Henstridge) -- quickly develops and matures into a blonde bombshell capable of posing as a Penthouse centerfold.  She also develops a need to breed with human males -- turns out that her progeny, of course, will turn into vicious alien killers that want to destroy humankind.  Scientists figure out a little too late that Sil is basically bad news for mankind, so she is able to escape from them without much difficulty, and it is left up to Professor Xavier Fitch (Ben Kingsley) and his motley crew of scientists and soldier to either capture or destroy Sil before she can mutate into her true, disgusting, alien form &#150; and is able to set in motion the destruction of the Earth . . .Species is predictable to a fault, and offers no insight into any of the potential (and few) interesting ideas it offers.  Who are the alien beings? Where do they come from?  Why do they care about humanity at all, and why do they want the human race wiped out of existence?  Because alien beings are bad -- at least that's the only explanation offered.  Sil, the alien hybrid, also offers some true glimmers of interest.  At one point in the film, when confronted with her destructive nature, she asks her creators What am I? in a somewhat pitiful manner -- her need to mate and destroy is driven by instinct, not by conscious thought, and even she recognizes the horror lurking inside her.  A savvier film would've explored this idea further; Species instead chooses to focus on deep, insightful things like Sil removing her bra in slow motion, blood, and big explosions.  By the time our supposedly smart heroes are chasing Sil through a dark labyrinth of sewers, it's obvious that Species has nothing to offer apart from the message offered in the first ten minutes -- alien beings are bad.The direction of Species is obscenely lazy -- most of the supposed thrills generated by the film involve Sil jumping out of the darkness and attacking things.   This works maybe once or twice, but after the first dozen or so times, it stops being even remotely scary.  Director Roger Donaldson's solution to this problem is so simply start adding blood and gore to these scenes, which again works once or twice . . . and then gets boring fast. Unfortunately, everything gets permanently boring somewhere around the halfway mark of the film.  Species is a film that thinks it's enough to just show up with cool-looking monsters and special effects . . . wrong. It's called suspense, and it's sorely missing from this film.  You'd think that a film borrowing from the look and designs of Alien would at least have the decency to check out how Ridley Scott made Alien a masterpiece of suspense.The acting?  Not much can be said about it, apart from it's mediocre at best, awful at worst.   It's hard to knock Natasha Henstridge for a role that merely asks that she become eye candy for the first half of the film -- she does exactly that, and nothing more.  I hope she was paid well. As for Ben Kingsley . . . I'm a big fan of his in other films, but he simply mails in a performance here.  He actually looks bored in his scenes.  I can't say I blame him, given how bad this flick is, but still, c'mon, a little effort, please?  The rest of the cast is completely forgettable, which is probably a good thing.  I wouldn't want to be remembered as a featured actor in Species, either.Species is a film that aspires for big-budget greatness.  Unfortunately, it's crap that even Roger Corman wouldn't touch with a ten-foot pole. There's worse sci-fi films than Species -- namely, Species 2 -- but not many.  Unless you want to deliberately waste an hour and a half of your life, don't bother with this movie.  Grade D  "},{"Title":"Fecies...","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really hate to belabor the obvious, but SPECIES is one of those movies that's just asking for it badly conceived and written, poorly directed with a cast miscast to a man, it's cruisin' for a bruisin'. Let's rip off ALIEN, someone somewhere apparently suggested. (Never knowing or caring that ALIEN itself was a hodgepodge of several older films, including IT! THE TERROR FROM OUTER SPACE, FEIND WITHOUT A FACE, PLANET OF THE VAMPIRES and David Cronenbergs THEY CAME FROM WITHIN.) We can even get Giger to design OUR alien, another Mental Midget chimed in. And thus was born... SPECIES. With the obvious exception of Natasha Hestridge's nude scenes, there's nothing at all to recommend this one- and, even if you're a fan of John Carpenter's GHOSTS OF MARS (in which Miss Hestridge proves herself a most CAPABLE actress), I'd think twice if I were you before forking over the money to see this one. "},{"Title":"Rubbishy fun","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Somehow this knockabout trash about an escaped alien-human hybrid in search of a mate managed to avoid the straight-to-video pile despite being little more than an excuse for a few car chases and many sightings of Natasha Henstridge's knockers. In a stroke of luck, the first programmes Henstridge sees on TV once she's on the loose teach her how to use money and credit cards, drive, have sex, dye her hair and crash a car into a pylon, all of which come in handy as the plot unfolds. Meanwhile Ben Kingsley and Forest Whitaker take it all too seriously, Alfred Molina is funny on purpose, the score is atmospheric if reminiscent of 'Aliens' in places, and there's a nicely played romance between Michael Madsen and Marg Helgenberger. This is, of course, absolute rubbish, but there's a sense that the movie knows that and as a result it's all rather likable. "},{"Title":"Derivative","Date":"25 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not just a cheesier, trashier knockoff of the second Terminator with some Alien and nudity thrown in. It has something else going.You have four 'watchers', four pairs of eyes led by the scientific 'mastermind' of an experiment in engineering hybrid vision. One is an action nut, one is intuitive, the other two are analytical minds. All four watch and make guesses on the direction that the monster movie plot is taking. Instead of this enhancing the product, it only reveals limitations in the work.Each of the four is as broadly characterized as the rest. Each one is played by an actor who simply 'looks' the part - Madsen as the cocky bastard - and will need no substantial acting chops to pull it off - except the analyst woman, who is a nondescript blonde and only there it seems to show some skin.The movie does not transform as we switch to a different point-of-view of the hybrid vision. In spite of the movie's structure to the contrary, it has one fabric and it's squarely rooted in action dynamics. And you can see this carried over in the cinematic presentation of the monster, another aspect of engineered vision. Giger has come up with pretty cool tentacles and cocoon. But it's not half of it in shadows and half of it fused in the fabric and walls of the film, as in the first Alien. It is all of it in front of the camera. We see more, register less. There is a memorable dream scene. It is quite obviously separated from the 'reality' of the film - nothing here bleeds two ways, all the energy of watching goes to satisfy the desire to.It is fun to watch, as derivative and comfortable as a pair of slippers. And it is once again showcased in the film that Ben Kingsley is the most corny and ridiculous presence in movies.Still. I am tapping this for my cinematic Los Angeles project. "},{"Title":"Natasha is the reason to watch this, not her 'alien'","Date":"28 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm almost ashamed to say that the exquisitely perfect body of a fairly often nude Natasha Henstridge is my main reason for enjoying 'Species'. Aside of that, the film now seems slightly laughable, the SFX elementary and Alfred Molina, plain awful.Forest Whittaker isn't much better and Michael Madsen just stupid. Ben Kingsley adds some credence as the ruthless scientist who has developed the little girl who then goes on to grow up into a sex hungry alien who only wants to reproduce her own 'Species' with the help of human sperm.It's a film that I can quarter watch, whilst doing something else. I don't take it seriously and there is little suspense and is certainly not in the league of 'Alien' and the like. I don't really like any of the sequels and wouldn't watch them again.Yes, 7/10 is probably way too generous, but we all have illogical reasoning when it comes to things we really like. "},{"Title":"S for Sil","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" At S.E.T.I. ( the Search for Extra Terrestrial Life ), a team of scientists, headed by Fitch ( Ben Kingsley ) have picked up strange signals from outer space that appear to be a genetic code. The code is then used to create a human being - a young girl whom they christen 'Sil' ( Michelle Williams ). She is too powerful for them to control, and they try to kill her. Sil breaks out and, evolving into adult form ( Natasha Henstridge ), steals a train conductor's clothes and money. While they endeavor to track her down, the alien girl embarks on a blood-soaked quest for a mate...In 1960, the B.B.C. broadcast 'A For Andromeda', a six-part sci-fi serial by Fred Hoyle and John Eliot, which starred the then-unknown Julie Christie. It also concerned a beautiful young woman created by scientists from information sent from space. 'Species' owes it a great debt, as well as to the 1990's revival of 'The Outer Limits' and 'V' especially the character of Elisabeth the star child. Nudity abounds, but with Henstridge providing it who's complaining? The 'yuck' factor is high too, especially in the scene when the chrysalis in the train compartment spits out the adult Sil. 'Alien' creator H.R.Giger designed Sil's true alien form and, as you'd expect, its gross.Yes, this is a daft movie - sleazy and illogical by turns - but thoroughly enjoyable. Quality actors such as Kingsley and Alfred Molina give it a bit of a lift. Roger Donaldson, the director, was also responsible for the Pierce Brosnan disaster flick 'Dante's Peak'.Three sequels followed, of which I've only seen the second ( it was directed by Peter Medak and was simply appalling ). "},{"Title":"The most amusing science-fiction silly adventure since Lifeforce.","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young part human/part alien by the name of Sil (Michelle Williams) is nearly killed by Xavier Finch (Oscar-Winner Ben Kingsley). Finch is a scientist, who feels the hybrid is too dangerous for the human race. But Sil escapes from her observation room. Finch decides to hire an crew of different experts (Michael Madsen, Oscar-Winner Forest Whitaker, Marg Helgenberger and Alfred Molina) to find her. But Sil has truly changed from a alien cocoon to being an highly attractive seductive young woman (Natasha Henstridge). Sil's goal is to mate unsuspected men and produce offspring that could destroy mankind. Now Finch and his team are in desperate times to find her and destroy her before it is too late.Directed by Roger Donaldson (The Recruit, Sleeping Dogs, Smash Palace) made an entertaining, ambitious, science-fiction/horror/action/thriller. The cast seems to be having an great time expect for Kingsley, who seems... he taken his role way too seriously and he is stuck with the worse kind of dialogue since the unintentionally funny Tobe Hooper's film Lifeforce. Which Species is occasionally dumb, when it is intentionally. But the highlight is Henstridge and of course, H.R. Giger (Alien). Despite mixed reviews, Species was an box office success and later... three sequels were produced.The single disc from the 2004 edition. The DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong DTS 5.1 Surround Sound (also in Dolby Digital 5.1). DVD extras have two informative commentary tracks. Commentary one is by the director and actorsHenstridge & Madsen. Commentary two is by the director, producer Frank Mancuso Jr., visual effects supervisor Richard Edlund and special make-up effects creator Steve Johnson. DVD also includes the original theatrical trailer, sneak peak at the awful Species 3 and more. Species went on to have a cult following for over the years. The movie has a intriguing story but it is also incredibly silly, even unintentionally hilarious at times. Despite an flawed third act, Species is certainly worth watching. Avoid the sequels and stick with the original. Panavision. (*** 1/2 out of *****). "}{"Title":"One Fine B-Movie","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Species is a nice throw back to a time when b-movies weren't directly released on DVD and cgi was only used when absolutely necessary. The movie world was quite different back then, allowing a movie with a concept like this the chance to actually be released into theaters. And sure enough, the movie was a decent hit in the summer of 1995.The movie begins with what appears like a young girl being gassed while a bald man looks on sadly. But rather than die, the girl breaks out of the compound and escapes on a train a few dozen miles away. The bald man, Xavier, quickly gathers a team to track this young girl. The team includes an assassin, anthropologist, molecular biologist and an empath. As the young girl switches trains, Xavier explains to the team that the girl is the product of an alien signal explaining how to bind a sequence of DNA with human DNA. The girl soon goes into a cocoon and emerges later as a stunning adult that can metamorphosis in a monster. The team track her to LA and race to find her as she begins her search for a man to reproduce with, leaving a trail of bodies in her wake. Eventually, she discovers the team and fakes her own death in front of them, with the intent of mating with the assassin. But she instead ends up copulating with and killing the anthropologist before being discovered and chased by the team. They track her underground and after she kills Xavier, she births a fast growing baby. Shortly after, the baby is set ablaze and the team manages to blow the monster's head off and leave her to burn with her baby.The cast is the strongest part and their enthusiasm makes the movie work. Ben Kingsley does alright as Xavier and Michael Madsen plays his usual badass self as the assassin Press Lennox. Forrest Whitaker, for all his talents, is given some of the worst dialogue ever as the empath or psychic. Natasha Henstridge does alright as the oft naked space beauty. She doesn't really do much but that fits her part. And both Alfred Molina and Marg Helgenberger both do a good job in the roles they are given.The story isn't exactly anything new and borrows from a number of sources but as a whole, it works quite well. The monster effects, as designed by HR Giger, are magnificently executed, save for a few brief minutes of bad cgi at the end of the film. All in all, the movie is a decent sci-fi skin movie that does a number of things pretty good and a few things really well. It's the perfect example of how a b-movie concept can be successful if given the right cast with the right attitude. "},{"Title":"Well I'm freaked out","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This would all be very original and exciting if it wasn't for Alien. With that aside, this movie still has so many things going for it. The bombshell/main actress that's constantly delivering functional nudity is a plus. All the sudden massive gore kinda puts you out of the mood but not really, this woman is just very good-looking. The effects are pretty decent not to mention disgusting. I do not want to see some kid eat a rat, but there you go, some kid eating a rat. It's all very predictable, but that's a good thing. You always know you'll see stuff explode in the near future. The story, the structure, hell even the special effects, you've seen them before in some form or another. But hell, Natasha Henstridge hasn't been in too many movies so I'll hold this one dear. Also has some sequels that are pretty much identical. "},{"Title":"could have been much better.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I did not really like this movie. For one thing, it had bland performances (Something witch usually does not bother me) and it was too predictable. However, the effects are quite good and there were some funny lines, as well as a cool ending. But I can still not recommend this movie, because it is boring and has more downs then ups. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"I Think She Wants To Mate.","Date":"25 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" An exciting combination of pursuit thriller, science fiction, erotic adventures, and a mind-numbing piece of utter garbage.A genetic scientist working for the government gets hold of some alien DNA, combines it with human DNA, and produces a cute young blond girl who seems to be growing with lightning speed. The girl escapes and turns into Natasha Henstridge who wanders around Los Angeles looking for a mate. She wants to get pregnant because the alien part of her has been sent here to propagate and destroy the humans. The human part of her is already beginning to hear the ticking of her biological clock. All kinds of killings, near-copulations, and titillations follow.Let me get the members of the A team right. Ben Kingsley is the scientist responsible for the creation of Henstridge. Marg Helgenberger is maybe a clinical psychologist. Michael Madsen is the professional assassin for some government agency. Forest Whitaker is the empathic who is able to read emotional vibrations. Afred Molina is the goofy looking professor of anthropology from Harvard.I didn't care for Molina's character at all. I was a professor of anthropology for years and nobody ever paid for my drinks while pursuing anybody like Natasha Henstridge. Of course I wasn't a professor at HARVARD, just a state university, but still. On top of his being pampered by the government and everybody else, he's the one who gets to impregnate Henstridge. I was glad when she tore him apart.Of the other team members, I wondered what a fine actor like Ben Kingsley is doing in this slapdash lunge for the buck. Ditto Forest Whitaker and Marg Helgenberger, both of whom have more to offer than what they're allowed to put on display here. Michael Madsen, I was happy to see, has the role of cynical hero, a change from his usual character whose sadistic traits, if they had a face, would resemble that of a Turkish pederast.I kind of enjoyed Natasha Henstridge, especially when she was naked, which is roughly half the time. Wow. She's a lissome, toothsome blond and very tall. When my mind wandered, as it tended to when she was clothed, I found myself wondering if, put together, she, Mariel Hemingway, and Uma Thurman might not provide the foundation for a decent girl's basketball team. What made the fantasy attractive was that they were playing the game dressed only in bikinis and high heels.Not that Henstridge is without problems, both as actress and character. Her role as alien who learns mostly from observing others, limits her speech to only a few lines. It's just as well, considering the way she delivers them. But her weakness as a thespian is more than made up for by her magnificent figure. We don't get to see enough of it, if you ask me.That's Henstridge the actress. The alien character has a different set of problems. First, she has a nasty temper. When her first victim is eager to impregnate her but she senses he has some heritable medical problem, she thrusts her tongue so far into his mouth that it comes out the back of his head. Now, that's overdoing it.She's in the Jacuzzi with prospect number two, both naked and about to do it, when the phone rings. He wants to interrupt the proceedings and answer it but she's anxious to get going. When he insists, she turns into her alien form and disarticulates him. The scene caused a horrifying flashback to my marriage.A few words about her alien form, which we get to see in its most revolting aspect at the climax. In the Jacuzzi, it assumes the kind of demonic form that is Judeo-Christian in nature. She looks like our usual conception of Satan, with vertical pupils and pointed ears. The origin of that figure is not from outer space, it's from the Middle East of thousands of years ago. I make this observation as your personal anthropologist. That will be fifteen cents. Or a billet doux from someone who looks just like Henstridge in her human form.But -- just listen to this special offer! For fifteen cents I will throw in the observation that in her FINAL form, in the sewer beneath the hotel, she shows distinctly mammalian characteristics -- her breasts, her hair (cf., the bride of Frankenstein), her reproductive organs -- and yet she retains certain reptilian traits, like scales, that natural selection should have dropped long ago. Moreover, some of her features seem to be either plastic or metal. What the hell kind of evolution do you call this? We evolve into creatures of plastic? And thermosets at that, because both the alien and her newborn baby fall into a lake of fire and that's that.Not that the movie misses the cliché of the supposedly dead body leaping back into life -- or any of the other formulaic jolts we've come to expect from strictly commercial ventures like this. There are a multitude of CGIs, mostly disgusting slimy worm-like things that strangle people or suck out their brains and -- well, you get the picture. I'll mention the final cliché. When the creature is destroyed and the team departs the field in victory, a bit of limp alien flesh is left behind. A sewer rat nibbles on it, then flashes out a tiny alien tongue and consumes another rat. This is the signal that there is to be a sequel -- Species II -- which followed apace.Ugh. "},{"Title":"Sexy Almost Evil.","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remembered when this movie was first advertised in South Africa in 1995 when I was 8 years old. And the advertisements made me so scared that I thought if I went to the toilet, a tentacle would grab me and pull me down! Anyways, this was a Sci-Fi story about a half alien, half girl who was 12 years of age named 72100 or Sil (Michelle Williams). She was created in a lab in Utah, USA and she only grew up within a month. And soon, her creator Xavier Fitch (Ben Kingsley) decided to gas her. Suddenly, she broke out of her glass container while she was being gassed and she ran. Phew! That girl was super strong and fit! Sil has these continuous dreams about being run over by some monster train and mating. And then, she would wake up and she was in trouble. For example, when she woke up after dreaming about being attacked by the monster train and some train hobo. She saw the train hobo (Scott McKenna) who was going to rape her. And she grabbed him by the neck, threw him across the room, he landed upside down and his neck snapped.When she got off the train the next day, she slipped onto another one and when she got on. She broke open a cupboard which had money in it and she took it and some food from the kitchen. You should've seen how she ate a banana. She first bites off the skin and then she ate the fruit which was inside.And on that night, Sil ate so much she spun into a cocoon. And soon, when the Female Conductor (Esther Scott) came to check on Sil. The Female Conductor went into the bathroom and saw a giant, pumping cocoon. And she was attack and Sil came out of the cocoon. She was fully grown. She was about 23 years of age.Not so soon, Fitch organizes a group in order to catch Sil. The group members were Dr. Stephen Arden (Alfred Molina), Preston Lennox (Michael Madsen), Dan Smithson (Forest Whitaker) and Dr.Laura Baker (Marg Helgenberger). And at the same time, Sil was getting off the train in Los Angeles, California. She was very beautiful. And she also took off the Female Conductor's credit card in order to survive.At a night club, Sil sure did get destructive due to seeing a man's wife with the man she loved and she killed the woman off when she went to the toilet. She later bumped into another guy at the nightclub called Robby (Anthony Guidera). She then went off with Robby to his house. And when she kissed him, her tongue shot out of his head! And she drove off in Robby's car while the gang were still checking out the place and the cops too. It seems Sil was keen on mating.After an accident, Sil went home with the guy who took her to the hospital named John Carey (Whip Hubley). And that evening, Sil drowned John in the jacuzzi when she sensed the people who were looking for her were at the front door.. And soon, the gang and the cops discovered the body.After the incident, Sil shot into a woman's car (Marliese Schneider) and she said she needed her help. At the woman's house, Sil tied up the woman to her bed. Sil then cut her thumb off and it grew back. The woman was so freaked out! Later, Sil set up a trap with tubs of petrol which led down the hill and with a power plant which was at the bottom of a hill. That evening, Sil got outside the nightclub, the cops and the gang followed her into the hills followed by the helicopters. Sil drove down the hill, she shot out of the car and she left the woman who she captured in the car. The woman died in a collision went the car hit the power plant. It was quite a sight to see with all those tubs of petrol exploding trying to destroy those helicopters! And from here, the gang, Fitch and the cops thought Sil was dead. Well, she wasn't.Soon, Sil reappeared with dyed hair. And she surprises Stephen when he entered his room. She then slept with him. While Dan was sleeping, he woke up and sensed that Sil was still alive. And then, Stephen was killed by Sil (Frank Welker). And the gang woke up and when they went into Stephen's room, they found him dead! And Sil headed for the sewer. WOW! She sure was fast moving! And she killed Fitch in a almost a split second! Sil hid away and she gave birth to her baby (Kurtis Burow). It was very interesting way of giving birth. The baby came out of Sil's stomach and she was still alive! And when Dan saw Sil's baby. It was a boy! But it was ONE NASTY BABY!!!! It shot out it's tongue and it ate a rat! And THEN!!!! It grew into a huge monster! And Dan killed it with a blow torch. And Preston threw Sil into a fire of flames and then he blew her head off! And to end the review, there was one COOL scene when a rat ate a tentacle of Sil's and then, its tongue shot out and it ate a rat which scoured around close by. HECTIC! This was a very well produced movie for a 90s film. And you should check out the effects on DVD!!! They are amazing!! "},{"Title":"Whatever you do, don't kiss her.","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Part of this is ripped-off from Alien and part of it is a bastardization of a very fine sci-fi idea now probably forty-years old. Premise a message from outside our solar system gives the DNA code for an alien species to grow within a human reproductive cell or embryo. Not able to resist such juicy stuff, scientist Ben Kingsley (as wooden as you'll ever see him) follows the recipe and lo and behold a beautiful monster is reared. And escapes. Naturally.So far so cute. She leaps over fences and crashes through windows and grows from pre- adolescent Michelle Williams to fully ovulating adult Natasha Henstride in days. She has one thing on her mind reproduction. Anything that gets in her way she kills. She can give a mean tongue kiss that goes out through the back of your head should she feel threatened.Well, if this is a metaphor for the urgency of the feminine reproductive imperative I think they should have played the Power Station (?) song with the lyric, She wants to multiple/Are you gonna do it? in the background.Anyway, as usual the plot deteriorates into a drawn-out chase scene that Hollywood thinks the mass mind craves along with the usual stupidities. I could watch only because Henstride is sexy enough to forgive a few bad genes.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"If the Giant Eggplant in Alien were Model-Pretty","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For sheer yukkification, there's 1995's Species, a vile concoction of gore, sex, and more gore and sex, with a huge cast of really talented people being systematically picked off by a predatory alien bent on introducing her species into Earth's food chain, and prevailing.There's so much gratuitous sex and nauseating violence that any hope of caring for whether or not the human race can survive is quickly lost. Newcomer Natasha Henstridge gets to screw and slaughter to her heart's content as the alien--a definite improvement on the big killer eggplant in Alien--and the rest of the cast races around trying to stop her before Henstridge's species replaces Homo Sapien at the top of the heap.Except for the enjoyment of listening to Ben Kingsley speak, Forest Whitaker stumble about, Michael Madsen growl, and Marg Helgenberger strip in the only emotionally appealing sex scene in the movie, Species is a bloody, lurid, and depressing mess and should be avoided at all costs.Unless your into watching Henstridge mount some poor shlub and eviscerate him the second he's deposited into her what she wanted.Ugh. "},{"Title":"YUK","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hmmm.... Loads a sex, loads a gore, dumb storyline!But really, I honestly wasn't expecting a good story, and I got exactly what I expected!Fortunately watched it on TV free, and was glad I didnt fork out $7 bucks to watch this trash on video.Although, silly me, I expected to see cool CGI, and what did I get instead? A really dumb, computer generated s***e that looked as if it had been put together by third former ingrates! As for the story, I cant remember how it went now, I was that bored by the end....Watch it if you will... YOU WERE WARNED!! "},{"Title":"Species is Fecies.","Date":"29 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Species (1995) Dir Roger Donaldson / Cast Natasha Henstridge, Ben Kingsley, Michael Madsen, Marg Helgenberger, Forest Whitaker Laughable thriller lacking the intelligence and payoff of Alien. It features a breed of alien that dines on people and looks exactly like Natasha Henstridge. With that respect she ages rapidly until reaching the Henstridge stage. She escapes from a lab that was to abort her and she stalks about in search of eager males and breeding, which leads to a nasty sexual encounters that are deadlier than any sexually transmitted disease. Perhaps she should get a guest spot on The Dating Game to help her chances. Lousy recycled peep show reduced to formula and predictable stupidity. Directed by Roger Donaldson who previously made The Bounty, and whose best asset is the special effects. Henstridge spends most of the film having nasty sex and displaying a look on her face that indicates that her underwear might be jammed up her crack. File in as the morons who test death are Ben Kingsley, Michael Madsen, Forest Whitaker, and Marg Helgenberger whose roles are reduced too running and either dying or narrowly avoiding it. One thing is for sure, and that is they didn't narrowly avoid the casting call for this trash. Had the film analyzed the reproduction aspect it might have been more interesting, but instead it becomes an aimless parade of violence that results in an array of guck. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"An okay movie, sequels were not needed","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is B-Grade Sci-Fi with copious amounts of nudity on the part of Ms.Hestridge.Aliens send us a DNA code, and we combine it with human DNA and create a Docile female hybrid, who proceeds to fornicate and kill her way across Los Angeles.Unlike it's sloppy sequels, this movie is tight, the characters are well-written, and you get a sense of tension as Sil and her pursuers track each other. Sil is actually a sympathetic monster. She didn't ask to be created or programmed to destroy humanity.Most annoying character is Forrest Whitacker, who was barely following the Don't go full rule from Tropic Thunder. He states things like Captain Obvious. "}{"Title":"It Has Its Moments","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" As this movie came to an end, Dr. Baker (Marg Helgenberger) asked a question that I thought was surprisingly thought provoking, given that the movie as a whole wasn't especially thought provoking. According to the story, several years before, SETI (The Search For Extraterrestrial Intelligence) had received a signal from an alien civilization. They interpreted it as having been a friendly signal sent in response to signals from earth. The signal included an alien DNA code, in response to a human DNA code that had been sent into space. The scientists decided to implant the alien DNA into a human ovum to make an alien- human hybrid creature. OK. (I suppose the opening is thought provoking as well, in depicting this poor, human looking young girl locked in what was little more than a comfortable cage with little contact with anyone, but it was the ending quote I found most thought provoking - from Dr. Baker she was half us and half something else. I wonder what half was the predatory half? Good question! (Maybe the aliens tried the same experiment with our DNA with equally disastrous results and were trying to get back at us!)You see, this hybrid was predatory. It was a killer. It grew rapidly, reached maturity quickly and had the desire to mate and reproduce and would do whatever it took to find the right partner. If that included killing, so be it. But, yeah, from what we were told, the aliens seemed friendly enough. So where did the predatory half come from? Us? Interesting, and thought-provoking enough that it actually made me raise my estimation of the movie just a bit.Having said, that, this is overall not a great movie. It has some moments. No doubt about that. Some of the animation - revolving around the alien in the underground caverns near the end of the movie - was pretty primitive looking, though. There was really no need for Dr. Baker and Preston (Michael Madsen) to get together romantically, and Forrest Whitaker's character of the empath Dan seemed really out of place. In fact, the movie seemed to reach its silliest pretty early on when Xavier (Ben Kingsley) gathered this team who had been brought together to search out and destroy the creature, looked at Preston (who was some sort of special ops/government hit man type) and said to him as the non-scientist among us ... THE non-scientist? Are we to infer that Xavier considered an empath to be a scientist? Pretty silly line. One line, yes, but it stuck in my head for some reason. Anyway.The cast here is a very interesting one. It ranges from the very well known and accomplished Ben Kingsley to the (at the time) unknown and not at all accomplished Natasha Henstridge, who has never really built a major acting career out of this beginning. She's quite beautiful, but she didn't really blow me away. (As an aside, when I lived for a few years in Newfoundland, I lived near her home town of Springdale and actually knew a couple of people who were related to her and some who knew her as a child when the family would return home to visit after moving away. I actually was living there when this movie was released, so it created quite a buzz that one of Newfoundland's own was starring in a movie!) Between Kingsley and Henstridge, there were other faces, some (like Whitaker or Alfred Molina) better known (to me anyway) than others (such as Madsen or Helgenberger.) So there was quite a range of talent and experience in this. Kingsley's character looked a bit silly in the end as he picked up the flame thrower to go after the creature. I still see him as Ghandi, I guess, and Ghandi with a flame thrower is not an image my brain can process easily! In fact, at various times scattered throughout this I picked up an almost tongue in cheek attitude in the movie.This isn't great but it also isn't really bad, and, yes, it does have its moments. (5/10) "},{"Title":"Exploitation at it's barest state","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I think we can all recall what makes an exploitation film and how it relates to this movie. Gratuitous sex and nudity-check, a plot so simplistic and yet so poorly executed-check, a monster so cheesy that you can't help but giggle at it's presence in what are supposed to be serious scenes-check! When I was viewing this film, I felt as if this was a rejected porno-parody from the 1970's. An alien monster that needs to breed so it goes around and tries to sleep with any guy that she can find. Surprisingly the film boasts an all-star cast. While they no doubt bring some pretty top notch acting, the story cannot be saved. On another note, this movie is a perfect example of how over-dependence on CGI will no doubt make your movie look positively stupid and silly in only a matter of 17 years. There are movies from the 1970s that have more convincing monsters than this one! With that I can only say that the movie is dumb, however if you want a good laugh and go in with the expectation that it's going to be nothing but a cheesy good time, then you may find some joy in this picture. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I won't say much else to describe this but I deserve it for watching a modern Hollywood flick. Two good things, I saw her naked, really only half way, great body, and I got this crap free. Everything else was terrible. Biggest zero was Madsen but Gandhi was close second. Why he delivered first line like Gandhi and second line like some trailer hick and the rest I wouldn't know. But I'm sure his check didn't bother him. Ben, I won't be buying Gandhi after this mess, and was planning to. You garner much disrespect from me...I don't care how a man needs to make his living but do it adequately please. You didn't but at least you made Gandhi. Madsen, I don't what he ever did but I know his cocky ass has been around cause Americans love cockiness...On that remark you just know any kind of gayness could kick his butt. The cocky ones are always the first to go, and have the smallest peckers. I can be as straight as I want. When you make 5 million(theoretically) for THAT(this movie metaphor with bugger from Scarface who was going on 60 minutes)and don't deserve it, well, I can write anything I want, as long as it's accurate. Lost an hour of my life to this rubbish including this write-up, I can't imagine when I'll bust out this DVD again. I guess when I want to see her naked again? "},{"Title":"Species","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had always seen this film a few minutes in, and I knew the cast pretty well, so I knew I had to see the entire film to really appreciate or dismiss it. From director Roger Donaldson (Dante's Peak), this film starts with a little girl, named Sil (Dawson's Creek's Michelle Williams) inside a large see-through dome, and a few seconds later has a gas pumped in to kill her, and she obviously escapes. This girl is now on the run, and Dr. Xavier Fitch (Ben Kingsley) has brought together a group of experts in their own ways to help exterminate the girl. This group consist of mercenary Preston Lennox (Michael Madsen) who is there only to kill something, anthropologist Dr. Stephen Arden (Alfred Molina), scientist Dr. Laura Baker (Marg Helgenberger), and Empath (who can feel things, i.e. what another is feeling, their intention, their reason for something, and if they are close or where they have been recently) Dan Smithson (Forest Whitaker). We discover that (obviously) this girl is not ordinary, she may look like a human, but behind closed doors and before a victim will be killed by her, she is a new species. Basically over many years the scientist satellites have been sent alien codes with instructions to join their DVA with humans, they tried this with five due babies, only one (Sil) was allowed to live. Anyway, Sil has now fully grown into a mature adult (introducing the attractive Natasha Henstridge), and learning more and more human traits, she is desperate now to find a healthy human man to help her breed, in other words, with her increased speed of growth, she wants to make a baby. The film consists mainly of loads of chases, alien deaths, near misses and quite a bit of nudity, till eventually Stephen is victim to her conception, and death of course, and finale sees all surviving characters tracking the now hideous looking creature down underground. The special effects may not be absolutely superb, but they are pretty cool in moments, and I found Whitaker's character a little weird, even though he is helpful in the story, and a great actor, so in whole, quite a good once in awhile film. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Overrated waste of time","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is billed as a sci-fi movie, but it is a monster movie, and not a very good one. While what ever the producers wanted to achieve with this movie, I think they missed big time. A space mission accidentally brings back some alien virus or something, and it infects people with a magic goop that can spray over distances. This is bit of a rip off from the other older sci-fi movie The Thing. Except The Thing did a little better job of it. In order to sell the movie there was a young good looking 20 something blond girl who was infected and under alien control had no regard for clothes. But while there is nudity and sexual acts in the movie, it is not graphic enough to save this R-rated bomb. If one wants to see a movie with sex, why not drop all pretenses and just get a porno. Not only did I regret the money I spent on renting this movie, this was one a the few time that i regretted taking the time to watch it all the way through. The sequel was no better. And they actually made a SpeciesIII? "},{"Title":"Let's split up!","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, no, they don't actually use those words, but their attempt to disguise the idiocy of splitting up in the middle of a monster-haunted maze is even more embarrassing.That's the biggest particular idiocy.  It's harder to determine the second biggest idiocy - there's more competition - but my preferred candidate is the scene where the scientists (so called) decide to put some alien DNA in a test tube with a few millilitres of some liquid or other in order to see what happens.  Nothing happens.  -No, that's what would have happened if I'd been director.  Actually, within seconds, they have a giant brown squid that threatens to overwhelm the world.  What was the giant squid made out of? Where did all the matter come from?  (And given its casual lack of concern for laws of physics and biochemistry, why was it so unscary?)Species is rife with such idiocies and clumsily made to boot.  I'll admit that Natasha Henstridge's body is worth seeing; but even here there are problems.  For one thing, if we're going to see her naked so often, then I'd rather she were the heroine.  It's as if the director thought that sexiness is a kind of cinematic sin, which can be atoned for only by violence and angst.  I feel quite strongly about this matter.  Casual, jeu d'esprit erotica I have no quarrel with.  The Hollywood idea that sex and nudity belong in the dark, with a false air of dead seriousness and the hypocritical pretence that some deep dramatic end is being served, I do have a quarrel with.  More boobs.  Fewer razor blades. "},{"Title":"Not a whole lot of new material--but good presentation of what is here. ** out of ****","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPECIES (1995) ** Starring Ben Kingsly, Michael Madsen, Alfred Molina, Forest Whitaker, Marg Helgenberger, and Natasha Henstridge Director Roger Donaldson   Running time aprox 95minutes   Rated R (strong sexuality, nudity, language & graphic violence) By Blake French 	Species is an overly familiar practice in making a bad science fiction horror romp. It does have some campy, run-of-the-mill scary moments that build up enough momentum for an occasional shock moment, and even some squirming at the gore. But all of the film's terror is smothered in its high self-esteem and the character's unconvincing motives. The movie thinks that a lot of kinky sex, copious amounts of gore, and a complex and arguable  plot can save it from its own lack of focusing on the chase, and it fails as a result. 	The movie takes place in pretty much present day. A research clinic in search for Extra Terrestrial Intelligence receives a signal detailing some kind of alien structure of DNA. The complicated story line soon makes it quite clear that the movie will transform a sexy young woman into a blood thirsty monster who is desperate to become pregnant so it can breed. This beast is called Sil, who brutally kills many people in search for a mating partner. 	All of this nonsense can be thanked by a no-nonsense scientist named Xavier Fitch (funny how the cartoon character on the children's television series The X Men, has the same name, hair style, look, attitude, and deep voice). This man sentences a band of police and mercenaries to locate this monster and destroy it. 	The film eventually lacks scary material and an actual reason to see it. There is too little going for the film, besides a few nice special effects. But as for star power, reputation or genre, this is a pale wannabe. The cast here, including some very big and highly commendable names, Ben Kingsly, Michael Madsen, Alfred Molina, Forest Whitaker, Marg Helgenberger, and Natasha Henstridge, all are quite good in their roles, but their characters are seriously flawed. Take the Ben Kingsly character for instance, someone so obsessed and determined with morbid ideas it is hard to feel any kind of empathy for him. The context of Species may have had a chance at being something effective if the characters had been better written.Species is the kind of horror thriller that will surely be remembered for some time to come--even though it is not a good movie. The film offers so much for adult audiences though; the cast, the occasional suspenseful atmosphere, the controversial subject matter, the popular and good looking cast, and the list continues. Since the film's release in 1995, there has been a sequel that followed in an attempt to keep audiences in remembrance of this production. But the filmmakers' attempts have been mostly unsuccessful--mainly due to the fact that there simply is not a whole lot about this film that deserves to be remembered. 				Brought to you by MGM Productions   "},{"Title":"Fun Exploitation Flick with Nudity, a Great Cast and More Nudity","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Species (1995) *** (out of 4) After receiving some radio signals from space, a government scientist (Ben Kingsley) creates an alien species through DNA but when they go to kill the creature it breaks free from the laboratory and heads off to downtown Los Angeles. A group of characters are contacted to try and track the creature now but it has taken the form of a beautiful woman (Natasha Henstridge) with the intent to reproduce. SPECIES is certainly a step above your run-of-the-mill science fiction tale because it's smart enough to know that it's dealing with an interesting subject but it has to be more than just brains so the screenplay throws out some wild exploitation elements and in the end we're left with a pretty entertaining B movie. I think the best thing going for the film is that it's really not scared to be out there in terms of its sexuality and violence. A lot of the credit has to go to Henstridge and her beauty. Yes, they could have gotten any model for this part but the actress here actually goes the extra mile because she's quite believable in the quieter scenes where the species is trying to figure out her life and what's her purpose on this new planet. I thought the actress did a remarkable job but what's even more important is that she wasn't shy about the nude scenes and there are many. The sexuality level of this film and her character are quite high and this here really isn't something you saw much of during this period of mainstream movies. The willingness really adds to the sexual nature of the film and this is a plus for the viewer. The supporting performances are all quite good with each of the actors fitting their roles nicely. Former Oscar-winner Kingsley has no problems with the nerdy scientist and Michael Madsen certainly knows how to play bad. You can't help but think he would have been the perfect noir actor had he been around in the 40s and 50s but he brings that toughness to today's L.A. and it really works. Alfred Molina, Marg Helgenberger and future Oscar-winner Forest Whitaker round out the cast. A young Michelle Williams plays the creature in its child form. I think the screenplay has a few intelligent ideas about reproduction and DNA but at the same time it never gets too complicated and instead just throws one murder or action scene at us after another. I think the film's major flaw is that it runs way too long at 110-minutes so some editing would have done it a lot of good. With that said, for a 90s movie to be about a beautiful, sexual alien trying to reproduce, this one here hits a home run and delivers the goods for fans of exploitation. "},{"Title":"legs watcher.com","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ostriches headlocks entrapment inside a monstrous Species' Embryoes thereafter thanks, TTL... Hee Hee Thus a good ax trying to chip off the stink or a good samurai double edge sword peeling off warts as claws or thistles thorns as diarrhea mud pies drizzles rubbles, rubble's, then drizzles goo glues to cobwebs since barn house of rats must spiders cocoons thus beehives honey dipping since guillotining poor dear ostrich's poor head as razer blade tunnels of mud splashing wombs as star war's man eating monstrous hole and cavern as spooky rotting stair posts of Edward scissor hand's mansion since humanoid stork rotted into wood carbon fingerprint of scrolling tacks, pins, seals embossed on the clitoris of the alienated species' wombs thereafter thanks, TTL "},{"Title":"Poor excuse for nudity!","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A signal from outer space leads scientist to alter human DNA to create a humanoid that can change into an alien.  She, 'Sil' escapes from her creators.  A crack team is put together to track her down and kill her before she can breed and start a new race on earth.This is a interesting idea - unfortunately it's wasted on this.  A good idea in this film is about as welcome as a life raft in the desert.  The main problem is that the aim of the film is not to be a good sci-fi but rather to make a star of Henstridge and get her to be naked as often as possible.....and that's it!  The action is mixed and the actual alien confrontation is poor.  And of course, being a low rent horror - this ends with the usual it's not over until the sequel style ending (unnecessary since the sequel didn't use this!).The cast are great on paper but poor onscreen.  How did so many good people get together to be in this bit of nudity-driven fluff?  Kingsley, Whitaker, Molina, Helgenberger - all good actors (oh - Michael Madsen's in there too - not really a surprise).  However they're wasted on poor dialogue and silly characters, simply because the film doesn't want to take too much time away from the promise of seeing Henstridge's breasts.  Great.Overall this is a silly horror film that wastes a good premise and a great cast.  When it comes down to it this is little better than erotic dramas that use a stupid plot as an excuse for nudity - only Species had a bigger budget.  God knows why! "}]