[{"Title":"not at all what I expected","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this movie expecting a movie like A Night at the Roxbury, Superstar, or Coneheads - not a great plot or great acting, but a lot of laugh-out-loud, tasteless jokes that will cause me to feel guilty for laughing later. Not very good movies critic-wise, but I need a good tasteless comedy every now and then.However, Stuart Saves His Family is different. It had a bittersweet plot and some pretty good acting. It turned out to be a good movie. On the other hand, it wasn't tastelessly laugh-out-loud funny. In fact, I only remember laughing once in the whole movie.So did Stuart Saves His Family accomplish its goal, or did it fail miserably? I'm not quite sure. I still don't know what to think of this movie. I'd say it's worth renting just for its uniqueness. "},{"Title":"this is an underappreicated movie....","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As far as SNL movies go it's definately above average, of course, that's comparing it to It's Pat, A Night at the Roxbury and Ladies Man...Still... this one hits more than it misses. If you have a dysfunctional family or can identify with any of Stuart's relatives, it's worth the hour and a half....While it won't win any awards, it should be worth an hour and a half of your time... I give it 6/10 for the average person.... 8/10 if you have a highly diversified and dysfunctional family. "},{"Title":"One of the best SNL movies?","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  That doesn't sound like an accomplishment, since the best SNL movies are probably Blues Brothers and Wayne's World, and both are uneven. Furthermore, Stuart Smalley seems at first glance like one of the most obnoxious characters to base a movie around. He has characteristics that turn a lot of people off (effeminate, new agey, caring), but Franken shows that this veneer is painfully constructed over anger and hurt, and you end up actually liking him better the more time you spend with him. (The TV skits tend to just make fun of him.) One of the movie's most interesting scenes is between Franken and Laura San Giacomo when he tells her I love you. In any other Hollywood movie, this would be a romantic-interest scene, because everyone knows you can't have a male and female star in a movie without their getting together. Well, here it's that incredibly rare thing a scene of genuine friendship and support, with Stuart's sexuality left out of the question. To me, that's more impressive than if they got into a liplock. "},{"Title":"A really nice, surprising movie","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is so much better than anything you'd expect. Needless to say, most of the films based on SNL characters are pretty lame, and this one slipped under the radar so quickly, you might assume it's another It's Pat. It's not! If you like the Stuart Smalley character, you'll of course be more disposed to liking the film. But even those previously unfamiliar with the 12-step junkie will find a sweet and surprisingly honest story here -- one that both pokes fun at self-help groups and acknowledges that they can work. There are plenty of laughs; and in its treatment of Stuart's highly dysfunctional family of origin, this film achieves something near-great. Watch and see. And get yourself to a pound cake! "},{"Title":"Still totally hilarious after all these years","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recently recalled the Stuart Smalley affirmation, I'm good enough, I'm smart enough, etc..., as a joke in a conversation with a coworker, and felt inspired to watch this film again. Note the fact that Stuart's affirmation has the distinction of being one of those rare TV/film buzzlines that become part of American pop vocabulary, and you already have an insight to the quality and staying power of Al Franken's humor, and of this movie as well.I was delighted to find that indeed, Stuart Saves His Family was just as gut-bustingly funny as it was 10 years ago at its release. For those who care about such things, this is a film that got thumbs up and good reviews from Ebert and the late Siskel, and generally good reviews across the board. There were the token detractors. But the truth is, this is one of the better-reviewed films to come out of the SNL/Lorne Michaels franchise because it is one of the better films.The underlying joke in the film (and the Stuart character itself) is a satire of 12-step programs and the recovery culture--and there is one--and the humor admittedly is probably funnier to those connected to that culture, or to human services professionals. But even those not familiar with self-help and recovery philosophies will appreciate the humor in the blatant satire of the clichés and affirmations and even the demeanor of those who practice these philosophies. Phrases like shame spiral, making amends, rage-aholic, owning my anger, and the like, when lampooned, are simply funny in and of themselves, especially when delivered deadpan by characters like Stuart. Because there are so many of these clichés, they remain fresh and humorous throughout the film. And viewers will certainly recognize and hopefully be able to laugh with the movie at the dysfunctional qualities of their own families and friends reflected there.In a nutshell, the Stuart character is a guy involved in multiple recovery programs to correct the effects of coming from an alcoholic family. He has decided to share his wisdom through a public access cable show showcasing recovery philosophies, and as the film unfolds he faces a number of humorous crises related to his show. At the same time, his dysfunctional family undergoes a series of crises related to the death of an aunt. We are introduced to Stuart's alcoholic father, guilt-inducing mother, anxious overeating sister, and addict brother. The story that unfolds about the family's response to the crises, with their chaotic family interactions and childhood flashbacks both hilarious and touching, ends up being woven back into the drama around Stuart's cable show for a satisfying, if not all-too-realistic, resolution.The film has been lauded for being a comedy with depth, because it is at heart a story about families and relationships--all dysfunctional, of course. There are some scenes that literally are tear-jerkers in the film, dealing with the affects of alcoholism and broken relationships, as well as the hope that recovery philosophies can bring. Indeed, one of the rewarding things about the film is that the recovery culture is both the butt of the joke, and at the same time is correctly represented as having a real, positive impact in peoples' lives. Though as in real life, we find that for the Smalley family, not everything can be fixed. And that gives this film, surprisingly, a ring of authenticity.The other thing that struck me this time around was that the movie has a number of very talented actors in the supporting cast Vincent D'Onofrio, Laura San Giacomo, Harris Yulin. Certainly this helped to carry the movie, but the screenplay is tight and the comedic timing of the dialog consistently right on. Whether you're looking for a good spoof of pop psychology and the recovery culture, dysfunctional families, or just a well-made comedy, this movie will satisfy. "},{"Title":"Uneven, but good","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Whenever trying to memorialize the recently departed, I tend to seek out lesser known films by them, or at least films that I haven't seen. I'd always wanted to see this film, adapted from the Stuart Smalley sketches from Saturday Night Live. I remember Siskel & Ebert liking the film quite a bit back in the day, plus the star is now my Senator. And this is actually quite a good film. What's most surprising about it is it's actually quite serious for what it is. In fact, trying to get the serious subject to work while also trying to keep the same style of comedy the sketches had on SNL makes it a little tonally uneven, but I love what they were trying. Al Franken stars as Stuart Smalley, who hosts a cable access show called Daily Affirmations, where he reveals his many problems to his small audience and tries to work through them. As the film opens, his producer fires him. Soon after, his aunt dies so he goes back home to Minneapolis for the funeral. His family is hugely dysfunctional, with many drinking and weight problems. He tries to help. The film takes the problems entirely seriously. I mean, there is comedy, but the family dysfunction is never the butt of the joke. Al Franken is very good and the character is given more subtlety than he had on SNL. Vincent D'Onofrio plays his younger brother, Harris Yulin his father, Shirley Knight his mother and Lesley Boone his sister. Laura San Giacomo and Julia Sweeney also co-star as Stuart's friends. Not a great movie, but a nice one. "},{"Title":"No belly laughs, but good.","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A not-so-well-remembered SNL movie based on a not-so-well-remembered SNL sketch. I watched it last night, and I don't think I've ever seen it before so it was kind of surprising at how unfunny it was. Not necessarily in a bad way, but it just felt more like an offbeat drama than a comedy. It dealt with real issues and didn't have pristine solutions and I've left it feeling contemplative and, to be honest, a little sad, which is sort of a compliment and sort of isn't. But the acting in the movie is great. I have this idea in my head of Al Franken as this gruff, intense comedic force but here he's so soft-spoken and calm so you gotta hand it to him, the guy is COMMITTED. Laura San Giacomo is also excellent and has a heartbreaking little speech. And Vincent D'Onofrio as the pothead slacker brother is good stuff. I don't know. Not sure how I altogether feel about it. I'd probably give it a 6/10, not great but by no means bad. I think it's on Netflix. Check it out. "},{"Title":"In its own way, the best SNL-character based film ever","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For those you who don't know that Al Franken became a political author/congressional candidate, he was a funny comedian who had entertained Saturday Night Live audiences since the 70's, and into the 1990's (off-and-on). His most famous character was a self-help, for lack of a better word, addict; i.e., his character was addicted to self-help groups, sponsors, 12 step meetings, etc., because he lacked or was coming to terms with his low self-confidence everyday and was trying to spreading self-esteem to others through a fictional cable access show on SNL called Daily Affirmations with Stuart Smalley. He would say things like Doggone it, people like me. Okay, that's a lousy summation of an SNL character made into a film, but if I told you about two blues singing brothers who were wanted by all of Chicago ... of two rock n' roll delinquents who had their own cable show ... or two party guys whose heads moved when they heard What is Love ... ... would you know what the hell the fess is about in every case? If you want to look up Stuart on YouTube, or DVD feel free. He was funny, at times. But for this movie, know that it is both funny and sad (in a dark humor way) as we see a child of alcoholics and food addicts overcome his past, this film is a pretty damn good one. Directed by Harold Ramis, it doesn't go for any real forced SNL-inspired laughs, even though there are a lot in there if you want to look. The laughs basically occur because they come from pain, comedy's actual twin. There is a both sad and happy ending (or is it happy and sad?) from this film, but its never forced because Ramis, Franken, Vincent D'Onofrio, Juila Sweeny, and Laura San Giacomo know how to play the tightrope between pain and humor. It's not perfect, but its easily one of the best SNL character movies ever made, and one of the best about family alcoholism. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of best comedies of all times. The psychology of the main character is very incisive and realistic. However it is put in a grotesque context. Other characters are also very true to life or rather caricatures of certain types of people. The brother and the father of the main character seem to bring up the politically correct goofiness and dorkines of Al Franken. The Mother cuts also a very real and yet exaggerated person. The plot flows well and the whole dysfunctional family is funny and sad at the same time. The friends of Al Franken are also funny in their pseudo psychological babble and pretense. I find this film to be so good that I have bought the DVD. "},{"Title":"not what I expected yet loved it!","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" surprisingly, what I thought would be a farce had some interesting depth. What's starts off as lampooning 12 step programs becomes a touching and somewhat tragic ride through recovery. Laced with humor, this is a dry, yet poignant study in recovery from 'our family of origin'. I watched this with several friends and we were stunned at the ending, namely,Stauart did not save all his family because it was their choice not to be saved. As Stuart says, he needed to move on with his life.Its easier to wear slippers than to carpet the whole world. True enough,you cannot fix others, particularly those who do not want to be fixed. Some revel in their misery or are so addicted to it some real peace would be disturbing. D'on't expect a major laugh riot here in this movie, expect the subtleties of humanity and conditions to give you a smirk, a grin,an 'aha' here and there. The real humor comes in Stuarts' journey. I salute the filmmakers for adding some really 'teary' moments.Alcoholism isn't fun. Perhapsthose touched by this disease,particularly those children (grown or not) who still ache from the hurts. You'll cheer Stauart for his own personal choices, not because he couldn't get his father into rehab. "}{"Title":"A kind of serious comedy","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a fan of Al Frankin and had wanted to see this movie for quite a while. As it turns out, that was 12 years, but I finally saw Stuart Saves His Family on HBO. The short answer is that I liked it a lot, but not for the reasons that I was expecting to like it for. The movie was funny, but not really laugh out loud funny. The characters were too well developed for laugh out loud. It would have felt mean to laugh at the alcoholic father who has no clue that he has a problem. The stoner brother who eventually figures out he's wasted his life. The enabler mother. The obese sister who deals with her stress by eating pound cake. I found myself rooting for these people, and not really wanting to laugh at them. There are certainly funny parts of the movie, and Al Frankin is a funny guy, but I think that the problem with Stuart Saves His Family is that it is too well done for an audience who want Wayne's World (One of my favorites, BTW) and instead got a serious movie about dysfunctional people with very real problems where you laugh with them and not at them. "},{"Title":"This in a sweet, under rated movie....","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Movies inspired by SNL characters seem to have a consistently bad reputation. But that reputation is usually based on the fact that the films failed at the box office. The truth is, they are good solid comedies that were never meant to be blockbusters. 'Stuart Saves His Family' is just such a film.This film has a cast of excellent actors who portray tragedy and comedy with sublime skill. The script is heartfelt and funny. There is no mockery of recovery programs or the self-help movement. Instead, 'Stuart Saves His Family' evokes the all too real humor amid the tragedy that comes from being part of a dysfunctional family (and world).AL Franken's deadpan deliver of Stuart's ridiculous, but charming self is the the heart of the movie. But equally good are Piper Laurie, Vincent D'Onofrio, Lesley Boone & Harris Yulin. All four play characters who could easily descend into shrill, two-dimensional background support to the wacky lead character. Thankfully, the actors all bring out the human beings inside their characters.The message about finding your own definition of happiness and family is another of the movie's strong points.I also recommend Superstar, another SNL character driven movie, starring Molly Shannon. She's an excellent actress with a wicked, silly streak. "},{"Title":"Nice Film Best of the SNL's!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is probably the best of the SNL films simply because there is a back story behind the film. (Unlike the terrible It's Pat!)Those who watched SNL while Al Franken was on it saw the Smalley character. (His adage I'm good enough, I'm smart enough and gosh darn it people like me!) In these skits, Smalley (who obviously had had a very difficult life) described his family. (On Halloween I thought of going as a feeling but what does dread look like really? Other than my mother.) The skits would give the viewer images and makes us wonder how bad this family actually was. Now we know.So many SNL films fail because they stretch a 2 minute skit into ninety minutes. One reviewer called it Trying to stretch a piece of chewing gum across I-25, sometimes it makes it, most times it doesn't. This movie had great fully developed characters. There was no reason to stretch anything.Al Franken plays the character with such sensitivity and such love and such heart that you can't help feeling for the poor guy. You can tell that this character is a sweet, kind human being who simply never got a decent start in life and is trying to do things right.The scenes going back to Smalley's childhood complete the story. Including the funny scene about the family's trip to California.To those who that this movie is as bad as It's Pat I beg to differ.It's Pat never worked because it was never meant to work.My only regret is that it failed so miserably box office wise and we'll never see a sequel. Al Franken is also no longer on SNL. I miss Stuart.This movie gets an 8 out of 10. It's a great movie. A great movie to watch when you feel sorry for yourself or having a bad day. "},{"Title":"Delusional and without insight.","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie, Stuart saves his family, is about dysfunction. Stuart is especially incongruent. When his family members insult him and emotionally pierce him by putting him down, he smiles at them. This indicates that Stuart is out of touch with his emotions. Another way of communicating with his facial gestures would be to acknowledge the pain that he just encountered, and to try to take ownership of it. This way he leads by example. And validates his real feeling versus putting up a fake front. Stuart is perceived as a hero in the movie but he is not because he did not find his own way. Instead he started judging his father versus helping him. Abondonment is often not the answer to dysfunction, as it creates more emotional distress. Perhaps it was not the intention of the film director to show a movie about what not to do, but I think it is a great example of a fallacy in humanity, I.e. to leave the one who you care most about behind. "},{"Title":"Alcoholism portrayed right","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A better movie than expected, but what is with all the comments about it being a comedy. If it is, it must have been the first one where i didn't laugh once.Al Franken takes on a gutsy project but it is really not that interesting. It has some nice characters but it is a little too nice. Maybe it was watered down for a PG-13 rating to sell it to a teen audience. If it was, it shows a serious miscalculation of marketing strategy. There is virtually nothing here that appeal to that group.It did get the addiction part almost right, although the ending is a little too nice again. I wish they would have ended it on the intervention stuff and left the last scene out.Still, I am glad I saw it, because it was somewhat different and the main character wasn't as annoying as I thought. Just wish they had made it a little more raw. "},{"Title":"Could have been more, but not bad!","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think that the problem with this movie is that it has difficulty handling it's tragicomic aspect. That is so hard to pull off. In my mind, the perfect example of a movie that DOES would be Steve Martin's Roxanne. Most tragicomic movies either err on being too dramatic or too comic. This one just leaned too far in the dramatic department. While it did really flesh out the smalley characters, it did so at the expense of being funny. It needed a little more crazy/absurd moments to be a truly good comedy. I should mention that at essentially every skit character based movie from SNL has fallen flat, so there is not exactly much to match or beat here. Regardless of that low-bar, I truly think this could have been a riot if made differently.I had in mind something like Stuart saves the world', like an Austin Powers flick(how ironic, BTW, that the most successful SNL alumni movies are NOT based on SNL characters, ala Bill Murray's Stripes, Groundhog Day, et al., or Chevy Chases Vacation flicks, The Blues Brothers being the one exception here)....Again, it would have been perfect if he saved the world through his insipid motivational drivel, seeing as how some of the actual gurus, especially the religious ones disguised as preachers, such as Joel Osteen, come close to at least attempting to do that right now. Actually, Joel Osteen is not at all dissimilar to Stuart Smiley. Scary but true. It could have been classic, but this little movie is still sweet, and far better then the manure 99% of the character skit SNL movies are. And now Franken has the last laugh, being one of only two US Senators that were former movie stars. Reagan will prob forever hold the record of being the only president of that ilk. "},{"Title":"Not your typical SNL movie","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A lot of users compared this to other SNL movies, which is reasonable since it's based on an SNL sketch, but in some respects is totally unfair. The SNL sketch was played for laughs. This is a DRAMA, not a comedy (despite having lots of funny scenes). The focus is on Stuart's (Al Franken) dysfunctional family, which dysfunction stems from his father's (Harris Yulin) alcoholism, which cows Stuart's mother into submission, drives his sister to overeating, and is gradually turning his brother (the always-great Vincent D'Onofrio) into a copy of his father. All of this has turned Stuart into the self-help addict we see on SNL. The other key character is Stuart's friend and self-help partner Laura San Giacomo (also turning in a great performance), who shares a wonderful platonic relationship with Stuart based on mutual empathy. The scene where San Giacomo describes her meeting with her biological father almost brought tears to my eyes. I give this an 8 because it loses some points for inconsistency by trying too hard to be a comedy during the first half of the movie. But once the real drama kicks in during the second half, it becomes brilliantly poignant. Less even than American Beauty, (its closest analog) but just as good at depicting family dysfunction. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Save yourself from this movie.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stuart is a whiny spoiled man who looks in the mirror and talks to himself. It is seriously annoying and people do NOT like him because his cable access show gets canceled. You would that is the end of the movie but it goes on and on. Stuart is in every 12 step program that there is but still cannot deal with his fat mom or drunk dad. When you see this you will want to take a billion steps and runaway. The acting is terrible and throughout the whole movie I could not stand the guy with the sweater. That's okay because I could only watch about half of this movie before watching something else. This movie isn't good enough or smart enough. A better SNL movie is Tommy Boy so watch that instead and save yourself! "},{"Title":"Not Much Here.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Saturday Night Live routines always find a way to the silver screen and that is unfortunate for the most part. Stuart Saves His Family is another pure mess as the titled psychiatrist (the likeable Al Franken) goes home after his aunt's death and tries to keep his family talking to each other, but fireworks just continue going off with what are supposed to be hilarious results. Once again a lack of material just makes the film little more than a very long skit. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Took me by complete surprise...","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was channel-surfing one afternoon and Stuart Saves His Family was on HBO. Being a bit of a masochist, I thought I'd stay and see how embarrassingly bad it was going to be (as most SNL-character-inspired movies are) and was pleasantly surprised.  Anyone who is or knows someone who is in any of the 12-step programs will appreciate this movie and show it to all your friends. It has a stellar cast and Al Franken is an underrated genius. "}{"Title":"If you know recovery, you'll love Stuart!","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know how funny this movie is to people who aren't involved in 12-step programs or don't know anyone who is.  But to this 12-stepper, the movie is hilarious.  Al Franken and crew seem to walk the narrow line between poking fun at the 12-step movement while also appreciating its good points.  Lots of in-jokes here, and some very funny ones.  I bought the home video version and have watched it several times.  Al Franken, Laura San Giacomo, Shirley Knight, Julia Sweeney are all very good. "},{"Title":"Franken is funny, most of movie is not","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not a big Al Franken fan, but I must admit that his Stuartcharacter is hilarious. I've actually met people like Stuart. Itis a great parody of the pop psychology getting in-touchwith your feelings movement  and Franken is brilliant inhis portrayal. The problem is that the movie is just too long,the characters over stereotyped, and at times the filmseems to drag on and on.    I did enjoy the character of  the evil dyke station  manager(Franken's Boss). She could have been a James  Bond villain. For all its weaknesses and flaws, I did enjoyparts of this movie, but it could have been done much  better.  "},{"Title":"Better than most people think","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I heard bad things about this movie for a while, but I found it to be a decent movie. I'm not quite sure why most people dislike it so much. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was funny, touching, and real to me.  I know people like Stuart, and I think most people can say the same.  I think this movie is wholly underrated and is one of my favorite films.  I never thought I'd say that of a SNL-produced movie, but it's true. "},{"Title":"Filled with Heart","Date":"19 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Stuart Saves His Family is probably one of the only SNL movies that has heart to it.  The movie is not only funny but it's message is one a lot of people with family problems like Stuart can relate to.   "},{"Title":"A feeble three-minute stit stretched way, way too long....","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"13 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I picked this up mostly because I recall the Sat Night Live skits as being good.  Unfortunately, stretching this lame plot out to feature length is all that Franken did, and it left us feeling just ripped off, and certainly not entertained.Franken's humor, ham-handed and obvious at its best, occasionally works for short bursts, but this guy apparently just doesn't understand writing or plot development when it gets past the three-minute mark, and he apparently feels everyone is too dumb for subtlety. I knew kids like this in junior high school and always felt sorry for them.  But I didn't want to spend over five minutes with them, either.  Sympathy only goes so far.Mercifully, the generally pitiful reception this film got should encourage Franken to stick to three-minute schtick for high-school audiences.Don't pay money to see this thing, whatever you do. "},{"Title":"Yet another failure from the `Saturday Night Live' stable","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"13 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Stuart Smalley is a new-age self help guru with a line in catchphrases `I'm good enough, I'm smart enough and dog-gone it, people like me!'.  When his show on public-access cable is cancelled he falls into a depression, however a family death brings him back to his home town where he finds that his family have enough issues to keep him busy for months.Stuart Smalley was created by Al Franken for Saturday Night Live.  In the UK we've never seen this so I can only imagine that Stuart is used to poke fun at self-help, therapy etc - and I imagine that in 3 minute sketches that he can be very good.  However stretched out to 90 minutes it doesn't cut the mustard.  The story allows for some funny moments - mainly the flashback scenes where Stuart recalls instances in his family life.  However the majority of the film is given over to drama and sentiment as the family deal with their issue.  This sentiment is poorly handled and doesn't sit well at all.  Even if this was a normal film, which it isn't, it wouldn't work, however building this drama round a spoof character makes it even less workable.I really wanted to like this but I'm afraid that it just wasn't very funny.  From Saturday Night Live I expected much more laughs - even of the hit and miss style.  However I chuckled 3 or 4 times and that was it.  Franken plays Stuart like a mockery of himself and does manage to squeeze some jokes out of the material, but he can't make the character do drama at all.  The rest of the cast are filled with plenty of well-known faces (Laura San Giacomo, D'Onofrio, Harris Yulin) and a great comedy director in Ramis, but none of them can really do much with the material.As much as I wanted to like this, this is just yet another failed movie project to come from the occasionally successful Saturday Night life stable. "},{"Title":"Good?  Under Rated?  Are you guys High?","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"15 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  TERRIBLE!!This is the classic example of a 3-minute SNL sketch that made it to the big screen.  It was funny for 3 minutes...I got to see this gem as part of a Community College Psyc on Film summer class.  The teacher hung on every word and thought it was the best (and true to life) film concerning helping people heal.The people that LOVE this movie need to follow a pack of Lemmings off a cliff. "},{"Title":"not quite good enough or smart enough, but kind of likable","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Stuart Saves His Family came out before I had heard of Al Franken, so I took no notice. After I read Franken's book Rush Limbaugh is a Big, Fat Idiot and Other Observations, I decided to check it out. It turns out that there's not really very much here. Franken plays Stuart Smalley, a character from Saturday Night Live, and the movie portrays him having a crazy family. Why do movies and TV shows always seem to portray families as nearly mental? I actually giggled when he resorts to name-calling (You are a big...!), but it seemed like the movie didn't have much of a point beyond that. Then again, few SNL skits make good movies. Of course, I might just be too tough on Al Franken; having read his political satires, I expect the highest quality from him.So I don't recommend it. I do think that Al Franken would make a really good senator (in case you haven't heard, he's running for senate in Minnesota), but for entertainment, he should stick to mocking the Bush administration and right-wing commentators. "},{"Title":"Under-rated -Must See-","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie. And no, I have never been in a 12 step program. But we all know people like this and we all share some of these experiences. But beside all that, it is funny. Al Franken is excellent. Julia Sweeney's I'm sorry character is hysterical. Sure it's a little movie but great if you are interested in human behavior. "}{"Title":"sweaters","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie is not that bad everyone says. It's the sweaters Stuart Smalley wears, way to go! I never saw so many ugly sweaters in one movie!If you see this movie at your local blockbuster store and you have to choose between The adventures of pluto Nash with Eddie Murphy or Stuart saves his family, please choose this one. "},{"Title":"Truly A Moving Film","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like Shirley Temple and Pollyanna, Stuart Smalley melts the coldest of hearts in this touching dramatic comedy about a lonely man living with the pain of a sad childhood with his dysfunctional family and having to deal with that family through many tragedy's.  This film will tug at your heart like no other. "},{"Title":"It's good enough, it's smart enough . . .","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This really isn't a bad movie.  It doesn't deliver as many belly laughs as Wayne's World, but it certainly surpasses Coneheads and It's Pat in the intelligence and humor department.  It's not as good as the book this film was based on, and Al Franken can certainly be a lot funnier than this character allows him to be, but it's worth your time.  People from dysfunctional families will probably like it better. "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had heard that this movie had done terribly at the box office.  That is a shame because it was so much more than a feature length SNL sketch.  It shows the transformation of Stuart Smalley from meek guy with low self esteem to confident successful person who finally begins to like and respect himself.  The story is told with warmth and humor and the viewer will progressively become more fond of Stuart throughout the film. "},{"Title":"Not a biggie but Smalley rocks","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I didn't see this movie in theaters. Truthfully, unless it is a huge blockbuster I've been waiting for for a long time, I generally don't shell out the high ticket prices these days, but I remember a very funny Stuart Smalley skit where Al Franken's usually easygoing character was p.o.'d that his movie did so badly. Now, after having seen it and really loving it, I feel kind of guilty for letting Stuart down. Just for the character actors alone (like the much underrated Harris Yulin as Smalley's angry alcoholic dad) this picture is a true gem. while I cannot relate personally to a so completely dysfunctional family or 12 step programs, I have run across such people in my old neighborhood growing up. The cast is letter perfect, and the laughs are non-stop. Normally, I'm a little uncomfortable with the Smalley character and his lisping speech patterns, but it all makes sense when you see the people who make up his life. This is a truly confused guy. And like the title says, Stuart does indeed save his family and the movie. I am hoping that in the future, this will become what is considered a truly classic comedy. "},{"Title":"A lot better than you'd think","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wasn't expecting much when i rented this film for the first time. The only thing I felt it had going for it was a) it was directed by Harold Ramis. and b) Roger Ebert gave it a favorable review. I took my chances and discovered a great little film that more people should have seen.  "},{"Title":"Aptly described, it's the movie that puts the fun back in dysfunctional!","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Al Franken is, in short, a genius.  He's one of the only people around today that is so perceptive about life and politics you absolutely agree with his views no matter what your affiliations.Daily Affirmations was one of those Saturday Night Live skits that gave you the feeling there was more to the character Stuart Smalley than what was shown in a few short minutes.  You knew this guy had so much more going on in his life and I  found myself wishing I could learn more about him.  After all, doesn't it seem that those in the field of therapy and psychiatry are actually looking to solve THEIR own problems when they are supposedly helping others?With his life in shambles in Chicago, Stuart is called back to visit his family on different occasions and deal with the family baggage that entails.  Here is where the film's tagline is so true You'll laugh because it's not your family.  You'll cry because it is.  We KNOW these people, we all have them in our families as well and truly experience the complete dysfunction during holiday gatherings or funerals.  What Al Franken does with this film is amazing.  Taking us through experiences of denial, past grudges, inability to communicate, alcoholism, and more, he never tries to tidy it all up and make everything rosy, but shows people that you can get through situations and get on with your life whether those problems stick around or not. Unlike films like The Myth Of Fingerprints, this one gives us a nudge and makes us want to do something about our problems and move on even if things won't completely be perfect.It was truly a crime that this poignant film was very much overlooked during it's initial theatrical release, a victim of not being able to outdo and out-star all the big budget films that were competing for box office standing.  Fortunately, many critics did enjoy this film and with enough mention, it found an audience on home video.  Originally people would not give it a chance in theatres, dismissing it as another extended Saturday Night Live skit, but for those who did take a chance, they were rewarded to find a touching, perceptive, emotional, and even funny take on family relations and personal growth. It doesn't answer all problems presented, but gives one the feeling that there is hope after all.Instead of buying books about helping yourself, see this film and you'll learn a lot more about life! Stuart Saves His Family has heart, and will definitely leave a lasting impression and you'll find yourself smiling long after the film finishes. "},{"Title":"This is one of my favorite movies!!!","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoy this movie not only because I come from an alcoholic family but because it is hysterical.  Al Franken could not be better in this movie. I recommend it to all of my friends and I'll recommend it to all strangers too.  Vincent D'Onofrio is great as well.  "},{"Title":"Forget the SNL tie-ins, and see this.","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, it's a 'message' film, and that's not what the NatLampers or SNLers want to see. So, some of them have been disappointed with the reality-based goings-on within this film, judging from comments herein. Personally, I think it's absorbing. I wasn't exposed to alcoholism, but I've been around, and once the viewer puts away the preconceived notions toward 1990s Saturday Night Live humor (note that I bravely resisted using quote-marks around the word humor as it applies to recent SNL), the film plays out wonderfully. Franken avoids heavy-handedness in delivering the goods. And the bads. The oafs who make up the Smalley family have their niche of dysfunctionality all carved out in advance, and Franken treads lightly and with humor, making television's near-repulsive Stuart into a Woody Allen-like hero. In the end, Stuart saves his family. If only he could save Saturday Night Live...But that's the onus this film will always bear, and that's unfair. See it on its merits instead. I recommend it highly.  "},{"Title":"Undoubtably the best all around SNL based movie to date.","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had never even heard of this film before I stumbled into it on cable one day. I was never a big fan of the Stuart Smalley character before seeing this film, but this movie converted me. Wow, what a great film! It made me laugh, and it made me cry. I have since read that it did terribly at the box office, which just goes to show how little box office performance has to do with the quality of a film. It probably helps to have some awareness of 12 step programs and to have at least a little experience with family dysfunction to fully enjoy it. A real diamond in the rough.  "}{"Title":"A HYSTERICALLY FUNNY, YET TRUE-TO-LIFE FILM ABOUT FAMILIES","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think you may have to be familiar with a 12-step program to really appreciate this film fully, however, I found it hysterically funny, and yet bittersweet.  The characters were complex and interesting, each with a story.  Al Franken is brilliant, not only in this film, but in his other work.  He comes from an alcoholic family background, and you can see real heart in his work.  The movie is jam-packed with lots of little taglines and phrases that you won't catch unless you're familiar with AA or another 12-step.  Lots of attention to detail in this film, and the ending is life-affirming, (not to sound corny, but it is). "},{"Title":"Terrible, especially Franken","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Al Franken is so bad, he drags this otherwise bad movie down to terrible. Laura San Giacomo is, though, great ... just not enough to save this mess. Franken's diction is abysmal, almost as if he had some physical defect; he should never be allowed near a microphone. For that matter, he probably should not be allowed in front of a camera, either. He must know somebody, because he has not anywhere near enough talent to be named the star of a movie, any movie, even one this bad. After writing the above, some years later I saw him in an old Saturday Night Live, and I realize I was understating the problem.Franken was terrible even in those lousy skits. Worst of all, He Was Just Not Funny, even, or especially, in the dumb skits he himself wrote.Laura San Giacomo, however, is so beautiful, so exotically beautiful, that one could almost put up with Franken just to be able to look at her. Almost. Better to watch her in something else. Anything else. THIS IS ADDED After reading comments by others, I understand better what motivated people to produce this awful movie. (It's still terrible.) I said yes to Was this comment helpful? even when I disagreed with the rating the commenter had given. Reason It was indeed helpful. I wish others would answer the question rather than saying no because they disagree with the opinion. "},{"Title":"Dear God in heaven","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  First, full disclosure. I don't like Al Franken. I've never liked Al Franken. I don't think Al Franken is funny. So it's unlikely that I'd ever like an Al Franken movie.But even setting that aside, Stuart Saves His Family is another in a line of Saturday Night Live acts that tried to translate into a movie and didn't make it. (The Blues Brothers is the only one that did.) Stuart stands in good company with It's Pat, Wayne's World, and The Coneheads. Why didn't these four acts make good movies?  Lots of reasons, I'm sure, but the biggest is that -- except for the Coneheads -- the basic premise just wasn't that funny to start with. And stretching a mildly funny 5-minute SNL skit into a feature-length movie doesn't make a mildly funny movie. It makes a pathetic, tedious movie, and that's just what Stuart is.Even though that's what I expected, I watched Stuart with a fellow 12-Step friend because we both thought we'd at least get some good 12-Step insider jokes.  But Stuart doesn't even have that.  And after about 45 minutes, we turned to each other and without speaking a word, nodded agreement and turned it off.If you *really like* Al Franken, you *might* like Stuart.  If not, run away.  Run like the wind. "},{"Title":"They all must have been on crack!","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"13 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I guess I'm not being very fair, and maybe I shouldn't comment on this film, because on the SSHF's main detail page where it says, I have seen this movie and would like to comment on it probably means that one should watch this movie in it's entirety in order to comment on it. I normally can handle the worst of movies until the end, but not this one! (I couldn't finish It's Pat either, sorry SNL!) Half way through it I realized that this rare occurrence of me having to stop the madness was necessary for my mental well being. I can tell you how much I hated the premise, I can tell you how much this movie bored me, I can tell you how much I hated all the characters, especially Stuart's, but I'm not gonna do that! Instead, I want to focus on something that did interest me about this film, the IMDb's User rating and the demographics thereof. Maybe I was only slightly stunned to see that the IMDb's user rating for this film was 5.2 (it should have been at the very least a 2.2, and that's kind), but I think the demographics concerned me the most. It was hard to believe that males under 18 rated this movie a 9.2!, and I don't know what to think of the 33 persons that gave this movie a 10!, except that they all must have been on crack! There was hope for my demographic however, males 30-44 (I'm 32)gave it a 5. Personally, and I'm sure with no surprise, I gave it a big, thick 1! People, please, I implore you...put down the crackpipes! "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had never heard of this film, until I stumbled across it on cable. I always liked the Stuart Smalley character on SNL, but couldn't imagine an entire movie with him. I figured I'd watch the beginning of it, turn it off and go about my business. I ended up watching the whole thing, and actually enjoyed it. It wasn't terribly funny, but lightly humorous in parts. It wasn't terribly deep, but did make you feel for the characters. I wouldn't rank it among the great movies of all time, but it was enjoyable little piece of fluff. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Redeemable","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This goes on my Top 10 Regardless of Reviews list--movies that provide a good waste of 2 hours without much intellectual investment.I was surprised at how affected I was by this movie.  It helps that I find Al Franken to be a subversively hilarious genius, but I was also touched by how many people could probably relate to the so sad you have to laugh family situations.  Want to find humor in how much your family sucks?  Rent this one. "}]