[{"Title":"'Nobody beats me in the kitchen!","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"34 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Seagal reprises his role as a one time SEAL team captain, a counter-terrorist expert who had to rely only on his personal skills in order to survive, and protect the hostages... He happens to be on the Grand Continental passenger train traveling from Denver to L.A... Seagal joins the only family he has, a 'cute kid' named Sarah (Katherine Heigl) after her parents died in a plane crash...Seagal has an electrifying screen presence... Seeing him in action is similar to appreciating modern art... The train is hijacked by a team of 'ugly men' with guns... Their chief, Travis Dane (Eric Bogosian), is a high-tech mastermind, who fakes his own death in order to gain control of a top-secret nuclear satellite... For this crazy technical genius, technology can be used for beauty or debasement, and 'until you plug it in, you just can't tell.'Dane's henchman Penn (Everett McGill) is a soldier of fortune freak, whose relationship with his boss resurfaced during Desert Storm...Morris Chestnut's focus is on humor and breath-taking sequences...Geoff Murphy's film is incredibly entertaining, combining action, martial arts, and dark sense of humor... "},{"Title":"Best Steven Seagal movie yet.  Exciting and re-watchable.","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"35 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The best Steven Seagal movie to date.  This is the second, and apparently the last, in the series in which Seagal plays Casey Ryback, an ex-Navy SEAL Captain, who, as explained in Under Siege, was demoted for punching out a superior for poor intelligence which got many of his men killed.  In Under Siege 2, his character has been promoted from Chief to Lieutenant, although we only find that out in the end.Unlike some of his earlier movies in which Seagal fights for causes, specifically liberal environmental issues, here Seagal is fighting strictly for family and Country.  The first scene starts off with Seagal making his appearance in civilian clothes to dramatic music.  We learn the grim news that his character's only brother and sister-in-law were killed in a plane crash, leaving his only relative, a niece, still alive.  He accompanies the teenager on a train ride from Denver to LA.  He has the bad luck, but good for his Country, to be on the train that is attacked by terrorists bent on destroying Washington, D.C., and the US eastern coast for profit only.  The maniacal would-be killer of millions is character Travis Dane, recently fired by a Government agency.  The terrorist method is a high-tech powerful new weapon orbiting the earth and the train moving through lonely mountains provides the screen, as in Dark Territory.  Seagal seems somewhat lucky to avoid being killed early on, but then becomes a locomotive of destruction for the bad guys.  Andy Romano returns as the full admiral, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff and provides a continuity from the first Under Siege movie.  This is all action showing Seagal as a dedicated and deadly force of protection for the train hostages and the citizens to the east.  The action moves, and some of the death blows are right out of the military manual.  Watchable over and over and still exciting. "},{"Title":"Seagal accidentally ends up on a train full of terrorists and has to save the world","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Yes, the earthquake beam from space (heck, the whole story line and all of the villains too) are totally unbelievable. Frankly, if you can find a believable action movie, I have a beach house in Arizona you might want to buy. Yes, the production values were not the finest.But -- if you like watching the hero exterminate the bad guys, few do it with the style of Seagal. Like Jet Li (yeah, I am old enough to remember Bruce Lee the original, and Chuck Norris), he is one of the few action heroes who is a real martial arts guy, and he moves so fast and fluidly it is hard for the eye to follow, but fascinating to watch. This is brainless entertainment, full of hilariously cheesy B-movie one-liners you can laugh at (Assumption is the mother of all f-ups!), often bad acting, a story line you could describe in one sentence, and zero character development.There are worse ways to spend 90 minutes. Believability is for films that take themselves seriously. Seagal is more like stand-up comic straight man meets Aikido ace. At least he handles a handgun like someone who has actually fired one. "},{"Title":"Seagal's best and one hell of an exciting ride","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"30 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Since 2001 Seagal has been quite happy to let his film career crash and burn while he sings the blues and does all his strange little things in his personal life (have you ever tasted his wine or his energy drink?). But there was a time in the 90s when his name guaranteed you an hour and a half of broken bones, severed limbs, bad guys in agonizing pain and a showdown with a head villain who stands no chance against the awesome hurricane force that is Steven Seagal.I never really like the first Under Siege. I found it to be too low key and slow and after enjoying such brain-free fare as Marked for Death and Hard to Kill in my youth I had come to expect a tougher movie than the what we were given (though the tyrannical BBFC cut the film to shreds and denied me what I wanted to see). I was dismayed at the lousy 15-rating and not even Erika Eleniak's boobs could cheer me up (she's blonde-not my thing).Flash forward to July 1995 and the awesome poster for Under Siege 2 started showing up in cinema lobbies. It featured the impassive one clinging to the side of a burning train hurtling through the countryside and featured, quite frankly, the best subtitle of any sequel ever 'Dark Territory'. This time it was rated 18 which meant I could look forward to all the blood and gore that the first Under Siege lacked. Obviously I couldn't see this film in the cinema, being only 15 and all, so I had to wait until the video came out in early 1996. By that point the BBFC (those people from the dark-ages again) had censored every last bit of red stuff to the point where it could be shown on the friggin' Disney Channel if it weren't for the swearing.I would have to wait until 1999, when I bought the uncut US version on DVD, to see the film in it's entirety. And when I did it was like watching a brand new movie.Casey Ryback, now the head chef of the Mile High Cafe in Denver, had retired from the Navy but still works for the government doing the odd secret mission here and there. When his brother is killed in a plane crash he takes his niece Sarah (the lurvley Katherine Hiegl) on a trip to LA on the Grand Continental, but that particular train just so happens to be hijacked by crazed computer genius Travis Dane and his band of menacing mercenaries featuring dead-eyed Everett McGill and the sleazy Peter Greene. He has a beef with the government and is only too happy to use his skills to blow the Pentagon off the face of the Earth and collect a nice paycheck from the Saudis.Luckily for Ryback, he was momentarily absent when the hostages were rounded up as he nipped into the kitchen to bake a cake. He teams up with naive porter Bobby Zachs (Morris Chestnut, bringing life to an otherwise ordinary sidekick role) and begins his skulking, lurking mission through the shadows and voids of the train to pull the brake and free the hostages. Do these nasty people really think that they stand a chance against Ryback's awesome power and apparent invincibility? Sit back and watch them get annihilated with a variety of improvised mêlée weapons and other gruesome tools.The train is a better setting than the boat. This time instead of a plain black backdrop we've got lots of pretty scenery and the constant forward motion of the loco gives the movie a nice momentum. Basil Poledouris' score soars miles above Gary Chang's bland notes of the first one and it honestly ends up being one of the best scores ever and a perfect example of how action music ought to be. And don't worry about this one being slow as the first. Under Siege 2 is edited so quickly that coherence is almost lost. You have to pay quick attention and perhaps watch the film a few times just to catch everything.The comic-book nature of the plot, the cliffhanger feel of the ever-escalating mayhem and cartoonish villains might normally result in a campy movie but Under Siege 2 is as hardcore and sadistic and mean-spirited as the come. That's probably the reason the BBFC chose to cut it, claiming that it featured 'gloating and pervasive violence'. Well, I never found it to be that evil, just entertaining. Which is why I don't like narrow-minded institutions telling me what I can and cannot watch.No one could possibly have a bad time watching this film (unless it's the UK version) and if you've had enough of Shane Meadows doing pretentious black and white stuff or Keira Knightely in a frock to last you a lifetime then the brainless and breathtaking action of Under Siege 2 is just what you need. "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining, implausible action.","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"32 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  A high water mark in the career of Mr Segal. He returns to the screen as the, unflappable, invincible, ice cool, ultra hard Casey Ryback. See him leap from a speeding train, rock climb, roll in dirt, take bullets in the arm, all without putting a mark on his immaculate black suit. No messing about with drawn out fight scenes against a super hard villain, everyone is dispatched with minimum of effort as no-one is anywhere near as hard as Casey Ryback. No-one is more entertaining as to watch as the one man army than Segal. If you watch this film expecting an intellectual script and fine acting then you will be disappointed. But if you expect that from any all out action film I expect you are a fool. Totally over the top, totally unbelievable but a total blast.  "},{"Title":"This is a great sequel to the first","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"25 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the best sequels to Steven Seagal. Under Siege 2 Dark Territory is not your ordinary hijack-action-adventure films. Since I do like trains, this movie was a plus for me. The part in this film was everyone, including Ryback(Seagal) got to be part of the action. His niece Sarah, played by Katherine Heigl, knew how to fight back. Bobby Zachs, played by Morris Chestnut, didn't shy away from the action, unless he saw Ryback kill one of the hijackers. The funny part was when one of the female passengers flashed her cleavage saying she broke her bra, the perfect distraction to the hijacker. Great cast, great action, and a great plot I say. I don't care for the critics' opinion, I just liked this movie the way it is! Rating 3 out of 5 stars. 8 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Blind Man's Bluff.","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" ... Close your eyes and listen to all the explosions and the sound of limbs hitting flesh, and you may be happy. If you OPEN your eyes, however, that's when the implausibilities become much harder to ignore.A CD-Rom is crucial in some megalomaniac's plan to extort money and terrorise the world. I've no problem digesting that, I've seen it happen before in the movies; but when said CD is dropped ON A ROCKFACE and left undetected for who knows how long, it still works as it needs to!! Funny that, I don't dare to even put mine on the coffee-table if I want to be able to use it again...We see a shot of Seagal's large head within the cross-hairs of a sniper rifle... Game over, Casey? No way, within no time he's hiding under the train and explaining blithely that the bullet just 'grazed' him... However stupidly enjoyable the rest of the film was (and I suppose it has its moments) I could no longer in good conscience cheer for Mr. Ryback, he should have been dead by now, not completely impervious to harm so that he can continue with his rescue mission...A train is a poor environment in which to stage skilfully choreographed battles. On the boat you had galleys, walkways, etc; but here everything's a bit cramped. This means we spend a lot of time watching dough-boy (What?! He's a chef, that's all I meant... -) ) on top of the speeding vessel, making his ungainly way from carriage to carriage... Here's a general rule; as soon as a terrorist so much as peeks their head outside, they're a dead man (or woman). If Seagal ever gets his hands on a baddie, just assume that Stevie wins the day, since a lot of the time things are so poorly directed and edited that it's hard to tell...Bogosian playing the 'tech-geek' villain does well. True he can't come close to matching the previous standard of Lee Jones or Busey, but that's to be expected. I have to admit, as hitherto mocking as I've been, that there is still a strangely unaccountable thrill in seeing the big man in black bust up those with shadowy souls... Darkness very much the theme, then. If you can manage to turn off the overhead light of your brain for awhile, then you can still find some entertainment in this as long as you feel your way gently. "},{"Title":"The Quintessential Segal Experience","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" First a confession - In a dark little corner of my life which some people incidentally think is all of it, I've got time for the work of Steven Segal. You can scoff but some of the most outright disturbingly entertaining movies of the last ten years read like a roll call of his hits. Hard to Kill, Nico, Under Siege, its sequel of which more in a moment, Half Past Dead, Out for a Kill - the man is a cine-alchemist, turning poor, workman like material into solid gold. This is primarily for two reasons. 1)You must be some kind of crazy genius to forge a career with virtually no personality and 2)He is prepared to go further than most stars in the vanity project stakes, in fact next to Segal people like Bruce Willis, Arnold Schwarzenegger and John Travolta look positively reserved and self-conscious. Under Siege 2 has both of these factors at full strength and in some respects this makes 'Dark Territory' (the sub-title is no understatement) the quintessential Segal Experience. He's been everything from a cop to a University professor (no, seriously) but here the great man reprises his role as Casey Rybeck, an ex-Navy Seal, special ops whathaveyou who jacked it in to pursue a career as a navy chef. In the original Siege and I use the word original purely in the context of first film, Segal saved his ship from terrorists when they threatened to ruin his Japanese rice cakes. In the second version, sorry Installment, Segal is taking his niece, who's very good looking indeed on a Colorado rail journey when its taken over by mercenaries lead by an insane computer genius who plans to destroy Washington using a laser in space. Believe it or not this is almost a Ken Loach set-up in comparison to some of Segal's movies but if you were trying to make the most generic action movie imaginable you'd have a hard time beating this movie. In lesser hands we'd be as dead as one of Rybeck's Poterhouse steaks but Segal the alchemist comes to the rescue and delivers 90 minutes of solid ego-mania and it's a joy to watch. Segal followers will know that when the villains find out who he is and his mêlée of specialist combat tactics (Kick boxing, bomb making, weapons expertise, three Michelin stars) they usually start to panic, all except one head villain, usually no.2 to the main villain (see F.Lee Emery and Michael Caine in On Deadly Ground) who is ill-advisedly confident that he can take our hero in the final reel which of course he doesn't. These scenes show us and reassure Segal that he's one total badass, a man to feared and respected and in case you missed the point Segal's side kick (in this case doubling as black, street talking' comic relief) is there to write it on the blackboard for all the slow kids at the back. Siege has many of these moments in which both Segal's niece and sidekick say things like I guess he's a hero and in one terrific moment the aforementioned hired help is told by Segal oh, you're a hero now? only to be told No, man you're the hero!. Willis might have cut in with a quip at this stage but the man with the tan doesn't do jokes or indeed anything except fight and deliver lines in his trademark monotone. Segal's so gloriously vain that he can't even allow himself to be dirtied up over the course of the movie. In Die Hard Willis got beaten, blooded up and shot but not so much as a strand of Segal's hair goes out of place the entire time, the dark jacket remaining in place throughout. This is despite such potential soiling incidents as explosions, armed combat, cliff face hand to hand fighting and leaping out of moving trucks. My favourite scene is the one where the lead heavy thumps Segal in the face during their climatic fight and although he's a bit blooded in that shot by the time he's got up there's barely a scratch on him. What chance does any terrorist stand against that? All that's missing from Dark Territory is a speech of the kind of quality witnessed in the dieing minutes of the aforementioned On Deadly Ground in which the then eco-friendly action hero delivered the monologue that every Greenpeace activist dreams about. So there you have it, if you want to see a one man force of nature at work rent this one out tonight but remember, this isn't even his best - for that you'll be wanting 'Out for a Kill' and only a idiot would refuse an invitation like that. "},{"Title":"100 minutes of pure bone breaking action","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I love action movies, if they features some decent bone breaking action, it's even better.Steven Seagal is the lord of bone breaking, how you could go wrong ?Plot A bunch of terrorists hijack a train, they took a satellite (which is also a weapon of mass destruction) under they control, they demand 1 billion dollars, or they are going to blow up everything ! Unfortunately for them, Casey (Seagal) is on the same train, while he was traveling with his niece.....now bones are going to break and arms are going to get snapped.Under Siege 2, delivers good one-liners and violence. The violence is almost in a comic-book or video game style, that is one the reasons why i like Under Siege 2.You can watch it even if you haven't watched the first Under Siege, because there are no real connections from the first movie, just the character played by Seagal. "},{"Title":"I don't care what anyone says... DIE HARD ON A TRAIN is superb!!","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" All right, guys. Let's admit it. This one is a classic. Say what you will about Seagal but he gave us UNDER SIEGE 1 and 2 and he got sucked out into the clouds in the Stuart Baird thrill-ride EXECUTIVE DECISION. And for these 3 films I'm eternally thankful. I still can't change the channel every time this one comes on. C'mon! Trains, terrorists, Katherine Heigl, Seagal at his most zen-like, and Everett McGill as Penn who uses pepper spray as a breath spray. What's not to like? And a techno-nerd bad guy who looks like a demented cross between Elliott Gould and Tim Curry! With classic lines like Your safety IS our primary concern. However, if you try anything stupid, Federal Regulations require that I kill you I'm surprised this thing didn't win the Oscar for best script...lol.But seriously, with so much testosterone flying around, helped by Basil Poledouris's rousing score, and so much cool train climbing action (over, under, all over) I sometimes wonder if this one isn't even better than the first one - helmed by Andrew Davis. I mean the Eric Bogosian/Everett McGill combo is just as good as the Tommy Lee Jones/Gary Busey combo! And the kill quip by Seagal (after he dispatches McGill) Nobody beats me in the kitchen is right up there with some of the best quips in the Bond pictures.Anyway it's one of the top films of 1995. I have come to the conclusion that you just can't go wrong when using the DIE HARD formula. I have yet to see a bad DIE HARD clone. SPEED, CLIFFHANGER, UNDER SIEGE, SUDDEN DEATH, AIR FORCE ONE, CON AIR, etc. Die Hard on a Bus, Die Hard on a Mountain, Die Hard on a Ship/Train, Die Hard in a Hockey Arena, Die Hard on a Plane, etc. "}{"Title":"Train and Story Go Fast!","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" There's a moment in Howard Hawks' congenial Western, Rio Bravo, in which some bad guys have captured Wayne and are forcing him to trick a deputy into releasing a prisoner. Wayne, in his John Wayneness, has previously rid the world of a passel of evildoers. As they ready themselves, Wayne mutters something expressive of reluctance, and one of the bad guys says, If it had been up to me, you'd have never got up off the floor. Some of those you killed were friends of mine. None of that sentimental crap here. None of the dozen or more heavies is friends with any of the others. Instead, they slap each other around, issue orders, leave each other to bleed out, curse one another, and sacrifice each other without blinking an eye. In one case, I think, they sacrifice one of their own simply because leaving him behind the train would seem untidy.And the villains are -- or should be -- the best part of a cartoon movie like this. They LOOK fine, for heavies. They're ugly and/or sinister and all are brutish, though, at times, Steven Seagal dispatches them with such alacrity that we can't register which is which. They're just bodies slumping bloodied to the floor of the speeding train or acrobatically tumbling off a high span bridge. It doesn't matter. They all look as if they should have been strangled with their own placentas. Except for Peter Greene as a subordinate villain. He not only looks the part; he can act too. (Catch him in The Usual Suspects.) Maybe I should mention the plot. Sure, why not? Eric Bogosian is a computer genius who has commandeered a secret satellite that can virtually destroy anything on earth. It can cause subterranean earthquakes or shoot down airplanes or whatever else is required to make the brass at the Pentagon tremble. He wants a billion dollars not to trash the Pentagon -- and he gets it. Oh, and he makes a hundred million on the side by destroying the unpleasant wife of some rich guy. Steven Seagal -- surprise! -- foils the plan and kills all the evildoers.Hundreds of people are held hostage aboard the train. Seagal saves them all, except a young couple from the Pentagon who give Bogosian the required passwords rather than have their eyeballs coagulated by a red-hot needle. Besides, they were fornicating, so they deserve being thrown to their deaths, such fraternization being against Pentagon policy.I don't know why the other passengers are allowed to survive. Okay, maybe they weren't having unmarried sex with one another. Not as far as we know anyway. But none of them can act. Appearing in an important role, as Katherine Heigl does, and being bereft of talent is a worse sin than fornication in my book. She's young and tender but she looks sassy enough, and she's supposed to be Seagal's niece, so I suppose they let her survive with the others.In the Pentagon group -- those guys sweating it out and trying to figure out how to stop Bogosian from destroying the world -- Kurtwood Smith is his reliable self and so is Dale Dye, looking abominably fit in his Navy captain's uniform.The direction follows the simplicity of the story. Multiple close ups almost burst out of the screen. For important or unusually witty wisecracks, EXTREME close ups are used. Eric Bogosian never looks at a camera or a computer monitor without the exposure of every pore of his face. You can almost see his pupils dilate when the lights go off at the end of a take.Of Steven Seagal, what is left to be said? Mano a mano with skilled martial arts experts leaves him unscathed -- not even breathless -- while his opponent fights dirty, curses violently, and invariably loses and winds up covered with blood. Seagal doesn't even have one of those trickles of blood from the corner of his lips. He can't. He's superhuman, supernatural. When his train crashes head on into another, he can outrun the impact and throw himself onto a helicopter ladder. Yet, I'm not sure he's that bright. There is a CD ROM that makes it possible for Bogosian to control the satellite. Seagal and a sidekick manage to steal it and leave the train. A land pursuit follows because the terrorists need the CD and want it back. Why doesn't Seagal just throw the CD irretrievably into the canyon? Did Superman ever take an IQ test? Inquiring minds want to know. "},{"Title":"An inevitable sequel&#133;.","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  With the overwhelming success of the first Under Siege, it was inevitable that a sequel would be wheeled out before too long.  Sure enough here it is, Under Siege 2 &#150; Dark Territory.  Quite why they bothered with the last subtitle I do not known as it is not readily obvious within the action as to its reference but I digress.This time the terrorists and Segal are all clumped together on a train.  Basically it's a similar scenario from the first film, complete with the same Admirals, CIA boss etc from the first instalment.The weapon of choice this time is a daft satellite weapon controlled by a nutcase and his band of hired mercenaries.  The two leading bad guys do however have some wonderful much quotable lines, one in particular I cannot repeat here in print, you will just have to make your own assumption&#133;..Once again Segal is on his own with just an annoying sidekick/comedy relief (this time a Porter) for company and again he single handed takes on the non-descript bad guys and duly despatches them one by one as per standard procedure in an effort to stop the weapon, save the train and also save his irritating but nice to look at niece.Sadly the quality of the seemingly recycled script is poor and Segal is hopelessly out acted by the two lead bad guys (Eric Bogosian and Everett McGill) who in turn are out acted by the two former Alaskan Railroad GP7 type locomotives hauling the train!!Also not helping in my appreciation of this film is the fact that the UK DVD release is badly chopped about and obvious badly done cuts abound throughout.  Thankfully an excellent soundtrack from Basil Poledouris saves this film from being just average. "},{"Title":"A guilty pleasure .. and under-rated","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Everyone now and then a reviewer will encounter a film which, purely and simply, is fun to watch over and over yet, when confronted with the daunting task of writing a review explaining to the world WHY, sort of gets tongue-tied and has trouble writing complete sentences. I am going to call this a confluence of really entertaining things that happen to come together at the right time and place, whether or not the director actually intended it to be so. First you have Seagal, one of the strangest actors ever to walk on a set. His style is so bizarre and so outside the mold that he has unintentionally (or intentionally) created a caricature of himself, and does not seem to mind. But the joke is on Hollywood -- after the suits threw him on the street (long after this film BTW) for gaining weight, a strange 'doo, and being generally hard to work with, he pulled a Clint Eastwood and wandered off to countries where you could produce an entire movie for the price of a Happy Meal and, last time I checked, he is still making them. Lots of treats for cinephiles. A chance to see a young perky Katherine Heigl before fame and fortune took over. One of the rare film roles of Eric Bogosian who makes a spectacular bad guy, what a voice! And a chance to watch Brenda Bakke (see my review of American Gothic) who never fails to maximize her screen time. THIS FILM ALSO CONTAINS ONE OF THE MOST OVERWRITTEN STUNTS in film history -- Seagal gets thrown off the train yet somehow gets back on within minutes, contrary to the laws of physics -- and to add insult to injury the scene was incidental to the plot and did not even need to be there. But, hey who cares? I maintain this film is 90 minutes of some the best cheap thrills you can find, and WAY MORE FUN for example than the outrageously pretentious DJANGO UNCHAINED (for example). Recommended! "},{"Title":"Now that's a good movie.","Date":"13 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It was a great movie. It was Seagal's best performance in my opinion. Travis Dane did a good job as the villain even though he was not scary, and it's just a great movie. I like the suspense, the action, etc. If Dane was also scarier it would have been even better. But it was still a great movie. I loved it. Also Ryback's niece was gorgeous. I also liked the location, etc. They should do an Under Siege 3. Even though Dane was more evil I found Penn more intimidating. But it was still a great movie. I own it on DVD and I would watch it again and again. Also I like trains and I really liked the fact that it took place on a train. I like trains even better than cars. Great movie. "},{"Title":"one of Seagal's better movies","Date":"6 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" to me,this arguably one of Steven Seagal's best movies that i have seen to this point.i don't think it's as good as the original Under Siege,but it's still pretty good.Eric Bogosian,Patrick Kilpatrick are all in fine form in supporting roles.Katherine Heigel is also in the movie,long before she her fame hit the stratosphere.this on is all about the action,and once again the fight scenes are very good.but there all also some good one liners here.this movie movie along at a good clip,and even has a bit of suspense.it does stretch reality to the breaking point and beyond,but it can be forgiven,since the action scene are so good.plus,the supporting players(especially Eric Bogosian)add some credibility to the proceedings.for me,Under Siege 2Dark territory is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if basic romp through familiar genre scenario","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Taking a train journey with his estranged niece during his vacation, imagine Casey Ryback's surprise when he finds that his train has been seized by terrorists and his niece is among the hostages &#150; he is annoyed to say the least. The terrorists are mercenaries working with the slightly loopy Travis Dane &#150; a former employer of the government who has developed a satellite weapon of immense power. A few keystrokes later and Dane has control of the satellite and starts a bidding war of rogue nations. With Washington the ultimate target, the military response is hamstrung and ineffective leaving Ryback the only hope (again).Although it is now a fairly derivative genre now, I must admit that, thanks to an early love affair with Die Hard I'll always give this type of one man versus terrorist in a etc situation a try; be it office block, airport, plane, ship, mountain whatever &#150; I'll have a go. Therefore I'm normally easily pleased as long as the film is at least OK. So I enjoyed Under Siege and decided to rewatch the sequel as it had been many, many years. Needless to say the plot is the usual stuff but with the detail and location changed, and those seeking a strong, engaging narrative will likely be a bit let down as the film regularly has big holes of logic or just common sense. However this is nick-picking and really you should know what you're getting with this sort of thing by now &#150; no, what is important is the action, the violent noisy action.On this front the film doesn't excel itself but it does enough to be worth a brainless watch if you're in the mood. The limited budget reveals itself in regards the average special effects at times but mainly the action takes the form of scuffles, dummies falling from trains and things going bang. All this is delivered with enough pace to be enjoyable &#150; fans of Seagal will look back at this with a certain fondness because he actually convinces as a martial artist as opposed to the lardy lump he is becoming of late. Those that require more than the basics will not get into it so easily but it is a noisy affair with enough laughs (intentional and unintentional) and action to go well with a beer. Although Seagal moves well, this is yet another film that shows his very limited range. I can forgive his calm appearance during fights (he's trained to be like that right?) but other than this he can only really smirk or look slightly annoyed &#150; even when the train explodes around him he looks like a man out for a stroll who has suddenly been caught in the rain. Some might not mind this but it tends to take away from the realism (if I can apply the word to such a film) and not grip as much as it should. Bogosian has clearly been watching the first film and learnt that he needs to play crazy to get attention &#150; thus he is loopy and OTT and quite fun even if it isn't that original. McGill is a tough baddie for Seagal to fight and he plays that well. Chestnut is average comic relief at best but does OK but Heigl is a female non-entity and is upstaged by the gorgeous Alaouie, despite the latter having one or two lines and very little screen time.Overall this is a basic film that plays by the genre rules without any real effort or imagination, but if you know that already then you'll enjoy it. As silly as it is fun, I enjoyed in equal amounts getting into the action while also laughing at Seagal's flat performance. Basic but fun. "},{"Title":"Kick the Cook","Date":"19 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" When 'Under Siege 2 Dark Territory' first came out in 1995, I really liked it. Or, I should say, just simply enjoyed it. It was simple fun, and yes, another shameless 'Die Hard on a (fill in the blank)' rip-off. This time, a train. This is my first viewing since; 14 years later. Though, somewhat ashamed of liking such a bad flick and even considering removing it from my guilty pleasure top ten list. But, I will say the villain, played by Bogosian, was highly entertaining and funny and did better than his role even required of him. Tommy Lee Jones (his counterpart from the original,) he is not. Still, he made his scenes more enjoyable. In addition, I am not a Seagal fan whatsoever, however, comparatively speaking, he's the best of the low-budget clones he mirrored in the 80/90s Van Damme, Lundgren, Norris, etc. After a plane crash kills his brother, ex-seal Seagal escorts his last living relative (surprisingly played by a very young Katherine Heigl &#x96; my, she's come far since) across country on, get this, the very same train terrorist siege to get back at the government and make money in the process. Speaking earlier of copying 'Die Hard,' you want the same bad-guy premise but in a 100x better flick, rent 'Live Free or Die Hard.' Anyways, suffice to say, Seagal spends his time up and down the train, on top of it, or on a cliff to save his niece and other faceless hostages while cooking up exploding gadgets and even picking up the most clichéd black wisecracking sidekick along the way. Part one made some money, over $150 million worldwide, so why did they strip this of any budget? It was almost embarrassing to see the fake exterior shots when they're inside the moving train. "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal rides on a train!","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Ah, another Seagal film. The original was a ripoff of the better Die Hard, which is one of my favorites. Granted that it was as such, I still enjoyed the hell out of it. I didn't think there'd be a sequel, I didn't even know they made a sequel, I'm sure most people didn't. There was somebody who thought this would be a good idea, armed with crappy actors and driving around on a train (I hate traveling this way) and zapping things with a laser, I didn't know if I was going to be given some good action. Probably written while watching another film, it really doesn't deliver anything but action. I was disappointed by this film's villain, not only is he a loser but he's a geek who dies in a crappy way.I was sort of reminded of Air Force One, that came out two years later. Did that ripoff this classic? I doubt it! Unlike Air Force One however, we are given a fat man with a ponytail. Sure Seagal was good for that one year he had in the 80s, but his style of slapping people around and breaking limbs is over. Notice how we ditched that toad Jean-Claude Van Damme as well? Well Seagal doesn't have an appeal to him, Ah-nuld can throw out one liners, and we'll pay to see it again. Unlike the governor however, I have never found Seagal to have any personality, even when he tries to force it.Now as I mentioned, the story sucked. The acting was too good either, from the loser thugs talking about Oh, maybe he is dead, what's with this crap? I mean given simple logic, I would shoot the guy in the head, rather than in the arm. But I guess if you pay the best mercenaries in the world, chances are there will be another one who is a little smarter than those you bought. What a waste.So of course Seagal saves the day. I was waiting for something to happen throughout the entire film. The action is there, but truly is bland as hell. Basically if you like Seagal films, and you are willing to get punched in the face with a stolen plot, I'd be happy to recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Seagal on a Train....","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This was pretty good actually, despite having some production problems(word has it that they were thinking of bringing Gary Busey's character back from Under Seige I-yeah, right-off the exploding Sub? Not likely...)But anyways, this worked well for me. I enjoyed Seagal, showed a bit of humour here in places, thought the train gave it a decent closed in setting, liked both Kurtwood Smith and Everett McGill doing what they do best. (Smith has played the worried Pentagon staffer before too, about the same way...) My impression of Bogosian was that he was a bit too wired at times in his portrayal but it worked just the same. Overall an enjoyable if not great action film, the sort Seagal should have made more of.**1/2 outta ****, nothing great, but alright. "},{"Title":"easy fun!","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  i love this film. its great fun from the off and stands up to its average predecessor in my honest opinion. alright, the effects aren't exactly top notch, and the cliches and obvious acts and outcomes are predictable, but this is meant to be entertainment, its meant to make us gasp, get us hooked and give us some fun to concentrate on for two hours. Steven isn't exactly the worlds best actor but he puts in a decent effort here and the end result is a thoroughly enjoyable, if not epic or memorable, fable about a train thats been hijacked by ex NASA employees with control of a satelite with a powerful laser, on which Casey Riback - Seagal - happens to be traveling on to some funeral, with his niece who isn't a happy bunny. enjoy!  "}{"Title":"Warner Brothers' were thinking about the terminate the contract","Date":"19 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Starting with Above the Law and peaks with Under siege,Steven Seagal become almost action legend.He was making box office killing with movies like Marked for Death,Hard to kill,Out for justice and Under Siege.But things start to change When Seagal demands more and more,more.For On Deadly Ground,despite without any previous experience,He insisted to direct the movie.After Under Siege 2,WB has decided not to work Seagal anymore.Not Because of He is not as bankable as any previous movies,Because of his attitudes.WB didn't do too much effort to promote the movie and recruited two unknowns names as main villains and No name Director.Seagal's behaviour to other actors and stunt performers were no longer tolerable.His big ego would never let anyone to even to touch him, let alone a fair fight with a villain.As an Uncompromised guy,He finally face the truth He is no longer bankable.Hollywod career,big studio career is over in 10 years.What a pity,In a good shape,good relations with producers and directors,He could have been one of biggest stars.In Taken,Bryan mills, ın The Equalizer,Mccall may be John wick.too sad. "},{"Title":"Not bad but the audio was very uneven","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The audio track on the DVD had so many variations I ended up having to adjust the volume about 50 times during the film which definitely took away from the experience. One of Mr. Seagal's better films, with lots of great outdoor shots and plenty of action. Sometimes I wonder if they intentionally mar the film in some way-uneven audio-as a way of protesting inertia in the society at large. Dark Territory is a reference to entering an area where there is no cell coverage either by way of geography or by way of no technology available-you would think satellite phones would be available for such a contingency, especially if you are as well equipt as Steven Seagal's character is in the various films like this out there. Oh well. With a better sound track it would be an easy 8 out of ten. Really quite well done, no mucking about in this one. "},{"Title":"Chance favors the prepared mind","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Seagall is the hero in this drama as the mysterious one-man gang who takes on a band of terrorists on a passenger train. Eric Bogosian is the top gun of the bad guys, a demented erstwhile government employee who wants to get even with Uncle Sam for what he feels was a wrongful termination of his employment. The plot is far-fetched but the action is plentiful and the film's pace speeds along towards its rather predictable conclusion. The scenes of mayhem and the stunt work are good stuff and Seagall manages to keep out of harm's way with the help of a porter. Morris Chestnut's character plays up the comic relief angle for Seagall but the effect is just okay. Katherine Heigl is the estranged niece of Seagall and the two have an uneasy relationship during the course of the movie. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film starring a truly remarkable man.","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Seagal stars in this epic action film, sequel to the very successful Under Siege. Since the last film, Casey Ryback has retired from military service and now works as a chef. He happens to find himself in the wrong place at the wrong time with his niece, aboard a train destined to be hijacked by a gang of mercenaries. The train is diverted into dark territory, that is, an area of no radio contact, hence the title. The usual threat/ransom storyline is employed, this time involving a technologically advanced military satellite Grazer 1 and a slightly insane disgruntled ex-employee. With some amazing action sequences and a tremendous storyline, this film just can't go wrong and far surpasses the original. Steven Seagal breaking limbs, throwing people around and making bombs out of glass and coconut milk - who can ask for more? You've even got a smart-alec porter, a young Morris Chestnut (who will later become buff), to lighten the mood when Steve's eyebrows reach 70 degrees inclines. This film is a must see! "},{"Title":"beautifully crap... honest...","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  ok ok, i know several other people have mentioned that this movie is horribly illogical... but everyone seems to forget one very important and obvious proof of this. ok, here's the scene. seagal is standing somewhere on the outside of the train, between two different cars. one of the terrorists, a sniper lady, gets out a sniper gun with a scope, aims, and shoots seagal in the heart. you watch him get shot... he falls over, like any dead guy would, and falls between the two cars, assumably getting run over.... but is he dead? no. worse off, is he shot? no! ok, so somehow he manages to hang onto the bottom of the train, get back up, appear back inside one of the train cars, and is now talking to the black guy person... and this is where the worste part comes in. the black guy (who is DEFINATELY the token black guy in the movie) mentions to seagal that he just saw him get shot, seagal points to where the bullet hit him, and actually says you see this? no bullet went in this... and for the entire rest of the movie, they just completely ignore the fact that he was shot... i suppose you just have to accept the fact that he's... umm... bulletproof? yeah, that's it......... oh oh, there's another really bad scene that nobody else has mentioned. ok, so the train is going along the side of a big cliff... somehow seagal manages to find himself hanging off the side of this cliff. well of course that happens, every action star has to have a scene where he's hanging by his finger tips off the sid of a cliff.. duh... but ok, so they stop the train and send guys out to get him. one of the guy magically has rock climbing propelling equimpent, hooks up a rope, and propells himself over the side of the cliff down towards seagal. seagal again is hanging entirely by his finger tips, and appears to be struggling not to fall. however, whenever this nice guy with the rope comes down to kill him, suddenly seagal apparently is able to defy gravity. he takes one of his hands off the cliff, turns entirely around (somehow) and starts to talk to the guy... picture it... he's hanging there, facing away from the cliff, hanging on by only the finger tips of one hand... and it doesnt even look like he's hanging on with that hand. he just looks like he's standing there, leaning up against a wall or something... but last time i checked, it's pretty hard to stand on AIR. anyways, using that one mighty hand of his, he pushes up off the cliff and lunges towards the guy on the rope... when's the last time you had the strength in one arm (that you're using to barely hang on to the side of a cliff, mind you) to just launch yourself 10 feet towards a guy on a rope? oh yeah, i forgot. you're not an action hero... ok ok ok, i know i said i'd only rant about one at the beginning and i've already mentioned two, but there is a third i just have to mention. which one? the whole making-a-bomb scene. at one point he walks into one of the train cars, which for some reason is stocked with food items (it's NOT the kitchen), and starts fiddling around with stuff. since there is no logical explination for what he's doing, he decides to explain it himself. he turns to the camera and says oh, so you want to know what i'm doing? i'm making a bomb... and with that, he takes a scoop of what appears to be either crisco, ice cream or something of that sort and some ice cubes, and mixes it all up in one of those bar tender drink mixer things... he straps his beeper onto the side (which somehow works as a timer? maybe?) and declares it now a bomb. well, it explodes alright, so i guess he was right. anyway, now he casually walks into the main room where all the bad guys are, throws it in, and it explodes... now mind you, all of the fancy equipment that the bad guys were using to try and blow up things was in that room... and he just threw a bomb in there... now despite the fact that all of the equipment assumably just got blown up (and you actually see it on fire), it is in perfect condition later on, and working perfectly fine... hmm, maybe they had a few more lying around in storage just in case.... of course there is the really bad scene that was already mentioned where he runs faster than a 200mph train crash... but that's beside the point... of course there are all of the other things about this movie that just p*** me off... like how his little Apple palm-pilot dohicky has to wait 30 seconds before it can redial... why? because Apple likes to add suspense to everything. argh. ok, ok, i'll stop complaining about specific scenes and just give you all a summary. the movie was terrible. the acting was horrible, though what else would you suspect from steven seagal? i swear its in his contract to act poorly or something. the story plot was extremely predictable.. well, as long as you think seagal is invincable.. otherwise you'd have predicted his death many times throughout the movie (especialy when he got shot! agh!) but yeah... this movie is only worth watching if you're the type of person who enjoys laughing at how increadably bad a movie is.. and even then, it's still pretty terrible... i'd give it... 0.25 stars as a movie over all... but i'll add two to that just for making me laugh at how stupid it was... but then i have to subtract 1.5 just for p***ing me off.. overall? 0.75 stars out of 10. hey, thats pretty good for this movie... "},{"Title":"Perhaps a better movie as the first one.","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The first Under Siege movie is a pretty much overrated one. I mean, it's not that's a bad genre movie but it's a very well known one all over the world and quite frankly I don't see how it deserved this status, since it's a very average action flick in every regard. This movie is basically more of the same. Under Siege 2 Dark Territory is just a big clone of Die Hard as the first Under Siege movie was. The story is also pretty much the same as in the first movie. It's as if they picked up the script from the first movie and simply just changed the settings and characters names.Still I liked this movie just a tad bit more than the first movie. It's hard to say why, since this movie is probably a worse directed one than the first movie was. Yet I feel that this movie is more entertaining to watch and has more re-watchable values in it.I remember that back in 1995, at the time of the release of this movie, this movie was really a big thing. It had a big budget and the action was amazing for its time. Now days the movie is already starting to look outdated. The action directing is clumsy at times and the early special-effects and obvious miniature effects are awful to watch.Yet the movie is a very enjoyable one, especially for the fans of the action genre. Because of the simple premise and story of the movie it's such a pleasant one to watch. Also if you've already seen the first movie you already exactly know what to expect when watching this movie. The violence in this movie is pretty straight-forward. It's the sort of movie that isn't afraid to kill innocent people without mercy. The action scenes are also quite good, despite the not so great directing of it all.Yet the movie still makes some horrible mistakes. Such as giving Steven Seagal way too many lines. But I guess that is what happens when your lead actor is also one of the producers of the movie. Secondly the putted too many unnecessary characters into the movie. Bobby Zachs (Morris Chestnut) and Sarah Ryback Katherine Heigl) should had been left out of the movie. They add nothing to little to the movie and often are only distracting and borderline annoying. Also the villains are not too well balanced out. At times you're wondering throughout the movie who actually is the main villain. There are three candidates, that at several moments throughout the movie are being presented as the biggest villain. First in the movie there is Peter Greene, than Eric Bogosian shows up and in the end there is Everett McGill.Oh well, at least it were still the villains that made this movie a pleasant one to watch. Eric Bogosian really seemed to have a good time playing the bad guy and he plays a fine and humor filled role, without loosing too much of his credibility as a villain.If you liked the first Under Siege movie then there is no reason why you shouldn't like this one as well.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"exactly what you'd expect","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Highly watchable sequel has now retired sailor Seagal vacationing with his estranged niece. They're traveling aboard a luxury train, but their once tranquil vacation is abruptly cut short when the train is hijacked by a group of elite mercenaries&#x97;led by a disgruntled ex-government employee who's taken over a top secret, high-tech satellite that he's using to try and wipe out Washington, D.C. Swiftly paced and well-directed, with plenty of edge of your seat action scenes, but being a sequel the film's plotting is routine, the outcome fairly predictable, and the inevitable final showdown just doesn't quite payoff the way it should. **½ "},{"Title":"Guess I'm not trained for this... Easily Seagal's best film & one of the best Die Hard rip-offs.","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege 2 Dark Territory starts as ex Navy Seal & chef Casey Ryback (producer Steven Seagal) meets up his niece Sarah (Katherine Heigl) at a train station as they intend to catch the Denver to Los Angeles cross country train, also catching that particular train are ATAC employees Capatin's Linda Gilder (Brenda Bakke) & David Trilling (David Gianopoulos). En-route the train is stopped & hijacked by a gang of mercenaries lead by Penn (Everett McGill) & computer whizz Travis Dane (Eric Bogosian) who force Gilder & Trilling to give him their top secret authorisation codes for a powerful particle beam satellite weapon known as Grazer One developed by ATAC & the CIA, financed by middle eastern bad guy's they intend to destroy the Pentagon & the American eastern seaboard with Grazer One. Sounds simple eh? Well, they hadn't counted on Casey 'f*cking' Ryback who is used to this sort of thing...Directed by Geoff Murphy this is my favourite Die Hard (1988) clone, it is a top action flick in it's own right & is easily Seagal's best film, Under Siege 2 Dark Territory remains one of only two sequels Seagal has appeared in although I'm not really sure what that mean in itself & is superior to the original Under Siege (1992) which was also one of Seagal's better efforts. The script by Richard Hatem & Matt Revees moves along like a rocket, it's action packed, has some quotable one-liners & has that trademark Seagal brutality that was apparent in his early films. In fact sometimes Seagal's character is more brutal & violent than the bad guy's which I must admit didn't quite sit right with me at times but at least it makes for some ultra violent fights & action scenes. The story itself is decent too, the hijacking of a train is a neat idea on it's own & well realised while the particle beam satellite adds a little something different as well, the character's are good with the jokey Bogosian & the deadpan McGill working well off each other & providing a nice contrast in the villain department. However while Seagal comes across as a mean mother his porter sidekick is there for comedy relief & he irritates although not enough to ruin things & then there's Katherine Heigl who is a total babe & her presence is most welcome.Director Murphy keeps things moving along, he keeps the jokey quips & one-liners to a minimum & he serves up some brutal action scenes & fights. From bad guy's being shot in the face, to Seagal making a home made bomb & letting it blow up in someones face, someone is kicked in front of a train & ran over, people fall from cliffs, wrists are cut, necks snapped, bones broken, knives are stuck in people throats & there is a massive body count. Unfortunately not in any of the British Video or DVD versions though which are heavily cut, in fact almost every violent scene is trimmed in some way & is an absolute travesty. I can't stress enough not to invest in any British version of Under Siege 2 Dark Territory, I got an uncut Dutch DVD from Amsterdam for about 3 quid & the difference is immeasurable. This film also has more action scenes than most Seagal films & isn't just fights, there are some nice explosions as various things are blown to pieces & there's a nice truck chase as well.With a supposed budget of about $60,000,000 this had a big budget & it shows with really good production values, it has, for the time, good special effects which still look alright & the action scenes are just bigger & better with that big budget Hollywood over-the-top feel to them. There's a decent cast here although Seagal lets it down as he mumbles his way through the part, at least he's gotten rid of the ponytail for this & I think Kurtwood Smith would have been better as a baddie like he was in Robocop (1987).Under Siege 2 Dark Territory is another excessively violent & brutal Seagal action flick, personally I think it's his beast & just a damned fine film in it's own right. It has a good cast, good villains, good action set-pieces & a decent story, what more do you want? "},{"Title":"Action movie that makes you sleep","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This was the first action movie I saw which made me sleep. It was completely boring to see Mr face-expressionless Seagal fighting from wagon to wagon and I didn't know where the front of the train is and when we can catch it. The final confrontation was nice and quite well-made but I found ridiculous when Seagal was running out of the falling train quite slowly, just like saying oh, why should I run faster, it's in the screenplay that I will catch that tiny ladder in the last minute, so I have time. Oh my God. 2 of 10. "},{"Title":"Disappointing Territory...","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This time our hero from Under Siege faces off against terrorists who have hijacked a train and are planning on using a nuclear satellite to zap the Pentagon unless demands of money are met. Once again nobody beats our favorite U.S seal turned cook in the kitchen, or for that matter in the movie. Aside from a few exciting action sequences and the hilariously cheesy one liner Nobody beats me in the kitchen! Under Siege 2 ranks a huge disappointment. The main reason is that Seagal is too invincible and that the story is too asinine to even bother following. Also the bad guys this time, while having their moments, pale in comparison to the ones in # 1.*1/2 out of 4(Poor) "}{"Title":"One of the greatest action movies I've ever seen that takes place on a train","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the greatest action movies I've ever seen. It really kept me on the edge of my seat. As always, Steven Seagal can really give an action movie a nice touch. The only thing that scared me was when the bad guys took everyone on the train hostage. If you ask me Casey (Steven Seagal) was a really tough guy when it came to fighting off villains. I just have to say that Geoff Murphy has scored a huge hit. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that the performances were superior, the production design was beautiful, the cast was perfectly chosen, and the costumes were perfectly designed. Now, in conclusion, to all you Steven Seagal fans who haven't seen this great action movie that takes place on a train, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is absolutely my favorite movie of all time. I just LOVE this movie and everything about it. In Under Siege 2 Dark Territory, terrorists hijack a passenger train, to set it up as a mobile and undetectable base for Travis Dane to use his high-tech computers to control a government nuclear satellite in hopes of blowing up the Pentagon, and the entire eastern seaboard. Funny, terrorists hijack a train to hijack a satellite. Anyway, all is going well for the terrorists, they have the perfect plan, take over a train, use it to blow up what they want, and then get rid of the evidence by driving in into a gasoline train. But, there's just one problem, and its the cook, Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) who is really an Ex-Navy Seal. And he is a flaw that will epically ruin Dane's plan. Steven Seagal, what a great actor, you can really tell who he is by his tone in this movie, which he's calm, he whispers, it's just great acting, and not just by Steven, ALL the actors in this movie. It's great acting and directing, and I Love the performance. The plot, while having some flaws, they are easily over-looked by the great action and peril going on. This movie was SO good at pulling me into it, I actually forgot I had seen the entire plot of this movie on Wikipedia, I was watching the movie, knowing what was going to happen, and I was STILL in suspense, I Loved the first Under Siege as well, and this movie is absolutely a 10 star movie. No mater what type of genre you are into, see this movie. www.egyptmaingate.com "},{"Title":"Edge-of-your-seat action on a runaway train!","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is an action-packed and suspenseful sequel to Under Siege from start to finish, where Steven Segal returns as Navy S.E.A.L. turned cook Casey Ryback, who must stop a gang of terrorists that seized control of a train to use it as a mobile HQ to hijack a destructive U.S. satellite. Segal proves he is still a force to be reckon with with his skilled martial arts moves and knowledge of making traps to seize those terrorists. It's satisfying seeing him take them on after witnessing them mercilessly blow planes and out of the air and bombing places on Earth.Eric Bogosian and Everett Gill play some pretty formidable bad guys and it's great to see them deck it out with Segal. The subplot of the Pentagon generals scrambling in how to deal with the bad guys and the hostage situation, just like the first movie, gives the movie added suspense, wondering if they will resort to launching an all-out assault on the train, which puts the hostages in jeopardy.Overall, it's an exciting action sequel. Plenty of edge-of-your-seat thrills, especially during scenes where Segal hangs outside onto the train for dear life. Some humor as well, courtesy of Morris Chestnut. A must-see for action movie fans.Grade A "},{"Title":"Not Bad Action Sequel!","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Seagal, Eric Bogosian, katherine Heigl and Everett McGill star in this 1995 action sequel. Seagal returns as Navy SEAL & Cook, Casey Ryback who finds himself in another crisis when a group of terrorists seize a train that he and his teenage niece, Sarah (Heigl) are aboard. He must once again use his special skills to thwart them and save the hostages. Bogosian (Law & Order) plays mad computer genius, Travis Dane who leads the terrorists and intends on using a military satellite to get money and McGill (Silver Bullet) plays Penn, his associate. This isn't a bad sequel, Seagal is good in it and Bogosian & McGill are great bad guys. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Fast-Paced Entertainment!","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The sequel to the 1992 film Under Siege, 'Under Siege 2 Dark Territory' is Fast-Paced Entertainment! Brisk, Engaging & Action-Packed, this 90's sequel offers a true punch!'Under Siege 2 Dark Territory' Synopsis Casey Ryback hops on a Colorado to LA train to start a vacation with his niece. Early into the trip, terrorists board the train and use it as a mobile HQ to hijack a top secret destructive US satellite.'Under Siege 2 Dark Territory' is the usual good versus bad story, but the consistently fast-paced narrative keeps you engrossed & engaged almost throughout. The fight between the good & bad also offers some tremendous action set pieces, which definitely work. Only flaw, however, is that there is no newness to the story. Its a tad predictable!Richard Hatem & Matt Reeves's Screenplay isn't new in terms story, but its engrossing at most parts, nevertheless. Geoff Murphy's Direction is excellent. Cinematography is nicely done. Editing is mostly crisp. Action-Sequences are highly effective. Performance-Wise Steven Seagal is doing what's he always been the best at, kicking ass! And he excels. Eric Bogosian is outrageously hammy as the villain. Everett McGill is a much better menace in comparison. Katherine Heigl is alright. Morris Chestnut is decent.On the whole, 'Under Siege 2 Dark Territory' works pretty well as an Action Flick. "},{"Title":"Makes Killing Look Like Fun (And Makes It Funny, Too)","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" First of all, if you watch this movie and don't think about wanting to be one of these bad guys, you just aren't human. If I could call noisy little girls the B word (and threaten to viciously murder them), shoot people left and right, throw useless women off a train and into a jagged rock river, and blow up an entire freakin' city, I'd jump on that job in a heartbeat! Seriously, who wouldn't?! Oh, did I mention they blow up a jumbo jet, too? It was probably full of useless children and horrible mothers and fathers anyway. So no harm done there. Same with the city/plant that blew up. Another thing to consider is the families of the all the ones who died. They were either overjoyed, or sad. It's okay, they were all probably crappy husbands and wives anyway, so they won't be missed. The action is really good and well executed. And of course you can't forget about Steven Seagul, right? The acting is also good, because everybody is basically just killing, and that's easy to do anyway. So to wrap up this short review, watch this movie if you love to watch people die. Forget the plot, the deaths and killings are better than a boring, regurgitated plot. There are plenty of humorous deaths to keep you entertained. Make sure to catch the bad guy kill the conductors, as he smiles the whole way through the shooting of two innocent old men! So smile when you murder someone, because it's okay to do so! "},{"Title":"Compares with Taken","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie compares with Taken a good plot and plenty of action from the hero to resolve the train hijack problem with mindless violence. Great action and of course Seagal is a fit and proper tough guy to carry out the necessary executions. It has various original twists for its time, and I did not find it predictable -- predictability spoils many current movies for me, so I watch very few, and only if strongly recommended by my few close advisers. I will always respect cooks after watching this movie. I have watched this movie three times -- usually I can forget most of a movie by that time and knowing it is good entertainment, can watch it again with enjoyment. For those who prefer something more cerebral, with a more involved plot, may I recommend the BBC series from 2008, Bleak House? 15 episodes, and a TV show has never been better. "},{"Title":"Underrated.","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Personally, I thought the Under Siege 2 Daqrk Territory was a bit underrated by IMDb reviewers. OK, it was corny and there wasn't much original about it - - you know, we've seen the same basic plot with different forms of transport many times - Speed/bus, Speed 2/Cruise Ship, Under Siege/Battleship and lots of trains - The Taking of Pelham 123, Runaway Train, and so on - and this. I was also reminded of that Bond film with the giant radio telescope under the lake. So there weren't many surprises plot-wise. Nevertheless, it was billed as an action movie and of that, there was plenty and, let's face it, that's what people go to action movies to see. So, in that respect, they shouldn't have been disappointed with Under Siege 2. Steven Seagal in his second role as retired navy SEAL, Casey Ryback was what viewers would expect him to be and the bad guy, Marcus Penn was very well played by Everett McGill with his geek technocrat puppet, Eric Bogoslan (Travis Dane) being very geeky (if you know what I mean) having been fired by the CIA as a risky loose- cannon seeking revenge (Don't distract me, I have 8 million people to kill!)Katherine Heigl as Seagal's niece Sarah Ryback was a very nice balance of nice little girl and tough-as-nails ally and Morris Chestnut as train porter, Bobby Zachs was both amusing and a very quick learner as far as toughening up under pressure. There were some anomalies like how do the bad guys know where the stealth bombers are - they're STEALTH bombers for heaven's sake but you can live with that for the story's sake!As I say, nothing new but, by the same token, you won't be left wondering what's coming next either. It all comes in quick succession right until the end (which is also very predictable). So, if you like lots of action almost non-stop for 100 minutes, you'll enjoy Under Siege 2 Dark Territiry. "},{"Title":"Mediocre action sequel with little to offer","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" So since the first Under Siege was successful, why not make a sequel? Also, how about just go in another direction entirely and set it on a train? It could be fun, but it sadly lacks any of the charm that made the first one work so well making this feel like a direct to video action sequel.Good I like the setting still for the movie and some of the fight scenes are fun. The villain was appropriately wacko and brought a little levity to the movie. It was fun to point out some famous faces like Jonathan Banks and Katherine Heigl here.Bad This sequel sorely lacked energy. It had such a workman like direction to it that made it lack excitement. The one liners were corny, the rest of the villains were stock, the addition of Morris Chestnut as the comic relief didn't work, and there is some terrible green screen and CG as well.Overall, it's a mediocre action sequel. Nothing horrible and nothing great. Something worthy when it's on Showtime during an afternoon. "},{"Title":"Think Under Siege on a train instead of a boat","Date":"27 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" There is not much that I can really say about this movie. There isn't really much of a theme with it, and it really only continues the trend set out in Under Siege I. Steven Segal is a Navy Seal commander who has retired and is now a cook. His brother has recently died and he meets his niece at the railway station to go to Los Angeles for the funeral. The train is the target of hijackers who use the train as a mobile base to control a top secret satellite. They request a billion dollars off of America's enemies to use this satellite to cause an earthquake in Washington DC and eliminate the entire eastern seaboard.The only thing that stands up in this movie is that it is purely an action movie. There are lots of hair raising stunts, bodies thumping down cliff faces, and tonnes of machine-gun fire. There is a nasty woman assassin (for some reason the women assassins seem to be the most deadliest), and lots of mooks that get shot. There is also a knife fight at the end between Segal and the mercenary boss. Unfortunately this knife fight is really bad, and does not equate to the one at the end of Under Siege. The woman also appears very irregularly and this is not as fiercesome as could be expected.One of the things about this movie is how the ultimate weapons are not always that ultimate. The theme in these two movies is how the US's biggest weapons are stolen and used against them. The Missouri in Under Siege was not exactly a new weapon, but the satellite here is. What is strange is out of all of the trains, why this one? Well, when I think about it, I realise that most importantly Steven Segal is on this train. If he wasn't then there wouldn't be a good guy to stop them. Less importantly, the train goes near a dead zone, a place where no radio signals can get out. This is not all that important because when they enter this zone it is only to crash the train into another oncoming train.This movie is okay really for a pointless action movie, and there is action aplenty. In the end though, it does not rise above the level of being simply okay. "}{"Title":"Battle On A Train","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Geoff Murphy took over directing duties for this sequel, which sees Steven Seagal returning as former Navy Seal now chef Casey Ryback, who is on a Colorado to California train trip with his niece whose parents have recently died. As luck would have it, the train is targeted for takeover by mercenaries led by a crazed scientist/inventor(played by Eric Bogosian) who wants to use the mobile train to hijack a top secret Pentagon satellite to hold the U.S. government for ransom, or he will destroy the Eastern Seaboard, so once again Ryback must go into battle to stop them. Mostly routine sequel does have the novelty of the train setting, and Bogosian is amusing as the bad guy. Still, this mostly comes up short, with strained credibility, though there is a spectacular climax. "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" As a viewer from the year 2013, this was a bit hard to just watch. It may be entertaining if viewed as a comedy, but it is very difficult to watch it seriously. No, I don't think action movies have to be believable or realistic, but I do think it is the film's job to hide this fact and overshadow it with a great performance in all other areas of the movie.This is why this very movie is terrible. The script is overdosed with a beyond ridiculous plot structure and garbage dialogue. Maybe it was a bit more underscored when it came out in 1995, but 18 years later it is just painful to experience.If you don't really care about the quality of the film you are watching, I guess you could watch it. But, why pick this action flick over any other film of it's category anyways? "},{"Title":"fun Steven Seagal action","Date":"6 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) is traveling to LA on a train with his niece Sarah Ryback (Katherine Heigl) after her parents died in a plane crash. Casey and his brother have been estranged and he hasn't seen his niece for 5 years. Traveling on the train is a couple of captains from a secret military satellite weapon program. A group of mercenaries led by Travis Dane (Eric Bogosian) who first designed the weapon, commandeer the train, and torture the secret access codes out of the captains. They set up a mobile control center to wrack havoc on the world for large amount of money.The premise is full of overblown silliness. A lot of it is completely stupid and unnecessary. Why would the bad guy need the helicopters? And why would they kill all those people to get them? And what kind of security would allow the satellite to be hijacked with a couple of security codes? Steven Seagal is again the unflappable superhero. I don't know if this is legal, but Katherine Heigl is hot. And it's funny to hear how much of a sleezeball Seagal was. Eric Bogosian does a crazy bad guy. Nick Mancuso is annoying as the weaselly weapon project leader. There's good action and some funny scenes which mitigate all the annoying stuff. It's a fun action thriller. "},{"Title":"Splendid Action Movie Devoid of Pretenses","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In all fairness this is Steven Seagal's best movie till date. The storyline is as typical as it gets and almost every sequence predictable . Yet, the movie shines because it has been directed in a simple and very lucid manner. All the action scenes are amazing and one can only admire Seagal's cool, measured , exact and almost misleadingly nonchalant display of his martial arts prowess. True to his on screen persona , he is untouchable and defuses all threats which come his way . The movie is to the point and doesn't waste a single second on things which do not help the story in moving forward. Not pretending to be French or Iranian cinema , the movie revolves around typical yet entertaining dialogue , refreshing hand combat sequences sans the extended duels and complete consistency . This is one movie I will always have on my hard disk since it never fails to entertain and doesn't burden the mind one bit. What more can or should ask from an action movie ? I just love the action flicks from the 90's and this one only extends the list. (Thumbs up! , if you want Seagal's combat skills as exhibited in the movie !) "},{"Title":"Splendid Action Movie Devoid of Pretenses","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In all fairness this is Steven Seagal's best movie till date. The storyline is as typical as it gets and almost every sequence predictable . Yet, the movie shines because it has been directed in a simple and very lucid manner. All the action scenes are amazing and one can only admire Seagal's cool, measured , exact and almost misleadingly nonchalant display of his martial arts prowess. True to his on screen persona , he is untouchable and defuses all threats which come his way . The movie is to the point and doesn't waste a single second on things which do not help the story in moving forward. Not pretending to be French or Iranian cinema , the movie revolves around typical yet entertaining dialogue , refreshing hand combat sequences sans the extended duels and complete consistency . This is one movie I will always have on my hard disk since it never fails to entertain and doesn't burden the mind one bit. What more can or should ask from an action movie ? I just love the action flicks from the 90's and this one only extends the list. (Thumbs up! , if you want Seagal's combat skills as exhibited in the movie !) "},{"Title":"All the elements of greatness but just doesn't hang together as the first one did","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Big fan of the original, always like a bit of naval action and you felt that Segal finally had found a role that allowed him to exploit his limited acting talents and formidable martial arts expertise and military skills. We would have quite happily have followed Casey Ryback through a series of adventures, hell, even a TV series but unfortunately this film seems to have killed off a possibly enjoyable franchise which is something of a shame. The Good? As with the original the best part of the film is where Ryback finds himself in a seemingly hopeless situation and starts to use his knowledge and training to fight back and slowly regain the initiative from the bad guys. Oddly I rather love the scene where he rewires his electronic diary to the train's payphone in order to send for help, he's about more than just blowing things up and killing folks with his bare hands. Eric Borgosian is very good in his role as the malevolent genius and the action sequences stand up extremely well. Segal's reality series Lawman has actually raised my opinion of him a great deal, you see him actually restraining real violent suspects and confronting armed criminals gun in hand so it's very easy to believe he can do the same in fiction. Also nice to see character actor Royce Applegate playing something other than a good-old-boy villain.The Bad? Everett McGill just doesn't cut it as Penn, good actor but just doesn't convince. Now his character is very smart, figuring a great deal of Ryback's moves out but he just lacks the charisma and chemistry of Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey in the first film. So lame that he has his own glamorous hit-chick, what a cliché! You also wonder how much the success of the first film depended on a near naked Erika Eliniak jumping out of the cake? A teenage Katherine Hiegl and Sandra Taylor are both gorgeous but neither do anything remotely sexy (there's a great comedy sketch waiting to be written where a boyfriend tells his delighted girlfriend he's rented them a Katherine Hiegl film to watch as part of their romantic evening but rather than the expected romcom it turns out to be Under Siege 2). So an enjoyable film but a missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"Awesome Territory","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is absolutely my favorite movie of all time. I just LOVE this movie and everything about it. In Under Siege 2 Dark Territory, terrorists hijack a passenger train, to set it up as a mobile and undetectable base for Travis Dane to use his high-tech computers to control a government nuclear satellite in hopes of blowing up the Pentagon, and the entire eastern seaboard. Funny, terrorists hijack a train to hijack a satellite. Anyway, all is going well for the terrorists, they have the perfect plan, take over a train, use it to blow up what they want, and then get rid of the evidence by driving in into a gasoline train. But, there's just one problem, and its the cook, Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) who is really an Ex-Navy Seal. And he is a flaw that will epically ruin Dane's plan. Steven Seagal, what a great actor, you can really tell who he is by his tone in this movie, which he's calm, he whispers, it's just great acting, and not just by Steven, ALL the actors in this movie. It's great acting and directing, and I Love the performance. The plot, while having some flaws, they are easily over-looked by the great action and peril going on. This movie was SO good at pulling me into it, I actually forgot I had seen the entire plot of this movie on Wikipedia, I was watching the movie, knowing what was going to happen, and I was STILL in suspense, I Loved the first Under Siege as well, and this movie is absolutely a 10 star movie. No mater what type of genre you are into, see this movie. "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Seagal returns as Casey Ryback, SEAL turned cook. Oddly enough, apart from the same character, there is almost no mention of the first film, there's none of Die Hard 2's 'How can the same stuff happen to the same guy twice?' going on here.But instead of a battleship being seized by hostages it is a train, as the poster above makes plain as day. This time, instead of Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey crazy-ing it up as the villains, you have a computer hacker and his mercenaries using the train to take control of an awesome weapons satellite. I'm not going to give a spoiler alert warning this time because if you're worried about me spoiling the 'plot' of this film, you're watching the wrong film.So whilst the set up is similar (mode of transport aside), we have added into the mix Ryback's niece, played by Katherine Heigl. Whilst she is not given much to do, Heigl does stand out as one of the better performers in this film. The villains (as I said earlier) pale in comparison with the baddies of the first film and there is none of the menace or cunning. Instead you have the writers stretching the bounds of plausibility to stretch Seagal's game of hide-and-seek over nearly 100 minutes.Needless to say, this is one of the worst film I've seen in a long, long time. It is so bad it is hilarious. Some of the particulars of the plot caused me to break out into rich peals of laughter like the merry bell I am. One particular line 'Oh my god! An earthquake....in midair.' (DURRRRRRR!) was a standout as was the delaying of the terrorist's plans as an investment banker wants to pay $110 million dollars to explode an airliner carrying his ex-wife. It is baffling! Amusing but baffling, no one told me this film was a comedy. "},{"Title":"The only thing I have in this pocket is your ass!...","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Casey Ryback is travelling with his niece on a train, which is hijacked by terrorists.The terrorists need a moving headquarters, so they can take over a satellite capable of vapourising anything in its path.The government can't stop them from destroying Washington and also rupturing a nuclear reactor, killing millions.Casey Ryback uses his Navy-Seal training to take out all of the terrorists.......Seagal and his long jackets are back in what is, to be fair, his last major box office draw. But take away the fact he is now making dodgy movies, and what you have is a worthy sequel to the best die hard rip off.The train setting is good, and Everett McGill is a very nasty henchman. The same can't be said for Bogosian, who is truly awful and ruins every scene he is in. For the time it was made, the special effects are spot on, and although the film is slim on plot and narrative, the action is slick and nasty enough to keep fans happy.Chestnut is an okay sidekick, but spends the majority of the film screaming and saying ass, and was probably put in the film for comedy value (which Seagal has in droves anyway).Not a film to be taken seriously, but its a good action film, with a very graphic and nasty streak down it's spine. "},{"Title":"This siege really does not equal the first one.","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie was all right for the most part, but in the end becomes the typical Steven Seagal movie with the only major difference being he is actually reprising his role as the cook from the first Under Siege. And the only carryover from that film is the fact he is supposed to be the same guy and cook. Part of the reason this one just did not have what the first film had is partly the no name cast aside from Seagal. The first film had a nice assortment of actors like Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey as the bad guys. It also had a very attractive sidekick for Seagal in that film in the form of a stripper that popped out of a cake. Here he is teamed up with some other dude and I think his niece, so decidedly a step down in the sidekick department. Here some computer terrorist type has hijacked a train and is planning something sinister, of course. He also has a bunch of military type nut jobs at his disposal. Well guess who is on the train, yes the cook from the first film and of course he is going to make things very hard on the bad guys. The action is okay and the film is not bad at all, just has a been there done that feel to it. Though these days almost all films have that same feel to it. So all in all it passes the time okay and is not boring and you get to see Seagal kick butt per the usual in his movies. "}{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A competent, diverting action thriller. At its centre is the soft-spoken Steven Seagal, walking that fine line between gravitas and irony that boil-in-the-bag thrillers like this demand. As the one-card-short baddie we've a composite Travis Dane, who's the mad scientist overlord and Everett McGill who's his hard-man chief of staff.Other required roles are picked up by Morris Chestnut (!) as a jive-talking porter and Katherine Heigl as Seagal's saucy, big-chested niece. All actors dispatch their tasks admirably, as do many of the smaller roles.The downsides come in some preposterously implausible loose ends, a generally silly premise and lots of cut-to-the-chase editing (often cut THROUGH the chase) for maximum exhilaration. Ridiculous, but Geoff Murphy keeps a solid grip on it - it's fairly even and always pacy. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Exactly what one can expect...","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" ** Here be spoilers ** Recap Casey Ryback (Seagal) has settled down after his boat adventure and runs a restaurant. However, he has family troubles and his brother, who he hasn't spoken to in years, recently died. Now, his only family (he seems to have broken up with Jordan Tate) is his niece Sarah (Heigl) and they are going to California to get to know each other again. Since Ryback's parents died in a plane crash they are going by train. Elsewhere a secret (secret even from congress and military superiors) army and CIA project has launched a military satellite able to take real time pictures (with remarkable resolution, i.e. a goof) and induce earthquakes from space (even in mid-air, incredible ) ) A somewhat unstable former employee, and of course main designer, of the project is out for revenge, and along with a team of mercenaries, they hijack the train and take control of the satellite. Their goal, destruction and mayhem, and money of course. Unfortunately for them, Casey Ryback is on the train.Comments So, if you haven't figured it out, I think the story is not the best ever made as it contains a lot of small goofs. However, the movie is not really dependent on the story that much. I didn't watch for the story so to speak. Because this is very much like the movie before it, action, explosions and fights. Unfortunately, more disturbing than the plot holes, are that a lot of the special effects are not very well done. Either it is apparent that the train for example is a model or that the scenes are filmed in a studio with background added separately. Other than that the movie delivers exactly what I expected. Seagal is as he usually is, Heigl is good as the niece, her character could have been given a little more time and space and McGill and Bogosian are good bad guys. And Chestnut is a great sidekick to Seagal. So, settle down in the couch and let yourself be taken for a ride.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good Solid Action Yarn/ Steven Seagal Vehicle","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, first the draw backs (aka nit picks) A sharp shooter takes careful aim, draws a bead with scoped, high powered rifle, and, guess what?  Nails Ryback (Seagal) square in the shoulder! C'mon guys, at least show the train hitting an unexpected bump and knocking the sharp shooter off a bit or something.  This kind of scene leads to the many jokes we've all heard about all those good guys who must be walking around with the sorest, most lacerated shoulders in the world! Pepper spray is something you get used to?  I'm referring to the scene when the head honcho mercenary, (Everett McGill), and one of his side kicks, (Peter Greene), confronts Ryback's niece and she says Mace! and sprays them both in the eyes.  There they stand, completely unaffected, Peter Greene with his eyes drenched with the stuff, eyes still wide open and with a p****d expression.  Head mercenary grabs the spray cannister away from Ryback's niece and says something to the effect of, Not mace, sweetheart, pepper spray.  It's issued to civilians.  Once you're used to it sprays a couple of shots directly into his mouth it just clears the sinuses!From what I've read about pepper spray, it REPLACED mace largely because it was MORE EFFECTIVE against an attacker than mace.  The idea is that mace is a drug which is supposed to incapacitate an attacker.  Problem is, if the attacker does drugs, they may have already built up a tolerance, and if they are high already when you spray them with mace, it has little or no effect. Pepper spray, on the other hand, is supposed to work at a far more rudimentary level.  It's supposed to DEFINITELY INFLAME TISSUE around the eyes and in the nose and throat, causing the attacker to involuntarily close their eyes and the sinus passages to swell up, hampering breathing, and causing the attacker to fall weekly to there knees.  Heck, the stuff has even being encouraged by rangers at Yellow Stone Park to ward off bears, since it has, on several occasions, caused a charging bear to stop dead in its tracks and do an about face and run off. Some tough mercenaries, eh?  Those old boys pass it around the camp fire while they're singing songs just to clear the sinuses! Lots of words, I know, but points they could pay more attention to. The movie, as a whole, ROCKED big time.  It was a great action piece and a perfect vehicle for the indestructable Ryback/Steven Seagal. I see lots of complaints about Ryback being too indestructable, etc, but, let's face it, that's the kind of movie this is.  Whether it's Seagal, Eastwood, Stallone, Schwartzenegger, etc, the good guy wins against all odds.  They have the fighting skills, courage, and an overall savy that makes them simply unbeatable and sure to win the day, and, yes, always just in the knick of time. If you like action flicks, lots of fight scenes, things blowing up, bullets flying, and the good guys winning in the end, this one's definitely worth a rental.  If you want reality in your movies, either watch the 6 o'clock news, read the headlines, or go watch movies that feature stark reality as their genre, but kindly stop complaining about things that are simply part of a movie's genre!  Oh, and I promise NOT to complain that movies that are of a more realistic genre are too realistic at their sites, ok? Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Ok film, Seagal's need to be loved de-rails it (spoilers)","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERSThis action movie sequel has a few things going for it a couple of interesting villains, a good combination of gunfights and martial arts, tight plotting and acceptable and occasionally funny writing. Unfortunately although Steven Seagal can break necks with the best of them his screen persona seems to have some severe self-esteem issues - the guy just can't stand any criticism, and buckles without constant praise. He turns up at his restaurant and the entire kitchen staff shouts `Hi Casey!' one by one, just to emphasise his popularity. The jovial chef assures him that the patrons only come for his cooking. Before he's been on the train five minutes he's teaching the caterers how to cook. He has an apparently dysfunctional relationship with his niece but long before they've bonded by him saving her from certain death she's apologising and kissing him on the cheek. Even the terrorists, when they learn his identity, start telling stories about how brilliant he is. The fights are so unbalanced that we start to feel sorry for the terrorists, as time after time they fall to a single blow from the black-clad whisperer. Even the mace guzzling arch-terrorist, who has the decency to face Seagal mano a mano fails to do more than slow him up for a couple of minutes. For a sequel about maniacal terrorists hijacking super weapons it's pretty good, but as a story that involves us in the fate of its protagonist as one man pitted against overwhelming odds it fails badly. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  The obvious loss of Gary Busey and Tommy Lee Jones does hurt this movie's intensity and overall rating, but this movie is still very entertaining. The movie's plot is very reminiscent of the first film, but there are some points of this movie I like quite a lot.  First off, Casey Ryback's character is much looser, and is quite comical.  Take note that every time Casey points in the movie, he only uses his middle finger.  Lines like Nobody beats me in the kitchen give this movie a bit of James Bond-esque cheese factor which leads to a few good laughs. Also, I would never have thought that it could get any better than Erika Eleniak when it comes to eye candy, but Katherine Heigl does the job quite well.  Now, of course there's no topless playment dancing out of a cake in this film, but Katherine is definitely something to look at.  All in all, this film's wit alone, along with some interesting fighting scenes make it definitely worth watching. These also account for the reasons why I find myself watching this film over and over again, even more than the original Under Siege.  "},{"Title":"A good action film, despite a few flaws","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I bought this cheaply on DVD with the first one, and I found it a lot more enjoyable.It is one of those all-out action films, with the psycho, the hostages, the violence, the nuclear threat, the big bangs, etc. and good fun to watch, basically.It does have its flaws, which have been mentioned, but a must-see for action fans and Seagal puts in a good performance. There is also a lot of humour - the scene when he's on the cliff is just hilarious (hello!) and some of the scenery and stunts are breathtaking.Action fans, SEE IT! 8/10  "},{"Title":"A pretty good action flick","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Cons Black and his friend could have been killed at any time by the terrorists.Casey Black an ex navy-seal who along with a porter try to stop a couple of terrorists from blowing up Washington via a remote computer.If you have it watched any Steven Seagal movie, then you already know the con I am going to explain.The con is that no matter how tough Seagal is in all his movies, there are several scenes where his character can die, but like a Looney Tunes cartoon his character seems to avoid death via exaggerated stunts.Take the scene, where Black is hanging by a thread on a train. The terrorists are afraid to kill him, because they think he has the target cd.In real life, terrorists would have blown this guy and then searched him for the cd, but since this is a Steven Seagal he seems to have 9 lives and avoid death.The trouble is he does in such a fashion that is "},{"Title":"A step down from the original","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  (Spoiler ahead.) The most obvious thing about this movie is its frame-for-frame replay of the original Under Siege, but bigger weapon, smaller transportation, and much smaller breasts in the female lead. Otherwise the plot and characters are the same, right down to the final knife fight. Continuous action alone maintains the interest, which somewhat distracts from the unfortunate presence of Segal, not only at the twilight of his career but of the 90s-style action movie. A high cheese factor is at work here, not the least of which is his awful black lumpen-Armani outfit and slicked-back hair, hardly as dashing as it was before his very obvious weight gain and loss of facial tone. Ah well. If a movie features almost every conceivable form of land- and air-based armed transport, can it really be so bad? "},{"Title":"Come on, cut Steve some slack","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so this film is illogical, excessive and cartoonish.  Lots of dead guys, plenty of explosions, numerous examples of Seagal's patented chop socky that looks like Japanese fan dancing.  But gimme a break.  What do you expect from a Steven Seagal film?  Steven Seagal is a cartoon character, and if you disagree, watch his direct-to-video abortion THE PATRIOT, with its heavy-handed politics and bizarre ending that looks like AMERICAN BEAUTY meets OUTBREAK meets DANCES WITH WOLVES.This is perhaps one of my favorite Seagal flicks primarily because the writers and director saw fit to stop taking Stevie so seriously and just go for the jugular.  It's a rip-roaring good time, if you ask me, made more delightful by the presence of Eric Bogosian, Everett McGill and Peter Greene among the cadre of villians.  Everyone's having a blast chewing up scenery, and through it all, Seagal slinks about in his hip all-black suit, kicking ass and taking names.  Every so often, we get to cut back to some secret military defense base where worried brass gaze at the radar screen, wring their hands and say, Lord, help us all!  It's a hoot, gang!  Pop a tub of popcorn and enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I usually HATE Steven Seagal movies(including the original Under Siege),but this is pretty good.Seagal returns as Casey Rybeck,the renegade cook who doesn't play by the book but who gets results.This time he is on a train.And guess what,it just HAPPENS to be taken over by terrorists.So its up to Rybeck to save the day.Also worth noting,there was this black teen that worked on the train,that dude is COOL!Not the best movie ever,but lots of action and lots of laughs. "}{"Title":"Very good action movie","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is a real action movie, watched it several times and not get bored. This is what we expect from an action packed movie.Although the story is fine but the effect need to be change. The background of the train when its move looks very fake and it is easy to tell just by one look.  "},{"Title":"What ever happened to logic?","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"                                                                                  The first time I saw this it was a fantastic movie experience for me,as I was a bonafide action fan at the time,now                               seeing all those action films I used to love,I see them differently,particularly the lack of logic.This is a perfect                               example.Like why are the two men at the front of the train smiling when they crash head on into an oncoming train?Did                               they have a death wish?Oh,that's right,they're evil.They're happy their scheme is working.And how come in one                               scene,it is dark outside,but the scenery in the background from inside the train is still day?And why does Seagal's gun                               reload itself and put itself back on the table after Seagal unloaded it and dropped it?Oh that's right,he's Steven                               Seagal.He has to look high and mighty all the time and the simple task of bending down to pick something up might                               make him look small for a second.                              Also,the action scenes are ridiculously fake,especially the end where Bogosian is shot,falls out of the train then gets the                               strength to climb up a helicopter ladder,then he gets to the side door of the helicopter and Seagal shuts his fingers in the                               door,then Bogosian falls into the explosion from the train below(a very careless backdrop job,with the flames                               shuddering)and even when he is falling completely ingulfed in flames,he manages to shoutRyback!!!.Is it really that                               hard to make movies with a little logic in them?!Seems like it.  "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, but enjoyable","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  It must have been hard for the writers and director of UNDER SIEGE 2, as it was for those involved with SPEED 2, UNIVERSAL SOLDIER 2, etc. Unless you come up with a radical alteration to your tried and tested formula (something I imagine the studio bosses are very reluctant to do), how do you really involve yourself completely in the film? How can you separate yourself from the overflowing bandwagon of cinema re-hashings which seems to be tunneling through the middle of Hollywood at the moment. James Cameron managed it with his superb sequels to TERMINATOR and ALIEN, but alas UNDER SIEGE 2 fails miserably to take us into any kind of 'dark territory' whatsoever. In fact this territory is so familiar that it comes with it's own A to Z, and a McDonalds! The plot is such that you can imagine the studio bosses taking the script of the first film, asking a writer to condense it to a paragraph, then asking another writer to expand it out again.Nevertheless, this film does not try to be anything it is not, and I would be lying if I said I hated it. Seagal's hair still manages to remain immaculate (how??), the action is plentiful and very well directed, and the casting of the great Kurtwood Smith was a godsend. This man oozes authority, demands your attention, and he was a pleasure to watch.If every sequel was original, then soon there would not be enough ideas to make another unique movie. So let us be grateful that at least the most standard action flicks are turning out to be really quite good. Bring on the third!!! "},{"Title":"There should be a law against this kind of movie","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  this film is quite stunningly bad. do not see it.the script, directing and acting (in particular the head martial arts bad guy, not forgetting Mr. Seagal himself although that goes without saying) are so bad, you'd be forgiven for thinking it was a spoof. it's not - it's just terrible.the ending (in particular it's special effects) are so bad you'll either be in hysterics or wanting to destroy your TV.for your own good,  steer well clear of this film "},{"Title":"Great action and good personality development.","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, it's not going to win an Oscar. That's a given. Okay, there are technical flaws everywhere. That's also admitted. Now for the good stuff,,, this is one of Seagal's best combinations of action and acting. This truly is Die Hard on a train and done well. The bad guys were excellent. McGill was excellent as Penn and surpassed his performance intensity as the werewolf in Silver Bullet. Excellent casting for this character. Bogosian also gave an entertaining performance as the heartless computer genius. The few scenes where he got scared proved that he was willing to act in this movie. This is one of my favorite Seagal movies. "},{"Title":"Movie Summary","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Under Siege 2 offers a heavy dose of action and brings along a second helping without asking for it.It stars our quiet, yet deadly action star Steven Seagal, in what he does best, and that's rack up body counts.As far as an action flick, this movie excels, but you can throw the plot and acting right out the window, which is typical in Seagal movies.It features Casey Ryback, ex-Navy SEAL demoted to cook and he's taking his niece on a trip on a super-fast train (one that can't be detected once going through dark territory).  Along the way, the train is taken over by psychotic computer genius Travis Dane and his group of hired mercenaries/terrorists who soon enough are threatening Washington with threats of blowing up the Pentagon and disturbing a nuclear reactor, while in the meantime, Dane is getting $1 billion dollars for doing the job from a Middle East sponsor, but one can wonder how he intends to pay his hired group of mercs (lead by Penn) after the incident.Ryback is the only one who can stop them, as the movie turns into a predictable swarm of wrist-cracking and neck-snapping feast fit for a king.  Penn (played by Everett McGill) is the only man who can last longer than 10 seconds in a fight with Ryback, and can match knife fighting to the end with the ex-Navy SEAL.There are several instances of ill-logical experiences in Under Siege.  A few that come to mind are, the train wreck, how can one individual such as Seagal run faster than a train coming at him at over 200 MPH through a crash?  While this is the worst, there are others.Rating (ZERO to ****) **½ (2.5)  "},{"Title":"Lightning doesn't really strike twice","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The first 'Under Siege' film was a classic. No, not in the 'Godfather' or 'Empire Strikes Back' kind of way, but in terms of simple nineties action films to eat popcorn to, it was a classic. And an unexpected one at that. Therefore, a sequel was trotted out in the hope that the second film would catch the audience's attention, too. It didn't. Not that it's that bad.Steven Segal plays... well, much the same character he plays in all his films &#x96; the no-nonsense, bad-guy-slaughtering, tough-man who gets caught up in all sorts of dangerous situations. This time he just so happens to be on a passenger train heading through America when a load of terrorists hijack it, threatening New York with total destruction thanks to an on-board control to a top secret satellite-weapon.The first film was set on a large military destroyer boat. Therefore, when Segal did his thing killing bad-guys, he had a bigger playing field (kind of literally!) to run around in. A boat is a damn sight better setting for an action film where the hero is constantly hiding and on the run from a small army of hired mercenaries. A train is not. He never really seems to hit his stride until the film is practically over.Yes, he does his general hiding and stalking of baddies, but the whole affair leaves you wondering how he hasn't been caught by now. The second half does pick up the pace a bit &#x96; if you don't mind overlooking the various over-the-topness of it all and general plot holes that come with one man taking down an entire elite army battalion.Plus there are less secondary characters for Segal to interact with. His niece is a captive, so she has little to do but kneel down and play the part of 'damsel in distress.' Segal's (train porter) sidekick is annoying and the baddies are kind of over-the-top in a pantomime kind of way.Overall, 'Under Siege 2' isn't bad. It just isn't as good as the original and therefore not even nearly as good as all the other mad nineties action blockbusters. If you like action films and you come home late at night and see this is on TV, you may watch it all the way through. It's the kind of film that you can watch while doing other things. "},{"Title":"Another day, another 'Die Hard' rip-off","Date":"16 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The first 'Under Siege' was a witless 'Die Hard' knock-off redeemed only by a couple of decent one-liners and Erika Eleniak's knockers. This sequel has fewer knockers but is a minor improvement, shifting the action onto a moving train where Mr. Stay Puft (Steven Seagal) lumbers his way into a terrorist plot and saves the day.So, we once again have Seagal prowling around, knocking off the goons, communicating with the good guys on the outside and picking up a civilian sidekick. Meanwhile chief villain Eric Bogosian (who wrote 'Talk Radio', a film superior to this in every single way possible) gets more and more irate until, in a sequence that looks suspiciously like stock footage, he uses his super weapon to destroy a chemical plant. And so it goes on until it ends.This was made during that brief period where Seagal somehow escaped the DTV dungeon he was born to inhabit and found himself completely out of his league in cinemas. His expression never changes, whether he's ordering a drink, beating someone up or hanging from a cliff, which wouldn't be so bad if he could fulfill the basic functions of an action hero instead his stuntman, who is somewhat less, erm, full of pies than Seagal, is integrated into the chaos less than seamlessly, and when Seagal does show his face during an action sequence we're treated to hilarious scenes like the one in which he waddles indifferently away from an exploding carriage.Geoff Murphy directs all this in a ruthlessly mundane way, getting everyone in shot and assembling the story in the correct order but neglecting such action movie essentials as tension and excitement. The visual effects look like they were done by someone on work experience, as does the Russ Abbott-esque scene where a woman is thrown from the train. It's pretty hopeless stuff really. "},{"Title":"Dumb , but entertaining","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" &#x84;Under siege 2  is a totally over the top, totally unbelievable yet highly entertaining sequel to Seagal's best movie. Objectively if you compare it to the original it's a disappointment . The story is pretty much a copy of the first movie with small changes. It's also unrealistic and dumb in places. Despite it's faults it's still an entertaining movie.What we have here is basically Die hard on train. The train itself is a good location. There is lot of pretty scenery and since the train is in constant motion the movie is also fast paced. I had problems with Geoff Murphy's direction in Young guns 2 . Here he directs US 2 with formidable energy. The movie is edited very quickly, almost like a music video. Speaking of music Basil Poledouris score is far superior than Gary Chang's from first movie. It's one of best soundtracks for action movie ever made. The special effects are adorably cheesy and add to the overall campy entertainment value. The script has some quotable one-liners  Nobody beats me in the kitchen , Chance favors the prepared mind , Guess I'm not trained for this....There is lot of cool train action here (on the train , under the train , in the train) . Every bad guy is dispatched with minimum of effort as no-one is anywhere near as hard as Casey Ryback . Broken bones, severed limbs, terrorists in agonizing pain &#x85; This movie has an obvious comic book feeling to it and I really liked the non stop carnage. They just don't make them like this anymore. Steven Seagal is basically invincible here. He gets shot , but the movie quickly forgets about it. His doing unbelievable stuff without breaking a sweat . US 2 it does stretch reality to the breaking point and beyond, but it can be forgiven.Steven Seagal was forced to do this movie after the failure of his very personal movie On deadly ground . There is even an unused footage from ODG here . Seagal doesn't even try to act here. His obviously unhappy that his making this movie and more stiff than usual. There is a damsel in distress here- Ryback's niece Sarah played by Katherine Hiegl who is a good eye candy and nothing more. Seagal also gets a sidekick - naive porter Bobby Zachs played nicely by Morris Chestnut.The movie belongs to Eric Bogosian as crazed computer genius Travis Dane and menacing Everett McGill as Penn. There is veteran supporting actor Jonathan Banks (Beverly hills cop) in small role of terrorist. Watch out for Kurtwood Smith (Robocop) as a US general (too bad they didn't used him as a villain).Idiotic , yet fun movie full of testosterone. Best cheap thrills you can find. I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"go get your throat torn out...I got millions of people to kill","Date":"22 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In the realm of the action movie this one has to be among the best. Detractors seem to have it in for Steven Seagal and are quick to pile on unnecessarily. A movie can do no more than deliver the goods one is seeking, and this one does it in the best tradition.It has a relentless tone of tension and violence and a plethora of villains led by a sweaty, nerdy, whiny genius who mass murders with a gleam and a vengeance worthy of Fu Manchu or Dr. Doom.This has non-stop carnage and a raw feeling to it all that is both unpleasant and over the top comic-book like extreme. Casey Ryback is more like a Superhero in this one doing death defying feats and uncanny rescues. Nothing here is real it just feels that way. The martial arts fights are some of Seagal's best and it is doubtful a more intense train wreck was ever put on film.This is an adrenaline movie with one rush after another. A money's worth of entertainment that holds up among its peers as pure, penetrating, and powerful. It is searing cinema and never lets up for a minute delivering one thrill after another. If you can't find an Action Flick fix here, you are without Jones. "}{"Title":"Murders on the Colorado express","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" In terms of action film sequels, I thought this was superior to Die Hard 2 or Rambo First Blood Part 2, the enigmatic Seagal once again under siege from terrorists, this time, Eric Bogosian and his hired gun Everett McGill aboard a train. Bogosian has hijacked a nuclear satellite via his laptop and is training it on multiple targets around the globe with the intention of setting off a chain reaction that will either destroy the world or deliver him a king's ransom for withholding the threat.Morris Chestnut plays an unlikely purser enlisted by Seagal to help subdue the threat, future star Katherine Heigl plays Seagal's daughter whose aboard the ride into hell, and among a substantial supporting cast are Royce D.Applegate as Seagal's trusted chef, Nick Mancuso as the chain-smoking Pentagon official reprising his role, Dale Dye, Kurtwood Smith and Phyllis Davis in minor roles.The usual array of flashy stunts, knife-work and hand-to-hand combat scenes do the business, with Everett McGill a very capable adversary to the one-man wrecking ball Seagal, who again manages to suppress his uber-cool so as not to become a self parody. Logic might dictate it easy to dismiss these sequels, and the fact there hasn't (yet) been a second sequel might suggest otherwise, but it's worth a viewing. "},{"Title":"Some great action, but the villains are so bland","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege is by far Steven Seagal's best movie. It pretty much contains everything you could wish for in a Seagal film and more bone-breaking action, convincing special effects, a tremendous pace, entertaining actors (Gary Busey! Tommy Lee Jones! That chick from Baywatch!) and for once even a villain that actually puts up a fight. The loosely related Under Siege 2 Dark Territory manages to keep some of those good points, but totally misfires on others. Seagal gets to kill a lot of people in this one and occasionally does so in pretty creative ways, but his invincibility just gets tiresome here. The main antagonist can drink pepper spray, but he can't even get a single shot in? Please. The computer genius henchman (or maybe he's the main baddie, the hierarchy is sorta vague) is even worse, badly played and not nearly as interesting as the makers think he is. The movie also seems to go on for too long, the writers constantly have to add additional hijinks because otherwise the plot would be resolved in about half an hour. Pretty much everything Morris Chestnut gets to say or do is padding, which is sort of a shame given that he's pretty much the best actor in the cast. I think he's supposed to be comic relief, but who can even tell with this kind of writing? Under Siege 2 isn't very bad, but it can't hold a candle to its predecessor. "},{"Title":"Assumption is the mother of all f*ck ups.","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" It's a Steven Segal, so to ridicule its story or acting or character development is completely pointless. You know its story is going to be predictable and lame, you know the majority of the acting will make you laugh when its not meant to, and you won't cry because any of the characters achieved enlightenment. No, you watch this type of film solely for the sake of how Segal will dispose of the antagonists. This film makes you wait a bit, but once the action starts it's pretty good and Segal does what he's known for- kicking ass! However, as with most of his works, I'm disappointed because it felt too easy. Eric Bogosian is enjoyably insane and sarcastic, but Patrick Kilpatrick looked like a bad ass who actually might give our hero a run for his money. Nope, he takes him apart with moderate ease, making the final climatic one-on-one battle a complete waste. I mean Segal just looks way to clean and unruffled by the climax. Didn't he get sniped in the arm? you would think he might struggle a bit with a wound like that, but naw, he beats ass regardless. An idiotic yet fun movie I recommend for a day you have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Casey ******* Ryback","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" As Casey Ryback (the irresistibly stone-faced Seagal) attempts to heal old wounds with his niece following her father's death, the train he boards is chock full of terrorists whose aim is the destruction of Washington D.C., no less.Well, while these Seagal-films are never masterpieces, his older action films certainly delivered the goods in terms of what counts; ACTION. Under Siege 2 gets down and dirty relatively fast, has lots of shoot-outs and bones breaking and some very impressive production values. Never slowing down too much and it gets way over the top in the end (a plus here, mind you!).As for performances; Seagal is his reliable old self and he doesn't disappoint in the action department. Everett McGill is a particularly nasty villain here and he pulls it off well and Eric Bogosian provides a few laughs as the film's main baddie. Plus, there's nice eye-candy courtesy of Katherine Heigl.For action fans; Under Siege 2 is a no-brainer, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but still a fairly good action/thriller","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege is arguably Seagal's best movie.I think his best movie is a tie between that film and Above The Law(though I have not seen all of his movies).Under Siege had great humor, great acting and lots of action.I enjoyed it greatly and I have seen that one the most times out of any Seagal film.I watched Under Siege 2 recently and I must say, it was better than I expected.I thought it was going to be a crappy sequel.It was actually a fairly satisfying sequel.The film has Seagal going on a train with his niece, played by a young Katherine Heigl(Grey's Anatomy,Knocked Up).While there, he runs afoul of some terrorists wanting to destroy the world.With the help of his niece and Morris Chestnut, he must save the passengers and the world.Yes the plot and plenty of scenes in the film are pretty cliché, but this is a pretty good sequel.It's worth checking out if you enjoyed the first movie. "},{"Title":"A true equal sequel","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Steven Segall returns as Casey Ryback, yet again at the wrong place at the right time. The Under Siege series was perhaps the best of Segalls' work.The story opens with Ryback dealing with his brother's death, and how to relate to his estranged niece. Seeking time to clear his mind fro a rather disastrous start in the trip, Ryback retreats to the galley to show his cooking style to the kitchen staff of the train. It is at this time that a group of terrorist, led by Marcus Penn (everett McGill) and Travis Dane ( ERic Bogosian in a great turn as the ruthlessly evil, but ultra intelligent Dane), as they seek the passwords held by two top Pentagon captains. The film also features Boyz N' The Hood's Morris Chestnut, as reluctant partner in dealing with the terrorist. Also look for Peter Greene, who famously had played one of Denis Leary's hoods in Judgement Night, and as the ill-fated Zed in Pulp Fiction, and veteran supporting actor Jonathan Banks (Freejack, Beverly Hills Cop, Armed and Dangerous)in supporting roles.As Ryback once again uses his training, cunning, and skills to outfight, outwit, and out last his evil counterparts, to not only save the lives of millions of people, and the hundreds on the train. Whereas it was military personal he had to save in the first installment, this time, he's charged with having to save civilians.Under Siege to date marks the only true sequel that Segall has done to date. THough there never was a third installment, the two that were made are proof of quality, not quantity, something that rarely even happens.Many of Segall's movies are poked fun of, and not much is thought of Segall's acting skills. Those views are very misguided, as his true shinning work, the Under Siege series, proves without a Shadow of a doubt.Check out both Under Siege films if you want to see an action film at it's peak. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"better than the original.","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" under siege 2 is nothing more than your average terrorists take hostages, hold world at hostage and only one guy who isn't discovered by the bad guys can save the day. just like the first its kind of a die hard clone. i like this sequel a bit more than the original which i felt was a little dull. the train setting was an improvement. this one is a lot faster paced and funner to watch. this is one of seagals best and has enough violent action to make up for the films cheesiness and kinda poor quality. the action scenes are very good. seagal beats, breaks and blows away the bad guys with very little trouble. seagals acting, as always, is pretty bad. he just cant show any emotion but thats okay cause an action hero just needs to be able to handle action and seagal can certainly do that. overall, a fun action film that doesn't require you to think. "},{"Title":"Ryback continues to rock!","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This movie is given 4,9 out of 10 at the IMDb ranking, and in my opinion that is ridiculously low. This flick is nearly just as good as Under Siege. Being on a train instead of a boat, a lot of interesting new situations became possible, and this movie utilizes these almost to the fullest. For the villain, they came up with the standard psycho ex-CIA like in the first movie, but that is something that fits a movie like this perfectly. I also especially liked the boss of the villain's soldiers. When a guy gets a spurt of pepper spray in the face and just thinks it's refreshing, then you know it's a movie that doesn't take itself too seriously. And that is exactly how a movie like this should be. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first, but still enjoyable.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"     This is a fair sequel to Under Siege. The plot is very familiar to the first one. A bunch of ugly looking dudes hijack a train in order to help a crazy technology freak (Eric Bogosian) steal a nuclear satalite. Bogsian did a good job at his role and Everett McGill definately made you hate him. Morris Chesnut was good as the porter who had to prove somehow that he was some kind of hero. Then there's the attractive Katharine Heigl, who definately made me fall in love with her the first time I saw this, plays Ryback's niece. The characters are good and the action is good. If this film has any downfalls at all, (*SPOILER*) The scene where the mercs threw those two people off the train, just wasn't necessary. Other than that, a good film.   "},{"Title":"A nasty arsed film","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Yes Casey Ryback played by Mr Steven Seagal is back for the second of the under siege movies, Yes this film is tripe, and the plot is as thin as a piece of dental floss, he has to save a load of people on a train whilst also trying to save the whole of washington dc, i found his film unbareble to watch, theres plenty of parts that could easily irritate the normal viewer, i e the goverment cannot contact the mercenaries on the train because they are in Dark Territory but the mercenaries can have a lap top and check how much money has been deposited into there switz bank account, or the fact that they need a cd to run the operation, but why the hell would they of not had back up copies, or the way mr seagal can run up to a car and lift the bonnet up and touch two wires to get it running, a very poor film that you would expect mr steven seagal to be in. I would not waste my time watching it as you'll surely be laying on your death bed thinking your time could have been wasted doing something more useful, i e watching paint dry! maybe not,  "}{"Title":"One of the Best of the Worst!","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so bad, I actually enjoy watching it.  Did the producers think that they could improve on the original Under Siege?  This movie should have NEVER been made, like many sequels, but the attempt at recreating exactly the same plot, exactly the same motives, exactly the same supporting protagonists is revolting--how much can a movie lover take?  Hijacking a train?  What?  At one point, our hero takes a high-powered rifle bullet and keeps on going as if nothing ever happened.  I don't care if it's the movies or not, that shot would have taken his whole shoulder off.  Okay, I couldn't take it any more.  Cable stations seem to play this sad picture anytime they can't find anything else to fill the spot.  The only other movie that bit this bad was Highlander 2 The Quickening.  Why can't some movie producers simply rest on their laurels and accept a one-hit wonder like the first Under Siege? "},{"Title":"Loco Locomotive","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I don't believe in 100% genius.  I believe in the random genius moment, but perfection is impossible to attain.  Look at McTiernan, the man who gave us the phenomenal 'Die Hard', who is now stuck with the 'Rollerball' remake credit added to his name.  The same can be said of Pollack with 'Tootsie' and Landis with 'Blues Brothers'.  Even better directors like Scott and Kubrick have their failing moments.When it comes to the action genre, there are so many variables to consider that one must look beyond the basic plots, acting, and fireballs.  You can split it by character denominations (scientist, commando, spy), action requirements (martial arts, guns, swords), plot ('Die Hard' scenario, drug dealers, conspiracy), or by its cultural influence.  In that instance, 'Die Hard' has proved the biggest impediment to the advancement of the genre.This is your only spoiler warning...'Under Siege 2' and 'GoldenEye'.  Both have essentially the same plot, but that's where the similarities end.  007 is about posing to the script while Seagal is about posing to the screen.  Is this why we have accepted Bond for almost 40 years while Seagal is fading away?Like the early 007 movies, our villain is the nerd instead of an commando like 'GoldenEye'.  While this rains hell on the actor, it shows script intelligence by having a character literally grinning at us the entire time.  Compare this to the Bond movies since 'Living Daylights' where we've had one soldier-type after another.  Even James Cameron didn't pick up on this for 'True Lies' and gave us a soldier-terrorist instead of a nerd.Like 'GoldenEye', we have a countdown 'till doom timer to directly tell us the heroes are in danger as opposed to 'Die Hard''s subtle build-up of events.  This is perhaps because Seagal can't tell us something is wrong with his actions, he's too into his role to remind us that this is a silly movie.Exploding trains were the fad in 1995, just goes to show what we get from the director of 'Freejack', the writer of 'Felicity', and the photographer of 'Free Willy'.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"Oh yeah!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great action movie.  Steven Seagal returns as Casey Ryback in this action packed sequel.  Ryback is aboard a train that gets taken over by a computer geek and his army of mercenaries, and they plan to destroy Washington D.C. with a weapons satellite.  You can throw the acting away on this one, but it is still suspenseful and exciting.  The action sequences are some of the greatest of all time, and the martial arts fight scenes are incredible.  And the fight scene at the end is cool as hell.  "},{"Title":"A real good time","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Under Siege 2 offers a heavy dose of action by one of our best action stars, Steven Seagal.  Seagal returns as Casey Ryback in this highly entertaining sequel. This time, Ryback is up to his neck in terrorists that have hijacked a train while he is on vacation with his niece.  The head terrorist and his army of mercinaries are using the train for a headquarter for an awesome weapons satellite they intend to use to blow up Washington D.C. The film moves along at a fast pace as Seagal does what he does best, that is kicking people's butts.  The whole thing eventually climaxes in a knife fight between Seagal and the head mercinary (Everett McGill) who is the only man that can last more that 3 seconds against Seagal. "},{"Title":"Casey Ryback's back and don't mess with him!","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure if it was Under Siege or Under Siege 2 that made me a Steven Seagal fan. Sure, he's not the greatest actor, but he's great in action films. I realize Under Siege 2 is formulaic, but let's face it, the formula works. Sure, both Under Siege films had a female for Ryback to raise his concern, and an insider/traitor involved with the Pentagon, villains who can't quite kill him and unbelievable stunts. That's what action fans want. This one takes place on a train instead of a ship. He even gets thrown off the train and gets back on board. It's another roller-coaster ride and it does move fast. No boring moments in this one. Great villains that you can't wait 'til they get theirs! Kudos to the stunt men and Seagal for some rip roaring action and I have to salute director Geoff Murphy for a job well done. If you enjoy a good action film, this one's for you. "},{"Title":"Probably the best of any of Seagals movies!","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Not only the best of any of Steven Seagal's movies for it's action sequences and the way he keeps the Aikido throws interesting and fresh, but the story line is exceptional! Couple that with the outstanding performance of Eric Bogosian as the bad-guy/nut, the gorgeous Katherince Heigl as Ryback's (seagal's) niece and the non-wooden performances of the protagonists, and you have one hell of a movie here! THe music scoring is another big plus and the henchmen very believable. The ending is a little 'over the top' but isn't that a benchmark of a good action movie anyway? I have seen all of Mr. Seagals movies and this is by far one of his best and most action-packed,- Great story line! "},{"Title":"Admit it you found this page while searching for Katherine Heigl's name","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Who is THAT? is the most common question cable viewers have after viewing Katherine Heigl's gorgeous 19 year-old countenance in this film. That question can be answered on this page, and is likely the #1 reason anyone would be searching for this film on this site. Seagal must have seen My Father, The Hero and asked who the hell was THAT? playing the daughter.This is a very well-done B movie, but the plot is too far above the heads of the crowd that built Seagal's name. Not surprisingly, the movie bombed at the box office.Gone from the original are Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey, and back are actors with names more commonly associated with Seagal films, i.e., names you've probably never heard of. Morris Chestnut (Bobby Zachs) had a bit of a name going into this film, and Eric Bogosian (Travis Dane) had made a bit of a name for himself in Talk Radio, which is where he seems to draw a lot of inspiration for this role.Under Siege reminded me of when the Grateful Dead finally hit the Top 10 with Touch of Grey. The mainstream fans loved it, but the Dead's hardcore fans almost considered it a bit of a betrayal. In Under Siege, Seagal's expression at times conveyed what appeared to be a what are these big-name actors doing in my film? sentiment. No worry about that here, as Seagal is clearly the star. Some considered it a weakness that Seagal had to carry the film alone, but Seagal fans prefer it that way.Under Siege 2 Dark Territory does what On Deadly Ground could not, blending excellent action sequences and political activism seamlessly in a way that complements each other. The plot is even more intelligent than ODG, with Travis Dane as the megalomaniacal techno-villain aided by Mr. Penn (Everett McGill), the stereotypical, military good-ol'-boy-gone-bad who is responsible for supplying the muscle and weaponry. Many of the supporting characters are drawn from other Seagal films, such as Afifi Alaouie, a stripper in Out For Justice, who plays the most competent of the mercenaries in what appears to be a reminder from Seagal that violence doesn't equate to racism.The plot is typical Seagal high-level government agency types, with full presidential approval, do things that would greatly upset us ordinary citizens. In this case, ATAC (apparently an offshoot of NASA) has designed the Grazer One satellite, which has the ability to cause explosions and earthquakes with targeted laser strikes from space. Dane was fired from ATAC, and his revenge involves commandeering Grazer One from a train in Dark Territory (so he can't easily be found), and using it to detonate a secret nuclear reactor located under the Pentagon, picking up a billion dollars for himself in the process because, according to him, I owe people money. While the plot is cerebral, Seagal's battles with Penn and his men are of the offline variety limbs get bent and broken, and the bad guys get disposed of in ways we've come to expect from his films. Seagal, in his own, unique way, manages to take a swipe at the power of computers and how limited they are as he finds what one might call a backdoor flaw in Dane's otherwise perfect programming.All in all, I enjoyed this movie a great deal, and it is the reason I became a Katherine Heigl fan. She was good as the conflicted-but-otherwise decent niece who had just lost her dad and now must travel to his funeral with the uncle she was once close with, but torn away from because of her dad's conflict with him. Seagal makes the most of the subplot of him as the awkward family man and substitute father figure, and Heigl shows that she can handle an action scene, adding some much-needed eye candy to make a slight but very significant improvement to an otherwise underrated film. "},{"Title":"Under Siege 2 suffered because of its name","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege 2 Dark Territory is not a bad film. In fact, it's actually entertaining.In typical Steven Seagal style, he's up against a team of all-star terrorists as ex-SEAL Casey Ryback. They've taken a train hostage, murdered a few soldiers and civilians and are now preparing to destroy the Pentagon with a top-secret weapon.Seagal just happens to be on board, and his niece is taken as a hostage. Uh, oh. He's also found a sidekick, and the two of them work to stop the nasty terrorists and save the hostages.Now, to explain my point. The film itself is pretty enjoyable, with standard Seagal martial-arts scenes and some cool gunfights. However, it suffered due to the title Under Siege 2 Dark Territory. It should never have been name Under Siege 2 because it automatically becomes a copy of the original and an attempt to cash in on its success.Instead, it should have been called Dark Terriotry (still using the Ryback character) and merely boasted that he's back. If this had happened, I can GUARANTEE it would have received better reviews and less criticism. "},{"Title":"Awesome Sequel, That's Almost As Good As The Original!.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is an awesome sequel, that's almost as good as the original!. Seagal is fantastic in this, and in my opinion gave one of his best performances, here, plus, some of the stunts were fantastic!. While it can't quite match the original it comes pretty close, as it's full of exciting and action, and non stop thrills throughout!. A lot of people criticize Seagal for not having any acting ability , i disagree, while he doesn't show much emotion he showed some here, and was quite good in the acing department. all the characters were cool, and the 2 main villains were very menacing, but not as good as Jones Or Busey still they were fine. Overall this is an awesome sequel, and i strongly suggest you see it!. The Direction is great. Geoff Murphy does a great job with some outstanding camera work, crazy angles,especially in the huge train crash scene at the end, and overall keeping the film at a very fast pace!, great job!. There is a bit of blood. We get LOTS of very bloody gunshot wounds,bloody slit wrist,bloody gunshot wound to the head with blood and brains splattering,nasty bone breaking,bloody broken nose,and other minor stuff. The Acting is excellent. Steven Seagal is AMAZING always, and gives possibly his best acting performance i have seen yet(he is always good), he seems really relaxed and into his role, he also had good chemistry with morris Chestnut and Katherine Heigl,kicked that ass, and was tons of fun to watch! (Seagal rules!). Eric Bogosian is very good as one of the main villains but was rather bland at times,still for the most part he was somewhat menacing. Everett McGill is extremely intense, here as one of the main villains, he was extremely menacing, and a very scary presence!. Katherine Heigl is GORGEOUS!, and does fine with what she had to do here, however i wish she had more screen time, she also had a couple of bad lines. Morris Chestnut is amusing, and was not bad as the comic relief. Andy Romano reprises his role here as Admiral bates, and did well once again. Kurtwood Smithis fine here, and did what he had to do well, great character actor. Overall this is an awesome sequel and i highly suggest you see it as soon as possible!. ****1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Does Anyone Else Like This Better Than The First One?","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I've got to say, I love Steven Seagal Movies. I mean Hard To Kill and Fire Down Below are some of the greatest acton movies of the nineties. When I first saw Hard to Kill, I wanted to see more Seagal movies, so I rented Under Siege. I saw it, and did not watch another one of his movies for close to a year. When I finally got back into his films, I ended up seeing this sequel. It was soo cool. I mean, Under Siege was good, but this movie packed in more suspense, and I believe, more action. Under Siege=gun action. Under Siege 2=Traditional Seagal Aikido action. I'm not saying Under Siege was bad, I'm just saying that it's sequel outdid the original. I know it's somewhat of a take-off on Die Hard, but it's still a pretty awesome movie by itself. "}{"Title":"Mediocre Seagal","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Geoff Murphy directed this second and so far final entry in the Steven Seagal series, which began with Andrew Dawis' Under Siege in 1992. This time terrorists don't hijack ship but train full of passengers including the deadly cook Ryback (Seagal) and his niece Sarah. The terrorists are led by madman who was fired from the government in which he invented a military weapon that is used in space. He and his colleagues want now to avenge his firing and all the wrongs, and they demand huge amount of money in order to maintain the peace; the madman has all the equipment in the train to control his deadly invention above and he definitely is willing to use it if he doesn't get the money and co-operation from the helpless government. But he doesn't know Casey the cook Ryback is also on the train, and he is pretty p***ed of because his niece is in danger among all the other passengers.This film is a routine actioner with the usual charisma of Steven Seagal and his fighting abilities. Murphy does his job with talent as a director and there are some great bits of photography, for example the scene where the train is reflected in the lake and there are also some interesting camera angles in the film. The film is also pretty exciting (if not always believable), so I really managed to watch this without any problem, and the fact is that I'm not any fan of Seagal's. Under Siege 2 is very violent and has plenty of gun fights and fist/kicking action and the film is incredibly roughly cut in UK to get the 18 rating. I watched the uncut version and it is raw and violent most of the time, if not as violent as Seagal's most brutal film, Out For Justice. Under Siege 2 Dark Territory is nothing special, but still pretty exciting, greatly directed, photographed and staged action film. There are some stupid comic elements and funny and irritating one liners, mostly from the bag boy, so without these stupid and usual flaws, this film would be even more noteworthy little actioner. Now it is among many others and makes the same mistakes in this department as many others have made, too. I give this 5/10 and appreciate Geoff Murphy's direction. "},{"Title":"MAJESTIC AND MIGHTY ACTION MOVIE STARRING THE MASTER.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  For my 200th review on IMDB I have chosen one of the greatest action movies ever made and the best yet by the maestro of mayhem Steven Seagal.UNDER SIEGE 2 is far better than the original with tons more action as Seagal's Casey Ryback battles terrorists aboard a train and in doing so is involved in some of the most thrilling derring do ever witnessed on a movie screen.The great Seagal does not just defeat his opponents,he annihilates them,using his martial arts skills and ability with a gun to maximum effect.When he hits someone they stay hit,when he shoots someone they stay shot.As I write this it is more apparent than ever before that Steven Seagal is the epitome of all things that a great American hero should be;he is grim and relentless in his battle for justice and will not rest until his enemies are decimated and broken.He stands head and shoulders over all current screen action heroes. Other performances in this movie are more than acceptable with Eric Bogosian and Elliott McGill making even better villains than the ones destroyed by our invincible hero in the original.This is one giant of a movie and demands to be seen by anyone who wishes to see the enemies of freedom ground into the dust.A masterpiece...10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Nobody does it better","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Carly Simon may have been referring to James Bond in her 1977 hit, Nobody Does It Better, but she could just as easily been referring to Seagal. Some people had the gall to say John Maclaine made Rambo look like a wimp when DIE HARD came out. Let me tell you, Rybeck makes Maclaine look as tough as a breakaway vase. The hostage storyline may be old, but watching Seagal handle all the bad guys so quickly and efficiently is more exciting than watching Maclaine jump off a building any day. The train wreck finale is much more exciting than Richard Kimble's train dodging in THE FUGITIVE. Rybeck actually jumps from car to car as each one blows up behind him on a bridge, and then grabs a ladder on a helicopter. Indiana Jones would've died trying that one. To reiterate, Seagal leaves every action star in the dust. "},{"Title":"Despites its bad reviews, I really like this movie...","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Even though a lot of criticism has been made toward this movie, I really like it and watch it all of the time. The plot may have some spots where it leaves you hanging, the fighting is over too soon and everything moves differently than other movies, but it's not a bad movie. I especially like the little remarks Dane likes to use- I say them to my friends until they are driven crazy.This is a movie I think everyone should see at least once.  "},{"Title":"A Sequel Cliché in the making.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I can honestly say the original was better than the follow-up. A hell of a lot better! It was more in the plausible realm of Tom Clancy whereas Under Siege 2, is more cheesy science-fiction/martial arts fantasy complete with the cartoonish villains. The only thing good about US2 was that some of the original cast was put back into action and that Kasey has a hottie of a niece placed into the mix. The fact it was on a train was interesting but not even remotely believable . But that's where all the good things come to a sudden end.Please don't ask about the dialog....It wasn't as politically active and realistic at all it was more amateur, as if this was the writer's first day out of college. I hated this moronic action yarn mainly for not only the putrid dialog, but the special effects. The effects in question appeared to be cheaper than a Geo Metro and done by drunk hobby enthusiasts. As far as the plot is concerned Why did the terrorists pick this particular passenger train? Was there a specific reason? Filler and mock coincidence. Why was a defunct tactical weapons program put back on line in the first place? Was there a reason? Having a portable nuclear device floating in space is interesting subject matter for a movie, but it's one for John Carpenter and Michael Chricton to handle; not this moronic director. That alone more than enough of a reason for this retch to bomb at the box office. The characters were as wooden as Yellowstone Park! If not more than. There is not a three-dimensional element to be found anywhere. With the exception of Segal. If you can call Segal's character three dimensional. You got the cowardly sidekick who just as dumb as a barrel of bricks. The fighting scenes were 100% Pure Segal and the only damn reason the movie worked. The movie seemed to be unfinished, underdeveloped, and silly to say the least. Oh, and speaking of silly the final scenes were just lame and melodramatic as those airplane disaster movies...not worth more than a sentence! But the worst scene was where Dane was hanging onto Rybeck's legs as he climbed a rope ladder to a waiting chopper; Belting out Rybeck! We make great team! What? Why does he say that? Then climbs into the chopper, flames on his back that looked more fake than boobs on Baywatch. I guess they ran out of money for a better ending. Better ending? I guess they didn't have enough money for a better movie! "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal is the best!!!!","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Under Siege 2 is one of Steven Seagal`s best movies. Steven Seagal is Casey Ryback, a cock(and martial-arts expert) who is going on vacation with his niece(Katherine Heigl). They are on a train, who is suddenly hijacked by terrorists, who are led by the psychotic villains Dane and Penn.  Dane is a former computer-engineer who created an insanely powerful weapon, he was later fired and faked his own death. Onto the train he brings hi-tech equipment, with which he takes control over the satellite-weapon and prepares to wipe out Washington D.C.But ONE man stays in the way.  Casey Ryback starts killing the terrorists on his own.  Backed by a powerful and well composed soundtrack, Under Siege 2 is a joy to watch.  Steven Seagal shows much of his cool fighting techniques, and every actionfan should consider this as a must see movie.  This is a Seagal film as it should be fast, cool, explosive, violent etc. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A fun but inferior sequel","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This sequel sees Navy seal/chef Casey Ryback taking a train journey through the Rockies with his niece Sarah... needless to say the journey does not go as smoothly as planned. The US Military has just launched a top secret satellite based weapon known as Grazer One; it was designed by Travis Dane who everybody believes killed himself after he was fired. In reality Dane is very much alive and intent on getting control of Grazer One and using it to get his revenge and get rich in the process. To do this he hijacks Ryback's train because the two people with the access codes are also aboard. Once he has control of the train and the Satellite he gives a demonstration of its power by destroying a chemical weapons facility in China. Ryback, who has been separated from his niece, teams up with the porter to take on the bad guys to save his niece and prevent the destruction of Washington DC.This isn't a bad action film but people expecting it to be anywhere near as good as Ryback's first outing will be sorely disappointed... a train just isn't as good a setting as a battleship for starters and the lack of A-list bad guys shows. Steven Seagal puts in a decent performance as Ryback; he might not do emotion but he knows how to do action and that is the main reason to watch his films! Katherine Heigl is good but very underused as his niece; she would have been a much better sidekick than Morris Chestnut's character... he didn't do a bad job it's just that 'comedy sidekicks' are almost always more annoying than they are amusing. Everett McGill wasn't bad as mercenary leader Marcus Penn but the main villain Travis Dane; played by Eric Bogosian was just too over the top to take seriously. The plot was okay even if the weapon was just a bit too sci-fi for my liking.The main reason to watch films like this is to see lots of action and in this department it does deliver with lots of shooting, explosions, knife-fights and martial arts. It also managed to dodge one or two action movie clichés... I was certain that the female terrorist was there to have a climactic fight with Ryback's niece but as it turned out she didn't get involved much despite us being told early on that he'd taught her how to fight. Overall I'd say this is well worth watching if you want to watch some good mindless action... good enough that I'm surprised Ryback didn't appear in future films. "},{"Title":"Stunningly entertaining","Date":"29 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I was up at 4 AM a few nights ago, flipping channels, and I saw this movie on a Spanish language channel. I'm not big on these kinds of action flicks at all but it looked pretty good so I checked it out from my local library two days ago and, you know what, this was a very pleasant surprise. The strength of the movie is it's villains. Eric Bogosian's Travis Dane is extremely fun, his dialogue is mostly crisp, and he's a very cool dude whose scenes are the most enjoyable in the flick (which might not have been the film's intent.) Everett McGill is awesome as Penn. He's just a stone cold, cool ass bad guy with some great moments (I love it when he uses the pepper spray as a throat spray) and some great dialogue (see pepper spray moment.) Peter Greene is always cool and had a great two years in 1994-1995. He's a bit underused here. The black female mercenary is awesome too. She has some cool sequences and never gets 'cliche line' stupid. The navy brass in the control room are competent actors and keep to the storyline with mostly realistic responses and little stupidity. My problem with the movie is Segal. He's as emotionless as ever and is a human assault machine and that's it. He's very unengaging and really doesn't do anything to be likable. In fact, I was rooting for the bad guys (not a good thing for an action hero) as they were a cool group of dudes. The terrorist deaths are the movie's big 'OOH' moments as a lot of them go in VERY painful looking ways. The movie is mindful as far as the villains go and not in Segal's camp, which is a shame. Better development in Segal's character could have made this all-time cool. As it is, I watched it several times, which is a stunner for me for this kind of movie. "},{"Title":"Under Siege 2 Dark Territory I'm a Mandinka warrior!","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Oh, Jimmy! Why do you do it to me!? This questionable straight to cassette sequel of sorts sees Steven Siegel cashing in on past glories. It is set several hundred years in thy past, in Colonial times and features Ryback's ancestor Chester Hydebank. He is an ex-sailor who is relieved of his duty after he relieved himself on the Queen's undergarments. Given Freddie Mercury's considerable power he sentenced Seagull to death by killing. At the last moment though he relents and sends him off to Africa to live out his days in the wilderness and must never return. Skeebeedoodeee. Punch a Scotsman. Words invasion. It turns out Queen Mercury II had a thing for musclebound English men and didn't want to see such a bronzed body put to waste. Hydebank sets off on boat to the wastelands of Afferica in disgrace- Mercury's disgrace. Some time passes and Steven Siege has set himself up as a voodoo buffalo hunter for local tribes. His skill as a butcher, kniffer, and ponytailer come in handy for keeping the natives feed, drank, and watered. A group of Spaniards led by Gary Busey and Javier Bardem surrounded the tribes and murder them- they are on a quest for some hidden treasure left by King Balaban in his Mines knowing that a magic diamond at the centre of the mines has the power to make whoever touches it invincible for up to and including 30 seconds. Hydebank was away hunting for bounty with his young padowan Kunta Kinky and sees the attack from afar. Kinky's girlfriend Bazoomba McBouncy is still in the camp being tortured so they must break in and rescue her and slaughter all the bad guys at the same time. Hydebank remembers all his skills as a murderer and concocts a joyous scheme which leads to all sorts of violence, action, and excitements. Part 2. It is the second part. I didn't not enjoy the way the director used Afreaka's surroundings, nature, and sights in his action. The scene where Seagull rides a Kangaroo into battle and makes it do roundhouse kicks was very good, although when he forced it to whisper a quip- 'Skippy ain't got nawthin on me, dawg' or some such I hoped Arnie would walk in and punch it. Ribbitt dazzles with his usual display of blade juggling and chops, and when he throws a pyramid at some bad guys without the aid of special effects my gob is well and truly smacked. Unfortunately the film has some deep racist under and overtones. Why all the Affrikans are depicted as naked, dancing idiots who scream and run away when they see fire is beyond me, and the 28 minute scene of Tommy Lee Chins slapping the Tribe Leader with various gloves is uncalled for. This really gets in the way of all the killings.Best Scene When the bad guys bring in the wild boar cooked on a spit and Eriekia Ejlkeniajaiaiek jumps out of it, covered in flesh and blood, with intestines dangling off her naked&#x85; "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you would think&#133;","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I seem to remember hating this movie to death when I first saw it about ten years ago. I watched it again yesterday and was surprised at how much I enjoyed it. This either shows how much your opinion can change over time or shows that I missed something the first time around. Or I was a little drunk when I watched it this time. Either way, it's not as good as the original film, but I'm sorry to say that this is better than the average Steven Seagal movie.Seagal is right on the money for most of the movie, except for any part where he's trying to be a good uncle and have a normal relationship with his niece, played by Katherine Heigl. No matter how much I love him, Seagal absolutely can not be a normal guy, and he can NOT do romance. Holy crap, I saw him do a sex scene in one of his movies, I can't remember which one, but it was like watching a beautiful woman in bed with a rhinoceros.Seagal reprises his role of Casey Ryback, now retired from the Navy and working as a chef at the charmingly named Mile High Café in Denver, Colorado. He has long since lost contact with his brother, but now that he has been tragically killed, Casey wants to come back into his niece Sarah's life. Sarah is unimpressed with his long absence, and they do not start their vacation off on a good note.As they are traveling by train from Denver to Los Angeles, a madman named Travis Dane (a clownish performance by Eric Bogosian) takes control of the train and uses it as his control center for a wild plan to take control of a top-secret government outer-space super- weapon.OK, so get this. Some Middle Eastern terrorists offer him $1 billion to destroy not New York City, not the White House, but nothing less than the entire eastern seaboard! Now THIS is a bad guy! Say what you will about the rest of the movie, but the plot has all of the villainous ambitiousness of a 1980s 007 film. Dane takes it all in stride, though, even agreeing (for an extra $100 million) to use the satellite to destroy a passenger jet in mid-flight to get rid of one particular man's hated ex-wife. Personally I'm willing to bet that they could have found some crackhead to off the poor wife for like, you know, maybe $20 million (or another of his henchmen to just do it for free), but no matter, we get the point of that little addendum to the deal. The accuracy on this thing is astonishing.Early in the film, soon after taking over control of the satellite (which he is able to do because, of course, he designed it but was fired by the government before it was deployed), he demonstrates his control by destroying an alleged chemical weapons plant in China. I loved this part. I've been living in China for two years now, and he describes a weapons facility in the city of Guangzhou, which he pronounces Guang-zoo, but is actually pronounced Guang-joe. Yeah, this is a little nit-picky, and most people wouldn't recognize the mistake anyway, but for me it's a little hard to take a super-villain seriously when he can't even pronounce the names of his targets. And 'Guangzhou,' by the way, is Mandarin for Canton. It's not an obscure place!OK, so we certainly know by now what to expect from a Steven Seagal movie, so I had no problem with the outlandish villain and his nutty scheme. But Eric Bogosian really blew his role. He plays Travis Dane, the man who has taken control of the train and the satellite weapon, with a casual aloofness that completely takes away any sense of tension or danger that the movie might otherwise have had. Throughout his entire performance, he looks like he's joking his way through an early script reading.Katherine Heigl phones in her performance but there's not anything overtly bad about it, although there's also not really anything good about it. Seagal is showing the first signs of aging in this movie, but still does what he needs to do to make it a fun film. It's got a good story and some clever comic relief and, despite a couple of botched performances, is still entertaining enough. I've heard rumors of an Under Siege 3, and while Seagal is certainly too old by now to do it, it's not like that's gonna stop him. I'd watch it&#133; "}{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Under Siege 2 on DVD and it was decent.  I had never seen the first episode, but there didn't appear to be any moments in the movie that required one to.  No, Seagal's acting was not Oscar calibre, but come on, what do you expect?  The film promised action, and it delivered with great special effects and fight scenes.  It did the job of entertaining me for 90 minutes, which is all I expected of it.  Katherine Heigl plays Seagal's neice, Sarah Ryback.  She did a great job, and boy, is she ever gorgeous.  Eric Bogosian was humorous as the brilliant but somewhat insane mastermind Travis Dane. Worth a look. 7/10 "},{"Title":"«I'm gonna get to my bag of tricks and we are going to rescue those hostages !»","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  «Under Siege 2 Dark Territory» - the sequel. «US 2» is of course better than the first movie. You have more action («it delivers non stop»), more challenges - terrorists on board the Great Continental, and more aikido (I highly recommend the end kitchen fight + most of the other ones). The setting itself improved - a train to my understanding is than a battleship(the great American scenery about), and not many movies have used it before. The general idea behind the film is ten times better than «US 1» - satellites, Washington, train etc. This part is perhaps better paced. A slight cameo touch is added by (Morris Chestnut) Bobby Zachs the porter, pity with the nice though, Jordan Tate was better. All in all «Under Siege 2» is a great sequel & a good thing in itself. "},{"Title":"Great sequel","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  When I found out there was going to be another Under Siege, I really didn't want to see it. I loved the first one, because Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey were great as the bad guys. I am not much of a Steven Seagal fan, so I had no interest in this one. But it was great, mainly because of Eric Brognasian playing the madman, Travis Dane. Brognasian is a great actor, and I wish he played in more movies. "},{"Title":"Throw away the story","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  As in most Steven Seagal movies, you can just throw away the plot and focus on the action and violence.  This movie is about a computer geek who takes over a train with several mercenaries, taking hostages.  There is a satellite in orbit with advanced particle beam weaponry that the geek, Travis Dane (Eric Bogosian), designed.  He takes over the satellite and threatens to blow up the Pentagon and unsettle a nuclear reactor hidden underneath.  Among the hostages is the niece of Casey Ryback, a cook (Steven Seagal), who is free on the train.  This cook isn't an ordinary cook, he is an ex-navy SEAL.  He must save everyone from the bad guys.  Lay back for the neck breaking, the wrist-cracking violence that is characteristic of Steven Seagal films.  This is the only Steven Seagal film that I have really liked. The original, 'Under Siege' was OK, as was 'Executive Decision', but 'Fire Down Below' and 'Out For Justice' were simply horrid.  Most are unbelievably stupid, but you shouldn't take them too seriously.  'Under Siege 2' is also incredibly stupid, but the ending is good, the plot is average, and the acting is worse than average.  All of the villains except for Penn (Everett McGill), don't last very long when it comes to fighting Ryback.  I'll give it 8 out of 10 simply because I am an action-fan.  If you're looking for intelligence, look in a different direction.  Do the same if you are not a fan of breaking arms and lots of violence. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel to the excellent original","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" A deadly group of no-good terrorists lead by batty computer expert Travis Dane (delightfully essayed with lip-smacking sardonic élan by Eric Bogosian) hijack a speeding locomotive train so they can get their nasty hands on a lethal state-of-the-art weapons satellite. It's up to ex-Navy Seal and ace cook Casey Ryback (the ever-stoic Steven Seagal sans his trademark ponytail but sporting a sizable paunch) to stop them. Director Geoff Murphy, working from a blithely far-fetched and improbable script by Matt Reeves and Richard Hatem, relates the fun story at a ceaseless breakneck pace and stages the wild action set pieces with thrilling gusto. The brutal'n'bloody bone-breaking, body-blasting, and just flat-out sadistic violence includes copious gunplay, a little knife throwing, lots of vicious hand-to-hand combat, and a real corker of a no-holds-barred climactic physical confrontation between Ryback and coldblooded soldier of fortune Marcus Penn (Everett McGill in fine ferocious form). Seagal is his usual blank and emotionless self, but luckily the bang-up supporting cast of capable thespians compensates for his woodenness Morris Chestnut contributes a likable turn as klutzy porter Bobby Zachs, the luscious Katherine Heigl is absolutely adorable as Ryback's spunky niece Sarah, plus there are neat performances by Andy Romano as the hard-nosed Admiral Bates, Nicx Mancuso as slimy chain-smoking sleazebag Tom Breaker, Kurtwood Smith as the no-nonsense General Cooper, and the always sexy Brenda Bakke as the enticing Captain Linda Gilder. Familiar character actors Peter Greene, Lincoln Kilpatrick and Jonathan Banks pop up as scuzzy mercenaries. Both Robbie Greenberg's glossy, dynamic cinematography and Basil Poledouris' stirring, majestic score are up to par. The surprisingly hokey special effects further add to the overall campy entertainment value. But it's this film's jaw-droppingly sincere sense of straight-faced outright absurdity that really makes the picture such an infectiously ludicrous hoot to watch. "},{"Title":"Seagal Fans Sure to not disappoint","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" What I found most interesting in this movie was the cast of characters. A young(er) Morris Chestnut will probably not see anymore porter roles, and check out that doo! Everett McGill as the leader of the terrorist mercenaries (remember from Silver Bullet as the Reverand and Werewolf)has a memorable line Assumption is the mother of all f... ups! Eric Bogosian has his talents on stage and he does well, look for a casting director to find him for a better role. Vets like Peter Greene and Pat Kilpatrick (the Sandman from Death Warrant) played their bit parts well, but Jonathan Banks was wasted (in more ways than one)The ending was farce, and cut one scene too short, but it's another Seagal movie fans can watch again and again. "},{"Title":"A wonderful action movie, but with one major flaw","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the rare instances where the sequel far surpasses the original movie. Under Siege 2 has tons more action than its predecessor, as Steven Seagal smashes his enemies to pieces with relentless brutality. The high point of the last one was the amazing knife fight at the end, but even that has been outdone here, with the knife being replaced by a terrifying meat cleaver. And I didn't think it was possible to one-up Tommy Lee Jones' performance as a villain, but Eric Bogosian managed to do it, as a truly cuckoo guy who has a lot of good-natured fun terrorising the government.The one flaw that brings the movie down is Steven Seagal himself. He gives a lazy, half-hearted performance, and spends the entire time looking like he's falling asleep. He doesn't appear to be particularly concerned about being attacked by mercenaries; rather, he acts like he just wants to get it over with. If it wasn't for his dud performance, this would be a spectacular movie. However, I am forced to only give it...8/10 stars. But it's still worth watching. "},{"Title":"Poor...","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Quite possibly one of the worst films I have ever seen. Bad acting, bad directing, bad editing, I found myself grimacing at the cut scenes and the improbable one-liners that Segal fumbles through, Bruce Willis he is not, but a robot could speak with more fluency. Watch when there is nothing left on the earth. "},{"Title":"Genuinely entertaining despite Steve","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"      If you like Steven Seagal, you'll love this movie. In fact, he is the worse part of it. All the bad guys and extras outdo him. The two main villains, Eric Bogosian as the megalomaniac computer nerd and Everett McGill as the mercenery heavy are spellbinding. I think these two actors are underrated.    Though the movie has a barely believable storyline held together by duct tape and bailing wire it is easy to follow. Everything is sequenced well and the editing is marvelous. There are several interesting triple cliffhanger moments (rapid shifting between 3 different threads of the story every few seconds).    If you watch this movie for action only, you will not be disappointed because the action never stops, but if you can appreciate the characters also, it is spellbinding. The extras and supporting staff are what put this movie far above the standard Seagal diet. "},{"Title":"The Same Thing With a Different Location.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  International terrorists take control of a fast-moving train and target U.S. cities with nuclear weapons that are linked to satellites deep in outer space in this unintentionally funny action film. Steven Seagal just happens to be the cook on the train as he tries to stop evil-doers once again. Sophomoric, silly and overall empty.  2 stars out of 5.  "}{"Title":"A strangely  exciting, highly watchable action movie","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has got me worried, it should be just another run-of-the-mill action movie, but it isn't.  I find it one of the best action movies of all and I find that I can watch it time and time again without becoming bored. This is the fact that bothers me, for I find that the real classic movies of all time are those that you can watch over and over again and still find them fresh.  So what is it about this particular action movie that makes it so good?  I have to agree completely with the Movie Summary comments of 7th September l998 and yet I still love it.  I find it better than Under Siege I, better than Die Hard 2 and 3 and as good as Die Dard and Speed for all round action,excitement,tension and plotline. I still can't decide why I like it so much, so I think I will watch it one more time and let you know. "},{"Title":"Question about the end of the film","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" I liked it, I just had a question about this as I have only seen it on cable.At the end, the hostages have been saved ... but how? Ryback jumps off the back of the train ... presumably all the cars went off the bridge. Did the train stop at some point to decouple the cars the hostages had been in and it was edited out of the cable version because of time constraints?I think the exact quote used was ''This is Hilo 505 November Mike. Yeah, this is Casey Ryback. The hostages are safe.''And just because I need to get to 1000 words, I'll ask can someone tell me why a commercial venture in this day and age would voluntarily allow for an asset of theirs to go thru an area where they can't communicate with the asset (I'm speaking of course to the question of why the railroad would send a train thru a passage where they can't communicate with the train).That last bit is rhetorical, I just had to get to my 1000 words. "},{"Title":"The other really good Seagal movie","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Amazingly this is a good action movie. It is a sequel and it has Seagal in it, so my expectations for this one were low, but it all turned out to be entertaining and action packed fun.The story has Casey Ryback again stuck in the middle of a terrorist plot by coincidence. He is on a train and the bad guys hijack it and turn it into a mobile headquarters as they extort the US government. Plenty of action and violence ensue with Seagal kicking bad guys' butts left and right.However, the best part of the movie isn't Seagal. It is the great performance by Eric Bogosian as the villain. Somehow I didn't imagine one could have so much fun terrorizing the US government with orbital laser cannons. 8/10Rated R a lot of violence, and profanity "},{"Title":"Ughh","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I love action movies, but this is an example of how to make a bad one.Pretty stamdard, military or law enforcement officer storms into hostage situation held by diabolical genius (nerd) and big, mean guy. Grrr!!! )I didn't expect very much plot, but it could still be so much better. Penn hardly got half a scratch on Segal before he goes down. They spent about 6 times as many minutes hyping up the final fight than it's actual duration. Bad writer, bad. I didn't like Dane getting on the ladder, let alone his cruel dispersal of his life. And shooting a computer probably won't rewind information that has bent sent out of it.Good action, more like fair action actually. I don't like the bump from the Plothole. 3/10 "},{"Title":"The sequel to Under Siege!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Seagal's Under Siege series is action packed with a big cast!The second one is very good and in My opinion the sequel is arguably better than the first!It has Eric Bogosian,Everett McGill,Peter Greene,Patrick Kilpatrick,Morris Chestnut,Kurtwood Smith,and Katherine Heigl!It has good fight scenes and the score by Basil Poledouris is excellent!If you like Seagal and the above mention cast then check it out! "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Now let me get this straight before i start , this film is a mess with poor acting , dialogue , direction , editing and much more. It however will make you laugh more than any comedy ever made , and for that reason alone it deserves 10/10 .Basically a few nights ago myself and some mates decided to sit down and watch this after drinking a few beers , It was a brilliant idea . Most of us nearly died from laughing at such classic moments as segal running on top of a train and making a bomb out of some well lets just say strange ingredient , and then there's the ending . I could go on naming the moments but id be here all day .In short , get this , get drunk and get some mates round . You wont regret it unless you have a weak heart.Oh and to anyone who can find a scene where segals expression changes from constipation , you deserve a prize. "},{"Title":"Disappointing sequel, but it could have been worse","Date":"3 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" Under Siege was a highly entertaining movie and Steven Seagal's best film by quite a wide margin. This sequel is disappointing in comparison, but is a major step-up from the derivative, shoddily made and poorly paced and scripted DTV movies he churned out over the years. The film looks fairly reasonable, yes with the need of some tighter editing but the photography and locations are good. Seagal is not great by all means, but he does try his best with the thoroughly decent action and set pieces. The soundtrack is energetic and driven, and I did like the train setting. However, the script is clichéd and weak, the story is unevenly paced(with a good beginning and end but sloppy middle section) and derivative, the direction is adequate at best, the (seemingly essential) sidekicks are clichéd and annoying and Eric Bogosian is pretty naff as the villain of the piece. Overall, disappointing but not a bad movie as such. 5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Violence but also action and intrigue!","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  All Steven Segal movies are violent, but they also contain plenty of action scenes and some nice intriguing scripts which always show you something new. The Casey Ryback character is Steven Segal at his best.  While this is no award winner it is certainly worth your viewing time.  It is definitely to violent for the little ones but adults will find it a good paced exciting movie.  Some of the stunts are a little far fetched but what the heck enjoy. I rated this 7. "},{"Title":"Under Siege 2 Dark Territory","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" The first film set on a battleship with a former Navy SEAL and cook was good action filled fun, I knew this sequel wasn't going to be as good, but I wanted to see the lead actor doing more high kicking fights. Basically Casey Ryback (Steven Seagal) has retired from the Navy and works as a chef for the Mile High Cafe in Denver, Colorado, and he is on a big train taking his niece Sarah (Knocked Up's Katherine Heigl) on vacation. The train is travelling through the Rocky Mountains heading to Los Angeles, and on the journey it is taken hostage by Travis Dane (Eric Bogosian) and his mercenary gang. He is using the movement of the train to cover up his signal linked to a weapon satellite in outer space that is capable of devastating big areas. Travis caused an earthquake in China blowing up a chemical plant, and he is demanding a ransom of one billion dollars from the Pentagon to end the destruction and release the hostages. With some outside help, it is obviously up to Casey to save the hostages, get the Pentagon aware of their location to capture the villains, and obviously he has to kill any of the bad guys who deserve it. Also starring Morris Chestnut as Bobby Zachs, Everett McGill as Marcus Penn, Deep Impact's Kurtwood Smith as General Stanley Cooper, Nick Mancuso as Tom Breaker, Andy Romano as Admiral Bates, Brenda Bakke as Captain Linda Gilder, Sandra Taylor as Kelly - Barmaid, Jonathan Banks as Scotty - Mercenary, Peter Greene as Mercenary #1 and Dale Dye as Captain Garza. Seagal does good martial arts moves and that, and Bogosian is a naff crazy villain, the fight scenes don't really make any difference, especially because of the location with limited to have happen, compared to a battleship it is daft, well, the whole film is a daft and dull action thriller. Adequate! "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I've ever seen","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  In fact, the only reason I have given it a rating of '2' rather than '1' is that it's SO bad it's almost laughable.  Almost.The original 'Under Siege' was a surprisingly watchable offering, but this poor excuse for an action film is so abysmal even hardened thrill-seekers will be looking at their watches after ten minutes, eagerly awaiting the credits.  Everything about this movie is awful, none the more than Seagal's own performance without a shadow of a doubt the worst showing by any actor or actress I have ever seen in a major motion picture.I don't even know why I am wasting my time thinking about this film anymore.  Just heed my message Don't ever watch Under Siege 2 Dark Territory.2/10 "}{"Title":"Worst movie I ever sat through (spoiler)","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  I won't go into details, but I was forced to watch this unbelievably stupid movie all the way through. How could Eric Bogosian get involved in such a mess?I can't even understand how anyone could get a kick out of such a pathetic movie. An action flick has to catch you off-guard and surprise you at least a couple of times to actually work. This piece of drivel was so utterly predictable, I just can't imagine how it could thrill or excite anyone.The WORST has to be poor Morris Chestnut playing the token black character. You just know from his first scene he'll be in charge of providing comic relief, and that he'll die before the end of the movie.Rating ZERO! NO redeeming qualities whatsoever! "},{"Title":"you call this acting","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" in my spare time I like to make some films of of my own with friends. Just a simple video camera and a video edit program. we usually make simple action scenes without any story but just for fun. I think this is also what Steven seagal does. He does it for fun. the only problem is that there are still people who think these films are great. I mean, haven't you seen any other film. Arnold Schwarzenegger is a world class top actor compared to this bulldozer who doesn't seem to care about his plot but only how many films he can produce in one year. i think there are only 2 Steven seagal films(under siege & executive decision) which can be given a 6+ Steven, please stop "},{"Title":"This is the definition of Hollywood action CRAP","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Under Siege II rates among the very worst movies I've ever seen. Sure, there are lots of action scenes, lots of Hollywood fire, and lots of Segal... but none of it is exciting. I do not want to waste any more time on this crap, so I'll cut it short. Avoid this one!  "},{"Title":"Steven Seagal - He`s The Very Worst","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":"  Did you know there`s an unlimited number of alternative universes ? Think about that for a moment - Somewhere in another dimension Peter Jackson has just released FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING with Vin Diesel as Aragorn and Steven Seagel as Boromir . It goes without saying this alternative version of Tolkein`s classic is the biggest flop in the history of every universe in creation . It`s also the only film credited as having the languages English , Elvish and MumbellingYou can tell I don`t like Steven Seagal as an action movie star and if you watch UNDER SIEGE 2 you`ll understand where I`m coming from . Former SEALS vet Casey Ryback takes his niece on a train which gets hijacked by terrorists . Considering he was working on a ship that got hijacked by terrorists in the first UNDER SEIGE he most be unlucky , but if Casey`s unlucky what sort of adjective can you use to describe someone who`s sat through a Seagal movie ?This plays out exactly like every other Seagal movie with ultra right wing types trying to kill our Steven and Steven killing the ultra right wing bad guys one by one . Oh and of course it comes complete with one of those  This guy`s the very best  scenes as the baddies discover who they`re up against . Actually UNDER SIEGE 2 is not too bad since we don`t have an obvious green/holistic message stuffed down our throats every 10 seconds and while the success of the original UNDER SEIGE was down entirely to Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey as the bad guys Eric Bogosian doesn`t do too badly here either as the villain , though you do get the impression Elliot Gould was the original choice There is also a magnificent scene of unintentional laughter when a bad guy absails down a rockface only to be met by Steven who greets him with  Hello  . It doesn`t sound funny on paper but when I saw it on screen I almost split my sides laughing .More entertaining than it deserves to be and one of the better Seagal movies UNDER SIEGE 2 gets three out of ten  "},{"Title":"Come on, baby, do the loco-motion !","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Thriller","Review":" You'd almost feel sorry for all those poor, poor movie-terrorists! Whenever they plot &#x96; in the utmost greatest detail, I may add &#x96; to hijack a big city skyscraper, an airport, a Navy battleship or a Grand Continental train, there's always some indestructible and outraged one man army hindering their mission and wiping them all out one by one. In the former two examples we're referring to Bruce Willis' mega-cool Die Hard movies and in the latter ones we're talking about Steven Seagal's rare cinematic highlights Under Siege 1 & 2. Granted, Under Siege is a blatant rip-off of Die Hard, but who cares because they're both extremely entertaining and they represent Seagal's only memorable action hero accomplishments. Personally, what entertains me most about this type of brainless cinema is the depiction of the bad guys. Preposterous popcorn action flicks are guaranteed to feature the coolest baddies, and this particular movie sure ain't no exception! Seagal single-handedly combats against a totally unhinged NASA scientist and a small legion of steeled mercenaries that use pepper spray as breathe freshener, for crying out loud! The portrayals of the villainous characters, together with the copious amount of gratuitous & graphical scenes of violence, are definitely the elements that make Under Siege 2 one of the most gratifying action films of the 90's. Casey Ryback's uncomfortable reunion with his estranged niece aboard the train from Denver to L.A. gets rudely interrupted when a bunch of terrorists take over the locomotive. Their leader is a disgruntled and *slightly* megalomaniac scientist who developed a hi-tech artillery satellite before the government ungratefully sacked him. He, Travis Dane, is backed up by mad dog mercenaries led by the stoic Marcus Penn (fantastic role of Everett McGill) and plotted a merciless revenge against Uncle Sam. He regains control over his satellite and demonstrates to enemy nations what exactly the device is capable of doing. One scene even suggests the total destruction of China. Yes, the whole country! Too bad, for the terrorists, Ryback is a chef outside of the kitchen as well, and together with the token black porter character, he fights back; eliminating one baddie at the time. Under Siege 2 definitely gains from Geoff Murphy's competent directing skills. He reduces the one-liners and comical relief moments to an absolute minimum and comes up with new virulent action footage whenever the story threatens to get sentimental or overly talkative. Let's face it; the last thing anybody wants is watching Steven Seagal speech. The true action fanatics will love this film for its uncompromising and gritty violence. People get shot (at very close range), stabbed or neck-broken and really an awful lot of characters fall down from dazzling heights and land onto painfully hard places! You know, many of those Ouch, that has got to hurt moments. As stated before, the performances of the villainous characters form the main attraction in this movie. The more Eric Bogosian overacts the better and the hirelings excel at looking menacing. McGill is tremendous as the lead-psycho and receives excellent support from Peter Greene and Patrick Kilpatrick. "}]