[{"Title":"Bad title, good movie","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Southern woman (Julia Roberts) finds out her husband (Dennis Quaid) is cheating on her.  This sets off complications that involve her whole family-her fiery sister (Kyra Sedgwick), gruff father (Robert Duvall) and understanding mother (Gena Rowlands).This plot has been done many times before and there are no real surprises--but it has a good pro-female script.  That's no surprise--it was written by Callie Khouri who also wrote Thelma & Louise.  The dialogue is sharp and adult and the stars give it their all.I've never really been a big fan of Roberts but she is very good here faking a credible Southern accent.  She has a GREAT scene when she confronts her club about her husband's infidelity.  Sedgwick is just fantastic as her sister--full of fire and having a great time.  Surprisingly Rowlands wasn't that good at first--way too muted but she eventually got better and is wonderful in a scene in which she tells off Duvall.  Quaid and Duvall are lousy in their roles...but they're given NOTHING to work with--this picture is about the women.  The only male character with any depth is Jamie (Brett Cullen)--very handsome, intelligent and caring--a real great performance. A word of advice--this movie is VERY R rated.  There's tons of swearing (especially from Sedgwick) and VERY frank sexual dialogue--it is NOT for the kids (unless it's an edited for TV version).  It's an adult movie.Predictable but well-done.  Worth catching. "},{"Title":"Disappointing....","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First let me start off by saying that Julia Roberts is from Georgia...Her accent is real! This was a disappointing movie. Julia Roberts and Kyra Sedgwick have great chemistry as sisters and they LOOK like they could actually be related. Dennis Quaid-check, Robert Duvall-check, Gena Rowlands-check...Cast is awesome. Writing is sassy and on the money. The problem is the way the story turns on it's head. When Grace poisons her husband it is not at all funny..and takes the story in another direction. We think we are watching a movie about this lying cheating lout who does his woman wrong and her questioning her life and her choices afterward. We feel bad for HIM when he makes it sound like she drove him into another woman's arms because she didn't give him enough affection. She actually feels bad, but it is already too late, as she has already made him sick from the poison. He decides he doesn't want her back after all and goes ahead and gets a nasty lawyer. Along the way her mom (Rowland)decides to take action on her husband (duvall) who has been fooling around for years. Not making much sense here. All this surrounds a equestrian competition that is supposed to bring these people together. Kind of stupid. I also want to bring attention to the fact that Julia Roberts was about 27 when she made this. Too young to have this older kid, and Dennis Quaid looks a good 10 years her senior, and they were in college together?? Kyra Sedgwick is going for over the top sassy here...We get the point after she knees Quaid in the jewels early on..yes yes she is a tough cookie. All that said, I will watch Julia Roberts in anything. I am her target demographic after all. Her most unwatchable movie is still watchable to me on a snowy Sunday afternoon such as today. "},{"Title":"Well-played drama about being in love, making mistakes...","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 1/18/2003 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Lasse Hallstrom) Well-played drama about being in love, making mistakes, and trying to stay in love.  This is a heart-breaking movie to watch because it is so much like real life and it is played out so well by those involved.  The Direction by Hallstrom is magnificent because of the way he lets the story do the talking and doesn't hurry us to conclusions.  Basically, this is a story about a woman(Julia Roberts) who finds out that her husband(Dennis Quaid) is cheating on her and then everything gets mixed up from this point on. There are many other relationships that are also very vital to the story just like they would be in real life.  There are parents(who struggle with some of the same things), there is a sister(who tries to lend a helping hand) and there is a child in the middle of everything just trying to survive.  By the end, we believe that everything is going to be all right but it is very obvious that much damage has been done.  Roberts is superb as usual and everyone plays out their parts very believably.  This is one of those movies that is one of a kind, but not one you'd want to watch very often for it hits deep within our souls(especially those who have gone thru similar experiences) and therefore I think it failed when released because the exec's didn't know how to sell it to make money but none-the-less it is a classic in my book on relationships.  The choice of the title also didn't make sense because the song really has nothing to do with the movie.  Again, I think this was a marketing mistake and not the filmmakers. "},{"Title":"Underwhelming comedy-drama with A-list talent...","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sterling cast featuring not only Julia Roberts and Dennis Quaid, but also Robert Duvall, Gena Rowlands and Kyra Sedgwick, is a handsomely-made but rather ordinary, women's TV-type light drama (with barbed language added). Roberts plays harried working mom down South who discovers husband Quaid has been unfaithful; they fight, discuss divorce, fight some more, while Roberts gets advice from her well-to-do parents (they ponder the situation when the answers should be obvious). Pleasant cast nearly masks the fact this is completely rote material (with Sedgwick as Roberts' p.o.'ed sister who gets in the proverbial crotch kick). Pokey, overly-familiar, overlong film with too few laughs and too much inane banter. Photographed by the famous Sven Nykvist, who indeed gives the picture a rich, glossy look. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A story about husbands, wives, parents, children and other natural disasters.","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a very clever movie, made with serious intentions, coming out with both a funny and serious side to it. I am talk about the Julia Roberts drama, &#145;Something to talk about'. I have seen many movies that look into the issues concerning relationships and infidelity, such as 2002's, &#145;unfaithful'. Yet this film looks at a different side of the problems that can hurt a relationship and also shows that one couples problems can be the &#145;talk' of the town. Grace Bichon has a picture perfect life. She helps manage her father's riding-stable and has a great husband and little daughter. That is until she discovers that her husband Eddie is deceiving her with another woman. After confronting him in the middle of the night on the streets of their small home town, she decides to stay at her sister Emma Rae's house for a while, to make up her mind. Breaking out of her everyday life, she starts to question the authority of everyone, especially her father's, thus causing a stir in her parent's marriage, too.  What a great story this film has. I love the way that the audience get the chance to experience what a place it is that poor Grace has to live. It also shows that being part of a relationship is not an easy thing. Another clever addition to the story is the use of gossip, which is perfectly incorporated and performed by the movie's actors. You really believe that this town's people want to know what is going on in the lives of the &#145;Bichon family' and that is ultimately why it was called &#145;Something to talk about'. This all being said, the film has many characters that I did not like, which is credit to the film's story, allowing me to actually like it. The screenwriter for &#145;Something to talk about', is Callie Khouri, who did a film last year, that I want to see, called &#145;Devine secrets of the Ya-Ya sisterhood'. Callie wrote a most enjoyable script from where I see it.There are flawless roles from all involved in the movie. This movie's main star is a gal I like, that being Julia Roberts. I remember reading that someone said Robert's needed to do this movie, to save her career from going down the wrong path. Well she shone in this most likeable of roles. I love the way that her character goes through so many emotions, especially the hot-headed temperament, but for good reason. I had to laugh when Grace is so abrupt, asking all her friends at a meeting, has anyone and everyone in the town been sleeping with her husband. The next line is priceless.The men in Grace's life are not so great. Husband Eddie (Dennis Quaid) is in a most uncomfortable of situations, which he put himself in. Eddie is upstaged by Grace's sister, Emma Rae (Kyra Sedgwick), who brings Eddie to his knees. Then add in the scene when Grace tries to get revenge on her husband. It is a movie that shows Eddie has done many things wrong. What Grace does might seem a little extreme, but I have no doubt that hurt people will go to such lengths to feel better about themselves and their situation. Grace's father, Wyly King (Robert Duvall) is a man who cares not so much for his family, but more about the disgrace one of his daughter's will bring to the family name, reputation and business. I was shocked when he blurts out &#145;All of our friends complain about how their kids grow up and run off and they never hear from them anymore. Why the hell can't that happen to us?'Director Lasse Hallstrom did a good job with this movie. He certainly seemed fascinated in making a movie which shows how dysfunctional a family really can be, and on more than one level in this film. There was also one name that came up as a bit of a surprise to me in the casting credits, that being Goldie Hawn. She was executive producer of the film, and in some way, you can feel the comedic touch she brought to the film. &#145;Something to talk about' hit home personally for me, as I have been part of a family break up, via one parent being unfaithful to the other. It is very hard for kids to understand what is going on when parent's relationships are disintegrating right in front of them. I have resigned to the fact my parents will never be back together again, but this film shows that not all relationships are a lost cause as I am sure they are not. Julia Robert's role in the film was so compelling from where I see it, as she was well within her rights to be as upset as she was. Her role justifies to me, why she is a star in Hollywood today. I guess the only downer for me in this film was the language, which I found just a little slack and disturbing. Roger Ebert said in his review of the film &#145;that &#145;Something to talk about' is the kind of film where you start out wondering how all these people are related, and end up knowing all to well'. I could not agree more, but I guess that is what you get when people start to gossip and talk!CMRS gives &#145;Something to talk about' 4 (Very Good Film) "},{"Title":"Mediocre movie from Lasse Hallström, not on the level we use to watch from him","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When it comes to directors like Lasse Hallström, I always expect maximum, best, masterpiece. After movies that he made back in Finland and brilliant What's Eating Gilbert Grape I think that my expectations were justified. Sadly, this movie came just behind Gilbert so I can live with one mediocre movie after a huge success with Gilbert and then later movie like The Cider House Rules, Chocolat... Hallström likes to make family movies, where he can expose the whole family with all their pluses and minuses. In this case, story was written by Callie Khouri (Thelma & Louise), typical 'women are always good' writer. In the middle of the story we've got Grace Bichon (Julia Roberts), who founds out that her husband Eddie (Dennis Quaid) is unfaithful. With her daughter, she decides to come back home at ranch. There she must face her traditional father Wyly (Robert Duvall) and mother Georgia (Gena Rowlands), who seems to be doing whatever Wyly wants. The only person who fully understands her is her sister Emma Rae (Kyra Sedgwick).I disagree that there is nothing to talk about in this movie. Yes, this movie has some obvious problems the script is not brilliant which is mostly seen in situations that we've all seen before and characters like Eddie, Wyly and Georgia are written on a way that there is nothing for actors to act. But all Hallström characters are alive (you can identify with them) and about family problems that are presented in this movie there is plenty to talk about. For example, what strong woman like Grace does when she's cheated, how to explain her young daughter that her dad isn't living with them any more; the whole relationship of Bichon's after infidelity. On the other hand, we've got relationship between two sisters, between Wyly and Georgia King and so on. So we've got plenty stuff to talk about only if you think about it for a while. What this script lacks is quality writing of male characters. Duvall's and Quaid's characters are simply not developed enough.About acting part, I must admit that Julia Roberts is very good in this role, just like Kyra Sedgwick and Brett Cullen (his character is the only male character that is made right). Duvall, Rowlands & Quaid have nothing to act, like I said before. But I read one comment that says that Duvall shouldn't act in any movie. That is what made me angry so I had to write it. Man is a screen and stage legend! So to end, if you can watch this family drama about marriage, infidelity and love. It's not the best choice coming from Hallström but it's a bearable one. "},{"Title":"Delightful film","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a delightful film about a Southern belle, Grace King Bichon(Julia Roberts), who chafes under the domination of herbrook-no-dissent father, and is cheated on by her husband. Graceworks for her father on his horse farm, and her suppressedresentment of his iron rule has likely helped derail her marriage toEddie. In any event, the film is ultimately about the love andstrength of family relationships and the power of forgiveness, aswell as finding one's own path in life. All actors turn in greatperformances Julia Roberts as the heroine and wronged wife;Robert Duvall as the family patriarch; Gena Rowlands as thebeautiful and devoted spouse and mother; and Kyra Sedgwick asthe transgressive sister. Dennis Quaid as Grace's philanderinghusband is very appealing, so it's hard not to be rooting for he andGrace to reconcile. Finally, good cinematography and a portrait ofgracious Southern living make this film an enjoyable view. "},{"Title":"W. A. W. O. F.   ( What a waste of film)","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Senseless plot, forgettable characters, and no redeeming value. The only reason it gets a three in my book is because I saw it on a date with the love of my life. Indeed, this is proof positive that even bad films can spawn relationships that last a lifetime! The very idea that someone could actually forgive someone for cheating simply because she sees him riding a horse is simply crazy at best, if it were that easy I'd have bought a horse eons ago! Also, some of the camera angles were interesting at first, but as the plot and the overall content of the film left much to be desired, the angles began to really get on my nerves after a while. Had the film given more in the areas of plot, content, and believable, likable characters, I probably would saying what a innovative genius the director was. Anyways, pop this this one in at 2am after you've missed several buses to dreamland. I guarantee you'll be on the the next bus. "},{"Title":"Another story of infidelity","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This time it is the man who is unfaithful but the ending is different. When we watched A Walk on The Moon, Unfaithful and The Bridges of Madison County we saw three married women have torrid affairs but who were portrayed as sympathetic characters. They ended up staying with their husbands (though the husband in Unfaithful probably ended up in prison) while still in love with the men with whom they committed adultery. The husbands who were aware of their wives unfaithfulness, and the one who didn't, all opted to stand by their women and were portrayed as being at fault by virtue of working too hard and not paying enough attention to the wives. But here the shoe is on the other foot. The husband is the one who strays and he is portrayed as being at fault, even though his wife has become distant and unresponsive to him. The double standard is obvious. Kyra Sedgwick was by far the most enjoyable character in the film. She was outstanding as the protective sister of betrayed Julia Roberts. The b*ll kicking scene is painful, but funny. I really liked her and will be looking for more of her work in the future.The setting is a horse farm that is ruled over by the patriarch played by Robert Duvall. Grace is his assistant manager and carries much of the load. Her husband (Dennis Quaid) is caught cheating on her and she moves out of their bedroom to her sisters apartment. Though her husband is truly repentant and struggles to get her back she is unrelenting and eventually returns to school and we are left wondering if there is ever a reunion. I enjoyed the movie but was struck by the difference in the treatment of male infidelity versus that of the female. I give it a 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Unfocused, Uneven, Waste-of-Talent","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an uneven, unfocused film that can not decide whether it is an intense drama of guilt and redemption, or a family film about...a girl who races horses...or ponies...or..?What I find incredible about this movie is that it included an all-star cast and still managed to create something very mediocre. Dennis Quaid, as always, is excellent. Kyra Sedgewick can not help but be great in any film she is in. Robert Duval, though rough-hewn in this film, is characteristically intense and impressive.This is not Julia Roberts' strongest role, but it is not her fault that her character was written as weak and confused.I'll have to admit that I am not very familiar with Gena Rowlands' work, but after seeing her in this picture, I would like to see more of her. The title of this movie is just downright stupid In no part of the movie is anyone talking about anyone else.The scenes vaccilate from intense and heart-wrenching, straight into spritely and fun, and this would be considered emotional manipulation and desensitization if it were not so thoughtless The movie just has no focus, bouncing from Peyton Place to Walt Disney and back.If Something To Talk About had been a serious drama about infidelity, I'm sure it would have been all-the-better, centering on Quaid's and Roberts' characters and relationship. The film is so unwieldy it actually managed to turn Robert Duval's character into a vile distraction. Because of the calibre and sheer volume of talent squandered on this film, director Lars Holstrom never should have been allowed to have worked in Hollywood again. He redeemed himself in 1999 with Ciderhouse Rules, though.Likewise, musicians Graham Preskett and Hans Zimmer should have been run out of Hollywood for their incongruous, distracting inclusions.I am trying to forget about this film. "}{"Title":"A total waste of good talent.","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am loathe to say something this negative, but must.  One of the worst movies I ever have been dragged in front of the VCR by my fiancee to watch.  It is not enjoyed but endured, especially, I would think, by males - as you will see for yourself (or, I hope, not).  What was Robert Duvall thinking when he agreed just to go through the motions for this dud?  And Julia Roberts?? The one note of hysterical she maintains throughout is not acting.  At least the scenery in Beaufort, S.C. (also the location of Big Chill) is interesting. Overall, what a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Something to Balk About","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Let's see.. in a large bowl, mix together effortless acting, extremely overlit sets, a  made-for-tv, afterschool special script, cliches about how all men are either pigs  or ineffectual and all women know what they want, obligatory, gap-filling scenes  involving an easy listening pop tune where all the major characters get to dance  together and, finally, the inevitable soft ending where the world gets backtogether, somewhat changed but somehow still the same, and you'll have thishome ec project of a film. I'm not sure which was worse; the film's existence,  the money I paid to see it or the fact that Julia Roberts was actually paid $12  milllion to act out of this bag. That money should have gone to the continuity  department to do its job and actually pay attention tot how many hairstyles Julia  Roberts goes through in each and every scene. "},{"Title":"Kyra Sedgwick is the best part of this film","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Anything featuring gutter mouthed Julia Roberts I normally bypass but this film also had Gena Rowlands and Dennis Quaid so it was worth a look. I was pleasantly surprised to discover Kyra Sedgwick who stole the show. I hope she has the same sense of humor in real life and if she does, Kevin Bacon is lucky indeed. "},{"Title":"A rare Lasse Halstrom error","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boy, is this movie lame or what?Any interest in the movies' characters is SOLELY provided by Krya Sedgwick as the wise-cracking, potty-mouthed sister of the lead actress..can't place her name right now.  Anyway, the lead finds out her husband (Dennis Quaid) is cheating, and this comes as a surprise to her even after it was pointed out that his nickname in college was 'Hound Dog'.Possibly she thought it was her duty to not see his indiscretions.  She was raised in a town very concerned with two things - doing the right thing, and talking about it when someone else is caught doing the wrong thing.  Her parents (Robert Duvall and Gena Rowlands, who make any movie they are in better than it normally would have been) are in denial as well, about life in general but mostly about their own relationship.  Nothing much really happens.  In that way it reminded me a little of 'What's Eating Gilbert Grape', but that was never boring for a minute. Soundtrack is distracting - each new scene begins with a swell of music, so if you're falling asleep, just listen for the music..that's the start of the next, and hopefully better, scene.  But take my advice - it doesn't get any better.  My heart goes out to Kyra, whose work is wasted in this boring vehicle.  "},{"Title":"How is This Feminist?","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I know Callie Khouri thinks she's this huge feminist, but as one, I'm always mystified as to how she arrived at that conclusion. I've never seen Thelma and Louise, but I do watch Nashville (though it's already lather, rinse, repeat and the first season isn't even over!) and I've also seen Divine Secrets (also, just god awful).All three vehicles have verrrry similar elements and a lot of elements seem more like the plot lines of a 1950's pot boiler, not something reasonably modern (and I was turning 30 in 1995, so yeah, I get the time frame of this film).Each one features a whiny, spoilt, Southern (usually) Daddy's girl who remains in whatever small community she and her family are near royalty in. Despite the fact that she either hates it there or is at least deeply frustrated by it. This, of course, shows how sensitive our heroine is (actually it shows that she can't poop or get off the pot).She also generally is only able to TRULY love her high school sweetheart (weird since Khouri is on her second marriage, to someone she didn't meet until late in life). She also has deep regrets about not being able to achieve her girlhood dreams, even though it's typically something with relatively few obstacles, fairly modest and well, sometimes just life for us mere mortals.In the film Julia/Grace wanted to be a large animal vet and didn't have that much school left to achieve this. She dropped out because she was pregnant and had to get married. But unlike the typical Southern woman, who would now sadly toil at Walmart or Piggly-Wiggly, Julia works for Daddy, managing his fancy stables.Although she doesn't have time to return to school (even though somehow I suspect Daddy might be a fairly flexible employer in the scheduling department), she does have time to be an active Junior League Member. Not to mention, she's still able to work around large animals and care for them. She just isn't a vet.Really, very little happens other than everyone chewing scenery and infidelity coming out all over the place. In the end, Julia goes back to Vet school (how she's now able to do this on one income, and move into her own pad with her daughter is never explained, I'll just guess, Daddy).She also takes back pathologically serial cheater Dennis Quaid. Why? Basically cause they dance sexy to Bonnie Raitt in front of everyone (even though a way nicer, cuter dude wants her, but he, of course isn't her high school twu wuv) and he fixes her a nice dinner.Yeah, that's some serious lady empowerment, there!!! Just be pretty, have a rich daddy and ultimately forgive that loser and your life will go from crap to awesome!!! "},{"Title":"Southern men and southern women - for dumb dummies","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretentious and a huge waste of talent.Julia Roberts is a great actress and has a fantastic smile – a smile so un-really radiant that it becomes unreal pretty soon. That’s the risk she runs. And so does the movie.Dialogues for the single sister are good while the movie is quite pretentious and a drag at times.Dennis Quaid is fantastic. The story borders on the most idiotic generalization – southern men think with their southern asset and the women don’t have brains at all. Pretty idiotic fare.Gene Rowlands mom lacks depth and looks like she is on prescriptive medication - she takes a 180 degree turn in the middle of the movie. And Duvall's character is so foolish it hurts. The only saving grace is the dance sequence - but then I can bet there have been infinitely better results than this. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Something to Talk About is one of those movies I can watch time and time again and never tire of. It appeals particularly because it has so many elements I love in a movie -- dancing, powerful women, horses, sexy men riding said horses, humor, fighting, making up.Not to mention a cast, writer, and director that imbue the film with a sense of high quality. Relationships between a myriad of characters are explored and to satisfaction. Even minor characters turn in great performances; for example, Grace's Aunt Edna, who shares a secret that leads to a hilariously dark moment for Grace and Eddie. Kyra Sedgewick steals every scene she is in and makes me wonder why she isn't a bigger star. She had chops in this film. She was thoroughly enjoyable.Callie Khouri and Lasse Halstrom made a memorable movie with Something to Talk About. Worth watching and laughing over and over. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is just a bad movie. That´s about it. I remember it hit the cinema in Iceland somewhere in late 1995. It was showing for like a week and then just a few months later it was on video and nobody rented it. It is obvious why. This film is just bad. Nothing ever happens, it is not funny or sad , the acting is medicore and the film is just lame. Julia Roberts is medicore or overacting as always. 2/10.  "},{"Title":"Nothing to Talk About","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It was nothing to talk about. Just a sorry chick flick that made no sense at all. Robert Duvall cheated on his wife and she took him back because she watched him riding a horse. Huh? And more senseless stuff like that was all through this thing.I found only two interesting things about this movie. There was a weird camera angle on the staircase using a fisheye lens. They used this shot a lot. The camera angle was mildly interesting for a while. And there was a guy in the movie named Frank Lewis. This was only interesting because I worked for someone named Frank Lewis at the time I watched it.Guys - don't let some girl make you watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Is it just me or is the tag line a little misleading?","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are some films that move you. There are some films that make you laugh. There are some films that make you cry. And then there are some films, that mislead you with the tagline, cover of the film and in some cases the preview. This is one such film. After waiting eleven years to finally see this movie, I wondered why I had anticipated it so much. What a let down this film was. I was expecting some cute, romantic comedy with Julia Roberts and Denis Quaid, who would argue, and make-up every other scene, and share equal screen time. Wow, was I wrong. No wonder Quaid's name came last on the credits at the beginning of the film. He's hardly worth mentioning.The film is circled more or less on a horse ranch that Grace (Roberts) works on, which is owned by her rich father. She finds her husband (Quaid) one afternoon, cheating on her, and the whole movie is dedicated to her being angry with him, and refusing to forgive him for having cheated on her. However, the reason the tag lines and previews are misleading, is because the movie is more focused on the horse ranch, rather than on her personal situation. I found the movie quite frankly boring, and really of not much interest. Kyra Sedgwick was excellent, and I think I liked her the most out of everyone in the film. I'm not a Robert Duvall fan, so don't ask me what I thought of him, I don't know why he gets casted for any parts, in any films. Gena Rowlands was good as usual...and well what can you say about the sexy and terrific Denis Quaid? He was his usual charming self, and how could you blame anyone for liking him? Julia Roberts, was certainly not at her best, but then better than her non-deserving Oscar award winning performance in Erin Brockovich.The movie was flat, and lacked so much that it had potential for.I highly not recommend this film, and suggest you check something more along the lines of Notting Hill or Pretty Woman if you're looking for a good Roberts flick. And if it's Quaid you're interested in, go with, Innerspace or In Good Company. You won't go wrong with any of those, however this one will let you down right from the beginning, and the end won't do you much good either. Because that was not you're typical ending to a film like this. Good luck with it...you're going to need it. "}{"Title":"Moral men are bums","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In many ways this was a good film, well acted, with an interesting script. But, also it was far to mean spirited for my taste. Basically it   turned into a feminist tract in which women were noble while men were immoral, and rather stupid. Is if really funny when Julia Roberts poisons her cheating husband?, played by Dennis Quaid, while her sister knees him in the b*lls? It was far to black and white -- women = good, men = louses.  "},{"Title":"families outlook is a receipt for disaster","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this is my 79 review and this film is a dramedy of sorts with a all star cast with Julia Roberts playing Grace King Bichon who manages her father stable and constantly looking after horses and thinks everything is OK in her life with Dennis Quaid playing Eddie Bichon with whom they have one child so as grace goes to meet her husband who makes deals on properties she see him with another man she flips and everything her life goes dizzy and and her reactions to this cause ripples in her family worrying about the implications of 2 business deals her husband is having so turns to her family but Robert Duvall who plays Wyly King is stuck up to care about her problems because of his infidelities and her being a member a cooking club her problems don't seem to be a issue with members as rumors fling around bout her husband so after kicking Eddie out he tries to worm her back but she makes a show off her self and her family by causing rows in public nights out so she moves in to her sisters room her parents don't want her to move in as she already left but her issues cause friction father and mother having their own issues and Gena Rowlands playing Georgia King kicks Wyly King to funny effect he has to crawl and beg Kyra Sedgwick playing Emma Rae King is the sister who suffers through her sisters sadness great story about husbands wives children and other natural disasters that come along to effect the king family its good but not great "},{"Title":"Relationships","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like cinema a lot and I am used to many kinds of films, independent and commercial. I liked this movie in spite of Ms. Julia Roberts. No offense but, in general, I don't like most of the movies she appears in... though very successful they may be.I liked the plot of Something To Talk About because it is about relationships put to a test. The young couple. The old couple. The two sisters. Father to daughter. I also like actors Duval and Rowlands. And if its true that is NOT an action movie with cars chasing/crashing and bombs exploding or saving the world and a loved pet, it is also true that I never lost interest in the development of the plot throughout the film. Kyra Sedgwick is well cast and even Julia Roberts's role is convincing. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts deserves more than this","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not a movie for Julia Roberts. She is one of my favorite actresses and she shines always (wherever she's in). I, just, think she should play in better roles. This movie doesn't suck but it is nothing special (at all). This one and Runaway Bride are the worst movies of her. As I said before they're not awful but Julia Roberts deserves more than this. The best movies of her are Pretty woman (of course), Nothing Hill and Erin Brockovich. I'm looking forward for more of her brilliant movies. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Boring Average Family Life","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Enjoyed the great comic acting by Julia Roberts as (Grace King Bichon) who had plenty of family problems with children, grandparents, mother-in-laws and friends. Dennis Quaid,(Eddie Bichon) gives a supporting role as the husband, but I just could not find him suited for this role and especially opposite a great star like Julie Roberts. Quaid just simply did not fit into this role, of course, that is my opinion. Robert Duval,(Wyly King) who was very funny with his southern accent and great supporting role along with Gene Rowlands, (Georgia King) who gets tired of her husband and locks poor old Wyly outside of their huge home. One of Grace King's family members suggests she make a new dish of food for her husband and that is when things get turned all around. A bit Way Out, someone could be put in jail. "},{"Title":"One of Julia's Best","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a great woman's picture that is also very entertaining for anybody. Someone mentioned that Julia Roberts offers up a convincing southern accent. Well hell's bells, she's from Smyrna, Georgia. How convincing does she have to be! Set in Kentucky horse country, Julia Roberts plays a young wife and mother who runs her father's (Robert Duvall) horse business. She's a fine wife and mother, and a good business woman. One day while driving in town, she sees her husband (Dennis Quaid) kissing a pretty woman in a red dress outside his office building. Busted, Quaid finds himself kneed in he groin by his potty- mouthed sister-in-law (the adorably gusty Kyra Sedgewick) and thrown out of the house by his furious wife. Her husband infidelity turns her contained and comfy world upside-down. Daddy (who has his own issues with infidelities) is uncomfortable with his daughter's anger and insensitively insists that she overlook the problem and get on with her life. Mama (the great Gena Rowlands) who has been looking the other way for years, and is not in a position to offer any advice, tells her daughters that southern woman have been putting up with their philandering husbands for years. Sedgewick can only offer her own withering scorn to her parents (she lives in a house on her father's farm with no visible means of support and therefore is beholden to her parents), while she clucks sympathetically with her sister.Meanwhile, Robert's character has to move on. Her daughter, an excellent young rider, is nudging her to compete in horse competitions, which is is reluctant to allow. She's confused about her parent's separation. Julia is running the business, but her father constantly interfere, making her management decisions. The women in her local Junior League are condescending and smug in the knowledge that their marriages are safe as hers is not. Roberts has a brilliant comic moment telling her sisters that their husbands are cheating on them too!A contrite Quaid is on a mission to reconcile with his wife, but she is resisting. Taking the advice of her beloved Aunt, she mildly poisons her husband's dinner in an attempt to teach him a lesson he won't soon forget. You know it's only a matter of time before she forgives him, but you enjoy her insistence that this is a serious breach of trust in their marriage, not to be ignored lightly, or forgotten. The film reaches a very satisfactory conclusion. Daddy is finally made to pay the consequences for his own extra-marital dalliances when Rowlands finally locks him out of their house. And he finally learns to respect his daughter and realize the psychic damage his flagrant misogyny has caused.This is a quiet gem of a movie and one of Julia's best. The cast is expert and Hallstrom's direction is fluid and detailed. Khalie Couri's screenplay is alert and adult. An earlier review chastises the Robert's character for poisoning her husband. She didn't kill him, nor did she intend to. But I think it's quite appropriate for her to make him feel some of the pain he's caused her. At the very least, he should have been discreet. Acting out his affair in public is just asking for trouble. And the women in this family make their men grow up. A throughly enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Julia Robert's worst movie.","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are only a handful of movies I have evr walked out on because they were so dull they were unwatchable. Something to talk about is one of them and though not the MOST boring movie I have ever seen it certainly comes close.The movie sounded interesting when it first came out but somehow I missed seeing it when it came out and, years later when it came to television was really looking forward to seeing it. Unfortunetly, the feeling was fleeting...This movie moves at a snail's pace. Nothing ever seems to HAPPEN and the more seconds that tick by the more bored one is watching it. I have seen most of Julia's work and with the possible exception of Sleeping with the enemy thought her movies very well made. This is a major exception. I am also a big Kyra Sedgewick fan so I hung in there hoping something(anything) would happen. I think the subject matter was interesting, it's been done many times but that doesn't mean it can't be done again if it's done well. The problem is when a movie's THIS slow going on action it runs the risk of losing it's audience when something DOES happen. That was the case with me and others I know have expressed the same feeling about this movie. "},{"Title":"a disappointment despite great actors and a brilliant screenwriter","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie had all the essential elements at hand, but somehow it doesn't come together. The main reason is the poor direction by Lasse Hallström. He has done solid movies before, I'm a big fan of Chocolat, but unfortunately he comes off as an amateur here. The viewer never gets a feel for the geography of the setting. Important little interactions are barely visible -- for example, when Jamie offers Grace another drink, and she grabs his, it is a potentially comical and telling moment that isn't even on screen. (I couldn't figure it out until watching carefully during the second viewing -- did she grab the bottle? did she take her empty glass? Eventually it appears she has a glass in hand with liquor still in it.) The little girl's acting seemed to be left to chance, and chance didn't do a good job for her. There is frequently a lack of realistic presentation in the sequence of action. One minute Eddie can't breathe after being kicked in the balls, 10 seconds later he is walking normally into the kitchen. The potentially hilarious scene at the women's cookbook meeting, when Grace demands to know who else has slept with her husband, was almost ruined by Hallstrom's failure to coordinate line-response. The audience gasps before Grace finishes speaking the essential words in her question. In fact, that whole scene, with its unrealistic, one-dimensional characters, ultimately comes across as condescending toward women.Another fundamental problem with this movie is the plot. Callie Khouri is nothing less than a brilliant screenwriter, but I think she handicapped herself here with post-T and L fears of accusations of man-hating. Understandable, given the public platform given to all the scary men loudly objecting to the depiction of a woman shooting a rapist dear God! Callie Khouri's strength is her honest, cut-the-gloss depictions of painful male-female relationships, along with the comedy she brings forth through allowing women an instinctual response to abuse. In this script, however, those moments of comedic and tragic honesty are kept in cages, so that there are little gems scattered throughout, but the movie as a whole does not reflect her native talents. "},{"Title":"A playground for the vengeful fantasies of modern women.","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I understand that hell hath no fury like a woman scorned. But if this film is any indication of the way women think today, God help mankind. Something To Talk About poses a moral dilemma; A good woman is cheated on by her husband, what are her options? I believe a good litmus test of fairness is that it should work in reverse. If that were done in this case, (i.e.) if the man was the faithful one and the woman the cheat, would this script work? Undoubtedly, if they were to make such a film, there would be an outcry from women so loud it would make a Queer Nation rally at a NASCAR race sound like an ant sneeze. Juxtapose the events as mentioned and imagine, if you will, a film coddled by conservatives, where all women were whores and the virtuous male lead is cheated on. His wife, no matter how repentant, contrite and persistent, is hung out to dry continuously for the filthy tramp that she is while he flirts with his new female options. Then, just to underscore how biased society is today, all the men in the theater jump up at the conclusion of the film and clap for joy because the male lead is so brave. Does writer Callie Khouri, (Thelma & Louis, go figure) think it's comforting to leave no hope of ever mending past mistakes? I suppose to some people that is the makings for a great film, but in the real world all people make mistakes and forgiveness is a virtue. As George Bailey would say It comes in awfully handy down here, Bub. This films twisted message is this the answer to a woman being scorned is to fight back, but on a frightening, Star Wars Dark Lord kind of level. In that regard this movie should definitely be seen by anyone considering dating Callie Khouri. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, Fun, Funny, Movie","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a FANTASTIC movie in my opinion. This is just a great movie with lots of great one liners and comedy situations that are highly original and just plain fun. I think a lot of people that review movies on here seem to forget that they are made for entertainment - it really doesn't matter how realistic or technically correct they are. If you are a someone highly critical of specifics in a movie, you probably wont enjoy this. However, if you are someone who can view it as a movie, and not be overly critical - this is a wonderfully fun time.This is one of Julia Roberts best roles. A truly flustered, very busy mom, that has too much on her plate to deal with everything. But, she seems to handle it anyway. "}{"Title":"Error/goof found","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a resident the Carolina Coast, one sees the appellation Lowcountry on many things including a goodly number of businesses and other entities both public and private. As a descriptor, it is both ubiquitous and quite accurate.Thus , my wife and I were quite surprised to see Lowcountry Locksmith on a vehicle in a film that was set in the Kentucky Horse country. I try to catch incongruities and goofs in films as hobby, but my wife spotted this particular one. Knowing that a good portion of this film was shot in the Beaufort, South Carolina area, we enjoyed a quick laugh during that scene. "},{"Title":"Leisurely-Paced Comedy/Drama with Top Cast...","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In a decade of misfires (SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY, I LOVE TROUBLE, MARY REILLY), Julia Roberts did, in fact, make a few genuinely enjoyable films, and SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT is one of the best. A story of infidelity and empowerment among the 'horse set', Roberts plays the 'cheated-on' wife of Dennis Quaid with just the right mix of anguish, anger, and bewilderment. Making matters worse is a father (Robert Duvall, who is superb) more concerned about the Championships than his daughter's crisis, a mother (Gena Rowlands) who tells her to 'keep quiet' and things will work out, a daughter (Haley Aull) who can't understand why her father isn't living with them, and Roberts own realization that her husband's infidelity was not a 'one-night stand', but had included affairs with her best friend, and possibly others, as well (producing the film's funniest scene, as Roberts faces her Women's Club, and asks, bluntly, if anyone ELSE had slept with her husband, and reveals some of the other members' indiscretions to get the ball rolling).Worth noting is a terrific performance by Kyra Sedgwick, as Roberts' older sister, Emma Rae. Besides looking enough like Roberts to actually BE her sister, Sedgwick has some of the film's best lines, as well as a willingness to respond to her sister's cheating husband decisively (when Quaid comes to visit, she kicks him hard in the groin, and as he doubles up in pain, admits, Well, I feel better...)The third American film directed by Swedish filmmaker Lasse Hallström (MY LIFE AS A DOG), SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT is, truthfully, a bit slowly-paced, but in 'taking it's time', you get to know the characters, and appreciate their growth. Dreams are fulfilled, understandings reached, and the large cast is well-served with wonderful scripted moments. While the film lacks the melodramatic qualities of FAR FROM HEAVEN or UNFAITHFUL, this tale of infidelity 'feels' far more honest, and human.Julia Roberts picked a winner! "},{"Title":"Familiar but pleasing nonetheless","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Lasse Hallstrom attempts to combine two venerable Hollywood genres and several subplots in this nonetheless agreeable morality tale about the bad effect adultery can have on your marriage. Part women's POV romantic comedy and part Dixie family dynamics saga, this is a generational story about what it takes to make a marriage work. It's a little scattered and loose fitting and underdeveloped in parts, but there's enough warmth and bright comedy to make up for the defects, and the cast is fun to watch.The script by Callie Khouri is familiar but clever with some good human observations and some nice twists. I notice that Khouri also wrote Thelma and Louise (1991), which may explain why, in this flick, it is the men who learn (and need) most of the hard lessons. Robert Duvall plays the still feisty patriarch, Wlyly King, who really needs to learn to loosen the reigns a little, while Dennis Quaid, who plays Grace's adulterous husband, needs to appreciate what he's got and to stop catting around. Kyra Sedgwick as Grace's sister helps him by kneeing him right where it hurts the most, and Grace, accidentally on purpose, nearly poisons him. (All part of his well-deserved and to be continued penance.) Sedgwick sparkles while being careful not to upstage America's Darling too often while Gena Rowlands as the mother is steady and sure. Julia Roberts has become a great star and a great actress, and she is one of my favorites, but there is no question that she felt not entirely comfortable in this part. From the details of the script you can see that she is supposed to be a somewhat ditzy and naively outspoken woman, a southern belle with spunk, a mind of her own, and a desire to be something more than her father's daughter or her husband's wife. Julia got most of it right except for the ditzy part. She either wouldn't bend (maybe her agency advised against looking too weird) or Hallstrom didn't insist because Julia played this like Bogart always played Bogart, just like herself. You can see that the character of Grace Bichon is a bit out in left field because she leaves her daughter places or forgets to take her as she drives off in the morning. And then there was that outrageous confrontation at the woman's club where she stands up and demands to know how many other women have been sleeping with her husband. Something to talk about indeed!But Julia stays Julia, and so the character is never developed as written. Nonetheless Julia Roberts is always wonderful, and although there is not here the effortless and nearly flawless style she was then developing, a style that culminated in her Oscar winning performance in Erin Brockovich, there is the undeniable down to earth charm and warmth that has made her so beloved by audiences that she can command something like twenty million dollars per.Robert Duvall obviously had a lot of fun with his part, but I wonder if he realizes how much he looks like a bantam rooster in those riding tights!(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"GREAT FILM!!!","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow, I am amazed at some of the negative comments I've seen on this board.  This film is one of my all time favorites.  The humor is smart and witty.  Julia Roberts Plays the perfect estranged wife.  I must say though, Kira Sedgwick steels the show!  Her character is so upbeat and funny.  This movie was very well written, has a great cast, and beatiful cinematography.  It's a heartwarming tale of familes and small towns.  I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"I don't know","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps it's not smart to comment on a movie I saw so long ago as a young kid. However, I still remember it and how funny it was. It was like a satirical view on life's mishaps and how in some communities and lives, people can't deal. No big surprise that people are like that. Talk about grown folks business without it becoming your own. I like the message and song by Bonnie Raitt. Maybe Julia's character shouldn't have been so thrown for a loop at her husband's infidelity, but that's what made it stick and the movie trot along. Watchable indeed. "},{"Title":"Kyra Sedgwick should have gotten an Oscar.","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Good movie about gracious southern life mixed with a lot of behavior that is anything but gracious. The movie couldn't seem to decide between being a drama and a comedy, but is nevertheless more than worth watching because of the character played by Kyra Sedgwick. She has at least 2 or 3 of the greatest lines ever uttered in the movies that will make you absolutely fall out with laughter (unless they offend your delicate sensibilities too much). I loved this movie. It shouldn't be taken as seriously as some seem to want to take it. The title indicates to me that they were really aiming at comedy here, and it some places, they really, really hit it. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is entertaining.  It's a comedy with a light touch, exploring a couple's way through infidelity.  It is by no means a deep, introspective piece or even Oscar-caliber; it's just a some good, clean fun.There are some awkward scenes of course where either the acting or the writing isn't the best; however, there are many endearing and funny scenes. The ones that stand out are when Julia's character upsets the local women's club by disclosing all of the tawdry affairs going on and the scene where she and Dennis Quaid dance together at a family celebration.Sedgewick, Rowlands and Duvall all give great supporting performances. Sedgewick is particularly endearing, with her wry and slightly rebellious comments.  Duvall and Rowlands are quite convincing as an old Southern couple.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"It's all good","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the few films where I can safely say that all casting was superb. I love every character in this film, even Quaid, whom I did not like the first time I saw this film.  I admit, the first time I saw the film, I would rather have had Grace (Julia Roberts) end up with Jamie (Brett Cullen)....But Quaid rather grew on me later....Funny, FUNNY script and very true to the South. LOVE it. 9/10 -Angel "},{"Title":"a very good movie","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i taped this movie last May. I though it was a very good movie. I am glad that I saw it. The family was a real southern family with all the strangness. I liked the parents . I loved how Gena Rowlands locked Robert Duval out of the house. The sisters with really good too. Someone already mentioned that they looked like real sisters. I would give it a 8 1/2. "},{"Title":"Average Comedy/Drama","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Average family comedy/drama movie that had a great cast but average story/screenplay.The script was above average though and the performances was also good.The cinematography was bad and so was the lighting.Story deals with adultery and the trials of fixing a marriage after the affair.Nothing spectacular.Only for family soap comedy/drama fans and big fans of the lead actors..... "}{"Title":"Taking a Second Look at an Older Movie!","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Odd to term a 1995 film as an 'older movie', but SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT was rather dismissed in its initial release as a bit of fluff looking at the film now reveals a tight little message movie garnished with a fine writer (Callie Khouri - 'Thelma and Louise', 'Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood'), and first class director (Lasse Hallström - 'Casanova', 'An Unfinished Life', 'The Shipping News', 'Chocolat', 'The Cider House Rules', 'What's Eating Gilbert Grape' etc), and a cast that has not only grown in importance from the time of this film but has also become acknowledged as the creme of the cinema.The story is rather slight Grace (Julia Roberts) is a Southern Belle horse trainer married to handsome but womanizing Eddie (Dennis Quaid) who discovers to her amazement that Eddie is dating other women. This throws Grace into a rage that affects her family, her family's typical Southern response to appearances, and ultimately awakens not only Grace but also every member of her family to secrets that allow them to take charge of their prettified hollow lives! Grace's sister Emma Rae (Kyra Sedgwick, in yet another of her sensational roles) is a perky, spitfire of a woman who seems to be the only member who has her act together; her mother Georgia (Gena Rowlands) and father Wyly (Robert Duvall) are both able to reveal the old South and the new individuality they achieve; Brett Cullen, Haley Aull, and Muse Watson are all excellent in their roles.One of the most entertaining aspects of this entertaining film is the confrontation between 'old manners' and new reality - with some heady lessons for all of us to observe and allow chuckles. It is a tight little film that deserves another visit on DVD. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedy/drama/romances I have ever seen","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT, in my opinion, is one of the best comedy/drama/romances I have ever seen. One thing about this movie that made me feel good was when Grace (Julia Roberts) confronted Eddie (Dennis Quaid) for being unfaithful to her. There was only one person I couldn't stand at times, and that was Emma Rae (Kyra Sedgwick). This was because she kicked Eddie in the groin. Plus, she said some not-so-nice things about him. If I were Grace and I caught my husband red-handed with another woman the way she did, I would probably get a divorce -- Especially if my daughter had seen what was going on. I thought the scenery was beautiful, taking place on a horse-farm and whatnot. In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this film to all you Julia Roberts or Dennis Quaid fans who have not seen it.  "},{"Title":"Full of funny lines!","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts (Notting Hill, Runaway Bride) plays Grace Bichon, a working woman who works for her dad and keeps leaving her only daughter behind every place she goes. The casting by Marion Dougherty is brilliant. Mother/Julia Roberts;  daughter /Brett Cullen;  and sister/Kyra Sedgwick have the same speech pattern and same lips! There is something about their mouths that makes them really match. The cast is full of pros Dennis Quaid (The League), Gena Rowlands (Hope Floats), and one of my favorites Robert Duvall (Wrestling Ernest Hemingway, The Apostle). He is of the top actors of the American Cinema,  Oscar winner and many times nominated for all the prestigious awards available.Two treasures!  Dennis Quaid and  Robert Duvall. They can surely transform  themselves! Eddie Bichon, played by Dennis Quaid,  is cheating in his wife and she raises an uproar. She gets the entire family, friends and town are all involved, and Grace makes a point of going out of her way to spread the news of  who is cheating  and  with whom. The movie gets funny as Grace takes vengeance at her own hands including giving Eddie a near death experience with her special chemistry in cooking helped by a special recipe from her Aunt. Kyra Sedwick (Singles, Phenomenon)  has so many funny lines.  She is my favorite character in this movie.  Kyra Sedwick was nominated for  Golden Globe for Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture for this part.  I think that those supporting roles are really good and many times the actor can explore his or her craft more than the actor who has the lead. I have the tape and enjoy watching it. I love  the customs, the stable, horses,  and equine competition  atmosphere in the movie.My favorite line Sometimes a near death experience helps to keep things in perspective Emma Rae is in bed almost falling asleep Grace Are you up?. Emma Rae  Not technically! My favorite Scene Emma Rae kicking her brother -in -law after she helped him to come in the second floor of the  house through the window. Nice looking movie! Good for the eyes! Full of fine lines! "},{"Title":"funny feminist film with good performances","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was very entertained by Something to Talk About. I didn't consider it a big, important movie, I just took it as light fun. I have read some of the other comments, and it seems not everyone reacted to it that way.I thought this was a great cast. Robert Duvall and Gena Rowlands were fabulous, as was Kyra Sedgwick. Dennis Quaid is beyond adorable - and there is one of the flaws in the film. How could you trust that man for one second and be surprised when he cheats? The other flaw is how he managed to be in college with Julia Roberts, unless she was a child wunderkind. As for Julia Roberts, I prefer her in this kind of film rather than heavy drama, because I don't care for her very external acting. She was more believable in this and, especially at the end, she sparkled.I personally loved the ending, and for all you who wonder, I absolutely think they get back together. I think infidelity hurts and yes, it maybe even hurts enough that, in the heat of anger, you might try to poison your husband. I also think you can get past it, and I think this character did.I agree that often, when women cheat in films, it's somehow justified and the man who cheats is vilified. In life, that's not always true. Life is a lot more complicated than that. Obviously, this was written from a woman's point of view. As I said, I took it for what it was. It was entertaining. I had to think when I watched Camille Claudel. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedy/drama/romances I have ever seen","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT, in my opinion, is one of the best comedy/drama/romances I have ever seen. One thing about this movie that made me feel good was when Grace (Julia Roberts) confronted Eddie (Dennis Quaid) for being unfaithful to her. There was only one person I couldn't stand at times, and that was Emma Rae (Kyra Sedgwick). This was because she kicked Eddie in the groin. Plus, she said some things about him that were not very nice. If I caught my husband red-handed with another woman the way Grace did, I would probably get a divorce, especially if my daughter had seen what was going on. I thought the scenery was beautiful, taking place on a farm with horses and whatnot. In conclusion, I highly recommend this film to all you Julia Roberts or Dennis Quaid fans who have not seen it. "},{"Title":"One Of The Worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When this movie came out where I live it played for about a week and disapeard. That has never happened I believe and I understand why. This film isn't worth of renting, even better it isn't worth seeing because literally there is nothing interesting going on in this film. One - dimensional characters in a poorly written Julia Robert's crapfest.No wonder nobody remembers this movie. It was one of the most pieces of turd I have ever seen. Why the film company wanted to spend money on this is beyond me. This is like on of these movies that the actors did when they didn't have anything else to do. Nothing in the script made them want to job but they needed some extra buck. "}]