[{"Title":"Boat drinks and Buckwheats. How this film slipped through is beyond me.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"79 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the greatest appeals of this film is its vernacular. Aside from being cast beautifully by talented actors in diverse roles set in an interesting story, it's the dialogue that is extremely memorable. That, and its great title.And with such a great cast and dialogue, I'm absolutely stunned as to how this great little film slipped through the cracks and didn't get a wider audience. Its theatrical run here in Toronto was limited, actually I'm making an assumption, I don't recall a listing for it, but before you knew it, it was gone. Perhaps it wasn't marketed well or supported strongly enough.I have recommended this film and lent it to many friends and every one of them has enjoyed it. I generally say, if you liked Pulp Fiction, another film which is well cast and with great dialogue, then you will likely enjoy this one also.One of my favourite quotes from the film (or any) comes from a supporting player. Andy Garcia as Jimmy The Saint, seeks the advice of Bill Cobbs, playing Malt, a Soda Jerk, on whether he should impregnate his hooker friend as a favour to help straighten her out, Malt sarcastically repliesThat's just what the world needs... the unholy offspring of you two bag-o-smashes. That kid will be the anti-christ for sure&#133; 666 written all over it.Christopher Walken plays a memorable role of a crippled mob boss, known as The Man With The Plan who is disturbed by his son Bernard's manic and sexually obsessive behavior after having been dumped by the love of his life for another man. The Man With The Plan insists that Jimmy, come back to work for one job, an action, to scare the living daylights out of this new beau, and tell him to stay away from Bernard's former girlfriend.Jimmy is given the option to assemble his old crew for this action, which he does. A strange bunch of men who have been long out of any illegal action, some of whom miss it, and others whom do not.And that's just about where it gets real interesting.The story is laden with character revelation from a old wiseguy who just doesn't shut up and scenes from everyday people who offer their wisdom to videotape at Jimmy The Saint's legitimate but failing business, After Life Advice for people who are terminally ill and wish to pass on a legacy to their loved ones beyond the grave.Everyone involved with this film should be proud of their accomplishment. It is a great film and unfortunately hasn't been seen by many, by my account anyway. Let's see if we can't change that.  "},{"Title":"subtle and brilliant writing","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"44 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It would be hard to dislike a film that opens with a Tom Waits tune and gives hitherto typecast actors a chance to, oh, I don't know Act.  First, Andy Garcia. What can I say about Andy?  He's an attractive guy who all too often gets slated to play the attractive guy.  (His shamefully undeveloped character from Ocean's Eleven comes to mind).  In this little indy film he gets a chance to actually embody a character and not simply be Andy Garcia (with capital letters).  Then there's his love interest, Gabrielle Anwar (who elevated the already immortal tango in Scent of a Woman).  Poor Anwar has been plagued with a lot of stock roles in lame movies since then, but here, like Garcia, she gets to explore her role and show the audience she can do more than make hey I'm famous.  Where's my check? Al Pacino look good on the dance floor.  Also fantastic are Treat Williams, Steve Buscemi, and Christopher Walken (who bests his Annie Hall AND Pulp Fiction cameos).  The story is simple  Andy's character is an ex-mob guy who's gone legit then pulled back in for one last job, things go wrong, and he's got 2 days before he's going to be killed.  In many hands this would be a B movie, but the writing is so clever and unique that this excessively played mob-movie thing seems like it's done for the first time.  There are as many quotable lines in this film as any cult classic; my favorites include I knew the kid was lunchy, but not that lunchy.  and meeting Anwar's character for the first time What's your name? Dagney. Dagney?  Wonderful name.  Everyone should know a Dagney.If you like films like Usual Suspects that combine the action genre with actual thought and character development rent this film and see if you can watch it only once.  In the same ballpark try Way Of The Gun with Benicio Del Toro and Ryan Phillippe, another film where pretty boys are actually allowed to explore their craft of acting.  "},{"Title":"Love it or Hate it.","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I guess this one is turning out to be a love it or hate it movie.I don't think the comparisons to Goodfellas or Casino is fair. This is more of a fantasy movie, where the characters happen to be criminals. It's told like a fantasy and the end of course puts re-emphasizes that. Goodfellas was gritty and brutal. Although a great film. I found it very hard to like such ugly characters. Even DeNiro was hard to like. That could of been the point. Or not. I'm not Scorcese.I feel these characters are much more likeable.  Yes, there are some seemingly illogical turns in the plot. Like hiring Critical Bill. But I think they explain it pretty well. And the more you watch the movie the more you find details to help explain it. Sure he's nuts but he's fearless. It's a pretty standard movie criminal stereotype. The crazy guy who'll do anything. I don't know why so many people had a problem with him. He was a great character and probably the best thing Treat Williams has done in years. He's likeable but he's just such a nutjob. I love Jimmy's final conversation with him.I think in order to really appreciate it, watch it more than twice. First time it's good but you see holes. The second time the holes get bigger. The third time the holes close up and the characters shine through.Everybody keeps comparing it to Tarantino and most seem to make comments about not liking Pulp Fiction. Not gonna get into the whole defending Pulp Fiction thing but yes this has a lot of Pulp Fiction influence but the sources of Pulp Fiction are more what this references. This is not a non-linear story really. It has flashbacks and asides but it is told in order. And the dialogue I think is different from Tarantino's. Tarantino's has his own lingo. Based on reality. And it is just peppering here and there. It's more about pop-culture.This is more like pseudo 50's gangster lingo made up just for solely this movie. It helps create a microcosm for these characters. You know no one else but these characters use the dialogue. I think it's quite poetic. Scott Rosenberg did a great job with it.It more playful and imaginative.I also think unlike the straight train wreck downward- slope tragedy of Goodfellas, which works perfectly for that movie. This has a romantic tragedy feel. There is a lot of time spent on  denied love. Anyways. I just really like this movie and it has grown on me tremendously.Some may hate it sure. Some love it. Either way I can think of worse movies to bet on.I say try it. If you love it it's one of those movies you can watch over and over and those are the best type of movies.  "},{"Title":"A Brooding Gem","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"25 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I feel that a hell of a lot of ppl missed the point on this one; it is less a Tarantino-esque hip, Godfather mob drama, than a meditation on life and death, and the frustration of mortality.Centered around Garcia's character Jimmy, the film follows him tying up his loose ends, after his gang botch up an 'action', and are given a 48hr suspended death sentence by bitter crimelord Walken, before the deadly assassin Mr Shh (Buscemi) is called in. Feeling responsible, and desperate to tie up as many loose ends in his life, the film finds Jimmy constantly striving to choose between options, and to try and finish nobly, and rectify his perceived wrongs. These include trying to secure his fellow gang members (Lloyd, Nunn, Forsythe and the crazed Williams), ensure the wellbeing of prostitute Balk, and ignore his love for Anwar, to avoid dragging her in with him. Throughout it all, Jimmy only succeeds in isolating himself further, fighting his fears and dreams with his logic and pride. Yet as Warden narrates, there is a sense that Jimmy's peace is just around the corner, if only he can do the right things.Garcia truly tranmits his character's pain and suffering, most pertinently through the changing look on his eyes and face as the deadline nears - he tries to maintain his grace, but cant quite hide his fears. All the support are great - Walken and Buscemi as per usual are suitably fearful, Williams and Lloyd in particular represent lost souls going down defiantly very well, whilst the underused women are perfect - Anwar doing well with unhelpful scenes, and Balk truly outstanding as the prostitute with the zeal and realism that Jimmy so badly needs. The dialogue is at times cheesy and clunky, and the mob feel somewhat overdone, but the film feels true, and makes a valuable point about targets, and the temporality of life. And it refuses to lose hope, as proved by the final boat scene.Similar to Spike Lee's new film, the issues of mortality, and aspirations and dreams are key. The film's sombre tone is perfect - not too downbeat (there are many hilarious and happy moments), but enough to make us understand the importance of the issues at stake. Aside from staunch, happy-to-be-cynical other imdb reviewers, the film will affect, and perhaps even instruct. Recommended. "},{"Title":"flawed but inspired","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Next to Garcia's work in INTERNAL AFFAIRS, this is really one of his best performances... It's a rich film on every level, and it's too bad the film was caught -- back in 1995 -- in the backlash of Tarantino madness.  Scott Rosenberg has a unique voice as a writer, and this film attempts to create its own reality.  All those who say they 'hate' this film should rent their copy of HAPPY GILMORE and keep their opinions to themselves.  Needless to say, this is a film that provokes and p***es people off and one which should be viewed without conventional expectations...  "},{"Title":"Better cast than film but still exudes a sort of cult cool","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jimmy `The Saint' Tosnia as a small business recording messages from the terminally ill.  He owes money to a local loanshark &#150; a debt that is called in by The Man With The Plan.  The Man wants Jimmy to scare off a man who has stolen away his son's high school sweetheart.  Jimmy takes on a group of 4 other men to help him, however the job gets messy and fails,  The Man takes the only action he can and puts a contract on their lives &#150; giving Jimmy the option to run, however Jimmy stays to make sure that the rest of the group get safety into hiding.At the time, cool crime stories were all the rage &#150; everyone wanted to have a go, the multiplex audience were falling over themselves for jobs gone wrong, violence and snappy dialogue.  So into this crowded market place came this film &#150; it did quite well and was probably above average for the rest of the genre at the time.  The plot is nothing new and really is very simple when viewed in a synopsis.  What makes the film work is the fact that it does manage to pull off the `cool, snappy' thing.The dialogue is cool and filled with catchphrases `boat drinks' `mama-rammer' `give it a name'.  The characters are also written larger than life &#150; from the silent hitman up to the Man With The Plan, they all have quirks that make them larger than life.  Of course this doesn't make a film in itself and it is not without flaws &#150; at times it does feel like it's treading water, but for the most part the smooth feel helps it glide along.The cast are all good.  Garcia has one of his better roles in a while and is effortlessly cool or increasingly desperate as the role requires.  Walken doing a sinister bad guy isn't earth shattering but he at least he's putting in effort and isn't slumming as he has of late.  Williams is probably the funniest as Critical Bill &#150; when summing up why the job went wrong he says that it was probably Jimmy's fault for giving him responsibility as, `everyone knows I'm off my t*ts'.  Lloyd is good value and Nunn also acquits himself well.  Anwar is beautiful and she was well cast &#150; she really does, as Jimmy says, `glide' when she walks.  Buscemi is in a small part but is memorable as always.Overall this may not stand out from the crowd of this genre in the same way as Pulp Fiction does but is does have a certain cool, snappy feel to it that helps it glide along.  And, in Garcia, it has a lead that really holds it together and helps bring out an emotional involvement towards the end. "},{"Title":"Inventive Thriller","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent film that has interesting characters, a tricky plot line and alot of cool phrases/sayings.  This is a movie critizied for copying Pulp Fiction, but it's not the same kind of movie.  It's script was made before Pulp Fiction and is more complex then Pulp fiction.  Steve Buscemi is a standout in the cast as a deadly hitman named Mr. Shh, and also noticeable is Treat Williams who is the psychotic Critical Bill.  This is a totally original film that should be recognized and talked about, it only had bad timing on it's release. "},{"Title":"Overlooked crime flick","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Things to Do in Denver... When You're Dead is a smart little crime flick that may not add anything to the genre but is an enjoyable ride. Andy Garcia is thoroughly charming as the honourable Jimmy the Saint who is under increasing time pressure to fix things before his crew get killed for a botched job. Other cast members also put in good performances, while if you are a fan of Steve Buscemi this film probably contains his coolest work to date.Things to Do...'s greatest flaw is its slow exposition. It takes a while for things to get moving, by which time you may be questioning why you are watching this movie. Stick with it - Things to Do in Denver... When You're Dead is a crime film worth watching. "},{"Title":"You might object to it - nethertheless you must like it.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"22 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just wanted to choose one movie out of all the movies I've seen - per chance, I've got something like a list - and vote for it here. I happened to choose Things to Do in Denver when You're Dead, I read a few comments, voted my 8 out of 10 and then I thought Well, I guess I could easily write an own comment about this one quite quickly. So here is what I feel about it.Generally, I'm a person who objects decisively to too much violence and obscenity, but still I like so much about this movie. I would have avoided many scenes and sure it is also a bit too pathetic, but it's also melancholic and poetic. Never before good gangsters have been as likeable as here - despite all that exaggerated kind of stuff they talk. As I told you, there is this dark poetry in this picture. The jeopardy of life in which the gangsters find themselves, their only hopes and the way they take it. There is also an unhappy love-story in this movie, no special one whereof you'd remember anything great or particularly touching, but it fits into the picture.Already when you watch the opening scene of the movie - which you might feel quite uncomfortable about - you know that this is a unique and unconventional movie which doesn't like the word *taboo*. Therefore - there IS too much violence and obscenity in it. But also this is - depending on the way you look at it - fascinating You don't care when someone is shot, but nethertheless you think you DID care for the main characters.And finally the performances must be mentioned. They are really extremely fine and very charming. First of all Andy Garcia's in the lead. I've seen him in a few other movies before, but I didn't know what a good actor he is. In this movie he is absolutely brilliant, he's so very likeable - and melancholic when still full of joy. Christopher Walken of course is always fine, as is Christopher Lloyd as the leper (if he actually is one, tasteless but very very grotesque and funny!) and it's Treat Williams who stands out. Fairuza Balk also deserves being mentioned. And - it's some time ago that I saw the movie, so I can't actually recall why, but - I remember that I also enjoyed Jack Warden, who had a supporting role, very much. "},{"Title":"Miserable band of misfits. Buckwheats.","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead is directed by Gary Fleder and written by Scott Rosenberg. It stars Andy Garcia, Christopher Lloyd, William Forsythe, Bill Nunn, Treat Williams, Steve Buscemi and Christopher Walken. Music is by Michael Convertino and cinematography by Elliot Davis.Jimmy the Saint (Garcia) is a ex-gangster who finds one of his debts has been bought up by his ex boss, The Man With the Plan (Walken). The Man wants Jimmy to assemble a crew to put the frighteners on a guy who stole the girlfriend of his son, Bernard (Michael Nicolosi), who has been so traumatised by the break up he has taken to bothering young girls. Calling on four of his old comrades in crime, Jimmy feels it's a simple job that will finally clear him of his gangster debt whilst earning his hard up pals some cash. However, in fighting threatens to destabilise the group and when the job invariably goes wrong they all have to deal with the vengeful aftermath of The Man With the Plan.You wanna throw those pathetic yuks some scratch, I applaud your sensitivity.One of a number of films that surfed in on the wave created by Pulp Fiction, Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead is a nifty and potent picture at times, with sharp dialogue, moments of brutalising and a fire-cracker of a neo-noir finale. Yet it's hurt considerably by the ridiculousness of the set up. Film hinges on a shake down arrangement that just comes off as a weak excuse for a film, in fact it's bad writing. There are a myriad of ways to set up a heist gone wrong and then have the crims be on the run for their lives, this set up is just pathetic. Buscemi's hit man is poorly conceived, with some glaring conflicting in the characterisation, while the Anwar (beautiful and leaving a good impression) love interest angle could have had much more made of it if the makers had had the courage of their convictions.Give it a name.Still, if you can allow the annoyance of the crappy set up to subside, then there's strong noir themes to indulge in here. A one time bad boy struggling to escape his past and characters stuck in a bleak destiny influenced rut they can't get out of. There's a pervading sense of depression hanging over the film, which in a twisted way makes for good film, while the character dynamics are strong because the characters are very memorable. Helps, too, that they have awesome names like Jimmy the Saint, Critical Bill, Franchise and Mister Shhh! Acting is very good, with Garcia earning his quality pathos stripes, Williams doing psycho with ease, Forsythe a mighty machismo presence, Lloyd resigned and pitiless and Walken turning in another in his long line of bitter scary bastards.Worthy of interest to neo-noir fans for sure, but frustration sits in the narrative to stop it being an essential viewing. 6.5/10 "}{"Title":"Classic modern noir","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I CAN imagine telling someone this film is 'a reputable film of inherently admirable qualities' - a wide-ranging score, sharp cinematography, a beautiful elegiac tone and a killer script all provide the foundations for one of the most surprising films I've seen. Andy Garcia's A-list performance is superbly supported by a host of brilliantly- cast characters, with Treat Williams, Christopher Lloyd and the malevolentChristopher Walken outstanding.The whole film just sits really well - all the small background details help the plot, flesh out the characters and culture or provide telling counterpoints to the situation.Highly recommended, for those who like their films stylish, well-acted andintelligent. "},{"Title":"Godawful garbage...","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm completely stunned by the amount of praise people seem to be lavishing on this turkey. It's awful. It makes little sense. And worst of all, it's not even a 'fun-derivative' movie, a la the John Sayles-type of exploitation films of the late '70's, early '80's.Ex-low life (now nicknamed Jimmy the Saint) Andy Garcia plans 'one final job' for mobster Christopher Walken. For reasons that make absolutely no sense, he gets a bunch of idiotic misfits to help him. These sub-criminals are put together by the screenwriter for the sole purpose of having  the viewer watch people yell and scream at each other. For instance, the black guy doesn't want to work with Treat Williams because he heard that Treat was a 'fecal eater' (a fact that doesn't exactly advance the plot) in prison. So for more minutes than we need, we see yelling and shouting about this.The job gets botched because...if it didn't, there would be no movie. Walken tells Garcia that his crew will now be -- get this -- buckwheats. What are 'buckwheats' you may ask? Good question. As narrator Jack Warden (who inexplicably spends the entire movie telling us poor viewers what's going on from inside the malt shop Garcia is prone to visit)explains it, 'buckwheats' means that you will die in a most painful way. Ooooh! The rest of the film deals with Garcia trying to get his brain-dead crew to leave town. He offers them plane tickets to exotic locations. No one accepts these tickets because...well, if they did, the filmmakers wouldn't be able to show us the various ways these people get tortured and killed by assassain Steve (have they made a movie without me yet?) Buscemi.Lotsa wannabe hip dialogue is peppered throughout this movie in an obvious attempt to ape Tarantino. The only problem is, the dialogue doesn't make a lot of sense without Jack Warden to explain it all. A complete waste of time.On scale of 1 to 10, give this one a 1...and that's being generous. "},{"Title":"I Feel I Must Warn Others","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I went into this film with no expectations. Still, I was horribly disappointed. As I saw the opening credits roll by, I was pretty excited Buscemi, Lloyd, and... Walken! As it turns out, the actors were just fine. They did what they could but no one could polish a turd like this.The writing was staggeringly bad. All of the dialog fixated on the characters using cute little terms for things. It seemed like a very awkward effort to be hip. Half the time they made no sense at all. The whole Give it a name routine seemed like a very forced attempt to create some sort of catchy phrase along the lines of the Fuggedaboddit in Goodfellas. Jimmy the Saint's rambling monologues seemed like they were pulled from some teenager's diary. I loved the way he just sort of read those lines to the air and everyone pretended to listen. I felt really bad for Garcia. He's no Pacino and not even Pacino could make any of those lines sound like they made any sense. And what was with his wavering accent? All of the empty characters seemed like they were written with Kevin Costner in mind.The epitomic moment of this film is when Critical Bill insists on playing a cop and Jimmy caves in and lets him do so with the insurance that he's not allowed to open his mouth. Jeez! I wonder if he'll somehow screw everything up... by... opening his mouth or something? The slightly-too-loud background music indicates that this is very possible! Let us continue to watch and see! Jimmy's whole fling with Dagney was so tacked-on-- as was his relationship with Lucinda. They had no bearing on the rest of the film. There were many little stories that all involved the main character but none of them had anything to do with each other and none of them had any development within themselves. There were no surprises in the movie and I simply didn't care for any of the characters except for, perhaps, the kids that got killed out on the highway. They, of course, were simply props in the film. For that matter, all of the characters were simply props. Lifeless robots with flashy nicknames who drift about with a single motivation the script-- They must read the lines they have been given and hope that the editors make sense of it all.What was with Jimmy beating up the dude in the office? That whole scene was pointless. Are we supposed to think that he's some kind of stand-up guy now? What was with those abrupt clips from the dying people slapped randomly through the film. How poetic. How deep. Not really.I can't bear to think of it any longer. To sum up bad story, flat characters, horrid dialog, poor editing-- A poor attempt to cash in on the Pulp Fiction popularity of the time. It would give it zero stars, but it gets one point for Walken and one point for Buscemi. "},{"Title":"Dark drama with a touch of poetry","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Things to do in Denver When You're Dead is a 1995 film starring Andy Garcia, Christopher Walken, Christopher Lloyd, Steve Buscemi, Bill Nunn, Treat Williams, Jack Warden, Gabrielle Anwar and Fairuza Balk. Garcia is Jimmy the Saint, an ex-mobster who now runs a company called Afterlife Advice, where he tapes the words of dying people so that their relatives can come in after they're gone and listen to them. He's called in by a paralyzed mobster (Walken) who wants a favor. Jimmy has no choice but to do it, because he owes money and the mobster owns his notes.On the surface and by mob standards, the favor is pretty benign. The Walken character has a child molester in the making son who is in love with a woman he dated for years. She left him and is now engaged to someone else. Her fiancé is due in town, and the Walken character wants him frightened out of seeing her anymore.Jimmy gets a crew together, two men to pose as cops and some guys to sit nearby and do the scaring once the cops bring him over. Unfortunately, due to a ridiculous decision by Jimmy (and THE major plot hole), a loose canon known as Critical Bill (Williams) is allowed to be one of the police. Unbeknownst to the men, the young woman is asleep in the back seat, her fiancé realizes the guys aren't cops, Critical Bill becomes critical, and both she and her fiancé wind up dead. The Walken character puts out buckwheat hits on everyone, meaning that they don't die instantly. He gives Jimmy 48 hours to get out of town. Jimmy spends it trying to help the others disappear, helping a young hooker (Balk) and dealing with his love for a woman (Anwar). In his own way, Jimmy the Saint brings things full circle in a way that makes sense for his own life.Violent, sad and depressing, Things to do in Denver When You're Dead has some brilliant performances and some very likable characters. Everyone is a standout, most especially Garcia, Lloyd and Williams. The film is punctuated with the advice from the elderly on tape, which gives the film a bittersweet flavor. Very well directed by Gary Fleder, with a somewhat derivative but good script by Scott Rosenberg. "},{"Title":"Truly Bad","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This may be the worst movie I have ever seen.  The actors were excellent, but the writing is terrible.  The idea that the young man who is presented with the completely out of control Treat Williams, will continue to bait him until he brutally murders him is too ridiculous to contemplate. 10 for acting, 0 for plot. "},{"Title":"Buckwheats and Boatdrinks","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is very unique and it features a stellar cast including the great Andy Garcia, the talented Christopher Lloyd and the brilliant Christopher Walken, who;s performance is exceptional even though it is a small part.This film is very memorable featuring great performances especially from Steve Buscemi playing the hitman. It also has very creative and quotable dialogue inluding the term boatdrinks.I recommend this to anyone who is a fan of the crime genre or anyone who is a fan of the cast. Watch this film, quote the dialogue and be a gangster yourself.  "},{"Title":"Give it a name? Ornate plot filled with Cartoonish characters","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Don't ask me why, but I watched this movie twice. Maybe because it was set in Denver, where I grew up. The setting of this story seemed to be a very different place from the city of Denver familiar to me. Or perhaps I watched this production a second time simply to verify that this was not a great film. Fait accompli.There was some good acting in this production, no doubt, but the characters were almost all caricatures. And then there's the story itself. The Andy Garcia character has managed to extricate himself from the world of the mob and go civilian. But then his old boss has him chased down to do one final action&#x97;not a work, but an action. He is supposed to not kill but frighten away the lover of the boss's son's former girlfriend so that the son (who has become a pederast--what?) can be reunited with the love of his life. Who does the Andy Garcia character call on to help him carry out the action? A team of misfit losers, all of whom have done time in prison and are therefore of questionable competence. Predictably, the incompetent team members prove incompetent here as well, and end up killing not only the guy whom they are supposed to scare, but also his girlfriend. The boss, who is a paralyzed, ghoulish Christopher Walken character, decides to buckwheat the lot of them, which we are told means make them suffer before they die. However, he gives the Andy Garcia character the opportunity just to leave town, which he ends up not doing because he's too busy trying to save all of the others.There is so much detail to this densely embellished story, but none of it really adds up to anything. I feel as though the screenwriter was trying to jam all of his interesting ideas into a single script. Sometimes less is more, and this story could have benefited from the removal of some of the colorful but ultimately irrelevant script- stuff, for lack of a better expression. Did the son of the boss really have to be a pederast? Did the Vietnam Vet really have to use corpses as his punching bag? It was all too much. Like eating a dozen donuts and a bag of potato chips and a submarine sandwich and a candy bar, and maybe washing it all down with a couple of beers.Steve Buscemi makes a short appearance (maybe that's why I gave this a second chance?), and there is a sort of happy ending when the druggy- prostitute pregnant survivor of the story moves to Florida to raise her child and become a masseuse. Honestly, I don't even know what is worth reporting here. It would take way too many words! So let me just end by avowing that I definitely will not give this high-calorie, low nutrient production a third try. "},{"Title":"Brilliant crime drama","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Jimmy the saint(Andy Garcia) is a former gangster trying to go straight with an afterlife business where he videotapes the dying for the surviving relatives and friends. He gets lured back into the crime world for one last job by. Theman with the plan(Christopher Walken). Jimmy recruits Critical Bill(Treat Williams), in his darkest role, and Christopher Lloyd as Pieces. Jimmy and his crew set up an a abduction dressed as police officers and it all goes horribly wrong. The violence is intense, but the black humor is in the style of Quentin Tarantino, crisp and hilarious.Steve Buscemi shows up later on as a hit man, and he has never been better. I won't give away any more of the story but will just say that it is one of the best crime capers I've ever see.. "},{"Title":"Solid crime drama","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" An excellent little crime drama that went under the radar for most people and didn't get the recognition it deserved from the critics. True - in many ways it could easily be labeled as just 'another Tarantino copy', the influence of Reservoir Dogs are hard to miss. Unlike most of Tarantino's followers, though, Things to Do in Denver has a distinct voice and style, solid storytelling with a fresh and interesting look at a familiar subject, and above all - a fantastic, colorful cast, with some standout performances from actors you don't usually see in this genre - Christopher Lloyd and Treat Williams stand out, and Andy Garcia and Steve Buscemi deliver some of their finest performances. For lovers of the genre it's very well recommended. "},{"Title":"This Movie? - Boat Drinks; Give It A Name","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" What can I say? A decade since I first discovered this gem and a fantastic rewatch just put me in mind to back it up with these words.This film will always remain in my top ten - a beautiful gangster fantasy full of scintillating dialogue, great characters, great acting, pathos, tragedy and ultimately, morality.It's more of a meditation on life and death and what we do in-between the bookends that makes us truly human. Or not, in the case of Treat William's maniacal and hysterical character.If you haven't seen this, do your brain a favour and engage with this rewarding piece of film-making. If you have seen it, recommend it to a friend, in fact, DEMAND they watch this before they die. Give it a name.Yes it's violent, yes it's comic-book in parts but never excessively so in either way and only ever done so to tell the tale the way it should be.God bless Jimmy The Saint. Boat drinks all round. "}{"Title":"Sometimes the easiest of tasks when taken for granted cause severe and irreversible consequences","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Things To Do In Denver When Your Dead is an interesting movie. On it's face it can be taken as a good crime story. The real telling of the tale is in the allegorical nature of the story, a warning for the everyman. Take care and understand every task, for the peril lies in the failure to understand the unforeseen consequences of a task gone wrong. Another interesting thing about this movie is watching the struggles of the characters as they have to deal with the consequences, of the actions of one their own, which leads to their fates. The reactions of the charters range from stoic to cowardly, and yet how can anyone take issue with the feelings of these people, as the actors convey very clearly the feelings of the characters and the horrible situation in which they find themselves. How would anyone faced with the same kind of fate deal with it? This is a great movie, and I highly recommend it to others. "},{"Title":"This movie made me an Andy Garcia fan.","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This ranks in the top five of my all-time favorite movies.  I would watch this movie every week if I could.  It's a simple plot.  Garcia plays Jimmy the Saint, a retired gangster, who is asked to do one last job for The Man (Christopher Walken).  He botches it badly and is given the chance to get out of town before being killed.  Rent this one on the fly.  It's worth the money. "},{"Title":"One of the all-time great gangster movies","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an absolutely fantastic film, and a must-see for any fan of Scarface, The Godfather...or any Scorcese film. All of the characters are brilliantly designed and wonderfully acted. It's not a traditional gangster format, these guys are retired from the field, but agree to come in to do one last 'piece of action'. It's a great insight into the life these guys lead outside of their old-time gangster lifestyle, and how easily they slip back into the old ways. At times humbling, emotional, exciting and always unpredictable, this is quite simply one of the best films ever made. Not only that, but it contains some of the best lines in cinema! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest and most severely underrated crime flicks of the nineties ...","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Things To Do in Denver When You're Dead  among the many feelings this titular sentence evokes to me, the first and major one is the constant frustration about the misunderstanding that surrounds this little gem of a film. Using the word 'overrated' to describe it is almost obscene. Cinema is full of mysteries and one of the most blatant is how the hell there is not any ounce of recognition to one of the freshest and most original crime flicks of the nineties. Some wiser minds would argue that this film had the unfortunate fate to be released after Pulp Fiction, and then would automatically pale in comparison with Tarantino's original masterpiece. For me, it doesn't and I would go as far as saying that this film is simply Pulp Fiction with a heart.The script was written before Pulp Fiction's release, which makes the coincidence even more tragic since we can all agree that there is a Tarantinesque mood inhabiting the film. But that doesn't diminish its merit, on the contrary, the writing is only one of the most fascinating aspects of the film, the screenplay is so confidently meaningful it will unexpectedly immerse you into the depths of human psychology. The story is crucial to appreciate the beauty of the script and this is precisely why I said 'unexpectedly'  the movie will surprise you. I will never forget the first time I saw it, it blew me away. More than a crime film, it's a story of friendship à la Once Upon a Time in America and redemption à la Mean Streets, two classic cinematic themes &#x85; but how many other gangster films make you also think about the meaning of life? The story is centered on one character Jimmy The Saint portrayed by the great Andy Garcia as an ex-criminal, one who redeemed himself, and runs now a very particular business. This, Tarantino didn't invent, and no other movies did, there's at least one inventive element we might concede to the film. The business consists on making testimonial clips of people about to die, letting some posthumous advice and guidances to their beloved ones. This 'after-world' business, not only maintains the feeling that these dead persons are still alive, but works as a great plot element driving the film. The various real-life situations featured in Denver's neighborhoods are accompanied with these lessons, like one about the magic of the first date when Jimmy was in the restaurant with the exquisite Dagney, played by Gabrielle Anwar. The whole film is punctuated with short but moving intermission about girls, life, death and love&#x85; and the whole story is like another illustration of these life lessons.Jimmy's pivotal life moment occurs when he's approached by two thugs who work for The-Man-With-The-Plan, Christopher Walken in my favorite of his villainous roles. Jimmy has a debt with The-Man  regrettable omission for an unconventional mission. It's the kind of missions you don't know if it's so simple,it will work or so screwed up it will inevitably fail. The-Man's dim-witted son Bernard, psychologically hurt by a painful break-up, was seen attacking a little girl in the playground, the guy is no pedophile though, just so mentally ill he tries to reach love by the most desperate ways. He's a pathetic victim, he lost his mother in an accident, and his surviving father has such a weird perception of love, he asks Jimmy and his men, to discourage the boyfriend of Bernard's ex and convince her to go back to Bernard. What a schedule! And the team is one of the most irresistible aspects of the film, they're all here  the unsung heroes of the gangster genre. I mentioned Once Upon a Time in America ... well, the movie reunites the great William Forsythe as Franchise the tattooed good-family-man, and Treat Williams as the unforgettable Critical Bill, a man whose nickname is the understatement of the year. I don't want to spoil it for you, but Williams is a show stealer in every single scene, as the man whose hobby it to 'work up' by punching the dead bodies in the undertaking business he works in. The rest of the team features Bill Nunn as Easy Wind and Christopher Lloyd, who makes a memorable come-back as Pieces, the veteran, who works as a porn cinema projectionist struggling with his leprosy. A cool and magnetic ensemble cast supported by other great roles including Fairuza Balk as Lucinda, the crack-whore whose only addiction that's not a drug is her sincere love for Jimmy, Steve Buscemi as the scary professional hit-man Mr Shh and last but not least, the late Jack Warden, as the one who tells us the story like an amusing anecdote, creating a feeling of intimacy and sympathy toward this colorful gallery.This is the set-up of the film, a bunch of men asked to accomplish a last financially promising job before retirement, men who tries to turn their back to the past, each one in a personal way. All they have to do is the job. Of course, when you get the idea of Jimmy's business and when you memorize the title, you understand that the film won't have the happiest cinematic ending ever ... Not that it leaves you in a depressing mood though  the film actually glides with a beautiful view on life, so if you haven't seen it, just enter this world and let yourself transported by its script, so full of wit and beautiful metaphors about life, especially a very poignant one from Christopher Lloyd.Watch this film to finally get the meaning of Buckwheat or Boat Drinks! and be among the privileged fans who embarked the boat of Things to Do in Denver, a crime film whose only criminal aspect is to live forever in the shadow of Pulp Fiction and to be so severely underrated &#x85; "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've referred this movie to a ton of people...have watched the DVD on dates at least 5 times and have never had one person be disappointed.I really felt like an insider with the mob lingo.  Very fun trying to figure out WHAT THEY'RE SAYING.A very PULP FICTION feel to this movie...definitely with more of a heart.  A tragic hero dominates our film, Jimmy Tosnia.  I really think Andy Garcia IS Jimmy Tosnia.The title of the movie is explained by Garcia toward the very end, very heartfelt, very moving, very sincere.If you like mafia movies with a little more heart...this is it.  8/10. "},{"Title":"Modern Day film noir","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie....i'm not saying it changed movie history or anything but it is very entertaining and has good turns by some top character actors, best of which are Treat Williams & Steve Buscemi.I have to laugh at people (like Thirdi) who keep going on about how movies such as this one are tarantino rip offs. The only difference is that Tarantino made his rip-offs before these guys made theirs.All these type of movies are rip-offs of film-noir movies from the 40's & 50's.Reservoir Dogs...mmmm...a bank robbery gone wrong....now thats never been done before.RD & Pulp Fiction are shameless rip-offs of Kubricks The Killing and Hustons Asphalt Jungle.So try not to draw to many comparisons about whether this is as original as Tarantino's stuff.Just like QT's aforementioned two movies Denver when ur dead is not original..............but when did that ever stop a movie still being good?  "},{"Title":"Reservoir Dogs rip-off?","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Or so the critics said at the time, but this movie is far better than that. Just a good modern-gangster-yarn with well drawn characters and a unusual plot. Yet wether by design or accident it works tremendously well. Helped by a fine cast. I cant think of a single weak performance, no matter how small the role.This film deserves a far better score than it shows here. Definately worth the rental. "},{"Title":"A near-classic","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is unforgettable, and could have been a classic, except for occasionally awful dialogue.  Andy Garcia plays a reformed gangster who reassembles his old crew for one last job, trying to keep his (legitimate) business afloat.  Things go horribly wrong, and in retribution, the local crime boss puts contracts out on all of them.Thus, each of the crew is faced with the choice of fleeing, or of being a stand-up guy, i.e., accepting the consequences of their actions.It is much like life itself -- we try to do the right thing, often things go wrong, and ultimately we're all under a death sentence, eh?If you haven't seen this one yet, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Despite a few disturbing scenes, I enjoyed it.","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There aren't too many films that I've seen lately and have neat titles, but the films themselves are merely the opposite.  Well, Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead may be one of those few films that I did watch and were actually good.The movie is about a former mobster (Andy Garcia) who is urged by his old boss (Christopher Walken, who's in a wheelchair here) to do a simple favor for him, which Jimmy and a small crew of men with weird names (played by Christopher Lloyd, Treat Williams, Bill Nunn, and William Forsythe) that Jimmy has chosen by himself, set out to do in a short time.Unfortunately, the plan fails and without warning, Jimmy and his friends are being hunted down by Mr. Shhh (Steve Buscemi), a quiet,  but a very lethal and effective hitman.  Shhh's appearence reminded me of a character from Bryan Singer's The Usual Suspects - the dreaded Keyser Soze.This film was directed by Gary Fleder, who knows what he's doing and the story is cleverly written by Scott Rosenberg (Con Air, High Fidelity).The film has a great cast with some very solid performances by Garcia, Walken, Buscemi, and Treat Williams, who is the standout here and is amusing as Critical Bill. "},{"Title":"The Issue of Mortality","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading the first 20 or so reviews, I am surprised no one talked about what this film is really about mortality.  The title is a dead giveaway. What do you do when you know you're dead?  Jimmy The Saint's preoccupation with death is evident since the opening of the film.  He is interested is the age old human desire to leave a mark on this earth after his body is deceased.  Already he is a living legend in the realm of Denver's underworld (seen by the rantings of the old coffee-shop guy), but his story of seeking something deeper is poignant, while at the same time, understated.The literacy of this film, despite its profanity, is very archetypal and simple.  However, the question the film asks is, How do we take a myth that is ages old (ie. mortality) and transplant it within a modern gangster movie? Reconciling these two themes is ultimately what the film attempts. And in my opinion, it succeeds admirably. "}{"Title":"While not perfect, this movie deserved a lot more attention.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  While not perfect, this movie deserved a lot more attention.  It may just be the fact that I just finished watching it, but at this point in time this movie feels like one of my all-time favourites.While I am not a film critic, and while I don't always watch the most intelligent movies, I know what I enjoy.  This movie goes (though perhaps only temporarily) on my list of favourites together with 2001 A Space Odyssey, Clockwork Orange, Blair Witch Project, The Shining, et cetera.I know many of you cringe to see me list this movie with Kubrick films, but I assure you I have my reasons, some of which I will now outline.The story of this movie is the key.  It had amazing potential and, not surprisingly given the talented cast, the movie turned out quite good.  It of course could have been a lot better, but my expectations were not very high.Several times in the movie I realized how little we find out about the characters' pasts.  Some rather simplistic explanations are given, and the dialogues sometimes seemed as if written by the make-up artist.  The cast, however, more then made up for the sometimes poor lines with surprisingly good acting.All things considered, this is a good movie, definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite gangster movies.  The acting is realistic and the story line follows smoothly.  I especially liked the narration provided by Jack Warden's character.I was impressed with the number of well known actors included in this cast. Everyone contributed!I highly recommend this movie!  Boat Drinks! "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The early and mid nineties saw the emergence of Tarantino and his new greed of filthy pulp genius, and naturally everyone else wanted apiece of the action. From now on scripts had to be full of witty dialogue, the characters had to be from the wrong side of the tracks, but we had to be able to relate to them. Of course, most of Tarantino's imitators were rubbish, leaving the man himself to bask in glory. However, when Scott Rosenberg gave his brilliant script to director Felder, something special was created- a Tarantinio beater.TTDIDWYD suffered perhaps because of its title, and because it is more downbeat than much of what was being released at the time. Some reviews here have strangely dared to say that the dialogue is crap, that certain scenes to do not 'further the narrative'. How odd, and these people love Tarantino? For whatever reason, the film has largely been forgotten about, but with the cast it has i'm sure more people will come to it and find what a gem it is. Truly it has one of the best casts ever- Walken, Garcia, Lloyd, Buscemi, Balk, Anwar, Warden, Bill Nunn, Treat Williams, and they all give near career bests. The plot sees Jimmy the Saint brought out of retirement for one last job by his psychotic ex mob boss, played terrifyingly by Walken. For the job he needs to recruit some of his old gang- Pieces (Lloyd), Franchise (Forsythe), Easy Wind (Nunn), and reluctantly Critical Bill (Williams). Each man is out of the game, but this job will pay them for the rest of their lives and they can retire in peace. The job is simple- Walken's son lost his mind after his girlfriend left him for another guy. The other guy is coming to town, so Jimmy and his gang scare him into leaving the girl, so that Walken's son will be happy again. This will in turn give Walken's life meaning again. Things go horrifically wrong though, and each member of the gang is given 48 hours to live. As this is happening, Jimmy has fallen for Anwar, but can't be with her. He tries to get his friends to run for safety, but they refuse, willing to accept whatever happens. Jimmy also stays to try and do some right in his life- giving the engagement ring to Anwar and her fiancée, and saving local whore Balk from wasting her life, giving her a child. Soon the inevitable happens as the unstoppable assassin (Buscemi) comes to town, but not before Jimmy exacts perfect revenge.The script is easily one of the best of the last 50 years, full of quotable dialogue, but full of meaning, heart, and existential dreaming. The whole story revolves around life and death, how we will be remembered in death for our achievements in life, and giving hope to the living as we die. Every character is extraordinarily drawn, with depth and individuality. Jimmy tries to save his friends but their pride means he has to accept their decisions. He may be a gangster, but he knows what is right, moral rules are forever more important than the laws of Cops and Robbers. Pieces works in a porno theatre with the painful loss of strength in his hands, but he knows that back in the day they were at the top of their league. Walken is genuinely Evil as the man with the plan, Buscemi is brilliant as Mr Sssh, and Williams is a forgotten man- a self serving patriot, guns framed on his walls, ready to protect himself from invasion at anytime. Anwar and Nicolsi (as Walken's son) deserve special mention, both get our sympathy as they are trapped in a situation they are not part of, and do not deserve what happens to them. There are too many characters and traits to list, ensuring that I at least will continue to find new things with every viewing.Although there is strong sentimentality, there is plenty of violence and strong language to balance everything, and as i've said before, sentimentality is nothing to be ashamed of-in life or in movie making. The film is not meant to be completely bleak and hard hitting, and it is a sad sign of our times when we berate a film for being sentimental. Much like the Shawshank Redemption in effect this film will leave you with hope. A breathtaking film which will stay with you forever if you let it. 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unlike Pulp Fiction, Things to do in Denver When You're Dead is not a good example of recent crime films. And unlike Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels; it's not even a good imitation of Pulp Fiction.Things to do in Denver When You're Dead is about a man named Jimmy that owns a failing business. Because his business is failing, Jimmy has to go to the loan sharks to accommodate his financial burden. Jimmy then finds that he cant pay the money he owes back to the loan shark, so he is given a favour to do instead of having to pay the money back. Jimmy enlists the help of four friends, but the favour goes awry, and the result is that each of the four men involved get contracts on their heads.Despite a lovely cast, and it is a lovely cast by the way; featuring such stars as Andy Garcia, Christopher Walken, Christopher Lloyd, Fairuza Balk and a great little turn by Steve Buscemi; Things to in Denver is never able to pull itself out of mediocrity. This is mostly due to the blatant lack of originality and the fact that the film seems to care more about how cool it's being than any actual character depth or storyline, which is obviously a side effect of Pulp Fiction's influence on cinema. The story lacks intrigue and after a while it is hard to empathise with anyone in the film. The script features a few interesting moments, but it's so obvious that it's ripping off Pulp Fiction that it soon becomes hard to watch. A lot of the dialogue seems forced when delivered by the characters, most probably due to the actor's playing them cursing themselves for being involved in such a terrible piece of cinema. There is also some attempt to throw other ideas into the plot, such as a love story and a part of the movie which sees Andy Garcia giving advice to his son from 'beyond the grave', but these things are misplaced in a film that has already set itself up to be dark and unpleasant, and the result is messy. Of course, plot, characters and script are not important to the writers, no doubt; they just wanted to make a quick buck by ripping off Pulp Fiction.Things to do in Denver When You're Dead, from it's stupid title to it's &#145;cool' dialogue is a flat, dull and pointless exercise in style over substance film making. You could do something better with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Best of the Pulp Fiction Knock Offs","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Of all of the Pulp Fiction rip-offs that came out in the mid 90s, this one is the best.  Unlike most of the others, this really only dealt with one main story instead of trying to intertwine several stories like Pulp and failing horribly.  This one is like Pulp in flavor, not through story telling gymnastics.  It is a good solid story about good solid characters.Andy Garcia is great.  Why is this guy not in more leading roles?  Steve Buscemi is great as always.  (Chris Walken... 'nuff said!)Great ending for a character doomed by his bumbling idiot friends.  I personally would have done something a bit different with the title.  I like the idea, but it is too clunky (a line used in the movie).  I think simply Dead in Denver or even Denver When You're Dead  Anyway, my crappy little 2 cents.  I really enjoy this film and would recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"A brilliantly stylish and offbeat crime thriller","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Andy Garcia stars as Jimmy the Saint, a former gangster who is trying to go straight by running his own video business where he makes videos of dying people to show their families when they are deceased. It is not very tasteful but it's better than being a gangster. Jimmy then is called to the house of the Man with the Plan (Christopher Walken), his former mob boss who wants Jimmy to do one last job for him, and he does owe him a favour. The task involves Jimmy and his crew scaring off a guy who has stolen the Man with the Plan's son's girlfriend, the son being so distraught having lost her that he now tries to snatch kids in school playgrounds. So Jimmy decides to look up the members of his former crew, who are a very shoddy bunch. They include a guy named Pieces, a leprosy-suffering porn-film-projectionist; Critical Bill, a deranged guy who uses cadavers as punch-bags; Franchise, a guy who has settled down with his wife and kids and is reluctant to help out; and Easy Wind, who feuds a lot with Critical Bill. Needless to say they make a complete cock-up of the assignment and it all goes tragically wrong. When the Man with the Plan is informed, he tells them to get out of Denver in 48 hours or there will be contracts out on them all. They don't leave so a hit-man, Mr Shhh (Steve Buscemi), a deadly assassin who hardly speaks, arrives and seeks them out. Also through the film Jimmy meets a beautiful woman, Dagney (Gabrielle Anwar), in a bar and is besotted by her, you glide he tells her. And also his other female friend, a downtrodden hooker (Fairuza Balk), is on Jimmy's mind, too. This Jimmy the Saint guy has a lot of problems in this film. When Jimmy goes into his favourite diner he meets his buddy, Joe Heff (Jack Warden), who is talking to two mysterious guys at a table, and gives us all a running commentary on the characters throughout the film, sort of like a Greek chorus. I have to say I love this film. It has got some cool, offbeat characters, a romantic theme, humour, desperation, violence, great performances from an all-star cast and is brilliant fun to watch again and again. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"Simply Brilliant","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead is nothing short of a masterpiece. A better cast one could not hope for. First off the writer, Scott Rosenberg, manages to perfect one of the most realistic stories of all time, and gives it the best name for it I have ever heard. Back In The Days. You know what I'm talking about. You find your current life lacking the luster of yesteryear and all you can do is look back and hope things could be as good as they were. However, the film takes it a step further. This group of retired mobsters decide, since they're forced into a job, why not try and get back that old glory. Like any person who has ever tried this, you know it always ends in disaster. And because you've been there, though never this bad, you feel for the characters like Jimmy the Saint and respect characters like Pieces, and laugh and stuff you never thought you'd laugh at when it comes to Critical Bill. A masterpiece. Not a single flaw, and all great performances. I consider it a crime that Treat Williams didn't at least get a best supporting actor nomination for his role as Critical Bill. "},{"Title":"Better than The Usual Suspects!!!","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one great film, all-star cast, top-notch directing, brilliant writing. I'd compare this film to the Usual Suspects only it's better than The Usual Suspects!!! This film has great character development, as Critical Bill this is by far Treat William's best performance to date. I love everyone in this movie, they are well cast and well written. Kevin Smith and Quentin Tarantino have got nothing on Scott Rosenberg(Writer). Scott has given us a perfect script and a perfect cast to perform it. I love Andy Garcia's hair!!! It always looks good. Anyways this film should be more popular, I feel it has the potential to become a cult classic which in my opinion is the best genre to be a part of because cult films are never forgotten. Things to do.. is a masterpiece, a forgotten cinematic treasure to marvelled at for years to come. Everyone I've talked to about this movie either loves it and quotes it or has never even heard of it but are compelled to see the incredible ensemble cast. Brilliance, sheer brilliance. See it for yourself and then watch it again. You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Pointless violence","Date":"29 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this on the strength of the 7+ IMDB score. Continuously brutal and trite. I supposed it's supposed to develop sympathy for the good guy gangsters who accidently kill two civilians but I sure don't see how.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding writing/directing/acting etc...","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has many outstanding qualities. It has a wonderful mix of actors who compliment each other well, and the writing/directing is very impressive. I have always been an Andy Garcia fan, but the supporting acting of Christopher Walken, Christopher Loyd, Treat Williams, Steve Buscemi, Bill Nunn, and William Forsythe are outstanding. I am a huge fan of Mafia movies, and this one, even though not your conventional mafia type flick, is very entertaining with a great story. If you watch this movie because you really like one of the actors, you'll probably come out of it with a new respect for a few more. "}{"Title":"the emperor's old clothes","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A film that almost looks, sounds, and feels like it should be up there with other impeccably cool and hard-hitting 90s movies such as Pulp Fiction, Usual Suspects, Fargo, Seven and the like, but unfortunately falls down when you start to scratch beneath the surface.Firstly the film is not without merit. It does have some snappy, memorable lines of dialogue in the script. Christopher Walken puts in a nicely menacing bad guy performance. Also as mentioned it does manage to maintain some level of at least looking like a happening slice of cult 90s cinema.The problem was that I kept repeatedly being pulled out of the film and forced to think one of two things by what was going down on the screen either (a) That would never ever happen in real life, but am I supposed to think it would? or (b) Is this supposed to actually be a comedy, because if so its not funny.Way too many scenes stretched credulity beyond breaking point, while others just seemed like completely inappropriate attempts at random humour. Also another gripe would be that for a lead character Andy Garcia doesn't really have the screen presence or attitude necessary to carry off the role (at least he doesn't here anyway, I'm not saying he's a bad actor).I can understand why this has got some great reviews just because of the type of movie it is, and I don't doubt that some people genuinely love it, but it didn't work for me. "},{"Title":"Perfect thy cast, impeccably written slice of 90's gangster noir","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead is a crackling, explosively verbose, darkly comic 90's neo noir. In other words, right up my crime infested alley. It operates on a heightened plane of larger than life thugs, Machiavellian crime bosses and an almost beat poetry by way of Shakespeare writing style, courtesy of Scott Rosenberg's pen. The writing is one of the best quality's of this film, and when you watch it and find out what buckwheats and boat drinks are, you'll get it. Andy Garcia turns on the slick as Jimmy The Saint, an ex mobster on the path to enlightenment, attempting to open his own business, called Afterlife Advice, where dying people record pearls of wisdom for their loved ones to see after they're gone. He is called back into action for a job by his old employer, a creepy, all powerful gangster known only as The Man With The Plan, who is played by, you guessed it... Christopher Walken. He is a a perverted, unsettling ghoul in the role, paralysed from the neck down and confined to a blow tube operated wheelchair, lurking in his dimly lit, Gothic mansion and hurling threatening orders like Max Schreck from Nosferatu. He coaxes Jimmy into pulling his old crew together for one last job, a personal one involving Walken's even creepier son. Of course the job goes horrendously wrong, resulting in Walken's wrath raining down upon each and every one of Jimmy's crew, as they all scramble, most of the, unsuccessfully to escape Denver. It's a stark, largely unpleasant bit of violent fun with a snappy vernacular all its own, but don't mistake my review as making out as pure darkness, without a heartbeat. There's an incredibly romantic core, as Jimmy falls in love with two vastly different, beautiful girls at once an angelic socialite from the other side of the tracks named Dagney, played by the ever gorgeous Gabrielle Anwar, and Lucinda, a scuzzy, spunky hooker with a heart of gold played with twitchy, heartfelt energy by Fairuza Balk. Jimmy's crew is a pockmarked landscape of rough and tumble character actors, all with their own distinct flavour. William Forsythe is aces as Big Bear Franchise, a family man thug, Christopher Lloyd displays warmth and feeling as Pieces, the veteran of the crew, Bill Nunn is great as Easy Wind, and Treat Williams comes out of left field as Critical Bill, a nickname reminiscent of the condition he puts people in, as he's an absolute live wire lunatic, who literally uses corpses at the morgue he works at for punching bags, because his shrink told him he needs an outlet for his rage. Yeah. Steve Buscemi has a sly role as dangerous hit-man named Mr. Shhhhh, because he barely says a word. There's also great work from Jack Warden, Bill Cobbs, Don Cheadle and Glenn Plummer. I have to reiterate again what a lovely script it has, like a particular lingo all its own, that the characters wear like a verbal glove, and share with you with every interaction they have. It's an extremely overlooked bit of hard boiled fun, with just the right touches of scary, shocking violence, world weary golden age regret, with a stable full of wild, wacky characters to keep you more than entertained. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Violent, Humorous & Undeniably Derivative","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This entertaining crime drama uses a very familiar type of plot to showcase the amusing eccentricities of a bunch of criminals who come together to carry out a job for a ruthless mobster. The action is often violent and the body count is high but there are also moments of humour and romance that add enormously to the enjoyment of the piece.Like 2 Days In The Valley (1996), Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead followed in the wake of Quentin Tarantino's great successes of the early 1990s and the influences of Pulp Fiction and more obviously, Reservoir Dogs are apparent throughout.Jimmy The Saint Tosnia (Andy Garcia) is a retired gangster who's in a difficult position because his legitimate business called Afterlife Advice is losing money. To make matters worse, his debt to some loan sharks is actually owned by his old crime boss who's known as The Man With A Plan (Christopher Walken) and he wants Jimmy to carry out an action for him. Jimmy's in no position to refuse and so rounds up four members of his old gang.The Man With A Plan has a son who, after having been dumped by his girlfriend, turned to child molesting. Jimmy's old boss wants the girlfriend's new fiancé to be scared off in the hope that she'll then decide to reconcile with her previous beau and steer him back into acting normally again!!! Jimmy then arranges for two of his gang members to pose as police officers in a stunt that goes terribly wrong and ends up with both the fiancé and the girlfriend being killed.Predictably, The Man With A Plan doesn't take this news well and hires a contract killer called Mr Shhh (Steve Buscemi) to kill the four gang members in the most painful ways possible and then orders Jimmy to leave Denver within 48 hours or he'll suffer the same fate. Jimmy decides not to leave immediately because he wants to see Dagney (Gabrielle Anwar), the beautiful girl he's fallen in love with, his gang members, who he tries to help in any way that he can and Lucinda (Fairuza Balk), a hooker who values his friendship. Unfortunately, by delaying his departure from Denver for so long, Jimmy even starts to put his own life in danger.It's the quirky characters in this movie that provide most of its entertainment and dark humour. Jimmy is very suave, charming and extremely loyal to his friends and his tendency to put others before himself and to do what's noble is fitting for someone who's nicknamed The Saint. Gang member Pieces (Christopher Lloyd) is a projectionist in a cinema that only shows porn movies and suffers from a disease which causes parts of his body to drop off unexpectedly. Franchise (William Forsythe) runs a trailer park and has a wife who's desperate for him not to get involved with the gang again and Critical Bill (Treat Williams) is a highly volatile, psychotic ex-con who works in a morgue and tries to control his violent urges by beating up corpses which he strings up to use as punch bags. Easy Wind (Bill Nunn) is the forth member of the gang who works in the pest control business and hates Critical Bill because of something bad that went on in prison.Although it's undeniably derivative and contains some dubious dialogue (e.g. girls who glide need guys who make them thump), Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead does have an offbeat appeal, numerous funny moments and some great acting by its wonderful cast. Andy Garcia, Treat Williams and Chrispoher Walken are particularly good and there's also a great soundtrack and an appearance by Buddy Guy to enjoy. "},{"Title":"A strong piece of work that has sadly been confused for a ripoff","Date":"7 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction hit the scene in 1994, it took filmmakers and cinephiles by surprise that a film involving murder, betrayal, and theft could also be so wickedly funny and hilariously in its conversational fluidity. Tarantino was fearless, not worried about halting the plot-progression for just a short amount of time so the characters could ramble or comment on something random and completely off topic. As simple as it was, it was surprising to many; here was dialog unrelated to the plot and central story being used with such confidence.Because of how Tarantino took convention and ordinary crime-drama filmmaking by storm, he obviously spawned many inspirations and copycats. I only bring this up because, for reasons I have trouble understanding, people have written off Gary Fleder's Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead off as a Pulp Fiction ripoff. Since its release in 1995, the film has gone far under the radar and scrutinized, only to be viewed by the curious cinephile or a hardened crime drama fan; consider me both.The film stars Andy Garcia, a leading man I, and many, it appears, have forgotten about as much as we forgot about this particular film. He plays Jimmy the Saint, an ex-con looking to get out of the business and run his own shop where people record their wills for their family and friends before they die. Catering to the business serves as his day job, until he's approached by his paraplegic boss The Man With the Plan (Christopher Walken), who requests his services for one more little odd job. Unsurprisingly, the job goes wrong, and this means Jimmy is in the hottest water. Now, Jimmy must find a way to secure his own future, as well as continue to maintain stable connections, while pleasing his newfound love interest (Gabrielle Anwar) through all this chaos. In the meantime, we are introduced to a wide variety of characters played by big-name actors a quiet hit-man nicknamed Mr. Shhh (Steve Buscemi), ex-gangster Pieces (Christopher Lloyd), petty-thug Big Bear Franchise (William Forsythe), the loquacious Easy Wind (Bill Nunn), and the argumentative and angry Critical Bill (Treat Williams).The film bears a relatively age-old story, but the film is complicated by strangely vague dialog and an overabundance of characters with unique names. The dialog itself seems to be describing linear, straight-forward statements and requests and loading them with slang and alienating jargon that takes a great deal of time getting used to.Once one comes to terms with the dialog, at hand, Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead becomes your average mob flick, comfortably paced, sometimes fun in a gloomy way, and often brooding and dark, like the dapper characters it focuses on. If director Gary Fleder and writer Scott Rosenberg (who's eclectic filmography includes the amiable Kangaroo Jackand the wildly misunderstood Pain & Gain) has anything down here, it's the films tone, which knows when to be comedic and when to be haunting at just the right times.Consider the scene when this particular operation goes wrong, and Jimmy and his gang land themselves in hot water. Up until this scene, the film has maintained a traditionalist mobster theme of being mildly dark and slightly comedic. When this incident occurs, it suddenly all goes black and the seventy of the gang's actions finally catch up to them. Fleder shows this nicely and packs a lot of character intrigue here with such a great cast.Films centered around crime and the mobster lifestyle are often broken up into three categories with cinephiles the classics, Scorsese, and everything else. While Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead exists in the latter, it is nothing shy of an enjoyable and intriguing viewing. The actors possess enough charisma and charm to carry out a screenplay like this, Fleder's direction always seems to hit the right tones, and Rosenbaum's writing always finds ways to take dark and exciting turns. The fact that the film has somehow mingled its way into being mistaken for a clone of one of the most popular crime dramas of all time is quite a shame because of how much quality is in its product to begin with.Starring Andy García, Christopher Walken, Christopher Lloyd, William Forsythe, Bill Nunn, Treat Williams, Steve Buscemi, Gabrielle Anwar, Jack Warden, and Fairuza Balk. Directed by Gary Fleder. "},{"Title":"Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" As a former probation and parole officer, the character portrayals of the various types of 'criminals' developed in this movie is excellent. From 'slicks' to 'slobs' they are portrayed realistically, and even sympathetically. It's a tragic story of older, reformed criminals gone straight at various jobs, from Jimmy the Saint's (Andy Garcia) video business, to 'Pieces' (Christopher Lloyd) porn movie projectionist in an adult movie theater, to Franchise (William Forsythe) managing a mobile home park, to Critical Bill (Treat Williams) as an undertaker's apprentice with not quite a full deck, to Easy Wind (Bill Nunn) whose occupation in the movie I don't recall or was never disclosed. A mob boss, The Man/The Head played by Christopher Walken at his most sinister and threatening, buys up Jimmy the Saint's note for a debt and extorts him into doing 'an action' on a man who has stolen the affections of the fiancée' of the mob boss's son. Everything goes wrong from there on in, but I don't want to give it away. One of the most underrated movies there ever was and one sure to bring even the toughest guys to 'get misty'. "},{"Title":"An Excellent And Underrated Gangster Film/Film Noir/Crime Drama.","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead is an excellent and very underrated Gangster Film/Crime Drama that is filled with great direction,an amazing cast,a terrific script and a wonderful soundtrack and is a one of the most Underrated Gangster Movies and Crime Dramas of all time.Set in Denver,Colorado,Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead tells the story of an ex-Gangster named Jimmy 'The Saint' Tosnia(Andy Garcia)who has gone straight and is running a legitimate business and things are going well for Jimmy until his former Boss local crime lord called The Man With The Plan(Christopher Walken)hires Jimmy to do a job for him which makes Jimmy call up his old crew. But when the job goes wrong Jimmy is allowed to live but the rest of his crew are going to be killed and Jimmy has to save his crew before it's too late.Released in 1995,Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead is an amazing and underrated Gangster Film Crime Drama that unfortunately came out a year after Quentin Tarantino's masterpiece Pulp Fiction and was a big failure at the Box Office and many critics dismissed the film and wrote it off Denver as a Pulp Fiction knockoff and a pale imitation of Quentin Tarantino's films. Thankfully,since it's 1995 release Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead has earned respect and a Cult Following over the years and is seen as the great Gangster film and Crime Drama that it is. TTDIDWYD is a great film that gives viewers a look at the city of Denver,Colorado that we have never seen before in movies or television because when you think of the city of Denver you think snow,trees,mountains and the Winter cold,but,with TTDIDWYD viewers are shown a gritty part of Denver,Colorado that wrapped in the world of Gangsters and Film Noir attitudes where the characters are tough and dark and a world where crime and death is in the air and is a world where the characters follow the laws of the streets and violence is the only way to survive. This movie is a Gangster Film and Film Noir that has some of the familiar trademarks of the two genres such as Gangsters,criminals and shows a dark underworld that is cynical and brutal but this film gives us a Gangster movie and Film Noir in a much different style and language that is creative as well as harsh and surreal pulling viewers into a world that's all it's own. This is a film that is also filled with cool and sharp style and great substance and is a film that grabs you by the throat and never lets you go until the very end and you are glued to the screen wanting to know what happens next and the plot and story moves along at a great pace with unexpected surprises. What I also love about the film is that despite being a Gangster movie and Crime Drama there is a lot of heart and depth with some of the main characters where you feel like Jimmy and some of the other characters wanted to do more with their life. Jimmy The Saint is a great character because even though he wears suits and is cool he wants to lead a straight life away from the Crime world and looking love and trying to find his own morality in the dangerous world he lives and works in and the way Jimmy works with his crew and the way he is outside of his criminal life truly makes Jimmy a very complex character. The screenplay by Scott Rosenberg is amazing and well-written,with Rosenberg giving the main characters great dialog that is original and fresh,gritty and riveting and at the same time darkly funny and offbeat. The great screenplay is one of the things that makes this film wonderful. The violence in the film is brutal,dark and shocking because you never know where or when the violence is going to happen and the violence fits with the tone of the film. The ending of the film is amazing because while the ending is tragic and sad the ending will leave you with an optimistic feeling and will put a smile on viewers faces. A great conclusion.The cast does great jobs in their roles. Andy Garcia is excellent Jimmy 'The Saint' Tosnia,with Garcia bringing,coolness,intensity and depth to the role. Christopher Lloyd,(Pieces),,William Forsythe(Franchise),Bill Nunn(Easy Wind)and Treat Williams(Critical Bill)all do great jobs as Jimmy's old crew. Christopher Walken is amazing as The Man With The Plan,Jimmy's old boss. Steve Buscemi is riveting and memorable as Mr. Shush,a deadly hit-man. Jack Warden is great as Joe Heff,a guy who's telling the film's story. Gabrielle Anwar is fantastic and sexy as Dagney,Jimmy's love interest. Fairuza Balk is wonderful and memorable as Lucinda,a local prostitute. Bill Cobbs(Malt),Marshall Bell(Lt. Atwater),Michael Nicolosi(Bernard)and Glenn Plummer(Baby Sinister)give good performances as well. Also,lookout for appearances by Don Cheadle(Rooster),Jenny McCarthy(Blonde Nurse)and Tiny Lister Jr.(House)The direction by Gary Fleder is brilliant and stylish,with Fleder always moving the camera and bringing a dark and gritty visual style to the film. Great direction,Fleder.The score by Michael Corvertino is great,dark and mysterious and matches the film's Noirish tone. Wonderful score,Convertino. The film also has a fantastic soundtrack with songs by Warren Zevon(Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead),Johnny Cash(Folsom Prison Blues),Ice-T(Mind Over Matter),Blues Traveler(Get Out Of Denver),Tom Waits(Jockey Full Of Bourbon),Louis Armstong(Makin' Whoopee),Bing Crosby(AC-Cent-Tchu-Ate The Positive),Dean Martin(You're Nobody 'Til Somebody Loves You),Cachao(Lluvia,Viento Y Cana,Rain,Wind And Reed,A Gozer Con Mi Combo,To Rejoice With My Combo),The Neville Brothers with Buddy Guy(Born Under A Bad Sign)and more. Fantastic soundtrack.In final word,if you love Gangster Films,Film Noir,Crime Dramas or films in general,I highly suggest you see Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead,an excellent and very Underrated Gangster film,Film Noir and Crime Drama that you can watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Things to do dead or not...watch this film please","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a good movie. What is a good movie then? It is entertaining and has a good story line and is acted out and directed well so that you don't have to do a thing but sit back and let this movie pull you into its world. It doesn't fail on that pull either. You will be introduced to thoughts and ideas in the underworld that are only known by those thugs that hang out there. Of course, these are men and women with a soul too and that is what comes across. Sure, they are on the wrong side of the tracks, but think for a moment that there go I but for the grace of god and you will be alright watching them go through their daily messed up lives...There are some stand-out performances and I would say that all actors give them. When it is their turn to act and convince us, they do. This is entertainment. The title throws you off, but after seeing the movie, you make allowances for it. One last thing. If you like malts, you know ice cream malts, well, have a pitcher ready when you watch this film. It is no fun to drink alone....enjoy "},{"Title":"A superb cast lights up this intriguing heist flick","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a spotty but extremely memorable thriller, one of a slew of offbeat American crime pics made in the mid-90s. Andy Garcia (the punchy trainee cop from The Untouchables) is an ex-con with a new venture filming terminally ill people so they can speak to friends and family from beyond the grave. In debt to bankroller Christopher Walken, he plans a heist, enlisting the help of several other actors who've escaped from the 1980s, among them Treat Williams &#x96; brilliant in Lumet's Prince of the City &#x96; Christopher Lloyd (Doc from Back to the Future) and William Forsythe (Once Upon a Time in America). Garcia spars romantically with Gabrielle Anwar, while keeping an eye out for troubled Fairuza, and trying to stay one step ahead of Steve Buscemi's slick hit-man, Mr Shhh (so called because he don't say much).This stylish, intriguing picture has too many lulls and inconsistencies to trouble anyone's top films list, but Balk is absolutely arresting in her supporting part, and there's a melancholy, nostalgic undercurrent reinforced by Garcia's backward-looking catchphrase Back in the day. "},{"Title":"Slick Stylization of the Familiar Mobster Movie.","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This slick stylization of the familiar mobster movie features an all star cast of characters in a deserving script, and delivers some excellent action sequences, an engrossing story, and endearing performances, though the finished product does seem a bit less than the sum total of its elemental parts. If only JUST a bit.This is a good movie. It entertains, charms, romances, and annihilates. It gives more than a moderate amount of entertainment, fills itself with cheeky catch-phrases, and darkly witty dialog, while setting up the story and promoting competent character development.I doubt this will garner as much attention as did other films of this line, like Pulp Fiction or the Godfather, but it is definitely worthy of the time it takes to view it. Frankly, in spite of its insidious darkness, I had a lot of fun with it.It rates a 7.7/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Great gangster movie","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Great movie, great actors, great script! This is one the most underestimated mob movie ever! Andy Garcia is perfect as Jimmy the Saint, an ex-mobster, who has to round up his old buddy's for one last job. Just when he falls in love with a very sweet girl(Gabrielle Anwar), he and his mates mess up the job and they get an assassin on their tail. Great acting the whole movie long and directed in a classic in your face style, no camera jumps and fancy MTV style stuff. Especially the small roll of Steve Buscemi as the mob assassin 'Mr Shht' is really great! And not to forget Christoher Walken as the meanest mob boss ever, even in a wheelchair! (quote i pi* in a bag and i sh* in another!) Tarentino like stuff if ya ask me! "}{"Title":"Slick and violent, but still original","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Gary Fleder's film 'Things to do in Denver when you're Dead' is a slick, stylised and violent thriller, complete with a very pretty girl (Gabrielle Anwar) and a seriously cool title. It's mindless entertainment, in some ways not so dissimilar from the later 'Ocean's Eleven' (in which star Andy Garcia also appeared), although rather darker in tone. In fact, the mixture of crime caper and tragedy doesn't completely work, it's hard to really care about the characters when they play it straight, while it's not 100 per cent sheer fun either. In it's defence, it's definitely one notch up from the average gangster movie in terms of originality and style; but only the one. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Things to do in Denver when you're dead is one of those movies you've probably not seen and only heard of briefly as it has a pretty unforgettable title. I watched it cos there was nothing else on and it sounded pretty good. And i was impressed, its one of the best films I've seen for a while. The story is easy to follow, well acted and has a good script and the characters are all different and interesting. Andy Garcia is pretty handsome in this movie (well i thought so) and you really begin to like his character. christopher walken as 'the man with the plan' and treat williams as critical bill are also brilliant. and you have to see steve buscemi as mr shhh overall i don't have any complaints about the film , and I've just went out and bought the DVD so id recommend hunting it out, this film deserves a much wider audience "},{"Title":"Great Performance As Usual By Walken","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although he didn't get enough screen time... Mr. Walken is most possibly the ONLY actor that could ooze such malevolent menace and evil whilst playing a paralyzed Mob Boss... his unique voice and manner of speaking as well as facial expressions made The Man With The Plan a believable character, in my opinion... Yes, it's typecasting... and kinda sad considering how multi-faceted Walken's talent is... but he does the VERY best with the roles he gets!!!As for the rest of the movie... it wasn't the absolute best... but quite enjoyable... "},{"Title":"On finding the way out","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What is life all about? - that could be one way to summarize this movie. A story about greed, power, politics, inspiration and aspiration.Yes, there's violence galore, tough guys being cool, brutal and nasty. Lots of blood and suffering. But the inside story of a tough guy trying to hang it up goes beyond the typical gangster life of extreme violence and dark comedy.Garcia delivers as the man tortured by choices - between loyalty and survival, between chasing the dream and making do, between daring and following the company line.Colorful, engaging, and compelling, the movie keeps you riveted, cheering on the good guys while tempting you to watch the bad bloody scenes you know are coming.Like Mulholland Falls, the ambiguity of right and wrong, good and evil, personal ambition and the greater good, provide a combustible mix.Andy Garcia is on his best, a tough guy trying to do the right thing. The bad guys are the best - the evil Christopher Walken. Other greats include the monkeyface Christopher Lloyd, the hardcore Republican Treat Williams, and of course the rough-edged William Forsythe. "},{"Title":"Boat drinks","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Andy Garcia in his best roll ever as Jimmy The Saint!! He plays a retired gangster, but now days he is a god man in a bad world. But one day his old boss The man with the plan(Christopher Walken) contacts him again for a simple job. Jimmy gathers the old gang for the last time. But something goes terrible wrong and the The man with the plan gets really p***ed and decides to kill them at once... everybody except Jimmy who gets 48 houres to leave Denver or face death!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Film","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As said below this is not your typical gangster film.  Andy Garcia does a great job as someone trying to get out of the crime world.  And is there anyone more beautiful than Gabrielle Anwar.  This film has good dialouge and phrases that stay with you for a long time afterwards.  Boatdrinks.  To all Christopher Walken fans you haven't seen a twisted Christopher Walken character until you have seen this movie.  He goes above and beyond any of his other characters insanities in this movie.   "},{"Title":"Not your usual gangster flick...","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, what can I say besides, wow.  I was told to see this movie because Andy Garcia calls the girl the Bee's Knees which happens to be my nickname.  I was also interested because I am an extreme Buscemi fan.  Not only did this movie entertain me, but it gave me a new perspective on the gangster world.  This was certainly no roughcut nameless-character, Reservoir Dogs type of movie.  You felt for the people of the movie.Overall an impressive film, with the best performances belonging to Fairuza Balk as a street-wise prostitute who wants a better life, and Steve Buscemi as an incredibly skilled assassin, with Creepy being the most applicative adjective.  However I cannot concur that Andy Garcia has a great performance.  It seems very cliche, I mean, Jimmy the Saint?  Really... Just ignore the love story and you have one fine film.  "},{"Title":"rip-off?","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just as LEON was a rip-off of John Cassavetes' GLORIA, so this film, in plot anyway, seems to be a ripoff of Cassavetes' masterpiece THE KILLING OF A CHINESE BOOKIE.  The set-up is almost identical.  There also seem certain similarities to the Paul Newman film THE VERDICT in the character of the protagonist, but the early plot development and set-up owes almost everything to Cassavetes' movies. "},{"Title":"Better than average","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Potentially a Christopher Walken rerun, where Chris plays the gangster/psychopath we've come to know and love (?) in many of his other films; Denver has redeeming qualities that rescue the film from the black hole that has devoured the post-Goodfellas, Gangsters with personality films of the 80's & 90's. The violent content is to be expected with films of this genre but the twisted writing successfully skirts the edge of cliche/poetry. Perfection is an unbearable burden but worn well in the hands of talented actor Andy Garcia. However, I do question whether Mr. Big would have hesitated killing the girl after the death of his only son. The soundtrack introduced me to Tom Waits. I own the movie and I consider it money well spent.  "},{"Title":"A good pick for people who can handle harsh scenes","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well I must admit it's a depressing movie. but it's  a good one. Garcia, Walken and Williams give us a huge performance. You can easily expect it from the Andy and Christopher, But Treat Williams as Critical Bill is the real Bonus.  This movie is a cruel movie with many dark sides but it also has some humor and touching scenes. I recommend it to people who can handle harsh scenes.   "}{"Title":"Well worth seeing","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I happened on this film twice before, each time somewhere in the middle, and didn't think much of it. But eventually I started at the beginning, and was completely drawn into the terrific casting and quirky characters. The film has a suspenseful noir touch to it, and may well be one of Andy Garcia's finer performances. "},{"Title":"Highly Under-rated Gangster Flick with Style and Wit","Date":"6 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film shines as a darkly comedic underworld drama with an unbelievably appropriate cast of actors from legends like Walken and Garcia on down to favorite supporting actors like Steve Buscemi and Christopher Lloyd. The resulting interplay between their characters produces some of the best dialog of the contemporary gangster drama in the setting of post-oil-boom Denver. The plot starts out thin but builds rapidly as Walken's character of The Man with the Plan  is revealed as a mean-spirited psychopath with a need to spread his own misery to everyone inside his orbit. Garcia's portrayal of dapper, charming ex-gangster Jimmy the Saint, AKA The Bitch's Bastard is flawless and ties together the rest of the cast into a plausible crew of small time crooks brought together for some easy money. As the action they were conscripted for turns tragic and they find themselves in the claws of Walken's pressure-sore ravaged underworld boss, the film finds surer footing, with Walken and Buscemi delivering convincing, terrifying portrayals of malice in its purest form. While the film's ending leaves something to be desired, the work as a whole has an excellent neo-noir atmosphere and top-notch dialog that earns it a place among more well-known gangster films like The Way of the Gun and the The Usual Suspects. "},{"Title":"An American Classic","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This truly terrific film really does deserve to be better known. It's an American classic but it seems to have slipped through the net. It's about gangsters in an evolving world in which there is no place for them. They are a breed apart with their own language, codes and signs and while they may seem incongruous they are still capable of appalling violence. It's as if violence is the thing that feeds them.The central character is Jimmy 'The Saint', (Andy Garcia), an 'ex-gangster' who has gone legitimate by setting up a business in which people who are dying leave behind videos of their lives for their loves ones. (Even by going legitimate he can't pull himself away from death). He is asked to do one last job by a former associate, (Christoper Walken oozing malevolence from his wheelchair). 'It's not a piece of work, it's an action', Walken tells him. He's to put the frighteners on the guy who has stolen the girlfriend of Walken's crazy son, (it runs in the family), but when 'the action' goes horribly wrong Jimmy and his pals find themselves on Walken's hit-list.The trappings may be familiar; Scorcese and Tarantino have mined this territory recently to terrific effect but working from a great script by Scott Rosenberg, director Gary Fleder gives an almost surreal slant to the proceedings. It's almost as if these guys were aliens who have crash-landed in the real world and are at a loss when forced to communicate with the natives.The performances are uniformly sublime. Garcia has never been better; Walken, always brilliant, is extraordinary here and there is an Oscar-worthy turn from Christopher Lloyd in another career-best performance. But then how could any actor fail with dialogue this good. 'I'm Godzilla, you are Japan', one character says before blowing another across the room with a shotgun. Yep, an American classic and then some. "},{"Title":"Not a Scorsese, but you won't  mind","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Jimmy The Saint was a successful mobster who quit and runs unsuccessful legitimate business. His ex-boss offers him to do one more job. Jimmy assembles his old crew for this job but things don't turn the way they were supposed to so boss puts a contract on their lives &#150; giving Jimmy the option to run. However, Jimmy stays to make sure that the rest of the group get safety into hiding.Plot is nothing special on first look, but everything is surprisingly smooth and enjoyable. Real quality reveals itself when you realize that most of the time you can guess what's going to happen in the end but it holds you down with certain charm. Andy Garcia outshines everybody else with his role, holding emotional intensity of film on high level, and is probably one of his best in career. Others (impressive cast) are not far behind, Gabrielle Anwar charming as always and excellent Steve Buscemi in role that, as usual, fits him perfectly.This is truly exceptional movie (and surely underrated one). 90's were time of many gangster films with variety in quality and I have constant feeling that this was one that slipped through without good reason. People were (and still are) so fascinated with Scorsese's, Coppola's and Tarantino's work that they didn't gave anybody else a chance and this one, without hesitation, deserves one. Off course, they are top, but it's refreshing to see something different from time to time. Director Gary Fleder takes some from artists above, but not as copycat (and don't forget,at the time, it was his first big screen).This film deserves more credit than it has been given so if you didn't see it I highly recommend it. I bet you'll like it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Quirky offbeat 90's gangster thriller","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Cool title, cool film. Okay it cops a few riffs from Reservoir Dogs / Pulp Fiction in its manipulation of narrative, stylised cinematography and ultra-cool language, but this well acted gangster yarn is eminently watchable. I did have a problem with the scatological patois of almost all the main characters - I could have done with a subtitled thesaurus at times, most noticeable when Andy Garcia's Jimmy the Saint character switches from the street-jive to almost sub-West Side Story street-poetry in his pursuit of the oddly named Dagley who again slightly unbelievably, falls for it! The names are great too, Damon Runyan for the 90s - I mean Critical Bill, Easy Wind, Franchise, Pieces and Mr Shhh, a great nom-de-plume for a hit-man. The various set pieces are all well done, from Jimmy the Saint's meetings with Christopher Walken's sinister Man with the Plan who emerges from the gloominess of rooms as dark as his depraved mind, to the rain-soaked botched bracing of the offending teenage lovers, to the silent assassinations of Jimmy's crew, culminating in the double-murder when immovable force meets irresistible object as Mr Shhh confronts Critical Bill. The ensemble acting's terrific, Garcia in the lead playing a part he can do in his sleep, but the laurels for me are taken by the great Christopher Lloyd as Pieces who knows his race his run and accepts his impending doom with grace and courage, Treat Williams as the deranged Critical Bill and Fairuza Balk as the tart with a heart with whom Jimmy plants his seed. The device of using Garcia's business of the terminal elderly leaving afterlife video messages for their loved ones works well between scenes as does the running commentary offered in a similar ilk by Jack Warden. I got the Gladiator type ending in advance, with Jimmy delivering his own valediction on video before hooking up with the guys for Boat drinks, but that didn't reduce my satisfaction at a well worked conclusion to a quirky enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"A good film from Fleder","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Things to do in Denver When You're Dead--- Directed by Gary Fleder. Written by Scott Rosenberg. Shot by Elliot Davis. Edited by Richard Marks. Music by Michael Convertino. Starring Andy Garcia, Christopher Lloyd, William Forsythe, Bill Nunn, Treat Williams, Jack Warden, Steve Buscemi, Fairuza Balk, Gabrielle Anwar, Christopher Walken, Bill Cobbs, Don Cheadle, Willie Garson, Glenn Plummer, jenny McCarthy, I thought this 95' crime flick was well done by Gary Fleder. The screenplay was well-suited and adequate from Rosenberg. The cast made this really work, good performances from everyone involved even Christopher Lloyd. The standouts were Garcia in the lead, as well as Buscemi, Bill Nunn and Walken in supporting roles. I thought it had a cool feel to it, both the music and cinematography were vintage. This movie wasn't perfect, but i was entertaining and a good indication of quality early 90s flicks without the crazy special effects and excessive shoot-outs or chase scenes. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A multi-layered masterpiece. A crime movie that delivers action, emotion and humor woven together with multiple developed characters and several story lines to create a fast paced yet very complete work.A tremendous cast delivers some of the finest dialog ever committed to film. What puts it over the top is that it's smart and clever while sounding completely natural, unlike many other hip movies in which it often sounds calculated and awkward.In my opinion, this is Andy Garcia's finest performance. In fact, from top to bottom, the performances are first rate. There is no one to point at as a weak link. (Although the love interest comes close) If more films were at this Claiborne, the cinematic world would be a much nicer place to visit. "},{"Title":"A great movie that you never saw...","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Good guy, ex con gone straight but pulled back to do one last job. A genre that's been done to death. But this movie finds a new way to tell an old tale. Stylish but without sacrificing plot and watchability. You'll be surprised how good it is. Well written, well directed. A good tale well told.If you like a caper movie with an edge you'll like this movie.Well, they want me to write more lines, but I think I've said all that you need.An example of a touch that I like is the way the mob boss is a paraplegic. It's not a part of the plot, just a neat way to convey hidden menace. That his control is total even though he's completely dependent on others. And Christopher Walken is, of course, perfect to play the role. "},{"Title":"Not a comment a question","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" We don't really have a comment. What we want to know is, at the end, when they were on the boat, when was that? Were they alive? What was up with the ending. Also, okay the pregnant girl was headed to Tampa, where was the other girl headed? We liked the movie but don't quite get the end. Well they are making me write 10 lines...I don't want to write ten lines. P Like I said we liked the movie and the all start cast. Everyone was great and Treat Williams as a crazy guy was great but I really did not need to see Dr. Brown (Everwood) pee in a milk carton...LOL Can you tell I am just stalling, you don't even need to read this, could someone please just tell me about the ending.Thanks "},{"Title":"Best thriller in a while","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to agree with Brandon when it comes to cast, script and direction. However, I too think that this movie should be more popular. It's a pity I have never heard of it before until I saw it as a low-price offer in the supermarket. Since I love most movies featuring Andy Garcia, I bought it. It's thrilling, it's tear-jerking, it's professionally done, extremely well casted and brilliantly played. Treat Williams, whom I first noticed in Hair, plays his character so realistic that it is nearly frightening. Christopher Walken as the Man with a Plan again demonstrates how evil he can be. I was surprised by Christopher Lloyd in this challenging role. He is a genius. A pity that Jack Warden was not more than a sort of narrator, however, he was good at it. Last but not least, Andy Garcia. I am fascinated by his eyes. Though they seem to be very melancholic, they show so much more during the roller-coaster-ride of events and emotions Garcia is going through in this movie. Doubtlessly a recommendable movie! "}{"Title":"Like an old film","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd like so much this film. I think it recovers the most important values of life, like friendship and fidelity. The film shows some kind of street philosophy, teaching things that apparently would be forgotten at these days. I believe that the lessons that the film gives, are of that lately we do not see in the present cinema, since it not only speaks of the value of the word, but in addition to which means the friendship for all the personages, who are able to be killed to continue making a cult of the friendship. In addition to the excellent performances of Pieces, Mr. Shhh and Critical, I believe that the film is really worthy to see. A greeting for all from Argentina. "},{"Title":"Sum greater than the parts","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a performance in which the sum is greater than the parts. Look at the cast Andy Garcia, Jack Warden, Treat Williams, Bill Cobbs, Bill Nunn, Christopher Lloyd, William Forsythe, Gabrielle Anwar. What a collection of actors. And Christopher Walken, his dissolute mobster character ads another great performance to a career of off-beat performances. Garcia has the swagger of Jimmy the Saint. You don't see him on in much else, although he's become the Saint of Hollywood with his varied performances, starting with The Godfather. And the bedroom scene with Treat Williams' character. What an over-the-top nutcase. I like this off-beat movie in the same way I like Two Days in the Valley. Lots of great actors performing in parts that add up to a great outcome. "},{"Title":"Life and death","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" If you look at the tagline, or the summary of this movie, you won't get to the core of it. This movie is about life and death. It takes a number of characters, and in a short amount of time is able to show you their ideas and philosphies on life. Such things come to one's mind when they're dying whether that's by disease or by an inevitable murder. This movie had a lot of elements the writer wanted to get across, concepts of life regarding happiness, love, etc. And the movie addresses them through different characters in a short amount of time.Great casting job, all the acting was great. Colorful but realistic characters. A setting not popular in movies modern day Denver. Rent or buy it. "},{"Title":"Give It A Name","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I recently discovered this film, on a recommendation from a friend, and while it is overwritten, in parts slow, runs a half and hour too long, has unnecessary sub-plots and tries too hard to be slick (dialogue, visuals and character actors), I got to admit it has a way of sticking with you.I won't defend it to those whose don't get the message (and it does have a message - hint it's Piece's speech to Jimmy and in the words from the customers at Jimmy's business) but as a fan of 1940 - 50s film noir this movie has the heart lacking in most modern noirs. True noir is the realization that no matter what your good intentions, your best efforts, your thinking it through looking for an exit, when fate puts a finger on you....you're going down. Thankfully, the film doesn't cop out (well maybe a little in the boat drinks scene at the end) like most modern noir (LA CONFIDENTIAL to name one). In true noir fashion everybody dies in the end.Yes, it seems like it's channeling Tarantino (the truth is it was written well before PULP FICTION) nevertheless the soul of the film is the turmoil within Jimmy. Like a cancer patient that's been given the bad news...First there's denial, then anger, and finally acceptance. Everybody's a sucker for a romance (especially with women who look like Gabielle Adwar) and the film works best when it concentrates on their doomed relationship. Jimmy thinks he's different because he thinks he can change his life and his fate, but its not possible, he finally realizes that, closes his accounts and accept it. There's a good film in there once you weed through the extranious crap, watch it a second time and you might understand it's truth you got to live each day like it's your last because one day it will be. "},{"Title":"You watch it for the actors","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that came in the wake of Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction, with cool-looking people dressed in suits going around killing each other. Like many of these movies it has a beautiful cast but story-wise lacks just that little extra that would lift it from the Valley of Average Movies. Andy Garcia is a fine hero, Chris Walken is a wonderful villain and Gabrielle Anwar is a beautiful love-interest (even sporting a Norwegian name, Dagney!). But the only time there is any real zing and panache is when Walken does his thing, and whenever Treat Williams and Steve Buscemi are on-screen.Williams gives a refreshing turn as 'Critical Bill', a man who thinks with his fists (you should see what he does at the mortuary where he works) and delivers such over-the-top lines like I am Godzilla, you are Japaaan! with great gusto. Buscemi is a cold-blooded hit-man who's willing to shoot you up the ass just so you can take an extra twenty minutes to die a most painful death. Yes, there is something rotten in the state of Colorado.But director Gary Fleder doesn't manage to build any real tension, maybe because the story doesn't ring true. It goes off to a great start, with a dirty job that goes terribly wrong, but as the rest of the plot plays out it becomes evident that the only true climax of the movie was the above mentioned scene. The remaining hour is sadly predictable, and there are too many easy solutions plot-wise. How did you find me? asks one character who's gone underground to escape the wrath of 'The Man with the Plan' (Walken). Good question, I was wondering that very same thing! Of course the movie jump-cuts to the characters talking on another subject, thus by-passing tricky questions like that. Maybe the film-makers would argue that it isn't about these small things, but I disagree. This is all sand in the machinery and in the end it bogs down a cinematic journey that should have been great. But again you find yourself watching because of that classy cast.Director Fleder of course, would go on to do greater things, such as Kiss the Girls and Runaway Jury. Screenwriter Scott Rosenberg would go on and write Con Air, High Fidelity and uhm... eh... Kangaroo Jack, but that's besides the point.In the end, Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead is all about style, great actors, and very little else. Oh, and I guess it's worth the price alone just to witness the scene where Treat Williams describes what it's like to eat s***.I kid you not, he really does.6/10 "},{"Title":"A startlingly original and brilliant gangster movie","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gary Fleder unique directorial style, and the stellar cast make Things to do in Denver one of the greatest post modern crime movies.What makes Things to do in Denver positively glow, is its originality. Rather than it being based around a simple drugs deal, or one particular gang seeking a greater share of the market, it begins with an apparent loser attempting to molest a schoolgirl. We later learn that this loser is the son of The Man With The Plan (Christopher Walken) a paraplegic crime boss who has quite tangibly had his own fall from grace, and this recent incident involving his son is the stick that broke the camels back. So he calls on Jimmy The Saint (Andy Garcia) to help put things right. Without revealing too much, this particular job goes badly wrong, and from this point the purpose of the title begins to materialise.Things to do in Denver is a character driven black comedy/gangster thriller with startling originality. The style is much more atmospheric than any other modern crime drama, and the unlikeliness of the scenario gives it an appeal that cannot even be matched by Tarantino movies. And then the assemblage of memorable characters. Christopher Walken's sinister character undeniably steals the show with his unrestrained crudeness. Andy Garcia throws in a truly soulful performance and makes you wonder how a guy so nice is involved with Denver's underworld. Then there is Treat Williams unstable Critical Bill, a man who works out by using corpses as punching bags.However, what really elevates Things to do in Denver is its almost haunting quality. Andy Garcia's day job is an afterlife advice center, and it brings to mind thoughts of how one should best spend ones life, an unusual message from such a film.In short, Things to do in Denver is an atmospheric and darkly humorous crime drama that should not be missed.  "},{"Title":"Good crime hokum stuff","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although I've seen several of these movies in the line of Things to Do in Denver When You're Dead like Goodfellas it wasn't bad at all.The greatest thing about this movie was the cast that has the names of some very good actors like Christopher Walken and Steve Buscemi.These two actors alone can save an entire movie which wasn't necessary in this case.The film has a solid but unlikely story which keeps one watching for 2 hours.It is said that the movie is a rip-off of Tarantino classics like Pulp Fiction and Resevoir Dogs.Well,the claim that it is a rip-off of Pulp Fiction is ridiculous since the two movies have got no real resemblance  except the appearance on both films by the two actors named above.The resemblance with Resevoir Dogs is more likely although I would say that that would mean an immediate resemblance to The Killing(1956) by Stanley Kubrick since Tarantino's breakthrough movie is based on this classic.To the victor go the spoils and since a lot of people seem to forget the importance of Kubrick's movie on modern crime films I think it is necessary to say it.Anyway,this movie in my humble view stands alone.It same some really funny moments (especially when Steve Buscemi appears on the screen) and some really violent ones.The acting overall makes it better than it really is but that's no critic since good acting is always a plus.Overall,entertaining stuff but not the material of a classic (or a second viewing for that matter).  7/10 "},{"Title":"Not very original, but certainly entertaining","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The title is interesting in a certain way. You want to know what this movie is about. I was quite curious and while watching it I must say I was not disappointed. The movie is not very original and we see and hear things we recognize but it is all done in a way that I liked.Jimmy the Saint (Andy Garcia) once was a criminal but now he has his own company and wants to go straight. He has to do something for the big boss in Denver, the Man With the Plan (Christopher Walken), and it is made sure he will do the job. He rounds up a couple of his old friends including Critical Bill (Treat Williams), Pieces (Christopher Lloyd), Franchise (William Forsythe) and Easy Wind (Bill Nunn) and they do the job. Because Critical Bill loses his temper things go wrong and their lives are in danger, since the Man With the Plan is not a forgiving man. An assassin named Mister Shhh (Steve Buscemi) is coming for them.There is also some romance. A girl named Dagney (Gabrielle Anwar) comes in Jimmy's life, of course at the wrong time. There is also a hooker played by Fairuza Balk who knows Jimmy. When things are getting harder for Jimmy he kind of depends on her. How I mean this exactly is for you to see.A movie with an unoriginal but pretty nice screenplay, directed by Gary Fleder in a pretty cool way, with dialogue that makes sure we have a lot of nice quotes, with a good Andy Garcia and even better small parts for Walken (who makes every movie he is in entertaining) and Steve Buscemi. Definitely entertaining, just don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Old school gangsta rap featuring 5 gangsta saps!","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" They were busted before they even got started! When Critcal Bill (Treat W.) got the go-ahead from Jimmy to be a part of the pullover, it was curtains from the jump!What can you say about this movie except that it is entirely entertaining, containing large doses of dark humor, fresh old school gangsta rap, pathos, romance, crime drama, abstract next-world encounters, et al. As Jimmy the Saint, Andy Garcia pulls off a brilliant character portrayal. His relationships with his crew, the 2 different women, with Chris Walken, Walken's son, etc., show him having to encompass a range of emotions and inner strength to merely survive all the madness of the continual goings-on. The rest of the cast, especially the crew, gets raves for their unique characterizations, each of which were portrayed with sensitivity and depth. Note the memory back-in-the-day re-hash of Pieces with his gangsta hat; Critical Bill in the mortuary punching the corpse; Jimmy translating the song in Italian for Dagney, just to name a few examples.Both female roles, each of which reflected diametrically opposite characterizations, were portrayed extremely well by their respective stars, Fairuza Balk, the street chick and Gabrielle Anwar, the upscale ski instructress and primary love interest.But I am saving the best for last Jack Warden, with poignant narrative, interspersing dark humor with interpretations of gangsta slang and in general great story line development, greatly enhances an already engrossing movie. Always a pleasure to watch over again.Boat Drinks! Salud! "},{"Title":"Beneath the Slim there is a Soul","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a dirty, ugly film with a message beneath all of the muck. Some of the language and situations are gratuitous but there is a thread of truth-seeking and soul-searching that runs through the movie. Most of the performances are up to snuff.  I think that the film industry should make better use of characters like BILL NUNN.  I'm tired of Christopher Walken crawling his way through villianous roles (Harvey Keitel is another one). He seems to be phoning in alot of his performances lately.  Andy Garcia is so much a good actor as he is a unique actor. He brings something to the screen that is different if not believable. Fairuza Balk's work I'm not so familiar with but she turned in a good performance as the crack whore with potential. If you can wade through the sewage, this is a film worth watching. "}{"Title":"Interesting but unfocused","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is good in parts but absolutely terrible in others.  It's got all the ingredients for a potentially good move.  A great cast (especially Walken in one of his creepiest roles yet), an interesting premise, and some really great dialogue.  Yet, the parts never quite combine into any sort of a whole.  What this movie needs is some focus.  There is far too much time wasted on unneccesary subplots. "},{"Title":"Great cast, disappointing movie.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead' is a disappointing movie that really should have been much better. It starts off well, Tom Waits on the soundtrack, and an extremely impressive cast in the credits (the great bunch of character actors displaying their chops is the best thing about this movie, and still enough reason to watch it despite its flaws). The initial premise (an ex-gangster lured back into the life for one more job) is a bit tired, but could have been given a fresh spin with a better script. Unfortunately this isn't the case. Around the halfway point the movie loses its way, and limps along in quite a dull fashion. Andy Garcia was okay in 'The Untouchables' and 'The Godfather 3', and he is okay here, but just that, OKAY, not much more. The supporting cast outshine him, especially Christopher Lloyd, William Forsythe and Treat Williams. The latter in particular is wonderful, with a really out there character! Steve Buscemi is also pretty cool playing hitman Mr. Shhh. Best of the lot however is Christopher Walken. Walken has played some real slimeballs in his career, but his sinister paraplegic The Man With The Plan tops his previous roles in this vein like his cold blooded Coccotti in 'True Romance' or the mysterious Robert in 'The Comfort Of Strangers'. Walken steals every scene he is in, and is really a joy to watch.  If you are a big fan of Walken 'TTDIDWYD' is an absolute must see! Otherwise it's a mediocre post-Scorsese, post-Tarantino crime movie that never really takes off. I've seen much worse in this genre, but more to the point, I've also seen MUCH better! "},{"Title":"Violent, ultra-cool, super slick dissection of how crime doesn't pay.","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  An intense and interesting character study, `Things To do in Denver When You're Dead' succeeds on almost every level. While it is a little hard to grip at first, after the series of introductions, the film picks up at a rapid rate. While the plot, overtones and overall summary seem vaguely familiar to that of movies such as `Clockers' and `Reservoir Dogs', the film takes on its own course and doesn't seem like a rip-off.Another the thing I liked is the way the film seemed poetic in its narrative and turn of events. It's a gangster movie but it also has heart. While it has its cool and ultra-slick style, it is still a rather tragic story. It is perfectly timed and is very careful not to wear out its welcome and keep in with the audience. Some similarly themed films can be boring and often complicated, but `Things To do' gets to the point and follows along in a very unique way. And with a cast like this, what's on screen is never boring. Andy Garcia perfectly fits in with the moody atmosphere and is a suitable lead. The rest of `the team' consists of Christopher Lloyd, Treat Williams, William Forsythe and Bill Nunn. They do their required job but also bring human qualities to their roles. Something you don't come across very often. Steve Buscemi takes on the part of the hit man assigned to kill them all. He doesn't say a single word but does a subtly good job. The female cast including Fairuza Balk (Almost Famous) and Jenny McCarthy (Scream 3) don't do much with their roles, which is a letdown. Christopher Walken is always reliable in movies like this and is excellent as usual, bringing in his routine as the twitchy psycho. It all boils down to a conclusion that wouldn't be classified as your typical Hollywood ending. However, it does seem appropriate given all that has gone before. The film is pretty much a series of important dilemmas that escalate to a satisfying climax. So in total, `Things to do in Denver When You're Dead' works very well as both a humane drama and a slick gangster flick. The ends justify the means so I highly recommend this movie. I give it 7.6/10.  "},{"Title":"this movie is under rated","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I started watching this on a tape my dad taped off of cable. We were unpleasently suprised when we found out that the ending was missing when we got to the end of it (it was replaced by a member of member of my house playing super mario brothers). So, we rented the movie and saw the ending. And I don't think I uderstood it more for seeing it. This is more then just a violent and profane action movie, it's a movie that makes you say huh? and keeps you entertained. Highly recomended. 10/10 "},{"Title":"WOW, A B-MOVIE MEANT TO BE A CLASSIC","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When this movie first came out, I saw it twice in two days. Why? Simply, because it's... cool. Not special, although unforgettable opening scene (camera movement above the car); not an ordinary, though romantic love story with a perfect pick Gabrielle Anwar; appearance of Steve Buscemi (in one of his best editions); Andy Garcia, who gives a whole new meaning to the word class; likeable criminal characters; and finally, a superb final scene...a boat drink. Sadly, now they don't made such a classy and cool movies. And this one could easily qualify with other nineties classic (Pulp fiction, The Usual suspect, Casino,...) and it surely beats the modern stuff. My recommendation...rent it, especially if you are in gangster type of mood)9 out of 10 (almost 10...let say 9.8) "},{"Title":"Garcia is tough!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The strong performance and presence on the screen by Garcia, joint to the always cold blood Walken, makes the movie a exciting thriller. It's a magnificent assembled cast Buscemi, Lloyd, Forsythe, Williams, Nunn, and the charm and breath-taking beauty of always sensual Grabielle Anwar give the movie a strong romantic weight. "},{"Title":"An outstanding movie","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved it!!!!! This movie has so many good actors in it and they all do a superb job. The personalities of each person is extremely well shown,and you get the chance to feel sorry for almost all of them,because the movie also has a sad and tragic atmosphere.It shows that it isn't always a happy ending for the good guys.It's easy to tell that they have used a lot of time coming up with the dialogues for all the characters,because they all really help to draw you into the movie. A dialogue that I found really funny,was when Critical Bill said to mr.Shh I'm Godzilla and you're Japan!I promise you that you will enjoy the scene when he says that,because it is really surprising and funny. Christopher Walken also plays a very uniq role as The man with the planGo out and buy this movie now,I'll promise you that you want regret it.One of my favourite -)  "},{"Title":"Pretty cool","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Don't try and compare this movie, especially to anything 'Tarantino-esque'. It should be viewed and judged on its own merit, and as such, I think, is a pretty cool effort.Now, it helps if you like Andy Garcia, and if you do, you'll find a lot to enjoy about this movie. Christopher Walken has a role that is almost a clone of his character in Suicide Kings, and as usual is menacingly great. All the actors turn in fine performances, and the story has a fair sprinkling of unusual twists and believable characters to keep the viewer throughly engaged throughout.It kinda lays on the 'choose-life' antics a little thick in places, but the audience is always warmed into it, rather than preached at I feel.Go rent it and keep an open mind. "},{"Title":"Crime movies are only getting better!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie has a strange title, but it's still a fantastic movie. Andy Garcia's best I think. Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead has a great story, great acting, and, well it's just great. The Jimmy The Saint character is very powerful. I really liked this movie, maybe I'm just a a little biased since crime is my favorite genre, so I say, go watch it if you haven't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"Intelligent and stylish, it will entertain and surprise right to the very end.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although this film starts looking like a gangster movie from early on, it soon shatters that illusion. Cleverly written with unique and witty dialog, it soon shows more meat and integrity than at first glance. Everything seems to go wrong for Jimmy The Saint and his team, and soon self-preservation and revenge are on their minds. Andy Garcia is understated, quiet and controlled throughout with a hidden aggression that only comes out when his character really gets cornered. Supporting cast is great, with the crazy Critical Bill and the brilliant Christopher Walken as the Boss, as evil as ever, and Steve Buscemi as a chillingly effective contract killer. The story builds frustration as Jimmy refuses to leave Denver while all around him comes crashing down, and as the violence grows and the impending conclusion draws nearer, a quietly played love story passes us by. Intelligent and stylish, this thriller will entertain and surprise right to the very end. Even if the phrase Give it a name does end up annoying you after its 50th use in as many seconds before disappearing forever. "}{"Title":"A Great Original Plot With Top Performances","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"   A great cast including Andy Garcia(the godfather part 3), William Forsthye(the rock), Christopher Lloyd(back to the future), Bill Nunn(he got game), Bill Cobbs(i still know what you did last summer), Christopher Walken(true romance), Steve Buscemi(pulp fiction) and Treat Williams(deep end of the ocean) make this a brilliant crime thriller with amazing performances from Garcia, Williams, Lloyd and Walken in particular. The dialogue is smart, the action is classic and the story is original. I love gangster films and this one scores quite highly for me. Next to State Of Grace, At Close Range, Goodfellas, Casino and The Godfather Series, this film is one of the greatest mob films I have ever watched. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"Great Romantic and melancholy, but also thrilling","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Andy Garcia He LOVES Dagney!! You can feel this in every picture of this movie.  And he hates his job!  He never wanted to do any crime, but he had to. So he didn't save his life, his friends' lifes were more important for him.If you wanna see a movie which will catch you in every minute, watch this! "},{"Title":"Good..not great","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Things to do in Denver is one of those well written, well acted and overall good movie which for some reason comes up short overall.  This is not a Reservoir Dogs or Pulp Fiction but it is fairly good.  The one-liners, mannerisms and expressions are truly original.  Some actors such as Andy Garcia and Treat Williams play their roles to perfection.  However, this small film tried too hard.  The romantic aspect was copied from virtually every film noir and conclusions seemed rushed and not really thought out. All in all however a good film due to the great dialogue from Scott Rosenberg. "},{"Title":"wonder-inducing, surrealistic at times - incredible","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this is more than just a film.. don't get me wrong- there is no deep meaning to be had. just an almost unforgettable experiencethere is so much in it that you repeat to yourself later, weeks after seeing it, in the middle of something totally unrelated, and find yourself agreeing with. comments, both literal and situation-based on relationships, mortality, and  humanity. emotion-packed, it will drag you through the life of jimmy the saint so beautifully and effectively that you find yourself in tears by the 3/4 mark, forget the end.the lighting, the acting, the plot, the writing (different from plot), the cast, jimmy the saint, and dagne are  reasons to see it. but if that's not enough, see it  for the lingo, which, incidentally, has become the basis for inter-employee communication at bread and circus in wellesley...those who have seen its glory at bread and circus there is a man named jimmy c. i'll give you three guesses as to what he's now known as.. give it a name. attn critical bill lives! i know the guy- name's john.. strange world..-adam, unable to decide between buckwheats and boat drinks "},{"Title":"A Tear-jerker to watch over and over","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After having just finished Things to do in Denver When your Dead for the 5th time, I have to gush about how great it is.  In the same category as the fabulous Carlitos Way, this film speaks volumes about friendship, love, and consequences.  The dialogue is wonderful (I am Godzilla, You are Japan, or You're a Waltz, Jimmy), and must be viewed more than once to get the full impact of the story.  If you were questioning it the first time, go back and watch it again.  It's one for your home library if ever there was one.  Boat Drinks! "},{"Title":"How many times?","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  How many times do I need to watch this movie? Though it is a good movie, though not brilliant, I keep finding myself watching it to try to understand the end, I think I understand but every time I think about it the less convinced I am. The cast all perform incredibly well and their characters come across as believable, especially Walkens crippled crime boss. I would recommend this movie to anyone, just to see the end. "},{"Title":"Without the monologue at the end it would have been utterly mediocre.","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's apparently not much to do. Pretty good premise, a man running a messages from the afterlife clinic has mob ties that he can't get out of, ok. Pretty good cast, Andy Garcia, Chris Lloyd, Steve Buscemi and Chris Walken as the quadrapalegic crime boss, ok. It's hard to pinpoint exactly where this movie went south, but my guess is somewhere in the writing process when a premise/plot has to be turned into 2 hours worth of material.  A bit of a disappointment, several scenes seem pretty pointless, but fine performances and a surprisingly almost wonderful ending nearly save the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Jimmy the Saint tries to make it right in Denver before he's dead","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*Jimmy the Saint is on the dangle. The Man with the Plan is paying 50 large for an action. Jimmy gets together a crew. He ropes in all the pig brothers from back in the day Critical Bill, Franchise, Pieces and Easy Wind.  They screw up the job and become Buckwheat's. Buckwheat's! Jimmy the Saint has things to do in Denver before he's dead. Someday he'll have his boat drinks.Do real gangsters talk like this or only hyper movie gangsters? If the above dialogue amuses you, you may like this movie. Jimmy the Saint and crew botch a job for the boss and talk and talk about it. I liked the scenes where they would huddle together to have their skull sessions. If you're not in the mood for a gangster vocabulary lesson, stay away.The rest of the movie is not that interesting. Jimmy has a love interest which goes nowhere. We get to see scenes from Jimmy's business which also go nowhere. There are some violent spots but nothing too outrageous. The only thing good about this flick is the dialogue. But even that tends to wear out its welcome. Still, it's worth a look if you like gangster movies.  "},{"Title":"Get out of Denver","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead. Some is self-explanatory, some is plot and the rest might aswell be improvisation. The cast of characters features some seasoned actors, (Garcia, Walken, Treat), and some bizarre hillbilly comedy, but it is nevertheless a B- quality film. The storyline is surprisingly simple, considering all Jimmy (The Saint) Tosnia must do is round up his old clique of hoods for one last 'action', as The Man With The Plan (Walken) puts it, and then split the proceeds amongst them. The problem is, the old gang (who greet themselves with a palm-against-palm sequence) have gotten rusty over the years, and considerably more psychotic aswell. Suffice it to say, the plot turns fatally sour when the gangsters are marked for death, Jimmy included, for their role in the abortive 'action'. To spare his old pals, Jimmy pleads for them to be eloped out of Denver in order to spare them, and he would then acquiesce and leave aswell. His old boss agrees, and Jimmy now sets in charge of doing his business.      The problem with the film, apart from the irrelevant love-story/prostitute friend subplots, is that it has no purpose. Once the climax of the film occurs, the bumbling group of desperados refuse to spare their lives, instead vowing war against the powerful local boss (Walken) and causing Jimmy as much heartburn as possible. After seeing the film, you feel no empathy for any of the characters, as they are all con-men, liars, 'fecal freaks' as Easy-Wind (Bill Nunn) puts it, who are out uniquely to save their own skin and therefore will kill at no cost to their own health. This being said, it discredits Jimmy's efforts to save them, and makes him look like a con-man himself, attempting to win over the praise of his film buddies such as the milkshake bartender and the old mob crony Joe, who sits in the corner of the bar, telling mob stories. Nothing can be learnt, nor repeated about the film, as it is a macabre tale of betrayal, savagery, coprophilia, and countless other perversions, all carefully intertwined in Gary Fleder's scriptline. Wether the actors or the director knew the film would be ill-received is unclear, as they all seem to have a great time anyway. And this is what matters in Hollywood today, isn't it?6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Goodfellas meets Pulp Fiction","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one great film, the characters, the dialogue, the setting, the everthing. It has a power to it, a theme of redemption and sacrifice, of trying to discover this life through the lives these people are living. Jimmy 'The saint' is your classic man on a moral mission, he tries to love, to help , to leave who he,was but who he is won't allow it. Every character is perfect, and its the most original dialogue I've heard since Heathers. A gangster film with a deeper meaning, 'The Thin Red Line' of the Gangster/crime genre. "}{"Title":"The best of the Tarantino rip-offs!","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am probably the world's largest fan of Quentin Tarantino's work. As much as I'd like to tell you that this great film is not a Tarantino rip-off and has been wrongly labeled, I cannot. But of all the rip-offs to date (Suicide Kings, Body Count, Two Days in the Valley, Truth or Consequences, NM, etc.), this is the best. It was written by Scott Rosenberg, who is a genuinely talented writer -- and remember, there is nothing wrong with a good writer crafting rip-offs...look at John Sayles' JAWS exploitations. Gary Fleder is a fine director (see also KISS THE GIRLS) and this ensemble cast is first rate. This film is wonderful, I think. Bravo! No buckwheats for the filmmakers here... "},{"Title":"Things to do wherever you are before watching that.","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A whole lot indeed!Some users evoke Reservoir dogs as a pattern for this movie.I would rather go as far as to write that influences actually come from long ago.John Huston's universe,and his losers are not far awaythe asphalt jungle(1950)comes to mind.The philosophical pretensions of things to do are exactly what Huston tried to say to us during his brilliant career,but with more aplomb and more wisdom too because Huston was a genuine creatorman is bound to fail,he may try his best to brave fate,he's doomed anyway.And Huston did not need any video to make us comprehend.Another strong influence is Robert Wise's film noir ,mainly odds against tomorrowthere's a black man and a racist in Garcia's pitiful team (remember Belafonte and Ryan),and like Wise,the director tries hard to make the characters ' psychology sound deep.The good cast ,including Garcia,Walken (he really gives the jitters here),Bucemi and others deserved better than this slow-moving and meandering plot.Even the video tapes idea is borrowed from My life ,with M.Keaton and N.Kidman.The mission is inept,the double murder far-fetched and the love affair tedious as hell.Yes ,there are a lotta things to do before watching that. "},{"Title":"Decent film, but with a few obvious flaws.","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" While the movie itself is well-constructed, the characters universally aptly portrayed, and the atmosphere quite spectacular, there are a few things that I always warn friends about when approaching this movie.First of all, the characters ARE caricatures. In more than one case, a character is barely more than a sketch, without so much as a name. The writer clearly had ideas for how he wanted to personify these concepts, and the actors did fantastic work with them, but all you need to do is go to the 'cast and crew' page and look at the NAMES of the characters to understand more than one role that's played in the movie itself.Secondly, and far more annoying, is the attempt to create an atmosphere of authenticity by making up something that's supposed to be 'prison slang'. It happens more than once - some phrase that you've never heard before is used, the old man narrating the story pauses, we're brought crashing back to the wraparound story as the old man telling this to the kids explains the obscure meaning of this phrase or that name, or some other thing. See, kids, they'd say 'dingleberries' when things were going wrong, because when you're being raped in prison, the last thing you want are some dingleberries back there . . .And I forgot what the third thing was. But I will say that this movie singlehandedly changed my opinion of Christopher Lloyd (for the better). It's worth at least one viewing, and I'm sure you'll enjoy it. If you're like me though, you'll think about a few bits of it after it's over and shake your head at the silliness of them. 'Boat drinks'? What the HELL?! "},{"Title":"Has one of my favorite all time lines...","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie itself is pretty good, but Don Cheadle in one of his early roles delivers one of the best lines that is very easy to miss. He plays a henchman (Rooster) to a crime boss (Baby Sinister) having a philosophical discussion on how technology will change the way business is done. The FTP/FTD confusion was priceless Baby Sinister The fact of the matter is by the year 2000 every city will be black. Thanks to the fax, the modem, conference call, federal-f**king express, the beast will be able to conduct his business from his home in the white suburb leaving the city a great wide warzone full of nuclear brothers.Rooster That's what I'm saying man, the fax, modem, FTD...Baby Sinister What the f**k you talking about, FTD? Rooster You got to have flowers in the warzone, Baby.Classic... "},{"Title":"so awesome, yet so little known","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" just as i said. not enough people know about this film. i am always happy to find people to share quotes from this film. from the amazing acting of each of the actors, to the easiness in which all is crapped up, to movie just leaves you mesmerized. it is a movie not about a specific plot, because than you might sit and be amazed at the stupidity of many characters. it is about people, Andy relations, and the past. about a time when things had class. the amazing opening scene stands in direct opposite to Andy Garcia's first appearance, and thus class is described. we want to be part of that gang in their good old days. i use phrases from this film so often. obviously it will be compared to pulp fiction and such, yet it is so much easier on the eyes and so much warmer on the heart. due to this film i have some respect to Andy Garcia who's usually too slick, in my view. in short, buy this film, watch it several times and tell your friends boat drinks. "},{"Title":"On My List","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This Film has been a favorite of mine since its release in the 90's. Good casting, great dialog, and plot line make for a good time over and over again. Also as a Colorado Native, its fun seeing Denver Locations in a Hollywood Feature.An Interesting FactThe Adult theater that employs Pieces as a projectionist, Is The BlueBird Theater Located on COLFAX just east of capitol hill in Denver. In the 1970's It was a regular Cinema, where the infamous John Hinkley viewed Scorcese's Taxi Driver before becoming infatuated w/ Jodi Foster, and attempting to assassinate President Reagan. Today the BlueBird Is one of Denver's hot local music venues. "},{"Title":"Great Script, Okay Movie","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Lines from this movie stuck in my head for years, so I had to go back and rewatch it. Watching it again almost 10 years later, it was a completely different film, of course, and I'm not entirely sure if that's a good thing.Scott Rosenberg can write. Looking at his filmography, you may not be entirely convinced, but if this script was his baby (made with his friend Gary Fleder), then it shows. Christopher Walken kind of phones it in, but it's a great little crime story anyway, despite the obvious handicap of Denver's complete lack of dangerousness (compared to, say, Vegas, or Chicago). Eh, what can you do, it's the name of the song.Looking at Gary Fleder's filmography, on the other hand, is to look down the barrel of mediocrity. He's not incredibly talented (though the 'Godzilla, Japan' scene still made me fall out of my chair), and though the lighting in many scenes seems right on, the camera angles do not at all create the sense of noir, the sense of dread (or, where appropriate, the sense of fun) that this story requires. Just listening to Jimmy's lines, I think there was a definite theme of aging, of fear of death, of I'm not sure what. He tries to give things to his friends many times, before one finally accepts; Fleder seems to have missed this key theme, instead shooting the entire movie like it was written and leaving very little of himself behind, other than the mighty fine soundtrack, and a poor sense of how to assemble scenes into a cohesive whole.If you're a film student, or a film maker, this is a very good script worth dusting off, but as a film, I can't recommend it. Look for a before-he-was-famous cameo from Don Cheadle, if you want to bother. "},{"Title":"Fantastic black comedy!","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Obviously,anyone who liked Reservoir Dogs is gonna like this film.The acting is top-drawer,and whether the depth of its reflections on mortality(and immortality?)are that profound,might be the point of contention for those who liked,or disliked the movie.I felt the film's strength was the reality of crazed desperation in the characters,played by some of the greats in modern film.It goes without saying that Christopher Walken's quadrapalegic crime lord had the same fantastic,twisted,and arrogant evil most of his characters have.I also thought Treat Williams proved he could play a character with more diseased depth than I thought him capable of.I found only one serious break in the strand of plausibility in the movie.When Williams' has beaten and threatened the boyfriend at least twice(it's quite clear Williams is no one to screw with),the boyfriend persists in aggravating him,his last insult being,You dumb c__t.It strikes me that a guy who's a doctor,who we assume to be fairly stable,would commit something so close to suicide?It just doesn't play,and it's a bit of a plot contrivance.Otherwise,i thought it was pretty good. "},{"Title":"Garcia Defines Cool","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead...a title that will not be forgotten, just like the movie. The title alone makes you pick up the box just to see what this movie is about, and once you see the cast list you will find yourself at the register. Names like Garcia, Walken, and Buschemi, along with Lloyd and Williams...you can't go wrong. The cast lives up to their reputation also. The movie is dark and sinister, but comes off as a fast paced thriller. The writing is impressive and you'll find yourself trying to use the new dialect you picked up from conversations between Garcia and his partners...give it a name and buckwheats. But in reviewing this movie the fact of the matter is the performance of Andy Garcia was phenomenal. Garcia defines cool as Jimmy the Saint...smooth talking and sharp looking. To not like Andy Garcia in this movie is to not be a fan of good movies. Check this one out, the last few seconds of the movie alone is worth it! "},{"Title":"Who are they kidding?","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this before, all together too many times.  A film claims that a scene was supposed to take place in one location, but in fact, was filmed somewhere else.I have lived in Denver for over twenty years, and could only vaguely recognize a few filming locations.  By comparison, the entire film reeked of L.A.As best as I could tell, this film should have properly been called Ten things to do in LA, if your dead, while briefly passing through Denver.  "}{"Title":"Terribly Tarantino-esque","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's a new adjective in the English language Tarantino-esque.Ever since the impact of RESERVOIR DOGS, the dearest trend in moviedom is to manufacture bullet-ridden tales of crimes gone awry, full of wisecracking mobsters and hitmen, and the occasional plot hole, created by taking a copy of a screenplay, setting the food processor on puree and putting it in, going for ultra-hip non-linear storytelling. Even Tarantino is capable of re-patenting his own formula, as in PULP FICTION.Let's add to the heap, shall we?THINGS TO DO IN DENVER WHEN YOU'RE DEAD is certainly a catchy title. The fact that is set in Denver isn't particularly distinguishable. It bears the same problem as myriads of other films where the setting is both identified and the film is actually lensed there not enough of the city is actually shown to give one the sense of place. It may as well be set in Cincinnati. This may seem nitpicky, but it points out greater liabilities in the film, in terms of its lack of atmosphere and serious character development.Jimmy the Saint (Andy Garcia) is a smooth-talking clotheshorse who used to be a front man for the sinister mobster The Man With The Plan (Christopher Walken; how many more sinister mobster roles can I play?) Jimmy is now trying to go straight, but the boss calls him out for one last job. It's nothing drastic, it just entails scaring the rival suitor of the mobster's son's lady love.Jimmy chooses his crew, a band of ex-cons and misfits, including the porno projectionist Pieces (Christopher Lloyd), the scruffy trailer park denizen Franchise (William Forsythe), the seasoned homeboy Easy Wind (Bill Nunn), and the wiliest and funniest of the bunch, 'Critical' Bill Dooley, played to a T by Treat Williams.This motley bunch seems capable, but they botch the job and end up killing both the rival suitor, and the girl. This of course incurs the wrath of the Man, and he sends Mr. Shhh (Steve Buscemi), the 'most lethal contract killer west of the Mississippi'  to do them all in. The rest of the film explores the efforts of the various characters to survive.In particular, Jimmy has become infatuated with the stunning, unsuspecting Dagney, and has a hard time leaving town. Through it all, Joe Heff (Jack Warden) frequents a cafZ and narrates the story, which is a hackneyed device recalling bad theater productions where the most intelligible parts of the plot are written in the program notes. A talented screenwriter wouldn't need such a cheap prop to propel the story.There's nothing new here, even the hip dialogue has a forced feeling about it. It has good visuals, and moves along quite nicely, but it's disappointing and depressingly average, copping out in all of the expected places.Most of the characters don't make much of an impression at all, because almost every one of them is underdeveloped, the filmmakers relying almost solely on physical type to convey their personalities. They're all old stand-bys, with Garcia as a total dead space where there should be a strong lead.The exception to the norm is Critical Bill, pugilistic undertaker and the kind of snake-eating survivalist who would do well in the Special Forces. Bill will do anything to live, and his jury-rigged Rube Goldberg-esque device to snare the hitman proves it. He is the most well-rounded character in the whole charade, and Treat Williams hilariously depraved portrayal of him steals the show, though in this case, it's petty thievery. "},{"Title":"Colorful.","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Films that deal with a group of thugs seem to always have very colorful characterizations. I really enjoyed this movie alot, everyone in it looks to be having a blast. Andy Garcia is laid back, Treat Williams is out of control and Christopher Walken is amazing. The screenplay is written very well although I bet there was quite a bit of improvisation. My only real complaint about this film is its length. It could have been shorter by about 20 minutes, but if I knew everything I would be making films. Steve Buscemi is fun in a supporting role and the direction from Gary Fleder is very nice. This is one of those films where you quote lines from it for days after viewing. Boat Drinks Everyone!! "},{"Title":"Dark movie, with honest emotions.","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Things to do in Denver when you`r dead was a movie I had no high expectations of. I had never seen Andy Garcia in a movie, I only knew that Christopher Walken is good, so I gave it a whirl. When I pushed the stop button, and rewinded the tape at the end of the credits, I sat there and thought Yes, this was a very good movie.I enjoyed the movie a lot. The music is very good, and everything in the movie seems so professional, it's hard to believe that the actors were just acting, and the camera man was just filming. To say it like a kid Didn't this really happen? In our local newspapers, they sought to say that the movie has unnecessary violence in it. For some, maybe it does. But I really think that to tell a story, one has to also tell the whole story. Not leave out some parts because it is too violent. A story shouldn't have to change because the crowd disapproves. If you disagree with me, go watch the new Star Wars movie. The story there is told in a way so most people would go watch it.  Well, uhm, I'm starting to draw this a bit out of proportion anyway.The movie deserves a lot of credit for being different, and to the actors Bravo! One minus is that only the soundtrack got  released. If anything, the score should have gotten a bit more attention since everybody seems to be releasing scores these days. But I guess that's a matter they call trivial.  "},{"Title":"The ACTING in this Movie was a MIND BLOWER!!!!","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found myself glued to WHAT TO DO IN DENVER WHEN YOU'RE DEAD, because the ACTING was just BRILLIANT! Each and every actor, seemed to become the character that they were portraying in this extremely ABSORBING and Well Directed film! In fact, I'll never forget some of the scenes with Andy Garcia and Christopher Walken!  So if you enjoy great acting and taut drama, then this truly is a must see Movie!!!   "},{"Title":"Incredible performances by all.","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just read a review where someone said that this movie is the Thin Red Line of gangster flicks. Pal, the rest of your review was spot-on, but Things To Do is not a pretentious waste of time like Thin Red Line was. Things To Do is a deep movie while Thin Red Line tries and desperately wants to be. Things To Do is one of those movies that is intelligent, well-written and has a sense of coherence, none of which can be found in Thin Red Line, except for an inkling of intelligence. Don't get me wrong, I'm not slamming the review, I'd just rather you compare the film to something a little more watchable because a lot of people who read your review who have seen the Thin Red Line will probably avoid it. I can't think of too many people who were able to sit through it, can you? I invite any responses to this matter, any of which you can send to me at SPOOKYSCRIBE@YAHOO.COM. As for my rating of Things To Do... ****1/2 out of *****. It's that good and it really is a shame that not too many people have seen it. I would say that this movie is right up there with State of Grace, one of my all-time fave gangster flicks.  "},{"Title":"Give it a rest","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie just tries way too hard to be cool. This movie is the guy who smokes at school and gets into a coughing fit. The concept is almost endearingly simple, a guy needs money, does a criminal activity, things go wrong, people start talking in one-liners. Because even completely ripping of Tarantino can prove to be a challenging thing to do, the whole cunning dialogue thing loses steam after about twelve seconds. None of the lines are really memorable in any way. I have low demands, but if there's a running gag that just won't die about a fecal freak even I lose my patience with these makers. And what's up with the names everybody in this movie has? Jimmy The Saint? Mr. Shhhhhhh? Critical Bill? The Man With The Plan? They have got to be kidding me. The only good thing are the actors, who do a good job of saving what there is to be saved. Christopher Lloyd is awesome (even though he has to play a leper called I kid you not, Pieces), so obviously they kill him of first. Christopher Walken and Andy Garcia also have some nice interaction. They save this thing from being a complete trainwreck, but it's still really not fun to look at. "},{"Title":"Mediocre black-humoured mobster flick","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" ... or, 'things to do in the cinema when you're bored'. Actually it's not that bad, thanks to a sympathetic turn from Andy Garcia and a top-end frightener from Christopher Walken as an implacable, heartless mob baron. Jimmy 'The Saint' and his crew mangle a job as payment in lieu for a debt bought by The Man With The Plan (Walken - no paucity of silly names in this film). The consequences are set in stone and the five man crew have no hope.Given this dramatic cul-de-sac the film isn't a total disaster. Buscemi and Christopher Lloyd are predictably neurotic, owning the screen and setting up Garcia for a more lyric end to the film. Garcia's performance is lovely, melancholy but good humoured - and from beginning to end. The film, which also has it's fair share of serious violence, doesn't deserve it really! Fairuza Balk fulfils her ship-in-the-night role as Lucinda well enough. 4/10 "},{"Title":"The Tony Scottification of the seventies","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The saddest and most strained of all the Tarantino rip-offs that followed his meteoric success. All the hallmarks of pre-JACKIE BROWN Quentin--ziggety dialogue, the bracing use of faded macho character actors, outrageously dark situations and a Mark Fuhrmanesque heavy sprinkle of the N word--are brazenly in force here, but the effect is curdled, cloying. Tellingly, the screenwriter, Scott Rosenberg, who cooks up a whole baroque menu of cute catchphrases and zany quirks, was last represented by that cut-rate hunk of studio whoredom, DISTURBING BEHAVIOR. Seen four years later, the whole enterprise resembles the 1100 show of a Vegas troupe of celebrity impersonators.  "},{"Title":"A total waste of a good cast, and a waste of your time.","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps if you are dead and in Denver you could rent this movie, but people who are still alive should find something else to do.  Didn't the actors read the script before signing on?  This is one stupid movie that wastes the talents of some usually fine actors. "},{"Title":"Please don't watch this movie, it will only lower your IQ","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This might be one of the worst films I have ever seen. The story is terrible, completely unbelievable. The dialogue is terrible, the writer director seemed to just make up sayings, and greetings that didn't make any sense. I can't think of one enjoyable moment in this movie. I wish I had my 2 hours back. Do yourself a favor and skip this one, especially if you're looking for a gangster flick (as I have seen some people describe it). It is a slow moving quasi love story with little to no character or plot development. The people who made this movie should be ashamed of themselves. I might be biased because I read a few rave reviews about this movie, but don't believe them. "}{"Title":"What a waste of a storyline and talent","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film could have been so much better. The storyline is good and offered the potential for the making of an excellent film, but ultimately it disappointed, which was a real shame.I'll give you my opinion on what really let this film down. There were two things Andy Garcia - he's an average actor at best and here, he really spoilt the essence of the main character. He didn't have enough depth, conviction or raw energy needed for such a dark mob character. He put too much emphasis on typically ridiculous Hollywood style over-acting, and not enough to reflect what the character was about. Shame on the casting director for picking him. Someone more in the mould of Harvey Keitel or Gary Oldman would have been perfect.His relationship with the main lady - unlike other mob films where there is genuine development of a love interest, this film had a haphazard and an unconvincing romance story. In other films, like Carlito's way, Casino, Goodfellas, there was so much more on offer and the love interests became an integral part of the mobsters lives. Here, it was a dreary and irritating sideshow.There are very good parts of the film. Chrisopher Walken, who I am a big fan of, was excellent. His role as the crippled mob boss was perfectly cast and he played it superbly. He was suitably detached, unflinching, dark and menacing.Steve Buscemi, who I am also a fan of, was also excellent. He was also cast perfectly as the quiet, quirky yet violent hit man.Overall, the story line was good, Walken and Buscemi and some of the supporting actors were excellent, but the main character and the over-emphasis on style ultimately let this film down.Worth a watch, but I struggle to tell you much about it. For me, that's enough of a sign. "},{"Title":"the best movie i have ever seen","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Cast is great, there is a real spark between Garcia and Anwar! True story about life, do or die stuff!In one word movie is beautiful! the saint character that Andy are playing is small time gangster who are trying to succeed against all the odds.This is a true love story he will make her heaven or he will die trying(i think that this sentence is well know to most men).the saint is brave, romantic, smart.Dagny i so beautiful and tender!Piesces who is played by criss Lloyd is the oldest member of the gang who have some kind of problem with circulation, he's fingers are falling of and he work in some crappy porn cinema.Walken are playing man with plan and he send jimmy and the gang to do some dirty business for him and there problem begins! "},{"Title":"Better than a Horror flick.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is better than a horror flick because this movie entertains you. Even though It's about an ex-gangster Jimmy the Saint and his reunited buddies accidently killed two civilians and his buddies as well as himself have their lives on on the line, the blood in this film has a horror stylized blood in a underworld of crime setting.  This film will scare you and entertain you at the same time.  If you like Seven, Copycat, Scream, I Know What You Did Last Summer and the brutalized movie Casino, You'll enjoy this gore fest film. "},{"Title":"Give it a name - It fails to do what The Sopranos did so well","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" TTDIDWYD is only of any interest if you look for the parallels with The Sopranos - the cast, the pseudo-realistic style, the whole 'being a mobster is no picnic' shtick. The opening scene particularly, following Andy Garcia driving through suburbia with a hard urban soundtrack, is very suggestive of the Sopranos' opening credits.Apart from that, TTDIDWYD isn't much cop. Andy Garcia fails to generate any sympathy - or anti-sympathy - for the character because the script makes him out to be a moron, Christopher Walken fails to convince on any level whatsoever, and the way that 'Jimmy the Saint' sets himself up for catastrophe is so obvious that you get impatient to see how it all goes wrong. Let me be a cop, Jimmy!, says the super-flake Treat Williams. Oh, all right then!, says Jimmy. Idiot!, says the viewer.Only worth watching if you're a Sopranos fan wanting to see a sort of early failed attempt. "},{"Title":"The cast is better than the script","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you wanna have a great example how a brilliant cast can improve an average script watch this film Christopher Lloyd shows impressive that he is able for much more than playing the weird doc he did it in his Back to the future flicks, Treat Williams and William Forsythe are surprisingly good, and Christopher Walken and Steve Buscemi are as brilliant as ever although the last mentioned doesn´t say any word in the whole film..! The fees for all these actors maybe have been immense, so I think there was not enough money left for a good script The plot itself is sometimes melancholy, sometimes grotesque but never really interesting in any way! Some people might say this was a movie with subtle dialogues and humor... Well, that´s right, but mainly it´s missing in original ideas, surprises and change. Too often Things to do in Denver when you´re dead appears like a low budget production made for the video market that is casted with A-list actors... (6/10) "},{"Title":"you might object to this movie if you have any taste whatsoever","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a failure in every sense of the word. It tries so desperately to aquire the praise tarantino deserved so well. Instead it comes across as being naive and pretentious. The dialogue is absolutely laughable. I didn't think highly of Garcia to begin with, but this particular 'performance' has finally thrashed every last bit of credibility he had. Keep your day-job Andy!   "},{"Title":"With luck, die before you have to see this movie","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film at my husband's suggestion and hated it.  There are guy flicks that I like (Resevoir Dogs for example), but this ain't one of them.  The violence level is to be expected, and Steve Buscemi is his usual engaging self.  So much for the good points.  What really put me off this movie was the female characters.  Each is completely one-dimensional and fills space with all the umph of a zero.  Better not to have included any women in this outing rather than settle for such unworthy additions. If you're a male who wants to have something stupid running in the background while you access your computer, you may enjoy this movie.  All other potential viewers  avoid this turd.  "},{"Title":"Another Tarantino wannabe.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I wasn't thrilled by this movie, or even vaguely moved. I wasrestless and listless and found myself looking at the scenery andthe camera movement, a sure sign that it is not working on anylevel. As Emanuel Levy says in his book Cinema of Outsiders, thisfilm has a senseless narrative and flaunts an arrogant style, butlike The Usual Suspects, it's hollow at the center. I agree.        . "},{"Title":"Abysmal","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is exactly a film for the people who think that film history starts with Pulp Fiction. It's a cliche-ridden crime story with supposedly cool dialogues and sudden lapses into sentimentality. If one can watch Christopher Walker doing his psycho thing for umpteenth time and can buy Steve Buscemi as ruthless hitman, then one might enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"This is not good.","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe that 1000 of my fellow IMDb folk gave this movie a 7 or better. What is wrong with you?  This is a terrible movie; if you don't believe me, read the reviews!  The dialogue is infantile, the plot ridiculous ( why would Jimmy get 4 other crazy thugs, and split the $50,000., when he do it himself, or just hire one or two of the crazies for a couple of grand?)If you haven't seen it, please don't! I could go on for hours about how bad this movie is, and what a waste of acting talent, but I'll stop now.  "}{"Title":"Andy G. is pretty, but it doesn't make the movie any good...","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  1st watched 12/12/2003 -  3 out of 10(Dir-Gary Fleder) Andy G. is pretty, but it doesn't make the movie any good.  This movie with Andy Garcia isn't quite sure what it wants to be from the beginning to the end.  Is it a black comedy? Nope.  Is it a Love Story? Nope.  Is it a crime thriller? Nope.  Is it a good guy always wins, story? Nope.  What the movie is about is a bunch of old crooks, getting back together for one more job and it ends up going bad and then they are hunted down by the mobster who gave them the job.  There are some interesting character actors who do good in their roles mainly because they don't take themselves or their characters too seriously.   Specifically, Mister Shhhh played by Steve Buscemi and Critical Bill played by Treat Williams.  A wasted narrator(Jack Warden) walks us thru the story like we're talking about some classic people but we're really only talking about gangsters who were out for a buck.  Garcia seems to be giggling inside thru parts of this movie which takes away any semblance of reality and of course he gets a pretty girl but other than this there isn't much else to be said about this good title, but poor movie. "},{"Title":"There is an obvious reason WHY this one did not make it at the box-office...","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The very obvious reason this flick did not have box-office draw....?...they did not capitalize on the great song of the same title made popular by Warren Zevon. "},{"Title":"Dead on Arrival","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A friend recommended that I see this movie and I am sorry that I did. We start out with the excellent Jack Warden blabbing away for hours in a restaurant out in public about the criminal life of Jimmy the Saint, Andy Garcia's character. People involved in crime don't do this. We are introduced to a group of ex cons who have to do a job for a mob boss. These guys are supposed to be some sort of friends but I didn't believe it. First, one guy in this group is so crazy that I don't know why the others have anything to do with him. Next is the performance by Andy Garcia which just wasn't very effective. There is a hit man played by the great Steve Buscemi. He is supposed to be some sort of avenging angel but the role is ridiculous in this type of film. It would fit better in Terminator 3.I could go on but I'll just add that many very good actors, Christopher Walken, Bill Nunn and Christopher Lloyd couldn't help this turkey. I guess the topper for me was that the film makers had some sort of anal fixation. They were very concerned about what went in, bullets also charmingly called buckwheats and what went out. I understand that since Pulp Fiction, anything gross is supposed to be cool. Frankly, this Denver mess made Pulp Fiction look good. But if you compare Things to Do in Denver to the best crime films, Goodfellas or Casino, it is a piece of garbage. And since one character dies in garbage, maybe that is the best description of it.    "},{"Title":"Suicide Kings meets Goodfellows, worse than Either","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Some experiments from inexperienced writers and directors work. Some don't. The more they copy, the worse. This fails.There are some good ingredients here--Some good (but not great) actors.--Some interesting words.--The selfreferential device of a film of someone sentenced to die who happens to be a maker of films for people sentenced to die.But. The director is weak, so no ensemble emerges. Interesting words do not make for mastery of language. The use of the advice videos is clumsy, further confused by the lack of development in the narrator's (Warden's) character.There's nothing interesting here. No signs of promising talents to watch. That's a puzzlement, because this writer kid is all over the placeSuch drek as `Gone in Sixty Seconds' and `Conair,' the latter with a Mr Shhh/Buscemi character.But `High Fidelity' was really sharp. The self-reference worked there. `Beautiful Girls' was a well conceived vision.Just goes to show, I think how sometimes things fall one way, sometimes another when you are marginally competent.Walken's bound gangster was better written and performed in Suicide Kings. "},{"Title":"Tarantino Anyone ?","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've just seen THINGS TO DO IN DENVER WHEN YOU'RE DEAD and liked it a lot . However I've got a suspicion that 24 hours from now I'll like it a lot less than I do at this very moment . Indeed as I sit here writing this review my mind is increasingly filling up with the aspects I didn't like , things like... The rather simplistic plot . This movie is a very simple revenge thriller , maybe a little too simple and this probably explains why there's...Too many characters . Take Lucinda for example the street girl with a heart. Is there any reason for her to be in the movie except to provide a bitter sweet moment towards the end and to show Jimmy Tosnia also has a conscience. We know Jimmy is a great guy so the boardroom scene is unnecessary which adds to ...The movies running time . It's about half an hour too longThere's another slight problem and as many people have already pointed out it's that it's very similar to a Quintin Tarantino movie , perhaps too similar for THINGS TO DO IN DENVER WHEN YOU'RE DEAD to stand on its own two feet . Did anyone get the feeling that the character Dagney was written for Uma Thurman in mind ? No doubt when Uma was unavailable they cast an equally undernourished actress in the role . The musical score is very good but again is very unoriginal . In places it's almost identical to THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION but strange as it seems both films had different composersStill this is a good movie at mixing extreme violence with witty one liners. How witty ? Check this line   It's a liberal thing . One minute you're saving the rain forest and the next you're chugging c**k  , hey I'm telling you THINGS THE AVERAGE GREENPEACE MEMBER GETS UP TO would be an even better title for this movie  "},{"Title":"It takes a strong stomach to watch this film","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  My Tivo captured this film because I like Andy Garcia.  Once I started watching I couldn't stop--but be warned, it is a gruesome film.  One shot is of a friend of his who uses a dead body chained to the ceiling for a punching bag. The film is loaded by death.  Shootings, knifings, and beatings.  Watch it at your peril. "},{"Title":"They should change the title to Hey, look at me!  I'm so clever!","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm sick of movies that are all about showing off and not about telling a story.  It's great that you can write words like anon and put them into the mouths of gangsters but if it doesn't work dramatically (and trust me it doesn't) then stop trying to impress me and get on with the story.  Or, if you're not getting on with the story, at least have dialog that's interesting because the characters are interesting and not because the language itself is interesting.  I'd rather watch a dog play tricks. "},{"Title":"complete lack of moral compass","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not sure why films about the mob ever got so popular. I will admit that this film has a good cast. But since the characters are mostly lowlife criminals, why am I supposed to care about them? Organized crime is extremely depressing -- not something to make movies about. The story unfolds well enough, but the complete lack of moral compass that characterizes mobsters like these ruined it for me.I think time will cast the entire crime/noir/neo-noir genre in a strange light, and people will start wondering why films that wallow in gratuitous violence and organized crime were ever considered entertaining. Any thinking person will realize that America's slow decline throughout the twentieth century was the natural result of rampant criminality getting the upper hand. "},{"Title":"Andy Garcia","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  After the success of 'The Godfather Part 3', Andy Garcia went on to appear in 'Things to do in Denver when you're Dead' five years later. He would also appear alongside Laurence Fishburne in 'Hoodlum', but never quite made it to international fame through 'The Godfather' films in the same way that Al Pacino and De Niro did. "},{"Title":"There are better movies to be made.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Things..., not unlike Pulp Fiction, is a stylish, imaginative, and preposterous love-it-or-hate-it crime noir drama full of comic book caricature characters with a story bordering on the ridiculous. In retrospect, one should ask the sterling cast of actors and excellent production staff one simple question. Didn't you all have something better to do with your time and talent?? In retrospect, if they are honest, the answer would likely be a unanimous yes. As good as some may think Things... is, there are better movies to be made. "}]