[{"Title":"a really bad film redeemed a bit by Alyssa Milano's frequent nudity","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  if you're renting a movie just to see Alyssa Milano nude, rent this one instead of her other nudie flick embrace of the vampire. she looks noticeably a lot more toned and sexy and the plot seems more concerned with keeping her clothes off or having her wear almost nothing at all.other than her great body, this movie is quite a chore to try to sit through. there is nothing else to bother with here other than to see Alyssa nude.so, as a nudie flick, it's okay. otherwise this is a pretty bad movie.rating3 (though Alyssa's body deserves a 9) "},{"Title":"Very Hot, Very Sexy, Very Erotic","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Poison Ivy 2  Lily is a great movie, much better than the first.  While the original Poison Ivy was very tame  (it's only nudity was a brief shot of a bare butt)  Poison Ivy 2  Lily contains loads of nudity.  Lily arrives at an art college where she takes up with sculptor Gredin and poses nude for her art teacher Donald Falk.  Soon Donald is so obsessed with Lily that he tries to rape her and that leads to some tragic consequences for all involved.  I did enjoy the original Poison Ivy but enjoyed the 2nd much more because it dared to show more bare flesh and had a good storyline.  I recommend that you see both films.Poison Ivy 2  Lily is Rated R for strong sexuality and nudity, adult language, and for some violence.NOTE  Poison Ivy 2  Lily was released in two versions  an R Rated version that trims some sex scenes, and an UNRATED version that contains two more minutes of sexual sequences. "},{"Title":"sexy thriller","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poison Ivy II stars Alyssa Milano as Lily, a shy and naive Midwestern girl who moves to L.A. to study to become an artist. After feeling like an outcast among her new, more exotic peers, Lily happens upon a journal stuffed away in a closet in her new apartment. The journal contains stories of a confident seductress who gets what she wants and is not afraid to do anything. Lily decides to become this seductress. Sexy Johnathon Schaech plays her love interest.This movie is very mid '90s--the clothes, hairstyles, music. It is a lot of fun. I first saw this edited for TV a long time ago, but tonight I saw the unedited version on HBO and I must say I had no idea it would be so different. Milano and Schaech give top-notch performances and Xander Berkeley was effective as the creepy, sleazy art professor. The artwork in the film was very beautiful and Joey Krees was too cool as Peter the Performance Artist (surely he has performed in other works?!--nothing listed on IMDb). If you want sensual mid '90s fare, then Poison Ivy II is the one to see. "},{"Title":"A Good Movie","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Alyssa Milano's nudity did not make this movie trashy.  This movie was the best one of the Poison Ivy saga.  It had a very good plot and was very interesting.  I don't think it was just a soft core porn movie, I believe all the nudity had a reason that was directly associated to the plot.  "},{"Title":"Sensual 90's Flick","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Personally I thought the film was very entertaining.The plot itself was very well planned out and the actors were fantastic. I'd describe this film as a great representation of a 90's genre flick, being that it was sensual and erotic while at the same time providing a thrilling storyline.As a fan of Alyssa Milano I'd say this was one of her best films and Jonathon Schaech did a great job in this film as well. More than just a movie full of sexual scenes, it touches and delves into a topic we can all relate to. I mean how many of us haven't imitated a person we've idolized? It's not unnatural to want to be like someone you thoroughly admire.Overall, this movie was very entertaining and worth the watch. If you're looking for a throwback to the good old 90's while getting to see some sensual action, then this is the movie for you. Definitely better than the first I'd say. But then, why don't you see for yourself? "},{"Title":"Only suitable for Alyssa fans","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Well,if you are Alyssa fan like me then this is the one which is surely not to be missed.Extremely tame story line and full of eroticism, the movie don't have much to offer in terms of any substance or plot.Lily(Alyssa Milano) is an art student who comes to California and join the drawing school.She rent the house nearby where she discovers the diary of a women she has never met.The diary is full of erotic desires & nude images which awakes passion in Lily as she become obsessed with the diary,try to mould herself like that women.......But this is only one part of the story.Later its being shown that her art teacher is lustful about Lily,besides she is having a boyfriend also.Though movie is quite predictable and rather slow but there is no doubt that Alyssa Milano looked extremely cute & beautiful and totally the movie belonged to her.Sex scenes in the movie are rather unconventional but interesting.So inspite of having nothing the movie lives to its B-grade sex-flicks standard and as far as Alyssa fans are considered its a feast for them. "},{"Title":"the seductress","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" wow......Alyssa Milano, dang i'll never watch Who's the Boss the same way ever again. She does have a banging body let me say that much,, as for the movie.. where do i start, well here goes nothing, the premise i thought was okay,, i mean finding a diary, then trying to be somebody y our'e not to gain attention,, hmmm., anyway, she discovers her body, and what she want to do,, she is betrayed, betrays others, and is downright cold. i didn't care for the ending though, but everything else in between made sense to me. This isn't a bad sequel,, i thought the original was better, but this one was more sensual, and had more depth to it sexually than the first. This film reminds me of like a Soft Core Porn almost, sort of like Nicolas Cage in Zandalee, but softer, overall not a bad pic, "},{"Title":"More intense than the first","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alyssa Milano(Who's The Boss? and Charmed) plays Lily in the sequel to Poison Ivy. She's very, VERY HOT after doing the TV show Who's the Boss? The best part of her I couldn't get enough of is her stomach. I really got turned on in the bellybutton piercing scene. That's the part she undergoes her transformation. What was the cause? The diary of Ivy, the first girl who tried to destroy the lives of a rich family. However, since Lily was an art student, the instructor is coming on to her. Much like a role reversal here in the movie. Being sheltered is always a drag when you want to fit in, sometimes pressure is more damaging. The best thing about this movie is more of a learning the errors of the others' lifestyle. Just being yourself is necessary. This movie along with the first one is a definite must see. You won't be sorry! Rating 3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"What a tease!","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lily is an art student who has moved away from home to start at a new collage, but also she's having trouble trying to fit in with her other pupils and flat mates. That's until she discovers a box in her closest that has some items that belong to a girl named Ivy. From what she gathered from these items that ranged from sexy clothing, her artwork and to diary, she was one fearless and raunchy girl who liked to play games and tease to get what she wants. So, now Lily strings along her guy who she's seeing and that of her married art teacher who slowly has became infatuated with her.Alyssa Milano&#133; there's no shadow of a doubt that she's best reason for watching this extremely tacky picture; really that's it. When Milano makes her first appearance she looks reasonably daggy, but she sure does look fine either way. The first film, which starred Drew Barrymore and Tom Skeritt I thought, was somewhat dull and rather ordinary. Again this one is no better, but since I'm a sucker for anything that involves Milano, it had me clicked in! This treads the same path of the first flick by presenting a adult thriller that oozes with steamy erotica, so if you like your trashy melodrama, bare flesh and soft core sex, well then this should tickle your fancy. One thing that I thought that the original had over this pointless sequel other then an actual story, was that it had such a heavily grim edge to it. But nuff said about the first film, in-retrospect this one is far more sexy and more steamier than the first. Although the one redeeming factor of the film, of course Milano, can't help that it seems to loose steam soon after it eventually begins. It's hard to put in words, but not much did happen, really. No plot behind the convoluted mess, but to rehash what we've seen before with moments that try to outdo each other, pointless flashbacks of Ivy (not from the first film) and some sequences that miss the point. Even when Milano's character starts acting out the desirable ways of Ivy from her diary it's slightly hypnotic, but that's more to her tempting presence and desirable actions than that of the material. The film's unpleasant ending is one of the things that go beyond the call of nature, but then at least it had some energy going for it, but still it was a bit overwrought. The pacing is at a snails pace and because of that boredom quickly moves in.Since its set amongst an art environment, the whole artiness of it got a bit too shallow for its own sake and it could have destroyed the overall mood, that's if it even had one. But this is what you expect from your run-of-the-mill low budget film that would go straight-to-video without a whimper. Alyssa Milano silky presence evokes such an allurement, but she doesn't just get by with her looks as her performance is definitely above average and Xander Berkeley dished out a more then decent performance. It's just too bad they had to work with such undeveloped characters and a stiff script that was filled with something corny amongst every few lines. Sometimes I thought it was too thick and they had too much to say when it probably would have worked out better with less or none at times. The soundtrack had some sustainable tunes from the easy listening, rock and Gothic&#133; but sometimes it was just too overwhelming in a very cheesy way. I most likely saw the cut version, which I watched off TV, but that's not what really bother me, it was that there were too many ad breaks which made the film drag even more. It's a real long shot to call this schematic flick good, but for the undemanding its light entertainment.Only for those who enjoyed the original or have a soft spot for Alyssa Milano. Obviously, I'll be going with latter. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly above average direct to video sequel, that's rather entertaining and somewhat suspenseful, with a decent story and very good performances","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a surprisingly above average direct to video sequel, that's rather entertaining and somewhat suspenseful, with a decent story and very good performances. All the characters are good enough, and it has some very erotic and steamy moments as well, plus Alyssa Milano is simply amazing in this!. There are lots of steamy erotic sex scenes, and this is a lot better then most of the direct to video sequels that come out now a days, plus It's decently made and written. After enjoying the 1st Posion Ivy, I decided to tape this sequel, and as I said before I was quite pleasantly surprised, plus Xander Berkeley is excellent in his role, and sometimes very creepy. Milano and Johnathon Schaech had pretty good chemistry together, and there is one very powerful scene involving Camilla Belle (the daughter) that I won't spoil for you, plus Lilly's character was surprisingly very likable and easy to understand. It has quite a suspenseful finale, and I say this could have gone for a theater run, plus the ending was predictable but good. This is surprisingly an above average direct to video sequel, that's rather entertaining and somewhat suspenseful,with a decent story and very good performances, and I say it's well worth the watch!. The Direction is good. Anne Goursaud does a much better job here then she did in Embrace Of The Vampire, with good camera work, decent angles and keeping the film at a fast enough pace. The Acting is surprisingly very good. Alyssa Milano is incredibly gorgeous and is amazing here, she is very likable, had some great emotional scenes, was sexy as hell, had pretty good chemistry with Schaech, and had an awesome powerful breakdown scene near the end! (Milano Rules!!!!). Johnathon Schaech is pretty good as the love interest he just has a certain presence about him, he was very good. Xander Berkeley is really excellent here, he was creepy as the obsessed lover, and shocked me with his actions in the finale he was really good. Camilla Belle is very good as the daughter, she was a great child actress!. Rest of the cast are decent. Overall worth the watch!. *** out of 5 "}{"Title":"Ed Wood Charm","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is a certain kind of bizarreness that you only find in low-budget or straight-to-video cinema. Make no mistake, this is an awful film, but it's this straight-to-video charm (which I am going to arbitrarily name Ed Wood Charm)that makes it enjoyable. The dialogue is lame and the plot must have been the result of a fun party game, but it's still enjoyable. Veteran actor Xander Berkeley gives another great performance, despite the material. I was impressed with Alyssa Milano. I used to think she got by on looks, but she gives a damn fine performance in this otherwise damned film. Nice job, Girl. "},{"Title":"little more than softcore","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lily Leonetti (Alyssa Milano) is a sweet girl arriving at Art school. She has a room with Tanya as her roommate. She finds a box of personal objects and starts reading the diary. She begins to change. She sleeps with fellow student Gredin (Johnathon Schaech). She starts babysitting for her teacher Donald Falk (Xander Berkeley). She becomes his muse posing nude for him as he becomes obsessed with her.Alyssa Milano was trying to break out of her TV child star status by appearing in this and 'Embrace of the Vampire'. The writing from Chloe King of 'Red Shoe Diaries' is pretty awful and the film is not much better. This is a little better than softcore porn with Milano. Camilla Belle also shows up as the teacher's little daughter. "},{"Title":"unnecessary violent ending","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Finally saw it on DVD after all these years. Soon I'll get to the next two as well. My rating is mostly for the beauty of Alyssa Milano's face, as the movie itself kind of falls flat in obvious ways. And the ending is such a cop-out. Okay, in the tradition of POISON IVY the original with Drew Barrymore, there had to be violence, notably a fall from a high building, but really, poor old Donald Falk, even if he had been intoxicated... I just don't buy it. Like I said, Alyssa makes it worth watching. Good nude scenes with the uncredited model as well, whether she is Jaime Pressley or not, that will possibly remain legend, but I 'had great fun with those scenes just a while ago'. But the script is lame, especially the closing scene. "},{"Title":"pretty good!","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see a really hott guy (Jonathon Scheach) and a kinda freaky movie-- this is it... It's not the best movie.. But it has some seductive scenes and is definitely worth seeing!!  I liked the fact that the sweet michigan girl goes big city and explores her sexual nature. "},{"Title":"Straight-to-tape sequel sans every iota of talent from the predecessor...","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" 1992's Poison Ivy played like an art-house sleaze-piece with an eye on the cult-movie market (and, at this, it succeeded, despite a herky-jerky narrative). But since the heroine perished in that film's final moments, a sequel would seem unlikely. Not so, as Alyssa Milano's Lily finds out. After discovering and reading a diary written by the doomed Ivy (played in '92 by Drew Barrymore), Milano revamps herself, takes on a seamier personality, and causes sexual havoc. Quite a stretch trying to connect the two films, but at least the first movie had an interesting direction and some B-movie style. This dud has neither, nor is Milano the next Drew Barrymore. Followed in 1997 by Poison Ivy The New Seduction. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Great movie, perfect sequel to the first film.","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very good movie good story good acting they had the perfect cast,Alyssa Milano was great in this film she made the perfect seductress she acted out this role very well.  It is a worth while movie.  I rate it 6 out of 10 and 10 being best. "},{"Title":"Much more nudity, much less quality","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The original Poison Ivy was a story about a young seductress Nabokov would've loved to have written. It had drama, passion, suspense, it was a well rounded movie.This film, besides the fact that it has absolutely nothing to do with the characters from the previous story tries to be one of those sexual awakening movies by showing a small town girl coming to Los Angeles and exploring her sexuality.The story is not believable, the characters are not they type you can identify with, they don't seem real or well written at all, there's no drama, no suspense, no real mystery since you pretty much know what will happen after seeing the first ten minutes. Do you know what this movie has lots of? Nudity.This movie has lots of nudity, but comparing this one with the predecessor I guess less is more.This movie is uninteresting, boring, tedious even, a horrible attempt to cash in a precious film, that was actually a good thriller.My recommendation Do not watch this. "},{"Title":"I did not hate this film.....","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The biggest problem of this movie is the fact that is presumes to be a sequel to the Drew Barrymore film that came out several years earlier. This is unfortunate, one cannot help but be put off by the fact that none of the original players from PI are in this and it has no connection what so ever to the original (Lily finds Ivy's diary and feels some kinship). Anyone can see this film is about a completely different person. Ivy (Drew Barrymore) was headstrong and used her youth and beauty to manipulate a family whose home she invaded via there outcast daughter. Lily is an art student read, innocent young co-ed who's admission to Art School (this school seems to exist on another planet) is questionable. Does she have any real talent? Is she there as a plaything for the randy professor ? How much does ones attractiveness enter into ones academic life? We are treated to countless lightweight school movies where pretty young actresses disrobe, dance around and act as props, here is a film that is a cut above, not far above mind you, but I really thought they were trying to say something. Alyssa Milano is so stunning that she can get away with much. Her undressing and very long lovemaking scenes, while soft core, are still very steamy and effective, she really is amazing. Also the film is shot in very lush tones. It is a very pretty film without much plot, but this is appropriate here. I like Alyssa Milano very much and I don't object to her doing STV stuff as the small screen has always been her domain. It's small praise but this is much, much better then Embrace of the Vampire, hey I told you it was small praise. Since these films are often mentioned in the same breath, this one should be pointed out as being superior. "},{"Title":"Best to be forgotten.","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bad, bad idea for a follow-up to the original. Like Highlander 2, this one is best forgotten.The only link to the original is the name, and a reference to a former college student named Ivy...at an art college, of all places.Alyssa Milano tried to pull off the good girl to bad girl to good girl transition, but it just wasn't that convincing. And to try and boost her career by having multiple sex scenes was a sorry way to do it. Really, who thinks of this film when they hear her name? I gave it an extra star just because I liked her as a child star on Who's the Boss? Unlike the original, there's not a lot of suspense via cinematography. Instead, they opted for multiple nude / sex scenes. Honestly, if that's what you want in a film, you're better off renting a porno...the acting will be better.If it wasn't for the fact that I like to keep things in sets, I'd give this DVD away. If all you want is to see Alyssa Milano naked, then you'll enjoy this film. Otherwise... "},{"Title":"Very very Erotic!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Alyssa Milano is an extremely beautiful and sexy actress. She alone makes this tired story worth watching again. I can never get tired of her or this movie. Don't go looking for anything too original, but a must see for all her fans. "}{"Title":"Poision Ivy 2","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film, when it was showed on TV a few weeks ago. i found it to be quite interesting, but mostly sex based. throughout the film, there are many sex scenes, mostly with Alyssa Miano in them. I found this film to be enjoyable and very watchable.the acting throughout the film, is to quite a good standard. i personally watched this film, as i am a fan of Alyssa Milano and therefore decided to watch it based upon that. this film is suitable for teens and older people, but i think that it is best to watch it when sexual release is needed, mostly by men. i found some of the sex scenes, gave the viewer ideas on what to do in the future, with a person they are sexual open with. "},{"Title":"Adequate Ain't-Got-A-Date Fare","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay, this movie has rote acting by nobody memorable (with one exception), and the plot would be better if the movie HAD no plot because the one that it comes with epitomises lame, hokey, contrived, and Just Plain Dumb(tm). Think of the worst possible way you could rip off the first movie, and then prepare yourself for something ten times worse. So don't worry about this review containing any spoilers, because there's really nothing to give away.These things being said, it does have Alyssa Milano looking very provocative indeed, and leaves the absolute bare minimum to the imagination as regards what she wears and does. It's about as far as you can go and still get on broadcast TV. (I understand they cut a couple of minutes from the air version, but I've never seen the video, and even though I've no girlfriend at the moment, I'm still not that inclined to rent it and find out.)The one other point in this film's favour is that there are a couple of interesting bits in the soundtrack. What the heck - even though I hate Charmed, I kinda like Alyssa, so I'll give it a 6. With the understanding that, if I'd actually had something better to do tonight, I'd've probably dropped that to a 4. "},{"Title":"Poison Ivy II Lily","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The first film had Drew Barrymore as a very toxic girl and not much sex, the sequel is almost the complete opposite, but a completely rubbish film. I can't remember any toxic girls, but I can remember the main girl called Lily and a little more sex and nudity than the first film, but not overly exposing it like most other soft core porn films. There is no good story like the original, and no little, and I mean little, bit of nudity saves it. I usually only see films like this only for the sex and nudity content. Lily may be an attractive blonde girl, I think she had not bad tits, and she has sex with a few people, she didn't do it with any women, which might have made it more worth it. Drew Barrymore was a lot more toxic, Lily is just complete trash and utter waste of time. Poor! "},{"Title":"A pointless movie with tons of nudity.","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of those movies that doesn't have much of a plot and is made for late-night cable TV.  Alyssa Milano plays a college freshman at an art college who falls in love with an older student while also being stalked by her instructor who likes to draw her in the nude.  Like I said before, not much of a plot and not that entertaining.  A few interesting notes on this movie though... This movie was made when Alyssa Milano was 22, during the nudity stage of her movie career, she stared in a bunch of movies like this one that were made for cable and were all about sex and nudity and not much else.The original cut of the movie had a scene where Alyssa simulated oral sex with her boyfriend on the movie.  Because of the explicitness of the scene, it was soon scrapped and never released in the US, but some copies did make it over-seas however.  The scene is very graphic and although you don't see anything, if the camera moved just an inch you would see everything...one of the most explicit scenes in a hollywood movie. Unless you want to see Alyssa Milano naked, there is really no reason to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Hahaha","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One word...WHY? what was the point in making a sequal to Poison Ivy?? The origional wasnt even good! The only thing good about Poison Ivy....2... was that Alyssa Milano was in it. She even said herself that Poison Ivy 2 wasnt a good movie on the E Celebrity profile. I give it 1 star out of 4.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have been unfortunate enough to see","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so bad, I was actually booing my television set. The premise is ridiculous, the acting lame and I thought that the bogus child in jeopardy scene at the end was ludicrous, manipulative garbage. I only hope the original wasn't this bad. "},{"Title":"It's NO Embrace of the Vampire, that's for sure","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having very little to do with the original Drew Barrymore starring vehicle, this sequel that ups the titillation and seaminess factor, has Alyssa Milano as Lily, an art major who recently went off to college in California. Like many 'innocent', 'wholesome' girls that go off to college in that state, it isn't long before she becomes a man hungry raving slut. Her transformation starts when she finds the diary of the deceased man hungry slut who lived in her dorm room before her. She lusts for this one guy in particular while her elderly art instructor lusts after her. The first film in the series was mediocre at best, so to say that this one gave me some trepidation over whether I should even watch it is a pretty accurate statement. But when I saw that it reunited Milano with Director Anne Goursaud, whom she last teamed up with for a little B-movie soft-core gem Embrace of the Vampire', I decided to give the film a try. Well sadly lightning rarely ever strikes twice and the poor acting, lack of involving story, and most importantly not as much nude Alyssa as compared to the earlier Embrace, all turned me off and I found myself bored to tears long before the movies predictable final reel.Eye Candy Tara Ellison, Victoria Hass & Kate Rodger get topless; Alyssa Milano shows off T&A My Grade D- Where I saw it @ Max "},{"Title":"Alyssa Milano nudity is all this film has going for it.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who rents this film expecting something deep and profound should be slapped silly. If it's a good soft-core skin flick you're after, than you might also be disappointed somewhat.The only reason I sat through this piece of crap is due to the periodic nudity by the awe inspiring Alyssa Milano (she looked her best around this period.) Her perfect butt and breasts are on display but unfortunately there's no full frontal (damn!). She's also involved in 4 sex scenes, 2 tame ones and 2 somewhat explicit ones. But for a so-called soft-core skin flick there's not enough sex or nudity for it to qualify as that type of film.Otherwise, it's poorly written, poorly acted and basically just a poor movie all around. If you're an Alyssa Milano admirer, than you might want to check it out. Just don't expect anything decent besides her splendid body.rating3  "},{"Title":"Another poison pill","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Here we have a sequel which has pretty much nothing to do with the first film in the series. Which is probably a good thing as that first film was quite terrible. Unfortunately this one is really no better. Alyssa Milano plays Lily, a shy girl from Michigan who goes to college in Los Angeles. There she comes out of her shell. And out of her clothes. Milano, at the point in her career where she felt the need to show how grown-up she was, dutifully doffs her top a few times. Honestly that's the only reason this movie exists, as a vehicle to put Milano on naked display. And again being honest that's probably the only reason anyone would ever watch this movie. You want a topless Alyssa Milano you got it. You want a decent movie you are well and truly out of luck.Whereas Ivy, the central figure in the first film, was an unapologetic seductress and homewrecker Lily is a good girl at heart. A bit clueless but good nonetheless. Anyhow her pervy art professor tries to take advantage of her. And one of her fellow students treats her badly and publicly humiliates her so she of course immediately sleeps with him. Eventually she tries to tap into her darker, more seductive side but that effort fails rather miserably. Some other weirdos float around on the periphery of the story and eventually it all comes to an end in what may be the worst final fifteen minutes of any movie ever. The movie had very little going for it throughout and in that ending it completely falls apart. It's an ending which piles one laughable absurdity upon another. The movie's supposed to be a thriller but it ends up as an unintentional comedy. Sadly it's not even a good unintentional comedy. The story stinks, the dialogue is pitiful, the acting is generally terrible and the obtrusive music is just painful. This is a movie with nothing to recommend it. If you're just here for Alyssa Milano's breasts enjoy them. You won't enjoy anything else. "},{"Title":"Milano gets 'em out for the lads.","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Lily (Alyssa Milano) is a shy Michigan art student who has somehow managed to secure herself a place at an LA college despite her pathetic scribblings resembling that of an average twelve year old. Soon after moving into her student lodgings, Lily discovers a diary that once belonged to Ivy, the disturbed babe played by Drew Barrymore in the first film. Inspired by Ivy's confidence and fearlessness, Lily adopts a new, more seductive persona to help her overcome her reservations and be accepted by her peers.Having briefly held a reputation for being a wild child, hottie Alyssa Milano must have seemed like the obvious choice to follow in Drew Barrymore's footsteps for this sequel to Poison Ivy; but despite Milano happily shedding her clothes to indulge in several steamy soft-core sex scenes, Poison Ivy 2 proves to be less fun than the original movie.Barrymore's Ivy was damaged goods an unpredictable loose cannon, she exuded a genuine air of sexual danger, and yet this 'bad-girl' was still worthy of our compassion, her damaged psyche clearly the result of a very troubled childhood. In short, she was complex as well as sexy.Poison Ivy 2's Lily has a far less valid excuse for her wanton behaviour her upbringing apparently trauma-free, Lily is simply desperate to be popular and feels that the best way to achieve this is to act like a total slut. It doesn't make her very endearing (alluring yes, but not exactly likable) or particularly interesting.The male characters in this film are as equally vapid and unagreeable Lily's sculptor boyfriend Gredin (Johnathon Schaech) is a clingy pretty boy who proves to be as bland as his 'art', while lustful teacher Donald Falk (Xander Berkeley) is not only an adulterous sleaze-bag but every bit as bad an artist as his students.After lots of fairly unexceptional eroticism, during which Milano flashes her tits a lot (yayy!), Poison Ivy 2 moves into predictable thriller mode for the finalé, a frustrated Falk getting his rape on with temptress Lily, only to be caught in the act by Gredin, Falk's wife Angela (Belinda Bauer) and his daughter Daphne (a young Camilla Belle), and then become a knife wielding lunatic destined to die by the closing credits.Poison Ivy 2 is available in both rated and unrated versions on Region 1, but unrated is clearly the way to go, with several minutes more of Alyssa in the buff being a naughty, naughty girl. "}{"Title":"Even worse than original.","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Poison Ivy II is set in Los Angeles as a teenage student named Lily Leonetti (Alyssa Milano) arrives two weeks late for the start of her life study art class at university having been delayed in Michigan. Shy, retiring & modest Lily is a very pretty girl who attracts the attention of local hunk Gredin (Jonathon Schaech) & her art class teacher Donald (Xander Berkeley). While at home in a university dorm Lily finds a box in her wardrobe, inside the box are some slutty clothes & & diary that belonged to the last resident, a girl named Ivy. Lily is fascinated by the diary & Ivy's thoughts, Lily starts to copy Ivy & think like her as she cuts her hair, gets a piercing & starts to wear very revealing clothes as she tries to decide whether she wants to date Gredin or Donald. Lily settles on Gredin but Donald won't let her go as easily as Lily would like & things turn violent as lives are torn apart...Directed by Anne Goursaud this was the first sequel to the erotic thriller Poison Ivy (1992) whose only claim to fame is that it starred a young Drew Barrymore but otherwise was total crap, I saw the original Poison Ivy only last week & really didn't like it at all so while my expectations for Poison Ivy II weren't high even I was unprepared for just how bad this is. It's interesting to note that the script was written by someone called Chloe King so if we then remember the director was also a woman you could say that the main creative driving forces behind Poison Ivy II are women & it's maybe no surprise that it's the men who turn out to be the biggest scumbags here. In fact Lily does very little wrong here, she certainly doesn't do anything illegal or physically hurt anyone & it's the art teacher who goes all mental & comes across as the real villain of the film. Sure Lilly leads him on a little bit & flirts between the young hunky Gredin & the older married Donald but otherwise does nothing even remotely evil or dangerous or nasty. I thought the whole point of a Poison Ivy film was that it was the woman who was the seductive evildoer who used her looks & manipulative charm to get what she wanted & ruin lives in the process? Or am I wrong? Poison Ivy II is a slow moving, tepid, uneventful bore of a film that I really hated, at almost an hour & fifty minutes long I was seriously considering using the fast-forward button on many occasions & even the plot is a damp squib with hardly anything happening. There's a fight between Gredin & Donald at the end before Donald rather randomly walks off a roof for reasons I can't figure out but otherwise next to nothing happens. I haven't been this bored by a film in a while. Poison Ivy II has no edge, it's not dark enough, it has nothing relevant to say, it has zero entertainment value, it feels like it goes on forever, it's not thrilling or erotic &the connection to the original Poison Ivy is tenuous at best with the main florally named character Lily not acting like her anyway & quite why reading a diary would change her so drastically so quickly (like in a few hours) is hard to believe.No-one dies in this & I can't remember any violence, a young girl gets hit by a car but it's her own fault since she runs out in front of it & she's fine anyway so it doesn't count. Even the so-called erotic scenes are completely lacking, they are very short & very tame as to be almost inconsequential. Although competently made Poison Ivy II is bland & forgettable, sure leading lady Alyssa Milano is a nice looking bird but so what when the rest of the films such a bore to sit through? The laughably bad moral message at the end about being yourself is so corny, badly written & delivered I was left shaking my head & ever so slightly embarrassed. Rather randomly there's also this small character named Robert who just seems to sit in his room all day playing the Chello, I'm not sure what he to do with anything but at least he was dedicated.Probably a fairly low budget film Poison Ivy II has nothing going for it, it's drab & dull with no excitement or satisfying erotic content. The acting is average, I didn't think anyone came out with any great credit but then again I have seen worse performances I suppose.Poison Ivy II is one of the most boring & tepid films I have seen in ages, Lily doesn't do anything wrong so there's no edge & the moral nonsense about being yourself is just to badly done to be effective. Unfortunately two further Poison Ivy films have been made, Poison Ivy The New Seduction (1997) & Poison Ivy The Secret Society (2008). Please no more, just stop now, thanks. "},{"Title":"Which is worse the script or the score?","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I've just finished watching this insanely bad movie, and I'm having trouble deciding which is worse - the script or the music. It's a tough choice. I actually was in the mood for a bad movie tonight, but a fun bad movie. And that's exactly what I expected from this. Also, I watched the unrated version, so I expected a few sexy moments. Sadly, there are none. There is nothing the least bit erotic about this movie. Even if you watched it with the sound off to avoid the horrible (and horribly intrusive) music, the lighting is so bad, and the shots so poorly composed, that the sex scenes are boring and irritating. And then there's the script. Johnathon Schaech's character has slept with Alyssa Milano's character twice and then says, I don't even know who I'm making love to anymore. Really? After sleeping with her twice? It's after a Halloween party, and they've established that she showed up to campus two weeks after the semester started. So she's been there, what, a month? The back of the DVD box calls it an erotic thriller. It's not erotic, and the director tried to make it a thriller when there was just under 13 minutes left in the film. Suddenly there is a shadow lurking outside her window, and then someone coming up the stairs, with those ridiculous early 1980s-type shots. Right before this we had the only bit in the film that made me laugh - the teacher's child suddenly running out of the house in slow motion. Oh no, is she heading toward the road? What could possibly happen here? Will there be a car? Will she get hit? Will we get the closeup of the headlights? Will her stuffed animal go flying up in the air, also in slow motion? Of course. Terrible. How do the writer and director of this film live with themselves? And at the end, Alyssa Milano's character explains everything that she's done, everything that's happened in the film, in a sort of apology to Jonathon Schaech's character, while he seemingly ignores her and continues work on his backyard sculpture. And then when she's done telling us everything that we just watched, will she walk away, only to hear Jonathon Schaech say, I love you? And will the music swell insanely right then? And is that the end of the film? Yes, yes, yes. "},{"Title":"Stay Away from Any Poison Ivy *","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a first class stinker of major proportions. A young girl goes off to art school in California, leaving her home in Michigan. Her parents call once to speak to her and despite their so called concern, you never hear from them again.The movie is unbearably slow moving. It essentially comes down to the young lady supposedly asserting herself by getting involved in simultaneous affairs with both her art professor and a fellow student.Our heroine is more like a witch. She is really the embodiment of a possessive misery and that word is most appropriate to describe this dull film with an unhappy ending. "},{"Title":"dull","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" wow.i was disappointed in the first Poison Ivy movie,but compared to this movie,it is a masterpiece.this is one long,slow,tedious movie.the plot of the movie(if you can call it that,is incoherent.i would say it was ant climatic,but there is no climax,and without that,you can't have an anti climatic movie.to me,this movie is basically a soft core porn.i watched the whole movie hoping for some good to come out of it.no such luck.there are a few minutes of action,but not enough to redeem this movie.plus,i thought the dialogue was cringe worthy.i think the movie was just an excuse for people to get naked.anyway,i didn't like it at all.for me Poison Ivy II is a 1/10 "},{"Title":"This embarrassment completely misses the point of the original.","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Embarrassing, totally unrelated sequel shamelessly degrades the original. Nobody would ever claim that Poison Ivy was a masterpiece, yet it had an intriguing, morbid atmosphere and offbeat, eccentric characters; it wasn't nearly as trashy as most people believe. This sequel is simply a soft-core porn flick, posing as a thriller (with a ludicrously out-of-the-blue violent climax). Still, it would be easier to accept the film as soft-core porn if it wasn't promoted as a sequel, and if it wasn't so extremely TEDIOUS . "},{"Title":"Don't Touch.","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" They ripped off the title from an earlier successful trashy movie, Poison Ivy with the all-grown-up Drew Barrymore as one of those seductive babysitters, and they ripped off the story from an earlier successful trashy movie, Embrace of the Vampire with the exuberantly nubile Alyssa Milano herself.That will give you an idea of how much creative effort went into the making of this film, which is to say, none that you'd notice.Here's the shamelessly permuted plot. Alyssa Milano, nice virginal girl, goes to a Bohemian art school, has an affair with an equally Bohemian guy, starts reading somebody else's diary, takes on some of the traits of the diarist, develops a crush on the sensitive but happily married guru in her painting class, begins to dress Goth, cuts her hair to a wicked length, begins to smoke (gasp!), treats her loving boyfriend recklessly, shuns her art teacher when he finally begins to put moves on her after she's practically thrown herself on him, bosom first, drives art instructor mad, destroys instructor's family, is discovered in flagrante delicto by the wife, throws her black girl friend out of her room, .... zzzzzzzz.The only conceivable reason to see this piece of atrocious offal is to see Alyssa Milano take off her clothes and/or simulate intercourse, which she doesn't do nearly often enough in my opinion as expert on art schools, the perils of wearing black garments, erotic cinema, and the contours of Milano's bosom.This is pretty crummy stuff we're dealing with here. Milano looks fine. How could she look otherwise? But her acting skills are modest, to put it kindly. Nice performance by her insane art instructor, though. Another plus for the androgyne who plays a soothing cello so that our ears are given a respite from the relentless WHANG of the score.I mean, look at this. After a wild party, her alarm wakes her for an early class with her mad art teacher. She rolls out of the bed she's occupying with her boy friend. While she's performing her morning ablutions off screen, her lover begins to complain that she's changing. She's becoming weird. You're not yourself anymore. I don't know who I'm talking to. I don't know who I'm making love to. Should he really CARE? Whoever he's making love to, the face and body resemble that of Allysa Milano. And let's face facts == no man would ever organize that sort of statement, nor would any man even know what the words mean. I don't know who I'm talking to? A WOMAN would say it, but a man? And then, to top it all off, while they're having this faux conversation, she's slinking around the room apparently wearing his jockey shorts, the kind with the fly and double fabric in front so you can't see through them. Has such perfidy ever been shown on screen? Don't miss this if you can. "}]