[{"Title":"A deeply moving story, thought provoking, and unforgettable.","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"91 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It is rare that I see a movie as unforgettable and unpredictable as Powder. I am not a man who is easily impressed with special affects, but in this movie the affects always served a purpose instead of covering up the fact that there was no purpose. In an age where movies have become multiple scenes of graphic violence and corny excuses for stories, Powder is refreshing, filled with the meaning of humanity, and moved me to tears throughout the entire film. With most films, I am able to predict exactly what will happen and when. With Powder I could never quite tell what was going to happen next, and the ending was something I would have never imagined would happen and could only be described as extraordinary. There are so many elements to this movie The paranormal; the challenge to everything we think we know about science and the capabilities of the human mind; the human capacity for cruelty; love and forgiveness; and the hope that our own humanity will one day advance beyond our own technology. Most of all, the raw emotion of this great masterpiece reaches deep into the heart and leaves an impression that stays with you. This is one of those rare movies that you will never forget, a true classic that illustrates truths about humanity that have existed since the beginning of time. "},{"Title":"Some movies touch the audience; this one seizes the individual","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"83 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The movie 'Powder' is a return to innocence. It possesses a spiritual quality that opens the eyes to life. And it lends a soothing note to those questions for which their seems to be more questions and few answers. Sean Patrick Flannery's performance was so powerful that one could actually feel the unconditional love within the heart and soul of the character that he played. The concepts that were brought forward, the passion that came with every dramatic scene, and the sense of realism and truth made it one of the most thought provoking movies of all time. Powder was not based on a true story, but it is, I feel, everybody's true story in some way, and it is as powerful, passionate, and inspirational as any true story I have ever seen. Some viewers may wish to begrudge the apparent perfection portrayed by the lead character. However, his only perfection was the way he searched so deep, often at great personal expense, for the suppressed perfection in everyone, and the hidden perfection in everything. I was somewhat disappointed by how the family quality of the movie was spoiled by the use of language by the school bully. Still, a must see for anybody who enjoys a thought provoking film once in a while. Even if you're a person who would prefer to sit down with a good book, as am I, the movie 'Powder' is definitely worth your time. In conclusion 'Powder' is one of my favourite movies of all time. Seconded, in my opinion, only to 'The Boondock Saints'; also starring Sean Patrick Flannery. "},{"Title":"I Appreciated This Film","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"68 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I have taken in hand the constructive criticism of others about this film. I've noticed that most people don't like the film because of Salva's criminal record. That's no reason to give it ill-repute.The film itself is a little dodgy in parts and could have used some better acting from some of its stars. Sean Patrick Flanery does an amazing job as Jeremy Reed, and I believe he was well-suited for the part.I didn't like Lance Henriksen's acting at all. I thought that the way he portrayed the character was a little too repetitive and boring. But then again, I don't care for him as an actor anyway. I think he's crotchety, annoying, and outdated; and the characters he chooses to play reminds me of the acclaim that Robert Redford always gets - undeserved.The film is about a young man who suffers a birth defect after his pregnant mother is struck by lightning and killed. OK, I can understand some of this. He is raised by grandparents who soon begin to fear him and show him no emotion - not unlike his father. When his last grandparent dies he is left alone for a short period of time before he is discovered by the police. Our main character is highly intelligent, scared, telekinetic, and has an electric personality, not to mention he's an albino, too.A social worker, Jessica, played by Mary Steenburgen is called to take over the boy's case and he is placed in a group living situation in a home. He is placed with delinquents and abandoned children who have no respect for him. I love Steenburgen and think she always does a good part in any film she is in. She's a fine actress, and though she may not be classed as dazzlingly beautiful, her charms show through no matter what character she plays. She's heart-warming, endearing, and always brings a good sense of love to a film.Those who say that Salva's sexual undertones are present in the film can be dismissed right away. I knew nothing of Salva's past when I watched this film for the first time, and I noticed nothing out of the ordinary. Goldblum's character, who is a science teacher and befriends the boy, does a good job of interacting with him. He's not molesting him or harming him by holding his hand and giving him a long-needed hug. If you're assuming this shows sexual predators at work, I think you need to see the therapist, not Salva.Also, the scene in which he is looking at another boy who is in the locker room is not about lust. He is longing to be able to do normal things that others do without being ridiculed. If you'll remember, it's the very next scene where they tell him he's a freak who is as bald as a baby. He just wants to fit in, and it is at this point that I believe he realizes he doesn't.Overall, this film does bring a sense of wonder to the viewer. If you sit back and take it all in, Salva is showing us what might happen if we all stop judging one another and start accepting human beings for their uniqueness. He's not trying to make you accept him for being a child predator. He's showing the world that people are ALL different, and if we spent a little less time being so blocked and full of hate, we might come to realize this and appreciate the aesthetic value of the human soul.I gave this film a 7 out of 10 because I didn't like Lance Henriksen's performance at all, I thought some of the characters could have come through in the end (Why didn't his love interest stand up for herself against her father? Why were there loose strings here?), and I would have liked to have seen more after the fact wrap-ups when Jeremy becomes raw energy in the film's climax. Also, why in God's name does Powder have eyelashes if he is unable to grow hair? Huh? What? OK, so Sean does have pretty eyes, but, come on!On a side note, for those of you who think that the Deputy Sheriff's character was a stereotypical cop character, giving the police a bad name...I have relatives who are police in a small town like this one, and you should hear THEM talk over the dinner table. It ISN'T much different. "},{"Title":"The message is quite clear for all of us........","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"58 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" A story that encapsulates where we as a race are heading for a very bad outcome indeed. As clearly stated in the film by Jeff Goldblum's character,  when technology surpasses humanity. We as a species are in severe danger and crisis over how we perceive what our lives are truly about. We are losing our humanity by advancements in our technology that serve only to relieve us of harnessing our one true purpose that makes us unique within our humanity........Choice. The film also shows that a pure and unique individual is not accepted within those who are already lost of their own humanity. I find myself relating to 'powder' in many ways, albeit minus his physical and other obvious electrical abilities. But I do understand his humanity and choice to make humane decisions that do affect all of us. And his feeling of isolation and not 'fitting in' to his fellow kind. Hopefully one day we can be at a point where our humanity will rise above our technological demands, otherwise we are on a roller-coaster ride to self destruction. Good film,good message. "},{"Title":"Simple story, but a powerful emotive film","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"35 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  If someone explained the plot of Powder to me, I would assume it was some sappy, simple, over emotional clap trap, from someone like Spielberg.  Yet when I actually saw the film, I found it to be deep, intelligent and very moving.There are some things wrong with the film, a number of the characters are stereotypes and some parts of the plot are a little unexpected.  If you ignore these simple problems, the quality of the direction and acting shine through, to provide an excellent film.I very rarely say this, but I think, Sean Patrick Flanery's performance is one the most remarkable I have ever seen.  Tender and awkward, without looking false.Overall an excellent film, but maybe for the more mature viewer.  "},{"Title":"Amazing, true and bittersweet","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"39 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie. Beautiful, amazing, heartwarming. It just goes to prove, looks are worthless. I cry several times throughout this movie every time I watch it.Wonderful movie, period! (Not to mention he's physically attractive, but thats another story all together.) But man, I wish it were real! The most odd looking people are usually the most intelligent and kind. That proves correct in most cases. I feel his sadness watching him, and the beginning is heartbreaking. The other characters in the movie, I really dislike for their treatment of him. Ignorance is bliss, but harmful. But I don't see how these other people can rate it a 5. something! I can't comprehend that, there is nothing wrong with it! "},{"Title":"I really like this movie, it is pure energy.","Date":"27 October 2000","Score":"35 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Sean Patrick Flanery, better known as Indiana Jones in the several Young Indiana Jones films, plays Powder, an albino whose mother was struck by lightning right before he was born.  Mom died, dad disowned him, and Powder grew up in the basement of his grandparents' home, learning everything into his teenage years just by reading books.  And he knew every book, down to being able to recite anything on any page!He is discovered after his one remaining grandparent dies. He is evaluated and put into a home for boys. Being unpigmented and totally hairless, everyone stares at him, and the bullies in school treat him badly. It is discovered that he has the highest I.Q. ever recorded, and when an educator asks him if he knows what that means, he replies, If you really believe that about me, why are you asking me that question?  Good script writing.In a very powerful scene, after a deer is shot, Powder touches the deer and grasps the hunter, and transfers the feelings such that the hunter feels what the deer feels as it dies.  That realization totally changes the man, one of the local deputies.Another is when Powder helps the sheriff understand what his dying wife wants, which turns out only for the father and son to reconcile.Jeff Goldblum, like every movie he is in, is the scene stealer in each scene he is in.  He is such a good actor, especially when he plays a scientist, as he does here.  he realizes that Powder is something special, and closer to being pure energy than anyone before. His classroom demo of Jakob's Ladder goes haywire when all the electricity is attracted towards Powder, literally lifting him off the floor.  Which was a sign of things to come, during the interaction with lightning during the final scene.Powder is an absorbing film, obviously fictional, but thought-provoking.  I rate it a strong 8 of 10.This film uses the albinism and electrical energy as a vehicle to explore the concept of different, and works the issue of how far humanity needs to come to respect each other, and especially embrace each others' differences.Mary Steenburgen is cast as the social worker who first rescues Powder from the cellar, and who tries to find a way for him to live a normal life. "},{"Title":"A Best of All Times","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I honestly can't understand why some people disliked, or even hated this movie. I absolutely adore this movie. I think the acting is great (but then I again, I happen to love both Jeff Goldbloom and Lance Henrickson), and I also feel that Sean Patrick Flanery put on an awesome performance. This movie resonates with anyone who was the underdog in school, as I, and many were when they were young. The story is touching, emotional, and liberating. I don't think I've ever watched this once without crying. Add to that the spectactular soundtrack (which some movie-watchers often overlook), and this movie is right up there on my own Best of All Times list. If you haven't seen this, I only ask that you ignore the negative comments until you've had the chance to watch it yourself and make up your own mind... you might be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"A Film Of Emotional Power, Beauty, And Humanity","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I have not seen any of Victor Salva's movies before until now. He is also the director of the recent horror film Jeepers Creepers. The actors are all quite good Mary Steenburgen as the woman that tries to help, Lance Henriksen as the local sheriff, Jeff Goldblum as the science teacher, and especially Sean Patrick Flanery as Powder. The movie can be classified in a number of ways uplifting drama, family picture, and horror. There are strong moments of absolute emotional power, beauty, and humanity as Powder tries to fit in amongst the local people, but ends up teaching them lessons about humanity instead. Powder's appearance seemed even Chaplin-like at times, emoting with the slightest variances in expressions like a mime. Like many uplifting family movies, Powder was hard to find. I had never heard of it before and wonder if it was ever in theaters even. I don't think the script was developed enough and it was a bit predictable at times. I would rate it a PG-13 movie because of the intensity in some scenes and innuendo in the bullying. Teenagers, who feel they don't fit in, will strongly identify with Powder and will probably love this movie. However, this is also a horror movie, but a different kind of horror movie. At first it seems to follow in Carrie's shoes, setting up a revenge plot. But the horror we see isn't a misfit student getting revenge in unspeakable ways on classmates. It's in the town's inability to treat Powder with humanity. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Depressing, but extremely powerful and moving","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Sean Patrick Flannery is an incredibly under rated actor after this remarkable performance he gave in Powder, while the story is very dark and just not pleasant, he really gave it his all into this film and you can see how emotionally connected he is in it. We also have Mary Steinberg and Jeff Goldblum who give their all into their characters, I just think they were not that well developed enough. They could have had a little more.The movie starts off with a mother and father rushing into labor, only on the way, unfortunately is struck by listening in a massive thunderstorm. She does not survive, but the baby does and the father is not only devastated but rejects his son. Sean plays Jeremy or as most people call him, Powder due to him being an albino. He is hidden in his grandparent's basement and has never been out of the house. When his grandmother passes, Jessica Caldwill, played by Mary Steinberg, convinces Jeremy that he must leave and they'll give him and home and school to attend. He does leave and slowly progresses towards what he thinks may be a better life.When Donald Ripley, a school teacher, has the I.Q. results for Jeremy for his school, he is amazed. There is no score high enough for Jeremy, he's smarter than Albert Einstein. He can memorize book pages word for word, he knows agonizing math problems, and knows the pain of the world. He also has a mysterious power where he if he is exposed to electricity, he gets electrocuted. He also has the power to make people feel the same pain as they inflicted unto another, he also can read minds. Unfortunately, this isn't making him very popular with the jocks of the school who brutally torment him not just mentally but physically. There is only really Donald, Jessica, and another girl Lidnsey who want to be his friends. Only he's just not willing to except this world of pain when so many people doubt and torture him like Doug Barnum who is the town's sheriff and just thinks Jeremy is a freak. His wife is unfortunately dying and comes to Jeremy to ask for a favor and to help him find out what his wife wants. This scene is so extremely touching and tearful. The scene that got to most to me is when the boys go on a hunting trip and the coach shoots a deer for sport and are just laughing at this poor deer dying. Jeremy then takes his hand on the deer and his other hand on the coach and the coach starts to have somewhat of a seizure, and he made the coach feel the same pain he put on the deer. Poetic justice and well deserved I thought.Powder, despite being depressing, is a pretty decent picture worth viewing if you are in the mood for a sappy flick. But trust me, it is worth the it, you get a great performance that deserved more praise by Sean, also the same with Mary and Jeff. The acting just takes this movie to where it should be.7/10 "}{"Title":"The real credit has to go to both Sean Patrick Flanery and Lance Henriksen, they both succeeded in making their characters be both believable and human.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  When I first heard of this film, my first reaction was wouldn't watch it if you paid me, the reason for this was Mary Steenburgen that woman plays the same character in every movie, although I have to say she was good in this, but the real credit has to go to both Sean Patrick Flanery and Lance Henriksen, they both succeeded in making their characters be both believable and human.  Everyone should watch this film at least once, it's sweet without being nauseating and for once America hasn't ruined it by putting on a they all fell in love, got married, popped rugrats and everyone lived happily ever after ending. "},{"Title":"Frustratingly follows an acute by-the-numbers fashion","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"23 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" There so many good things in this film, so many elements that come together (emotional, visceral and otherwise), that it's an outright shame Powder isn't a better picture. An albino youngster--psychic, telekinetic, and more brilliant than anyone on Earth--is found orphaned in a rural home and is brought out into the cold, cruel world for the first time in his life. Writer-director Victor Salva wrings every ounce of emotion from the tender scenes, but he lays the schoolyard bully stuff on mighty thick. The terrific finale is nearly overshadowed by the nasty events that precede it (which are not only puzzling, but overwrought). That's the trouble, I think Powder is a careful, gentle, insightful, sincere little movie derailed every now and again by heavy-handedness, and a plot that follows every cliché down the path to predictability. Still in all, a moving finish, and all the acting is quite solid. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"powder","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" If someone like jeremy was born 2,000 years ago,they may have named him Jesus Christ.If someone like jeremy was born on the 25th may 2012 they may label him as the second coming of Christ.This is a excellent movie with a lot of hidden meanings.One may be thinking where jeremy went to at the end of the movie.He did not die.He progressed to a higher from of life.Amasingly he transgressed tens of thousands of years of evolution within seconds.This movie reminds me of other similar movies like the green mile and peohonomen.Sean was a real treat to watch.I guess his role made the movie.hopefully sean will become a good actor after all.very well done. "},{"Title":"Touch of the Heart--very powerful","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" POWDER is one of the most powerful movies that tugs at the heart that I have ever seen that I CRIED thru the whole movie. I was visibly and emotional shaken by Powder. My heart hurts really bad for Powder in the way he was treated and harassed by others, but most of all with a loving heart for the way he looked--his beautiful eyes that showed how his heart was feeling-- his soft voice that spoke with love-- his fragile body that was looking to be held.Someday down the road I hope to meet Powder so I can hug him and ask him to be my friend so I could be his friend,to let him know that their are people who love him and want to share their dreams with his dreams as to what life should be like.Powder is a very emtional movie that will stay in my heart forever.Whenever Powder said he wanted to go home in the movie I would yell thru my tears and hurting heart, LET HIM GO HOME.It's been three days now and and my heart still hurts for Powder.I believe this movie should be seen by teens and above, so people can see how physically and emotionally one can be hurt when harassed and not trusted, because for lack of better word, DIFFERENT.Sean Patrick Flanery is real in portraying Powder that you could feel his emotions and sadness in his heart.It's a shame that even in todays world people are treated in the same way that Powder was in the movie and want to go home---HOME BEING HEAVEN.Sean Patrick Flanery--Thank you and continued success. "},{"Title":"Films Of The 90's  Powder","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Powder (1995) Starring Sean Patrick Flannery, Jeff Goldblum, Mary Steenburgen, Ray Wise, Lance Henriksen, Brandon Smith, Bradford Tatum, Susan Tyrell, Miss Crider, Esteban Powell, Reed Frerichs, Chad Cox, Joe Marchman, Phil Hayes, Phil Hayes, Danette McMahon. Director Victor Salva, Screenplay Victor Salva.Everything that I know about science, about the make-up of the human body, what happened in that classroom defied everything.......Released in 1995, Powder was not a very well-known film for its time but anyone who saw it or has seen it on cable since would tell you how powerful, emotional and how human it is. Sean Patrick Flannery stars as Jeremy Reed, nicknamed Powder because his Albino skin is as white as powder. When he was born, his mother was struck by lightning and died. His father was repulsed by his appearance and abandoned him. He grew up in the basement of his grandparents, isolated from the rest of the world and learned about the outside world of human civilization through books. When his grandparents pass away, Jeremy is taken by a social worker (Mary Steenburgen) to a small rural town in the Mid-West where he struggles to fit in and acquire the acceptance of a community that finds him bizarre and intimidating, especially after he begins to display his electrical powers. The lightning that struck his mother has made him an entity of pure energy, and his body is highly sensitive to electricity (lights, television). During one memorable scene, his science teacher Mr. Donald Ripley (played by Jeff Goldblum) is conducting a lecture and demonstration's on the Jakob's Ladder effect. The electrical conductor shoots a wave of energy toward Powder and levitates him. He has the power to turn lights off and on at will, he can levitate small items like spoons (telekenesis) and more importantly, he has a big heart and brain. He has an extremely high I.Q. and is even offered to be sent to a magnet school for geniuses located in a distant location. Taking it to mean the town doesn't want him there, he refuses. Other schoolmates, especially other males, bully him and humiliate him. The police and other members of the small town fear him and find his presence disturbing. But Powder has a compassionate and loving nature and is portrayed as a sort of Jesus Christ figure. On a hunting trip, his powers enable the hunter to experience the pain and death of the hunted prey, a deer. Powder represents the outsiders, the misunderstood. It is a human E.T. story without the alien. He could not live in this world and through his death becomes energy. He is ultimately an example of the pure energy some scientists theorize humans will evolve into. Director Victor Salva brilliantly engages us in a film that is powerful, dramatic and achingly human. The visual effects, tame by today's standards, nevertheless add to the spirituality of the film's nature. Strong performances by Sean Patrick Flannery in the title role, fully encompassing the innocence and deeply human nature of Powder who wanted only to be accepted by others, despite his being highly evolved. Anyone who has ever felt socially different and ostracized will completely relate to Powder, especially in today's youth culture which is uniformist and refuses to accept individuality and uniqueness. Jeff Goldblum is in his element as the Professor. He's intelligent, witty, charismatic and sadly an underrated actor. He was doing Independence Day at the same time as this film and this proves how versatile an actor he is. Mary Steenburgen is likewise in her element in the role of the kind social worker Jessica Caldwell, providing her role with motherly, mature touches. The film is mostly tragic and bittersweet, but such things are what most great art is made of. Its powerful message of love and longing for love is at the core of this wonderful film. Powder is definitely one of the great underrated movies of the 90's. "},{"Title":"My All Time Favorite Movie","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I don't have a lot to say but I was looking to download this movie which I have not seen in maybe 8 years and I found this site and I always remember that this is my absolute favorite movie. I love a movie that makes you think deeper into the obvious things in life. It's obvious that the writer of the script is very advanced in his thoughts and I respect the good he or she has brought to public awareness. I'm not sure how aware the majority of people are since like I had mentioned, I haven't seen this movie in 8 years and I have looked for it at video stores as well. The general public can be pretty narrow in the mind sometimes or usually follow the most common thought patterns so this does not seem to connect since it isn't seen on the tube or sold in many place i figure very often. That's it I guess. This is something for many to really see and it would be a shame to miss it or not get something nice from it to help guide you in certain ways. =).....Paul C. "},{"Title":"Powder Make it required viewing for every US hate speaker","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"26 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Powder couldn't help being born different. He also couldn't change that he possessed extraordinary abilities. But, once taken from his natal home into mainstream US society, he was taunted, harassed & made to feel like a freak simply because his physical appearance was a little different & his sensitivities were heightened.I rated this film a 10 because it has the solid potential to reach a wide audience including families with children; yet, an interesting enough plot to hold an adult's attention. The message about tolerance from the film is powerful.It deals with a disability subject rarely, if ever, viewed in theaters or movies. I strongly recommend that people (like the US Presidential candidates, Congress members, religious 'leaders', officers of the courts & law, plus school children of all ages) be required to see this film before ever being called a 'public servant' or attending public or private schools. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary film with different intentions","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This film is really extraordinary! The film describes how an albino called Powder leaves his home for the first time of his life with the age about 20. Up to that moment he has only been in his room and has read books. Because his mother died when he was still not burn, but Powder survived but was born as an albino. He lived at his grand-parents but when they died the police encountered him and he was taken to high-school. SPOILER At high-school Powder is not accepted by his mates, first because of his strange appearance and second because of his behavior. He does not talk and does not try to get into contact with anybody. When Powder has physics, his physics teacher teaches the function of electricity and suddenly Powder is attacked by a stream of electricity without any reason. But Powder has no injures.His teacher finds out that Powder is a genius, highly intelligent but with a certain Electric personality. Powder has very many difficulties to cope with society and only one time when he is in an amusement park he kisses a girl friend. But the girl's father has seen the kiss and warns Powder never to meet his daughter again. So there is not anybody who he likes. Powder returns to his grandparent's home again but the police comes and wants to take him with them. Powder runs just forward and is attacked by a lightning and disappears.END OF SPOILER Many people think what is the intention of that film? They think that it has no plot and is just boring. But this film is not just an ordinary film, it is ambitious. His intention is to show the spectator that there are some people who differ from the norm. The norm sees it and tries to influence these people because they are afraid of them. But the influence is often malicious, unfair and a kind of mobbing. Often these some people's special talents are suppressed. Another topic of the film is technology. Powder represents a possible future-man, highly intelligent and with special powers. He does not need any electricity, f.e. when one boy in the film is lying, unconscious on the ground, Powder comes and gives him electric impulses by using his hand but any technology. Perhaps there will be a time when humanity will outpace technology, as the physics teacher says at the end. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie, Great Actors, A movie to make you think","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I think this movie was wonderful. I loved the way Jeremy Reed, aka Powder could communicate with animals and feel pain of others and read minds and make other people feel the pain. I think this movie should not be judged on the director just because he did a BAD THING, which I agree, he did a horrid thing, but the movie itself is the subject here.  I have seen this movie close to 60 times, and I enjoy watching it over and over.  "},{"Title":"Powder is great","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" If we don't look at the bad deeds of its director and just judge the film for what it is... Powder is one of the most uplifting films I can think of. There is a young boy who is born with special powers, this turns out to be both a gift and a curse, it's the reason of his isolation, his loneliness, but it's also the thing that will set him free in the end and will open the eyes of a number of blind people. A genius, endowed with the power to read people's minds as well as to feel people's pain, Powder knows his gift can bring utter good or utter evil to his life, and ultimately to the world. He chooses to use his powers to help the people who hate him for his diversity, or people like the Sheriff whose scepticism and fears have separated him from his own son and are prolonging the pain of a wife terminal with cancer. This is a simple story, a universal one, beautifully written, very well directed, and most of all (credit to the fantastic cast) acted like all films should be, from the heart. It could have been easy to overdo the performances, especially in the dramatic moments, but the actors give some fine performances indeed. Lance Henriksen is amazing as the Sheriff. I suppose the film can be considered a real tear jerker, but not in a negative way, it quite simply strikes the cords of our deepest emotions, fears, passion, love, and hits all those nails on the head. Enjoy it! "}{"Title":"Multi-layered film that benefits from repeat viewings","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  It seems the camp is split on those who love this film and those who loathe it. As for me it moved me to tears, and there's very few films that have done that.For those of you who didn't like it I would say this - give it ten or fifteen years then watch it again. Lance Henriksen gives his finest performance yet, the scenes with his wife just have so much resonance that only those who have lived a full life could truly grasp its emotional complexities .All I can say is I found it a life-affirming experience.  "},{"Title":"Most Powerful Film of All Time","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This movie was excellent! It makes people of all ages feel strong emotions while watching the film. Where people say it is pro-molestation, I have to look at you in an odd view, because men trying to be forgiving and trying to save others is not what molesters do. If that is your idea, I'm staying far away from you. This movie made me cry when I was 4 and I still cry now, over 12 years later. This movie shows that inner beauty is far greater than the outer crust of people. It made me feel strange while watching the powerful movie and I strongly recommend it. If you find you have a tender heart, I suggest you snuggle up with a Kleanex box and a good understanding. "},{"Title":"trying to be so profound","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Jeremy 'Powder' Reed (Sean Patrick Flanery) is an albino. His mother died in childbirth. His father disowned him. Sheriff Barnum (Lance Henriksen) investigates a dead elderly man and discovers his grandson Powder hiding in the basement. Powder has never been to school and little contact with the outside world except in books. Social services worker Jessie Caldwell (Mary Steenburgen) places him to all boy's Central home and to the high school of small town Wheaton City. His special powers causes fear, fascination and isolation. Physics teacher Donald Ripley (Jeff Goldblum)'s electricity demonstration gets out of hand. Fellow student Lindsey is fascinated but John Box picks on him.The kid is an albino and everybody acts like they've seen a ghost even before he shows his powers to them. I'm not sure what kind of backwards 'To Kill a Mockingbird' hick town this is suppose to be. I'm willing to buy the teen bullies. However the 'kid' actors are not that compelling. It's as if the casting agent is good at casting adults but has no clue how to get good young actors. Sean Patrick Flanery does his best but his character is emotionally limited. He isn't allowed to be happy. The bullies are trying too hard and the girl doesn't have the charisma. John Box is closer to 30. The movie is trying so hard to be profound that it doesn't ring anywhere close to true. People are too stupid. People are too mean-spirited. The melodrama is too high. The actors sound fake. Powder is basically either going to be a superhero or supervillain. This could be a great comic book origin movie but every character is slightly wrong. "},{"Title":"Tremendous","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Cynicism seems to be the order of the day among critics these days so maybe in the future this film will receive some long overdue credit. It's a marvellous tale with some astonishing performances, particularly Lance Henriksen and Sean Patrick Flannery, both exceptional in their roles. The cynics will cry out the usual manipulative! and sappy! jibes but pay no attention. This is a beautifully shot film telling a moving, fascinating tale of a boy who happens to be different. I really love this film and think it was one of the unsung movies of the 90's. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Powder lifts the spirits beyond the everyday!!","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" There are very few films that take a simple storyline & deliver better than good performances but Powder breaks the rules. Sean Patrick Flannery gives a wonderful performance worthy of honorable mention. With an excellent ensemble cast consisting of Mary Steenburgen, Lance Henricksen, & Jeff Goldbloom, Powder excels on a grand scale where other lower budget movies have failed. Very few quirks in editing & subtle nuances did not hurt this film enough to let it's message shine.Powder is the poignant story of Jeremy Powder Reed, an young introverted recluse who is stumbled upon when his grandparents pass away leaving him alone on their farm. Jeremy was born to a mother who was struck by lightning thus transforming the tiny newborn to the horror of his birth father, John Box. Jeremy is a special human being because of his albino skin & hairless body, telekinetic powers, & superior intellect. Jeremy has read voraciously, has never watched television, & has never been off his grandparent's farm. Jeremy has lived in the cellar his whole life, never to have experienced the outside world.Found by a local sheriff Doug Barnum(Henricksen) & boys state school director Jessica Caldwell(Steenburgen), Jeremy is taken from the farm & placed in the state boys home to live. While at the state boys home, Jeremy is studied by staff, ridiculed & ostracized by fellow boys, & seen more as an object rather than a person. State Boy's Home teacher Donald Ripley(Goldbloom) takes to Jeremy & understands more than anyone who & what Jeremy really is; a genius who is closer to being the only perfect human ever on Earth. Sheriff Barnum, dealing with his spouse dying of cancer & a strained relationship with his only son, has a lot on his plate besides Jeremy. After several run-ins at the boys home, Jeremy strikes out on his own back to his grandparent's farm. Jeremy gets a ride home from Jessica who only wants whats right for him. Sensing the sadness in Sheriff Doug Barnum's heart, Jeremy visits his home & uses his incredible gift to give him his dying wife's last thoughts. Barnum's wife's last thoughts were of him finally letting go of her & repairing his relationship with his son. Jeremy ultimately ends up at the farm with Jessica Caldwell & is confronted by the Sheriff Barnum & State Trooper Deputy Harley Duncan. Sensing the coming storm, Jeremy runs out to the field only to reach his most yearned for place, that being the freedom of pure energy. Jeremy is happy for the first time since his grandparent's death, & now he can join them in heaven.Powder will warm your heart & produce a few tears for those who love a different kind of feel-good film. Flannery's performance is unforgettable & vaults him above his peers as an actor. Grab your snack, drink, & box of Kleenex for this one. Enjoy!!!! "},{"Title":"I am 22 years old and i love cinema!!","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  POWDER is a TOUCHING MOVIE that will be remembered by everyone FOREVER. Thank you, Sean Patrick Flanery! You are a very talented actor! And a wonderful human being! Never give up! And thank you for exist! ) I recommend this movie to the whole world!!*Dany -*  "},{"Title":"extraordinary good","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I saw the votes on this movie and must say that people who rated this movie a 5 or less clearly do not appreciate the subject this movie tells us. Because i can't imagine that the movie itself and the performances of the cast would score such a low figure.There are too little movies that illustrate the (almost) supernatural gifts mother nature gives to mankind from time to time.I would recommend this movie to any person who love a good told story about a life of an extraordinary young man. "},{"Title":"excellent metaphor","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a superb example of how humans can be real cruel with other people that are different, of any sort. If this story is seen only as a fantasy movie, then it is just entertaining and touching, but I think this movie should be a kind of fable or metaphor, and if we make a little effort we can learn to be good to any living creature on this earth, just dont forget that we all die, and that life is short to waste it in hurting others.  "},{"Title":"Simple world-saving thought wrapped in a one movie","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I'm 29 year old guy with pretty hard feelings and this excellent movie has just made me cry. In my opinion Powder is all about one simple idea, a beautiful thought about saving the world by just being human. Anyone can decide for themselves would that ever work, but Powder offers 1 hour and 47 minutes of wondering. Sean Patrick Flanery is pretty much at his best in the leading role as Powder, and even terrible acting of other cast won't drop my vote below 10. Maybe Lance Henriksen is giving something as the town sheriff, but the others are just awful. I was real careful for not giving any spoilers here, and you can probably read more about the movie anywhere in the internet, but I personally recommend Powder for everyone who thinks, feels and loves. Now I go dry my eyes ') "},{"Title":"It's Like Seinfeld without the humor!","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I just randomly thought of this movie again, since I remembered it being one of the most pointless movies I had ever seen.Essentially, if someone's different everyone will unprovokingly F with them and treat them like crap, then they'll be struck by lightning and die. That's the extent of this movies underlying message. None of the people involved in messing with Powder ever really come to any realization, like, maybe we shouldn't be messing with some dude minding his own business over there and others could have realized, maybe we could have learned something from this goth dude with superpowers. Even the one chick who was the nicest to Powder, was still unprovokingly a chaunch to him half the time as well. I would imagine that the story for this movie probably was deep and had a purpose, but anything of meaning/substance was trimmed away and it ended up being a pointless piece of crap. "}{"Title":"Predictable pap","Date":"17 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Another movie created from a sure-to-succeed formula. Take a kid who does not fit the mold (albino), make a bunch of idiots dislike him, give him super-powers and an exceptional IQ (though he never displays it), play lots of tear-jerk music, etc., etc. Bingo&#x85;a hit! It would have been an even bigger hit if there were shooting, blood, a car chase, pointless sex scenes, big hooters, and an alien. Are moviegoers this simple minded or have movie studios trained us to appreciate slop? I suppose if all one has ever eaten is porridge, a basic burger is wonderful. This movie was not close to being a basic burger. It might be a stale bun. The kid's super-power was that he was a semi-telepathic super-magnet. Hope that does not ruin the movie for you. It should not...the movie was a ruin from the get-go. The end was as sappy as the movie, so at least it was consistent. Yuck. "},{"Title":"a human story","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  the story follows a unique and different individual, who in the viewers eyes is an albino with extraordinary powers, related to energy. now through my eyes, i believe this is an extradordinary film way far overlooked. it just makes the film all more powerful and its points. as the goldblum character states in the movie, this character is what we all should be. he is so gentle, and kind, knows about the world, but has barely begun to step out into light. yet barely a man, it s hard to grasp, this conception. why does he have powers, why does he look like, why doesnt he do something when people pick on him. he differs from the norm, and so does this film. i can relate to his isolation, and the stares he gets. maybe this film is for the outcast, i guess thats why i like it. if you can ignore the tabloid past of this film and just look at it with an open mind and not be stuck up...maybe you can enjoy it to. something brought you to this page... "},{"Title":"Poignant dramatic fantasy","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a very moving dramatic fantasy. While some of the telekinetic scenes and the surreal ending are a bit weird, in the main it is a touching character study about prejudice and isolation. The lightning effects shots aren't too lame for a low-budget story. The make-up effects is very impressive.Sean Patrick Flanery plays the title character with amazing warmth and dramatic skill. Jeff Goldblum also has a great role as the sympathetic teacher. The bullying scene is actually quite hard to sit through, it's so emotionally powerful.Not for all tastes, but well worth seeing if you can handle it. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't expect that this movie was so fantastic. It's not something to pass your time with, it's something deeper.  Also you have to keep your mind open to understand. Sean Patrick Flanery was perfect as the main actor. If you want something more than a simple movie, see this one.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Many positive superlatives could not express the brilliance of this film. It astounds me that given the rather un-original state Hollywood has been in since 1980 (and continues to be in with the blatant and dull John Travolta rip-off of Phenomenon in 1996) that such a wonderful film was given the green light. It is always a rarity to see this type of masterpiece hit the screen... and a pleasure too. There was much controversy surrounding this film upon its initial release... mostly of the kind that had nothing to do with the actual movie. To that I can only say one thing... it takes more then one person to make a movie! Get over it. Besides the clever, thought provoking, tender, respectful and intelligent script penned by Victor Salva, he also does a top-notch job in the direction. I loved this movie, I own this movie and I whole-heartedly recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Much was written at the time of it's release, mostly concerning the conviction of it's writer/director Victor Salva on a sexual molestation charge. All that aside Powder remains a extraodinary film worth a look. A young man is dicovered living in the basement of his recently deceased Grandmother. Obviously an albino he soons reveals a intellect and abilities unlike any human before him. Sean Patrick Flannery gives a great performance as the youth.Salva does a fine job of coveying his difficult entry into surroundings he's never expereinced. Others in the cast are very good as well including Mary Steenburgen as the head of the school he is sent to, Lance Henrickson as the local sherrif in a more sensitive role for him, And finally Jeff Goldblum as the science teacher who realizes what the young man is and the potential of mankind to evolve into a more humane species. I don't think many people gave this film a chance based on the bad press Salva received. It's certainly one of the best films i've seen in recent years. "},{"Title":"Under-Rated and Touching Movie.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those films that you always remember seeing the previews but never got around to seeing it. Powder is under rated as well as mislabeled.The story is very unique. Powder, a completely bald albino was struck by lightning while in his mothers womb and now posseses electrical powers. Having been raised by his grandparents, he was hidden from the outside world until they pass away. He now is sent to a state orphanage and must deal with making friends and fitting in.The acting is great with Sean Patrick Flannery in the title role and wonderful supporting performances by Jeff Goldblum, Lance Henrikson and Mary Steenburgen. Often people do not understand the movie because they are not satisfied by the acting and the story. Powder is a wonderful and touching movie that everyone should experience. "},{"Title":"I liked it ,but its not for a younger audience.","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Personally I think the movie gave us a good inside of our connection with others and the effects of group mentality. The movie however is not for the action seekers ,but for those who can listen and decipher the meaning behind a story(my younger sister didn't like it). Of course we have to give credit to Sean Patrick Flanery for a truly genuine and excellent performance. "},{"Title":"The second coming","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" It sometimes seems that people cannot do anything by themselves.Look at Henriksen's characterhe's been staying with a bedridden wife and estranged from his beloved son.Here HE comes and prestoall promises fulfilled.The messiah is not necessary Jesus or Superman,he often may be somebody different ,MUCH different.See how Jodie Foster used to solve the villagers's problems in Nell and Mel Gibson with his student in the man without a face .This is downright embarrassingwe're waiting for some kind of Puss in boots who will work it out.The most interesting side is not the humiliations the hero endures because of the local racists but what he brings to the others ,with the highest QI I've ever seen (sic)and a heart of gold.If I had to give a piece of advice I would quote Dylan if you want somebody you can trust, trust yourself.SPOILERthe ending is revealing.It looks like the Ascension.As the hero leaves for the sky ,four creatures in rapture (Steenburgen,Henriksen,Godblum and a fourth guy) are wondering whether their messiah will send them something ,maybe HIS holy ghost) "},{"Title":"What A great Movie!","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  What A Great Movie This Is. I Just Got Done Seeing It. Sean Patrick Flanery Plays Such a Wonderful part in this movie. He Plays A Boy That Is Trying To Fit In. And You see in The Movie Where He Is Being Treated Bad. The Part Where The Girl Kisses Him. I Mean To Have That From Someone. That's How I Felt when I was Alot younger. I Felt The Same Way Actually. It Just Put's Tears In Your Eyes. To Really See It & Know It. It's Just A Great Movie)  "}{"Title":"pale kid, cool powers. 'electric' personality","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  beste' fielm eh un verld!!!! it's the best movie i have ever seen. i'm totaly addicted!!! i dont understand how anyone could give this movie a low rating. Jeremy aka Powder is a charecter that you can sympathise with. yeah. well, it rules. if you havent seen it, go do so. "},{"Title":"Awe Inspiring!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I do not understand why this movie is so at the bottom of the pile. It was superbly done to say the least. What actors do to portray themselves in films defies the imagination as was the case of Powder. Sean Patrick Flanery should be commended on his excellent performance and portrayal in this film. I remember all of the media attention this film received when it was being made.  The amount of makeup used and the transformation from the way this young man truly looks to the way he was seen afterwards in this film is astonishing.  Their are not many of us in this world who would want to undergo some of the transformations that actors go through, not even for the money, much less to be so underrated when the film is seen. What a unique film! It gives the answers to so many questions we all have about one another. What a moving and touching film, one that all should see. To appreciate life, you must first try to understand that sometimes the differences within this realm of life is what make us all so very fascinating. We each share in this, and this film made it possible to defy all odds! I purchased this film years ago, have been watching it ever since, and so have all members of my family. I loved it! Will keep watching this film and will always remember why it has a place near and dear to my heart. Truly inspiring.Peace Sandy "},{"Title":"Edward Scissorhands meets The Green Mile","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I found many similarities between Powder, Edward Scissorhands, and The Green Mile.  I really liked this film.  When I first found this movie via channel-surfing, I thought to myself, How strange.  I also found myself completely sucked into this amazing film.  Sean Patrick Flanery gives a very good performance, as does the rest of the supporting cast.Do yourself a favor and see this movie.  As other users have stated, the big lesson in this film is TOLERANCE.  Especially given recent events in New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania, this is a lesson everyone needs to be reminded of.I give this an 8/10. "},{"Title":"A movie which stirred my heart","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Powder, a movie not commonly made. A unique story line.I can say with all of my heart, that this kind of movies, when taken seriously can make a difference in the hard world we live in nowadays.At least, it certainly changed my way of thinking on some things.A must see, for all of those out there who watch movies not for pure entertainment, but for those who want to see a movie, and can't stop thinking of what they saw, for at least a week.  "},{"Title":"extraordinary film about being an outsider","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I found this such a great film that it was hard to characterize. It deals w/ a person who doesn't fit in, but desperately wants and tries to. It explores the fear of others, especially of those who are different.  A very touching and very psychologically savvy film that will make you think. NOT typical Hollywood fare. Great acting from the main character, whom I'd never heard of.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  It's a touching movie with a very good script and great performances (specially by Sean and Lance). Besides that, it's the kind of movie that makes you think. One can only wonder what an incredible world it would be, if human beings had a sense of connection to one another (even if only a tiny one).  "},{"Title":"A great movie..","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Anyone who says that this movie was bad most likely didn't understand, or was too shallow to see the deepness and meaning in it.  It shows how cruel people will be if you are different in anyway.  For example in this film, Powder (Flannery) was an albino, and was tormented through the entire movie because of that fact. I've seen it everyday of my life.  People being made fun of because they're overweight, skinny, mentally handicapped, or gay. I've also lived it, because I myself am overweight.  Anyone who's ever been put down, made fun of, or pushed around will most likely agree with me. This movie will lift your spirits everytime you watch it.  I highly reccommend it. "},{"Title":"This is one of the best movies I have ever seen!","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very insightful movie.  It contains universal truths which are evident on a deeper lever.  Don't get up in arms by the fact that Victor Salva is a convicted child molester.  I believe that he did his time and paid the price for what he has done.  I think this movie is an immense gift to society.  The fact that disney produced it has nothing to do with the director/writer's history.  I believe that the movie is a spiritual, wholesome and intelligent movie that the whole family can enjoy.  It teaches compassion, love beyond boundaries, and the immense possibilities of the human spirit.  It promotes great discussions, and just makes one think. Which is more than I can say for most movies.  This movie is definately a must see.  Sadly, most people who do not like this movie do not understand it. "},{"Title":"The best movie I have ever seen...","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Powder not only supplies the viewer with an action packed movie but is also great stimulation about the way our world works and how we can make this little planet a better place, in other words, an eye opener.If there is but one movie you ever watch in your existence on this planet, let it be Powder.A quoteEinstein  says that 'It has become appallingly clear that our technology has surpassed our humanity'When I look at you, I believe that someday our humanity will actually surpass our technology...You are welcome to e-mail me at cheeck@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"An Exhilarating and Depressing View Into Humanity","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I have to thank my friend for recommending this movie. He had been hounding me to see this film from a month and I kept on sidetracking him like an idiot. Finally I broke down and borrowed his DVD and sat down to see it. This could have easily slipped into the super-hero genre, but thankfully the director, Victor Salva made it into an amazing view into the human psyche when it comes to a person who is not normal and what that abnormal person felt about the world he was living in. This is a very underrated movie.An albino kid, Jeremy Reed (Sean Patrick Flanery) nicknamed 'Powder' by his grandparents, due to his apparent physical condition has to move to a school after his grandparents die, leaving behind the home he has spent his entire life in. His father had left him the day he was born when he saw his physical condition and his mother died by a lightning strike on the same day, while he was still inside her. He has a secret in him - his IQ is more than Albert Einstein's, he can remember everything he saw or heard or did from the day he was born, he can read minds and electricity is attracted to him. Everybody treats him like an outcast and so his grandparents never let him into the outside world. When he finally comes out of his cocoon of a home, to go the local school, he finds out that the world isn't as kind and brave as his books made it out to be.Of course Sean Patrick Flanery gives an excellent performance as Powder. Mary Steenburgen, Jeff Goldblum and Lance Henriksen are the other noteworthy actors. Everybody else also form an integral part of the movie and give fine performances. The scene where Powder touches the dying deer and keeps his hand on the policeman who shot the deer is really touching. So is the scene where he conveys the dying wishes of the Sheriff's wife. A girl kisses him and he rejoices inside his heart. When the girl's father harasses him and drags her away, Powder is really depressed and we as viewers, feel everything he feels. The climax is really brilliant - he is finally free from his bodily cage and truly experiences freedom. He returns to God, as some would say (there isn't even one religious scene, don't worry). Watch this amazing movie which makes you feel for the people who don't look normal, and makes you think who the real monsters are.8/10 "}{"Title":"This film should be required viewing at all High Schools","Date":"1 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I gave this film an 8 out of 10 only because some of the characters and acting were too overtly cheesy. As for the films message; it rates a 10 for sure. Too many of us react to someone's difference whether it be race, intelligence, way of dressing, culture etc. with fear. This film addresses that fear with an over-the-top example of difference. But the message is the same whether the difference is clearly obvious to us or more subtle. I truly think if this film were to be required viewing in High Schools across our country there would be less bullying either because the bully's would see themselves for what they are or because those who aren't bully's would have the courage to stand up, to the bully's, to their parents, to the school officials, to anyone in general who picks on someone just because that person isn't just like them...............a problem our society as a whole is wrestling with. The lead character was portrayed with incredible sensitivity and clear emotions. I found myself feeling as if his life of seclusion away from general society in his early years were both a blessing and a curse............but then most things in life are just that. "},{"Title":"Only your heart can explain the words.","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" First I would like to start by saying that I was completely speechless when I discovered the identity of the actor who plays Powder.Powder is about an albino teenage male, who has incredible abilities.After the death of his grandparents, Powder is discovered in the basement where he has lived. From here he is taken into government custody and ignorance ensues.Sean Patrick Flanery's performance touches not only on the feeling of isolation, but what it means to be human and the potential we all have. Also throughout the film, elements of science are touched on in relation to Einstein, and the belief of the perfect being.While watching this film, all I wanted to do was stand up for Powder and shake up the ignorant townspeople. Surprisingly though, Flanery's performance only received an MTV movie award nomination not an Academy Award. This is most in part to the nature of the film and it only relating to teenagers of the time.Some other memorable performances were from Mary Steenburgen, who plays his caregiver after his grandfather dies, and Jeff Goldbloom, who plays the teacher who see's Powder more as a science project than a human being.In conclusion, if anybody out there wants see to a true classic that represents the 90's than this is movie for you. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful Sensitive Movie!","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" KEEP A BOX OF TISSUES AT HAND! I love this movie, although, I cried through EVERY single minute (thought I was going to be able to stop a couple times but I was wrong!) and had a terrible headache when it was over, I have watched it at least 6 times since. (And YES I still cry, just not every single minute of it.)No one else could have played the role like Sean Patrick Flannery, the sweet sorrowful look in his eyes. Extremely touching movie, I think of it often. Everyone should take the time to REALLY WATCH it.I had a feeling Sean Patrick Flannery was good looking (even under his Powdery make-up (and I was right, he is gorgeous!) Love you Sean, and not for your looks, you are a wonderful actor (cute too if I may say!!) and Jeff you too are wonderful! (Just 1 more thing - they should have had you play David Cassidy in that movie, you look much more like him!) "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I loved this film. 200,000 years ago, our species took a great leap forward. We became homo sapiens sapiens and left our cousins, homo sapiens neanderthalensis to head toward extinction. I think this movie addresses the next great leap forward, which may happen within our lifetime. Powder represents an example of our next great leap forward, and why shouldn't it happen? Why should we necessarily be the crown of creation? I hope that when this great leap forward actually happens, there will be people like the characters portrayed by Lance Henricksen and Mary Steenburgen to recognize them and help them to integrate into the history of humanity. "},{"Title":"Touching story about alienation and being 'different'","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I rented this movie again, just recently - and I enjoyed it even more than my first viewing. I initially rated it a 9 but after taking it all in another time, I was motivated to adjust it to a 10 (perfect). I can't believe it's current user rating of 6 (it's so underrated). The cast is terrific, especially Sean Flanery in the lead role. Mary Steenburgen (Jessica), Lance Henriksen (the Sheriff) and Jeff Goldblum (Donald) all play their roles very well and it's well-directed. The music is moving, the photography is excellent, and there some very human, touching and spiritual scenes that will stay with you after the movie credits have rolled by. It raises questions about the nature of human existence, death, and what lies beyond, but don't get hung up these and the improbable events/concept that led to the 'creation' of Powder and his 'condition'. Focus on the characters' portrayal of human emotions (rejection/loneliness, acceptance/friendship, ignorance/anger & fear, understanding/trust & friendship) ... and it should move you. Some will call it hokey, but I found the sense of love, sadness, family and belonging surrounding the passage of Sheriff Barnum's wife (Emma) and his reconciliation with his estranged son (Steve) to be powerful stuff. You have to be a terrible cynic not to enjoy this movie - your loss. "},{"Title":"Extremely Effective and I Loved It","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Yes, there are other people out there who liked this movie. As a matter of fact I loved it. I saw it about the same time I saw Phenomenon and both movies share a similar sensibility in my mind, namely, how do we deal with the different among us. Fear is such a human response to the different, especially when it is strengthened by ignorance and general intolerance. In both movies, the different end up leaving us, and we lose because of it. Great and moving performances by everyone in this movie, especially Henriksen. If you don't cry at the scene where Powder helps Henriksen speak to his wife, then you are dead to the world. Henriksen is one of those actors who seems to have been around forever and he certainly has made his share of junk, but no matter what the movie he is in, he makes his character interesting and worth watching. "},{"Title":"I wanted to hug the guys neck, I felt so sorry for him","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Powder is one of those movies that sticks in your mind. At least it did in mine. You take a nice guy, who happens to be an albino,and has telekinetic powers, and you have a freak that everyone makes fun of. Even with his telekinetic powers, he never used them for revenge. He's a much better man than I am , because I'd have kicked some serious ass, If I'd had the powers he had. Electricity seemed to attract itself to powder, and in one instance he used it to save a boys life, a boy who had abused him severely.Powders IQ was as unbelievable as the rest of him, and in the end he used it as well as a bolt of lightning to evaporate into eternity.I hope I haven't given away the movie. I don't think I have, because there are a lot more interesting things that will catch your attention, and keep you entertained. It is a movie well worth spending your time watching. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I just finished watching Powder again. The first viewing in a couple of years, and it was as wonderful as ever. I forgot how much this film actually moved me, and the incredible performances by everyone involved.The film sets up a science-fiction premise of a young man who has grown up isolated from society. Not only is he an outcast from humanity because of his appearance (that of a hairless albino) but also because he is something more than human. Through circumstances never fully explained he has obtained the abilities of telepathy, telekinesis, and a genius level intellect the likes of which has never been seen. When his guardians pass away he is still at a fairly young age, and is taken from his home by the state. Confrontation with a humanity that will never understand or accept him is inevitable.I have a rather stoic demeanor most times, but this is one of those rare films that can move me to tears. It peels away the hypocrisy of mankind, and exposes both the ugliness and limitless beauty beneath. The film was boycotted upon release because of the director's past molestation conviction, but it does nothing to diminish the brilliance of this work.I recommend this film very highly. View it with an open mind and an open heart. "},{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Anyone who has seen this movie, and is not touched by the inspiring message of looking beyond what you see, then you are heartless and need to do something about it. This movie is inspiring, and makes you want to change and be a better person. It makes you want to like yourself. you are so caught up in his character that it makes you feel what he is going through, and it makes you want to help him,and make him feel beautiful. you can see his emotions, and that is what makes a big part in his character. When he is crying for the world, it breaks my heart, because we are too hateful towards each other.I believe that this is one of the most touching, and inspiring movies i have ever seen. i would recomend it to anyone who is looking for a good family movie. "},{"Title":"THE BEST HEART-MOVING SCI-FI EVER! A CLASSIC!","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the BEST HEART-MOVING EMOTIONAL SCI-FI MOVIES EVER! This is what SCI-FI should always strive to bring to the screen. A combination of emotion, feelings, and the human spirit. Composed of an excellent cast and a heart-moving score! I'm surprised at the low rating it is receiving. It should be at the top of the list! The BEST! If you haven't seen this one, see it today!!! (Way to go Lance Henriksen!) "}{"Title":"loved the movie","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Loved it, it was happy and sad and amazing all at once. Sean Patrick Flanery is the only person I can think of for doing that performance and keeping it great and real and being able to pull the audience in and have us care so much about this one person. I loved the movie go and buy it because you will kick yourself later if you don't.Butterfly49 "},{"Title":"Excellent film about the truth about power (not powder)","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  An unusual film about a beautiful, sweet, gentle, right-brained teen boy born an albino, who has developed fantastic mental powers for super genius and control and absorption of energy. As Jeff Goldblum puts it in the film You have a mind that we want to evolve to for thousands of years. You're maybe the man of the future right here and now... We're stumbling around in a very dark age just trying not to kill each other. Most people around him fear and disdain him and even treat him as if he were a retarded freak. A powerful statement about power (not powder) and how society views it upside-down.  "},{"Title":"An Ugly Duckling story they tried to sell with effects","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Great stories sometimes are not recognized in theatres. 400 Blows was not for everyone.Powder, who we meet as an adolescent, was born an albino --  a feature which stimulates fear and loathing wherever he goes. This Ugly Duckling is also a precocious telekinetic, able to move physical objects with his mind, and an empath.  Some of the adults in his life struggle with themselves to overcome their instinctive prejudices. A science teacher, played by Jeff Goldblum, is quicker to understand.Powder is the story of an advanced being, and just as most of Powder's peers are unable to relate, react with repulsion, the movie found little understanding in theatre audiences. The film has an undercurrent of anger with fascistic conformity like that in Total Eclipse. There is an aspect of forbidden love. Perhaps the director willingly sacrificed popularity to have his say; perhaps he dreamed that lots of FX gimmicks would help him reach a large audience. But overall Powder is a universal and daring story powerfully told. It should go to the heart of anyone who has experienced or witnessed bigotry or intolerance of the unusual and the transcendent. A film of many levels. Some will find the ending as mysterious as that of 2001; for some it will be elating. "},{"Title":"Multi-layered film that benefits from repeat viewings","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  It seems the camp is split on those who love this film and those who loathe it. As for me it moved me to tears, and there's very few films that have done that.For those of you who didn't like it I would say this - give it ten or fifteen years then watch it again. Lance Henriksen gives his finest performance yet, the scenes with his wife just have so much resonance that only those who have lived a full life could truly grasp its emotional complexities .All I can say is I found it a life-affirming experience.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies...","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Powder has always been one of my favorite movies.So when I read some of the things you people were saying, I was a little angry, and intended to tell everyone off. Then I read what was said by IWasYours.I think that person pretty much covered it for me.I wasn't to crazy about the ending. It had the potential to be great, but a lot of things that I would've liked to have known were not explained.However, I think Sean Flanery did a wonderful job, and Jeremy (or Powder) left a lasting impact on me. His character, an amazingly honest, intelligent, and frighteningly pure person, stayed with me long after the credits stopped rolling.For that reason more then any other, I'd give this movie a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Powder is riveting............","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  How anyone could not be touched by this wonderful movie is shocking.  It is creative and powerfully emotional.  It is a good all around movie that has a message about mankind and it's humanity, as well as real age old problems that do exist for people who happen to be different.  It is a challenge for all of mankind yet achieved.  SophieP.S.  Why haven't we seen Sean Flanery in more better movies ?  He has proven his capabilities in this movie. "},{"Title":"beatiful","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This film gives to anybody a diferent perception of life after life, it shows up that there is no reason to have a religious point of view but a necesity to transcend in a superior level. This film is also about pure & innocent love in every sense. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Story","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" A film that might easily be overlooked by someone just reading the cover or having someone talk about it.Characters were very well demonstrated...even if stereotypical...after all...stereotypes do reflect reality to a point.The writer very nicely built the portrait of the main character and really touched something very beautiful in the story and its unfoldment. Very deep philosophical statements are made about the nature of humanity and its potential contrasted with the present state of social and individual issues which prohibit such advanced development being able to share the present environment.I think this film displays artistic visionary genius.I highly recommend it to any one who has a warm heart. "},{"Title":"Script Turns to Powder.","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Powder (1995) Dir Victor Salva / Cast Sean Patrick Flanery, Mary Steenburgen, Jeff Goldblum, Lance Henriksen, Bradford Tatum No, this is not a documentary film about the abuse of cocaine although it is enough to drive viewers to yearn for something to remove its memory. This is a depressing film about a kid who is stark white after his pregnant mother was struck by lightning. Left in isolation he is eventually sent to a reform school. Intriguing idea yet predictable with this kid constantly in anguish. Director Victor Salva seems to have no idea where he is going with this. It is like watching a circus act gone bad. Sean Patrick Flanery plays an unreadable character. He is telekinetic, can read emotion through touch, fears lightning. He could probably predict the winning lottery numbers. His other talents include giving heart attacks and wailing in anguish because this film will go with him everywhere. Henriksen plays the local Sheriff who cannot make sense of this mess. He might as well get in line because the director seems at a loss too. Jeff Goldblum and Mary Steenburgen are teachers wishing to befriend this kid but are at a loss. Bradford Tatum plays the standard gun brandishing redneck who threatens our white colored hero. The message could regard disabilities but it is not focused. Perhaps the screenplay should have been blown like powder in the wind to make way for a much needed re-write. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Is this what we could become?","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The film Powder opens with a woman's death. The woman in question is the mother of young Jeremy Reed aka Powder. The opening sequence gives us an understanding of who this child will become when his father's rejection spurns an intense brain wave reading and all the lights in the hospital react with the child's sadness and anger.Jump about sixteen years into the future where the proctor of a school for boys arrives at the Reed farm. Old Man Reed has died, his body removed from the scene, a scorch mark where it once lay. Meanwhile, downstairs in a secret cellar the reclusive grandson lies in wait, concealed by shadows. The proctor, Jessie (Mary Steenburgen) and the local sheriff, Doug (Lance Henriksen), make contact with the boy. It turns out that Jeremy Reed, or Powder, is something odd. His body lacks all pigmentation and body hair and his intelligence is unequivocal.Thrust into a world ill prepared for his arrival, Powder (played with just the right mix of understated melancholy and childish wonderment by Sean Patrick Flanery) learns that the world is not a very nice place. He is bullied and tormented, stared at and chastised for being different in moreways than one. As the film progresses, Powder manages to make some friends along the way, experiences the pangs of love for a local girl (Missy Crider) and displays an unprecedented electromagnetic ability.This film, written with definite heart by the controversial Victor Salva, is an underrated gem. Mostly due to the great work by Henriksen and Flanery. The scene with Doug's dying wife moves me to the verge of tears every single time. Henriksen, I feel, is a very underrated actor, as well. Apart from some real stinkers (Lost Voyage and No Escape) Henriksen has turned in some fabulous performances and his role on the cult hit Millenium should have thrust him into the lime light, but that's just my opinion. -MD- "}{"Title":"Very Touching","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I just recently saw this movie for this first time and I must admit that I was quite literally moved to tears.  Powder is an especially moving story about a very special person.  A boy like him may never exist in the real world, but the character gives us good reason to believe in the power of miracles.  Sean Patrick Flannery gave a wonderful performance as Powder.  It's easy to recognize his true talent as an actor.  I would highly reccomend this movie to anyone.  It's a genuine tear jerker but most definatley worth the rental fee. "},{"Title":"Better than the sum of its' parts","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Here is as good an example as any that for a film to be successful, it must be a collaborative effort.  Powder is engaging, even involving.  But upon examination of its parts, one realizes there was no new ground covered, no new insights, nothing that hadn't been done before.  No really outstanding performances, except to say that Mary Steenburgen, Lance Henricksen and the under-appreciated (but always busy) Jeff Goldblum are probably incapable of turning in bad performances.  And to be fair, Sean Patrick Flanary has the good sense to play what could have been a disastrous part with just the right amounts of simplicity and innocence.  To paraphrase Spencer Tracy, he says his lines and doesn't trip over the furniture.  This is a role where less is definitely more.  He is to be congratulated.  The screenplay, which tends to sag in the middle, is well enough written, but nothing more. Sets and costumes are what they need to be. The direction is sufficient.  But put the elements all together, and you have a film that is thoroughly watchable and tends to stay with you well after the closing credits. However, I must make two exceptions to the above.  Jerzy Zielinski's cinematography is excellent, and veteran composer Jerry Goldsmith contributes a superb score.  This film might have suffered greatly without the talents of these two men. Finally, it must be noted that the controversy surrounding the director need not influence your decision to give this film a chance.  It will be a well spent 111 minutes. "},{"Title":"A good movie about acceptance and love","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The film has a powerful message of love and honesty, but it also has a few flaws that keep if from being a great movie.  I don't believe that even the south could (still) be so backwards.  And if Powder is so smart why is he so confused?  Still, the acting is good, production is good, the story is interesting.  I quite enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  this movie enlightened me and dazzled me in ways which i thought never could be done on screen. it opens eyes to see what's really there. most people don't understand this movie because they are so close-minded. this movie is not about a albino boy with a high IQ from a small town. it's about acceptance, energy, miracles, faith and love. this movie brought to your attention the things we reject and pretend that aren't there. if you thought you were a open minded person now, you haven't seen nothing yet. "},{"Title":"A Drama that Touches the Heart and Soul","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this movie twice, because I thought it had meaning to it. This is a Drama that is different from any other It brings about many emotions. It brings out Sadness, Happiness, Confusion, Scarce, and just about any other emotion that you can think of. What bothers me about this movie, is all the tormenting Powder gets. Although it is just acting, I still have feelings for the character. The tormenting gets worse. What a shame to see a movie turn out like that. I'm not too fond of Henriksen's character either.Star Rating **1/2  "},{"Title":"A powerful and unforgettable story","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a very rare gem of a movie. In a time when movies have a lot of fx to cover up a weak story, to graphic unnecessary violence and sex. Powder basically shows a pure and unique individual that is not accepted in today's society that has become jaded with discrimination, and overall being afraid of someone who looks different. There are several important elements in the movie. There is the paranormal factor that challenges what we know of science and the the human mind can achieve, the extent of human cruelty, love and forgiveness, and a hope that we may advance beyond technology. The most of all, raw emotion the reaches deep into the heart and leaves a impression that will stay with you. What also makes this movie great is that even though it is not a true story it could be. The idea of being different because of looks or something that makes you stand out from the status quo of the different groups, where we can all relate to. This movie achieves this in a powerful, passionate and inspirational way. This movie makes you sit back and take in everything, showing us what the world may be if we stop judging one another and start to accept our uniqueness. What also is shown in this movie is just that just because someone may be different with looks or how they act that they are some weaker or a part of the undesirables. Who time and again in this movie seem to show us that perception needs to be changed. One scene where we find out he has the highest I.Q. ever recorded.,to a scene where a hunter shoots a deer and powder touches the deer and the hunter and shows him the pain the deer feels before he dies that has a profound effect on the hunter. Another scene where Powder helps the local sheriff understand what his dying wife wants, which is to just reconcile with his son. You have a movie that looks like it could be a Carrie type movie but ends up showing the sad inability to treat Powder with any sense of humanity and dignity. No matter what he stays his pure positive self in some scenes showing the error of our ways and then in the end makes a final act that hopefully makes people want to change for the better. "},{"Title":"underrated","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Okay maybe I'm in the minority, but I actually enjoyed this movie.  I saw it when it originally came out and had pretty much forgotten about it until I saw it again earlier today on HBO.  I believe that this movie had very good performances, a nice story, and a wonderful message.  It connected with me on the base of my beliefs, such as the idea that everything in this world is connected. Sean Patrick Flanery gives a wonderful and gut-wrenching performance he makes you feel Powder's sense of isolation and his yearning for human connection.  I think that the majority of the performances were nice but his (and Lance Henricksons) really stick out in my mind.  I also really enjoyed a lot of the dialogue and I believe that as a whole it is a movie that makes you think.  And although I found the ending to be somewhat dissatisfying in a way it was almost the only way it seems that it could have ended.  All in all I give the movie a 7/10.     "},{"Title":"Based on....","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" ....A the theory by Albert Einstein that if you use every single part of your brain at once, you can obtain supernatural powers like telekenesis. Powder was born when his mother was struck by lightning while pregnancy. He is completely albino and has supernatural powers related to telekenesis. He is picked on by most people because of his skin. After a while, some people acually become close to Powder and show him affection that he never had, because he grew up with his grandparents on a farm that he never left, but he read books all day. His IQ is so high that it is off the charts. I think this is a VERY underrated movie because of its drama and great acting. I give this movie 8.5 stars. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Enthralling","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Despite what you sourpusses out here say about this movie, I happen to think that it was very well written.  It is a wonderfully touching movie which would move anybody with half a heart to tears.  It focuses on how people are discriminated against because of their differences, and that is what makes it such a touching movie.  I especially enjoyed the scene when Powder allowed the hick sheriff to feel what that poor deer felt by relaying the deer's pain into the sheriff's body.  Very strong performance by Sean Patrick Flannery. In a way, it kind of reminded me of the movie Edward Scissorhands, another one of my favorites.   "},{"Title":"GREAT movies","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all times!. It is very spiritual. If you liked the green mile, and love movies with an underline Spiritual message, this will become one of your favorite movies too...There is one line that hit me the most. Powder explains to the girl how we are all connected, and he says that there is a little spot right there, then he points to her forehead, and continues to say... That most people can't see past, but if they could they would find that we are all connected...This movie is a treat, and one you have to watch at least once a year...Anyone who doesn't like it, most likely just doesn't get what its talking about...  "}{"Title":"SEAN IS DA BOMB!","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I never saw this movie when it first came out.  I recently rented it and was BLOWN AWAY by Sean Patrick Flanery's BRILLIANT performance.  Truly, I never knew this man was that talented.  He deserved an Oscar for his performance. The single best piece of acting I've seen in years or maybe ever.  He WAS that character -- I truly felt his pain.It's very admirable to see a macho male actor who's not afraid of doing a role that exposes raw vulnerability and fragility. "},{"Title":"A unique person. A conventional world. A very conformist movie. Still...","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" by Dane YoussefVictor Salva's Powder is the kind of movie that when you first read it's screenplay, you'd think to yourself... God, this is so full of potential. Think of the endless possibilities. It just needs a rewrite, maybe even a script doctor and we can make this the talked-about film of the year.But the movie gets rushed into filming and it's left with an unfinished feeling. It feels like the studio or the director wanted to make a movie about persecuted outsiders and then thought, Well, we want this movie to drive people here in hoards. We need a mainstream film... so lets not make it too smart for people to follow and too deep for people to want to get into. We don't wanna go over people's heads. It takes a truly original character and plugs him into a movie as routine and unremarkable as the bullying, red-neck catalysts who flaunt 85% of the film's supporting roles. Who just gawk and insult 'cause they're so damn screwed-up themselves, on a personal level.Who's fault is this? The director... or the executives? Powder has some moments that are almost Spielberg-Ian and insights that cause you to think. But there are too many others that almost feel phoned in.Sean Patrick Flanery plays Jeremy Reed, nicknamed Powder is an amazing superhuman who is almost pure energy and conducts electricity better than water or metal. He has the ability to read minds, magnetize and he can also shatter glass telepathically. He is also a genius. The movie begins with an establishing scene where an expectant mother is driven screaming in an ambulance to the nearest hospital. And not only has her water broke, she has just been struck by lightning.The father demands to see him. The baby is screaming inside the oxygen tent as if it's a burn victim. It almost seems to know what's going on right now. The cries are deafening and heartbreaking.And the father abandons him. The boy lives with his grandparents until they die and poor Powder is once again without family. People who find Powder downstairs in the basement, hiding. From them. From outsiders. From the world. They bundle him up, take him away to a reform school. Why? Um... shouldn't he be sent to an orphanage or something? Why throw him in with criminals who can't be tried as adults?Oh, the formula. Sorry, I forgot. Jeremy is bullied all throughout the movie and takes way too long to retaliate. As if the director is getting too damn into this or has time to kill. Even when it's clear there's no other choice. Not much fight in you, huh? asks one of them at one point. Obviously not.I can't tell if we takes so long to just use his abilities because he's afraid, he's too good... or the film's gotta too much time to kill and the director's enjoying lashing back.We see Jeremy's pale as death skin and his defined male form. Salva incorporates this scene because of his preference for the male physique. He shows male nudity in a lot of his movies and homosexual elements. There is a moment that suggests that Jeremy might be gay or some of the other kids in the film might have those elements as well. These scenes are well-drawn, no doubt related to Salva's experiences dealing with his own sexuality. Salva himself is gay, yes.Which explains a lot of the endless elaborate homo put-downs throughout the movie and male nudity as well. Even the southern redneck kids don't mind too much getting a gander at Powder's privates. Of course we need (yes, NEED) scenes where Jeremy is persecuted for the way he is. But there are too many of those. They take up way too much of the movie. A scene in a cafeteria, in the woods and in the gymnasium that moves outside onto the field. There are many, many scenes where Jeremy shows his endless powers. Yet too many people are slow to catch on, even the smart ones. There's a truly great scene where a redneck hick deputy sheriff (Brandon Smith) shoots a deer and Powder uses an empathy power so the deputy can feel the deer's pain and suffering.And another where Jeremy is getting involved with the only sweet girl in town and they have a moment where they share kind of Vulcan mind-meld. He has every superpower known to man. He's smart, sweet, kind and all-powerful. But for some reason, he lacks the ability to do the simplest thing and the most obvious thing when the opportunity is right there. So does pretty much everyone else in this film most of the time.I asked myself, why?Oh, the formula. Sorry, I forgot.Jeff Goldblum believes in Jeremy and thinks he could be an advanced step in human evolution. He delivers eloquence about where he explains what Powder is and again later with everything wrong with humanity and how we haven't moved very far in the great human race. And Jeremy could be humanity's answer. The ending is inevitable, but sad. I guess there was just no other way for Powder or the movie. But you walk away wishing Powder AND the movie itself just did more than have big moments involving special effects, dealing with antagonists and only occasionally having a real moment. Still, it's a nice renter. Goldblum's lines about humanity will make you think and Patrick Flanery's performance as the title character are all worthwhile. And there are several scenes that really do stay stuck with you....by Dane Youssef "},{"Title":"One of my favourite films of all time.","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" May contain spoiler.This film is in my top 10 all-time favourites (more likely top 5), I watch it at least 5 or 6 times a year. A lot of films can touch you depending on your mood at the time. This one can touch you no matter what your mood. It's storyline is unbelievably powerful, with a deeper meaning than may be obvious on first viewing.Jeremy is different, innocent, powerful, spiritual. Classified by the bullies as a 'freak show'. I think there is a little bit of Jeremy in each of us, but most of us will never know it.Sean Patrick Flannery who plays Jeremy, played the part superbly. The emotion, the pity, the anger at the Deputy for shooting the deer, the sorrow.. every part of Jeremy's character was played so well, it's as if it was a true story. The music score.. very simple style, and each time a score was played, it was not only perfect for the scene, it also brought out the goosebumps. The music doesn't change a lot, but there is no need. The main theme.. my word, it is just amazing.. makes your heart skip a beat, makes you smile, happy, sad and all sorts of emotions at the same time.All in all.. you need this film in your life. "},{"Title":"A unique sci-fi drama.","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a pretty touching film about a young, bald albino boy named Jeremy 'Powder' Reed (Sean Patrick Flannery) who has special powers that bewilders his community.Flannery plays Reed pretty brilliantly, generating the audience's sympathy as he deals with his special condition and deal with adversities coming from members of his community, who ridicule him for his looks and unusual abilities. The plot may not be fast-paced but it's a film that doesn't rely on the cliché Hollywood formula, instead, provides a unique story-line with a does of reality, despite its sci-fi elements. The acting was quite good, with a supporting role by Jeff Goldblum. Not a bad film overall. Grade B "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"17 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This movie is wonderful, heartwrenching...beautiful and sad. I had been obsessing over wanting to see this movie for quite awhile. I saw it when I was little, and recently wanted to see it again, so I bought it off of Amazon Prime and watched it with a lump in my throat wanting to cry. I felt so bad for Jeremy. He desperately wanted to fit in, to not want to be stared at to not want to be different..., and I think everyone can can relate to that.I kind of wish the movie was a bit longer however I think that it would have dragged on if it were. The soundtrack was a bit repetitive, ( Sarah Brightman's  No one like you ) but enjoyable. I think if you need a feel good movie watch Powder but bring the tissues! "},{"Title":"I Don't Know HOW to Feel About This Film...","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"       This movie starts off with a great idea, but while running with it, somehow trips over some well-worn cinematic cliches.  I can really identify with the main character, in fact, I AM this character!  A pale-skinned loner who loves to read and never leaves home without his fedora hat.  And, like everybody who knows what it's like to be ridiculed, I definitely find myself cheering for Powder and scorning the empty-headed small-town hicks who feel the need to ostracizehim just because he won't buckle under conformist values and spring for the sunless tanning lotion and the toupee.  But after a while, it becomes quite apparent that not only are some of the characters in this movie simply insipid, cardboard cut-out stereotypes, but also that Powder himself doesn't really seem to be a true genius.  A real genius would blow off these simpletons, quit feeling sorry for himself, and walk with his bald head held high and proudly, with a stiff upper-lip and a resolve to USE his abilities to change the world for the better and help open up the minds of those who would walk obliviously under a cloud of ignorance.  It's hard to feel sorry for a character who just lays down and accepts ridicule and imprisonment.  With his powers, he could have blown every window and every lock in that narrow-minded, Naziesque conformity factory known as a public school, and fled the scene, to dazzle onlookers with various miracles around the world, and maybe land a spot on Donahue.  It's just a thought!  But this movie sure would have been more interesting if the filmmakers had cut back on the standard sap, got rid of the overrated and undertalented Jeff Goldblum, and focused more on the main character and his battle to gain knowledge and admiration in a cruel world.  And if we're going to expand on his character, let's take it beyond high school.  Can you imagine how thrilling it would have been to see Powder win national acclaim and pursue a career in politics, law enforcement, or show business?  Don't get me wrong, I love the themes this film explores, but SO much more could have been done with it. "},{"Title":"misunderstood","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is clearly a movie that people either love or hate.  The same is said for many movies, but it has never been more true than with this film.  The people who hate it simply don't get it.  Their response to this statement is invariably there's nothing to get.  Well, there is.  That is not to say it's a particularly ambiguous film, because it's not, but in a way you have to be a certain kind of person and have certain ideals in order to appreciate this film.  It does have its fair share of flaws, of course. From a technical standpoint, much of it is rather amateurish.  What makes the movie so special is its philosophy, its beautiful dialogue, its emotional impact, and two truly phenomenal performances by Sean Patrick Flanery and Lance Henricksen.  Who would have thought that the Young Indiana Jones guy could act like this?  He immerses himself in the role so completely as to be almost unrecognizable, and he creates a beautifully realized character.  The film brings up a wealth of ideas and philosophies about mankind, the Universe, and everything in between that make it a wonder to behold.  And there is a scene involving Henricksen, his wife, and his son that is one of the most emotional moments I've ever seen in a film.  If you look past its flaws, you'll see a remarkable movie unlike anything you've ever seen, with an esoteric ending that clearly separates those who understand the movie from those who don't (read Roger Ebert's review and you'll see what i mean by someone who does not understand the movie whatsoever). "},{"Title":"Perception changed after hearing of director's past","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I recently watched Powder and thought it was a deeply moving and thought provoking film. I really enjoyed the theme of energy being continuous and how the film portrays people and the manner in which they think translates itself into the energy they give off and ultimately the very way they act. I thought the film had a real honesty about it as throughout the film Powder sees people for who they really are and thus allows us to see these people in the same light. While watching the film, there were 2 scenes however that i did find quite unusual. I will talk about them shortly. After watching the film I then logged onto IMDb to rate the film a 9 for what i thought was a beautiful and original film. It was then that i came across the fact that the director had been convicted of child molestation and served time for it. My perception of the film suddenly changed. Suddenly, i did not view the film as beautiful and honest. I now thought that perhaps the director made a film to create his own fantasy - a film about a complex, genius and misunderstood young man which the world will not accept who just need to be loved and accepted for who he is. The 1st scene that surprised me was the one where Jeff Goldblum connects with the the boy and strokes his face and head. Thinking about this now, the actions of the teacher might to some seem good-natured, however the actions are also wrapped with a tinge of sinisterness. It makes us wonder about Goldblum's character as he gives the impression that he may want to use or manipulate the boy. The 2nd scene that i questioned was where Powder is caught staring at a boy rinsing himself off in front of the mirror. The other boys see this and jump to the conclusion that Powder is not only strange but also homosexual. The film wants us to believe that Powder was staring in this fashion because he sees the long flowing hair that he does not have and realizes how different he is. I would argue that the way the scene is shot does not lend to this assumption as Powder really stares for a long time and someone of his intellect should know better to stare at a half-naked boy only covered by a towel. I felt compelled to write a review because i find it interesting that my perception of the film changed drastically the second i found out that the director was gay and had molested a young boy. Maybe it is unfair of me to change my perception of the film because of this fact and probably my perception of the film should not be influenced by this fact. But it is what it is and that's what i really find interesting about this film. Is it wrong for my perception of the film to be changed just because the director has a history of child molestation? "},{"Title":"A very good film for anyone","Date":"30 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Powder was just a baby when his mom died. While giving birth she was struck by lightning and died on the operating table. The baby survived, but the dad, seeing that the baby is albino (a lack of pigment in hair, eyes and skin tone), he becomes disgusted and leaves the baby with its grandparents. Powder grows up isolated from most human contact; his world is in the classic novels he's memorized over the years. Soon he is found and sent away as a teen to a school for boys. They think he is weird because of his appearance and they constantly make fun of him and bully him. However, he shows a few people in the rural New England town that they shouldn't judge a person by appearance; he shows them the good in his powers and in himself. This film has great soundtrack, an amazing plot and a lesson anyone can carry with them their whole life don't judge a person by race, gender, color, religion, sexual orientation, ethnicity or morals; judge them based on their actions. The ending of the film was absolutely breathtaking, a beautiful scene. I hope Powder s left alone and never remade with CGI, because its a classic that will be loved among viewers for a long time. "},{"Title":"a flawed but powerful film","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  ok so the script wasn't very well written, and there are far too many cliches.  but the overwhelming beauty and vision of this movie is enough to make you weep. the ignorance jeremy has to face, from the redneck deputy harley to the mental midgets at the boy's home strike too close to home for those of us who have been forced to endure them. this movie may not make sense to some, but it does to me. i can look at this movie and see past the film-making flaws to the message beneath. i wish everyone could.   "}{"Title":"Gentle and moving film","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This movie holds a very special place in my heart since I was young. Victor Salva, it seems, had at least one good story in him and this, though in some ways sappy, was certainly it. The treatment of the main character makes it hard to watch at times because it can feel very bleak and hopeless, but it is balanced out by the tenderness of the characters who do accept him and offer him hope and kindness. The acting is excellent in this film and the cast is to be commended for not turning the script into something sickly or too predictable. The ending brought me to tears and maybe felt like an easy way out, but it did feel appropriate. All in all, I'd suggest that anyone watch it at least once. "},{"Title":"The most Inspiring, Meaningful and Beautiful film I have been privileged to see!","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Powder is one of rare films which really make your emotions run wild, as a wanna-be Film Maker, I would love to be able to make a movie one day with as much intelligence, emotion and just pure brilliance as this film, I think the director of 'Powder' must be either a genius or had a lucky but brilliant idea for a movie but portrayed in such a intelligent, thought provoking way. 'Powder' is my favourite film, I adore it, and I could watch it time and time again, every time there are about five scenes in which leave in tears. The message the film gives us is intelligent yet simple, and although very sad, but is portrayed excellently. The message being that 'No matter what there will always be prejudice towards people who are different, no matter how smart or sensitive they may seem.'The acting in 'Powder' is breath taking. What can I say; 'Sean Patrick Flanery' just blew me away. The director gave the mature audience the ability to see past the characters appearance and to see how beautiful he really was, as you get embedded in the soul of this intelligent, yet so innocent human being, with his pale white skin and his pinkish eyes and even the fact that there wasn't a hair on his body, he looked more beautiful to me than anyone on this earth. At the end of the film I cried for ten minutes straight until I got up and made myself a hot chocolate! I may be only fourteen but I have the intelligence to know how unique, rare and intellectually beautiful this film is.There are some stunning and beautiful scenes in this film, some sad, some funny, some down right tear jerking and some, well some just make you smile. Just to think of how intellectual and absolutely perfect the film is. Ok, so it probably isn't perfect, but nothing, and I mean nothing is perfect! But every time I see it I think to myself how perfect it is, and that's a great feeling.If you have understood what I have just said then you should be able watch the film and find out exactly what I mean. But if you are a mindless, immature, only interested in action flicks with out any meaning but to blow things up sort of person, then this film definitely isn't for you, and like the rest of you immature people who on here commenting on film and saying stuff like, 'What a load of crap', and 'I wasted some of my life watching this film', well if you are that sort of person don't bother, there's no point, unless you could somehow get through and see past the fact that it isn't all action, then maybe it could boost your IQ. Anyway back to the movie. Sorry for going on a bit, I shouldn't really let, idiotic comments on a brilliant film effect me, I should just accept their decision and feel sorry for them.I give it 10 out of 10Outstanding performances, a smart, heart-wrenching but unique plot, yet beautiful made with a very wise, intelligent but slightly depressing message. An unbelievable, fantastic masterpiece, that's what it is. 'Powder' is my favourite movie. It lives in my heart forever and thank God that this movie was made. Thank you for reading this and hope you understand and adore this film the way I do, if you haven't seen it yet, then you must go see, unless you are one of those unlucky people who are against emotional intelligent films, but apart from that enjoy!Huge_Movie_Fan-'Powder'-Movie-Lover!! "},{"Title":"As wonderful as thunder.","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This movie is maybe not a masterpiece, but it's a nice movie. Makes me think about Edward Sissorhands, a little bit. A nice guy who have to deal with the madness of others.Born during a storm, he's thunder's child... Thoses symbols mean a lot for me. A really opened mind guy, eccentric because of his heart sensibility and born with the power of thunder, he will change people's life by being different. But Powder doesn't feel he's at the right place, on Earth. The end really looks like some kind of suicide, for me, if we transpose this image in real states he wants to go, he wants to leave, return to where he's from... I cried! I was running to stop him too!!!!!Jeff Goldblum is so real and true! I just love him. "},{"Title":"disgraceful","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" well, at first i enjoyed this movie to an extent, then found out about the director's (Victor Selva) horrible past. a confessed child molester, he compares himself to the main character of this film, this is how he felt in jail, well I'm sorry, an albino has a lot less choice than a dirty pedophile who actually molested a child while making his first movie, the horrible over rated clown house.this movie would actually be good if the director did not write the main character based of himself, a dirty old man.disgraceful director, and a bad person to even compare himself to an amazingly powerful character, this movie is mediocre, at best, it would be better if i had not have read the directors statements on this movie. 3-10 stars. "},{"Title":"Can't imagine there's meanness; can't imagine one lie","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Powder was the first of two films that came out in 1995-1996 dealing with a gifted individual who is super-smart and has paranormal powers; the second was Phenomenon with John Travolta. Powder is the superior. While Phenomenon is good, Powder reaches for greatness and, in some ways, achieves it.Sean Patrick Flanery plays a hairless albino teen in East Texas, nicknamed Powder, who's discovered living in a basement after his grandfather's sudden death. As a ward of the state, he is placed in a boy's school where his uniqueness stirs up trouble.For a film like this to work you have to buy into the character, and this is one of the movie's strengths. Flanery reveals his acting expertise in his utterly convincing portrayal of the gifted teen. Seriously, Flannery's Powder stands strong with the greatest misfits in cinema, like Nimoy's Spock and Hank's Forrest Gump.Actually, the acting is great across the board Lance Henriksen as the hardened-but-open sheriff, Mary Steenburgen as a psychologist who grows to really love Powder (in a motherly way), Jeff Goldblum as a science teacher who's astonished, Bradford Tatum as Powder's main enemy at school, Brandon Smith as a redneck deputy who instinctively hates him, but actually fears him, and the beautiful redhead Missy Crider, Powder's fellow student and potential love interest.Roger Ebert dissed the film for a number of reasons, one being Powder's enemy's don't learn from him. On the contrary, one enemy makes a 180 after being enlightened, but ultimately reverts back to his former base mentality. This happens all the time in real life. On another occasion Powder does something miraculous and you can clearly see the change on his enemy's face -- the realization & acceptance. Whether this will prove to be a lasting change or temporary, we'll never know.Ebert also complained that Powder's electrical tricks upstage his emotional insights. Really? I think it's the reverse. While the electrical tricks are there to maintain the attention of those with cinematic ADHD, it's the film's potent insights that stay with the viewer. Don't get me wrong, I enjoy the electrical tricks, but they're way too overdone to be realistic. At the same time, I understand why the writer/director (Victor Salva) included them -- this is a MOVIE, not real life; it's meant to transfer ideas AND entertain, and it does both pretty effectively.Ebert also griped that the ending is unsatisfying the more you think about it. Actually, the ending makes a powerful statement and is reminiscent of the spectacular translations of Elijah and Enoch in the Bible. Let's just say Powder was too good, too spiritual, for the simpleminded and mundane.I'm not saying the film doesn't have flaws or roll-your-eyes moments, but they can be overlooked in view of the big picture and the film's successes. As for the paranormal phenomena featured in the story -- like psychokinesis, telepathy, extraordinary empathy and what the Bible calls the word of knowledge -- although some of these are exaggerated in the film I have a secret They're real.=========================The film was shot in SE Texas and runs 111 minutes.GRADE A- "},{"Title":"He Should Have Become A Superhero.","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Knocking off another film on a list recommended by PW, this time it's Victor Salva's Powder. This is the second Salva film to appear in this thread, the first was the co called return to B-Horror Jeepers Creepers. One film is about style, one is about substance. Guess which one is which.A lot of people hate Salva's film simply because of his criminal record, which is weird because I don't usually hear the same mud flinging when people review a Roman Polanksi film. He hasn't done much work in his career, which pretty much consists of Jeepers Creepers I & II and Powder, then there are a bunch of other films that not a lot of people have seen. To say this is his best isn't really saying much, so I'll just say it's his bravest, as well as those involved.Sean Patrick Flanery gives a wonderful performance here, you feel his heartache from just his eyes. His dedication to the role is admirable. There are certain actors that when you cast them, you know exactly what your getting, case in point Jeff Golblum. The guy has the exact same style in everyone one of his movies, yet he still remains likable, at least to me.The film has some bits that really bring it down, but it also has some really powerful scenes. The bald as a baby bit where they disrobe him is the most powerful scene in my opinion. Here is a guy who just wants to be normal, who longs for something insignificant to us, but near and dear to him. He is then humiliated for this.I wasn't too big a fan of the climax ending, when he becomes raw energy or something. It was interesting, but just didn't really sit well with me. The film dipped into science fiction, then it went full throttle at the end there.On a side note If he can't grow hair, why does he have eyelashes? "},{"Title":"close, but no cigar.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Kind of like Edward Scissorhands, but far less eloquent and less honest. A weird kid with special powers (think Magneto from x-men) shows up out of nowhere, and the town just doesn't know what to do with him. The villagers attack, a few learn some life lessons and then he disappears again. Good, but it's not the classic that Ed was. "},{"Title":"Shotty effects but a good tear-jerker","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This was not a bad movie. I mean the special effects were not that good and the scene with him remembering his mother getting struck by lightening was a little overdone but it had a good storyline. I personally think Sean Patrick Flanery could have given a little bit better performance at parts. He did good in most of it but at parts he was a little lacking. All in all i would give it a B+. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This was a very enjoyable and good hearted movie.  There were issues of hatred and racism, and of people that were just afraid of a newcomer that was albino.  I think Sean Patrick Flannery was the perfect choice for the part of Jeremy (Powder).  The end was very saddening when he killed himself, but I guess he thought of it to be the best.  7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Similar to Spock's Beard?","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Powder -- an okay movie. The concept of an albino boy with unusual powers was very interesting, but the execution of the story just didn't flow very well. Left a lot of loose ends.But, if you at least enjoyed the concept, as I did, then you might want to check out an album called Snow, by the band Spock's Beard. The album follows a tale similar to Powder, but explores the idea a little deeper. Plus, the music is pure, absolute genius material. If you appreciate good songwriting at all, then you won't be disappointed in Snow. "}{"Title":"Better than Starman, it's good but not great.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The film Powder, is a decent, enlightening flick on tolerance, acceptance, undestanding etc. But it is also nothing overly special. The movie's strongest point is from the powerful acting by Hedriksen and Goldblum. Powder is recommended as a rental, but it's no film of the year. Finally just for once I'd like to see a movie about a supernatural human like Powder, where the moral is something other than Life on earth is an unrealized panthestic heaven. "},{"Title":"Male version of Carrie","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  It is sometimes to sad to see how a person can be ostracized and mocked just because he is different, and just because everyone thinks that person can be bullied without fear of retaliation. This movie showcases the story of an albino boy who is forced into the world outside after the death of his only kin. He suffers taunts and beatings by most of the kids and teens, and only wishes to return to his home where he can hide out like he had been doing, but is always thwarted by people who think they can make others change their attitudes towards him and treat him better. But the taunts do not stop and as they start to accumulate, even a mild-mannered boy like Powder is likely to turn violent.As in Carrie, who starts fires with her mind, Powder can move objects with his. Combined with an intellect that places him far above anyone in his town, he soon becomes the town terror, as he retaliates against those who taunt him. But seems like in movies, 'dysfunctional' heroes with brains never seem to live long (Phenomenon?), and the poor hero accepts the same fate as Travolta in Phenomenon, though by different means.A telling tale about prejudice and bias, teenage bullying that can go out of hand, and a fear and misunderstanding of anything than rational man cannot explain. "},{"Title":"a hidden jewel","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Why didn't is see this movie before? It is one of those hidden jewels you stumble upon after looking for a good movie and have to dig trough the dirt.So i'm not going to give a big review here. JUST SEE IT. IT IS MORE THEN WORTH IT! GIVE IT AN Oscar OK have to give an bigger review here otherwise it won't stick. So why is this film so unappreciated in movie-land? It has everything a good movie should have. A good original story, well known and good actors, good screen shots, moving music and some minimal special effects. It has so many layers without being predictable and over the top like some of the Hollywood movies. Well people you should give it more points. Let's do it "},{"Title":"OK, get over it - it's a great love story!!!","Date":"17 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Not all love stories are guy-girl. This is just a huge human love story. And I LOVED it! Set the popcorn on refill mode and keep a keg of beer and a whole bunch of Kleenex at hand for the ending.First off, if Lance Henriksen reads the back of a toilet paper roll, sign me up and put me in the front row. The man delivers 110% to whatever role he is given. Period. Second, Ms Mary is a home girl, so props to her. Period. The rest of the cast I thought were superb. Again, period. This is a genuine feel-good movie and I highly recommend it.I am not going to give any spoilers for that would - spoil it. But let me say that as an avid movie watcher (older than most of you lot) this one had me hooked first to last. And I did not anticipate the ending though if I could it would have not been better. Go forth and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Gripping, and good...","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This was a very unique film. A well thought out, and very original plot. A very good cast, and a great script. The city scenes were well defined. Sean Patrick Flannery played a character that we all (just somehow) knew in school, either some of us picked on the person, or was the ones who defended them...we knew someone like Powder. He made you feel the pain, and suffering that he was experiencing. Overall, the movie was terrific. Now, does it really matter that Sean was 30 in this movie??? The folks who made the comments of Sean's age, gripe, and complain...knowing that almost all the shows, and movies that deal with high school students in school, are all in their mid 20's, and early 30's. 90210, Saved by the Bell, and many others. And some people are making a humongous deal about Sean's age.I believe some of the pessimistic folks of this movie don't want to admit that they really enjoyed the movie, and want to sound cool by voicing all his/her negatives of the film. And, that folks, is my opinion, and guess what...... I am sticking to it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Very well cast Movie. I picked this movie to watch only because I had never seen it before, and was very surprised to find out, it was a keeper. It is very hard to retain hope in today's World, that Mankind will have a good future. Of course, you must have an open mind as to what that future may be. I find myself in agreement, to the possible future that this movie implies. Put Sci-Fi on hold for awhile, and start to like Sci-Psy.I find that this movie is better received by young adults, better than older adults. I really like inspiring movies and I put this one up there with Pay It Forward( What a World that could be!), and  Simon Birch. A couple of Teacher movies on my list of Inspirational Favs are  Stand And Deliver and  To Sir With Love Hope this helps to some small degree. "},{"Title":"A genuinely bizarre film","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a weird movie (overlooked and boycotted because everyone hates the director with a passion), but a kinda-sorta good movie all the same. It has commendable points to make about hate and prejudice, but overall it was a bit too New Age for me, tossing around bizarro ideas about humans evolving into energy beings and the interconnectedness of the universe. The ending especially drives home the May the force be with you attitude, and takes away any realism the movie might have had. The storyline is basically The Green Mile meets Carrie meets Phenomenon meets E.T., and it left me with a truly odd feeling. I appreciate the moral, but it's less the moral that sticks with you than Well, THAT was different. 7/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Assumptions and misconceptions of albinism","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Despite it showing acceptance for unusual people, the film Powder displays broad misconceptions about albinism as a whole.  Just to start, albinism is genetic, and does not come from someone being struck by lightning, people with albinism have hair, the list goes on.  Not only that, but the pancake make-up is so painfully obvious, it makes a mockery of the plot itself.  "},{"Title":"Hard to believe it is rated 6.5 stars","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I actually liked the first 20 minutes which included the hospital scene and the basement scene. I thought it had a lot of potential at the point, but instead it fizzled. When Powder has to leave the basement and venture out into the real world, he is bullied and made fun of as you would expect. I figured there were two ways the story could go. One - It could follow a path from outcast, to acceptance to hero as he uses his special powers to save the day. Two - the bullying could turn him into a vengeful anti-hero who uses his powers to destroy the society which rejected him. Well, I was wrong. It didn't go in either of these directions. It just didn't go anywhere at all. Should be in the bottom 100. "},{"Title":"Total lack of empathy","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Those you do not like or get the movie or those who feel it's stupid have one thing in common. They never grew up with a disability that made them the perpetual outsider. The one who was jeered at, constantly denigrated, beat up by groups (never just one person). In real life there is no Mary Steenburgen to stand up for them. In most cases the adults and authority figures turn a blind eye and in the worse cases join in.I do know. I grew up as a disabled person. I went through all the bigotry, ignorant taunts and carried the weight of the hate those around me felt for me, for some over which I had no control. Those people in my life and the same type here lack a important trait that makes us human, EMPATHY. "}{"Title":"Powder - One of the BEST.","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" In my opinion, Powder is one of the best movies ever made in regards to its message. It deals with the ridiculousness of prejudice, bigotry, false judgements, animal cruelty, love of nature, love of mankind, love of life, and love of your fellow man. This movie is filled with love, IF, and I say IF you can see it. It is right in front of you. All you have to do, is really watch and listen to the movie.The acting is excellent. The music is excellent. The story is excellent and easy to follow. Cinematography is excellent. Directing is excellent also. It is a true winner.I wish more movies like this were being made. The world needs them, especially in this day and age.. "},{"Title":"The quintessential of the New Age's movies","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Originally a 1995's minor success (and 90's in general) this is the kind of movie that it needs an urgent revision this is the quintessential of the New Age's movies. Behind the story of Jeremy Reed (nicknamed Powder), a boy with an extraordinary mind but socially unadapted, exists a deep message about compression, love, affection, life, death and the world we living. This movie forces us to look inside ourselves, in our same soul. The innocence of Jeremy, that lives in a world that he don't understands surrounded by people that fear him and hate him could be the story of anyone today. The tour-de-force of the story asks question about our relations and the way that we look and feel to the others (friends, familiars...). Along the film, there is implied an intention to renovate the human genre, the human spirit, to go to the next step of the evolution. Making a comparison, Jeremy perhaps could be a new Jesus, a new prophet that like his predecessor, he comes to Earth to transmit a message to improve to all humanity. We love with Jeremy, fear with him, hate with him and we feel with him his pain, his sadness, his angry and his deception of the people that they can't understand him. In certain way, all we are Jeremy, living in a world that we don't understand with people that don't understand us. Jeremy symbolizes, after all, hope hope to be better, hope to improve the world, to improve ourselves, to look with new eyes to around us. It's a message for all, for one, for each one of us. If in true we can do it, if it's possible and there is a possibility to get it by little it be, then it will be worthwhile to try it. New Age is coming, and the movies like Powder are the proof of its imminent arrival... "},{"Title":"Humanity Portrayed To Perfection","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This movie should be shown to every High School student on the planet. For a movie that is 14 years old, it truly captures the essence of consciousness and discusses the reality of life, devoid of the man made fantasy stories based on a cataclysmic event that spawned God and all his many forms... and wars for that matter. Powder is an essential addition to the nutritional mind food needed for Humanity to understand they must surpass technology and get back to nature. All actors delivered intimate performances, Lance especially. I believe this movie is a true masterpiece on all levels.It is fast becoming obvious that we are no longer paying any attention to the most precious creature in our world. Like the whale and many other species of animal, Humans tend to torture, rape and poison this creature to a level that is truly inconceivable. This creature is like any other living and breathing creature in our world. This creature has a name and it is called Gaia. If we don't change our ways the creature we simply call a planet, will slip into a coma. "},{"Title":"Wow....just wow","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" it has been a long time since i've seen a movie that is sooo emotionally powerful, and one that relates well to what all humans want...to be accepted for who they are and a basic human need, touch. if you haven't seen it you should see it right away.i love this quote from the movie ...technology has far surpassed humanity. In this day that is definitely true that as Americans we are so more worried about ourselves that we forget to reach out to others and accept everyone for who they are.the acting in this film was also very well done by all those who performed. "},{"Title":"Watch this movie with an open mind. You will enjoy it best without expectation.","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I have to say that this is on my list of most enjoyed movies. It is the kind of movie you would enjoy best if you are open minded. You cannot walk into it with expectations. The movie communicates on a more philosophical level. With it's portrayal of an alternate theory of human evolution by understanding and applying some of the knowledge passed on from the most famous scientist Albert Einstein. His theories on the evolution of humanity are remarkable. The movie is some what a kind of adaptation of his most divine philosophies of transformation. It was quite a novel way to depict Einstein's theory that once we, as a species reach the level of spiritual attainment, we would posses the knowledge and therefore the ability to transform ourselves to an alternate plane of existence. One of pure energy, as Einstein explains in his theories that energy cannot just be terminated? but alternatively are absorbed into other matters of energy! Irrespective of the history of the writer or director, he has managed to say something of maybe his own life in the movie. By attempting to display the impatience in the nature of human beings such that we will destroy what we do not understand for the fear that it may destroy us first. Our justification of which makes us less enriched as a species, as we could well destroy the part of ourselves that makes us most beautiful. Our aptitude for compassion? It is not that only few of us posses this remarkable trait? but rather that in the larger domination, most of us fear the unknown and therefore as precaution hide this ability. In the movie, the few that did open their hearts were touch in a way no other would be able to experience. They felt the transformation of matter to energy.I particularly enjoyed the quote from Einstein's work of how Technology has succeeded humanity. And we shall only find balance when humanity once again succeeds technology! "},{"Title":"Tremendous","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I saw this film originally when it first came out years ago and I watched it again last night.It still got me to cry like a big old girl. But what made me feel really good about it - is that I got my girlfriend to watch it with me and see it for the first time. She cried her eyes out and then when it ended I asked her did she understand what Powder was and she told me.A lot of people don't see what Podwer represents. Let me run it down to you and see if you know.He was born from the womb and was struck by lighting while in there. When he was born - nobody believed it and what they saw. Was an outcast he entire life growing up.Upon being discovered by the world - was shunned, abused, cast out, beaten up, roughed up, called every name in the book, told he was ugly, a freak, should be killed. And all the time, he just wanted to be loved, touched by another human being, have a normal body with hair and color and muscle - like every other teenage boy. He wanted friends and a girlfriend and a mom and pop. Just wanted to be loved.But this world doesn't give that and wants revenge - for no apparent reason except for hate and fear.All powder tries to do is make life for everyone better and everyone treats him like crap.He keeps telling everyone - I Want To Go Home Finally after being stripped of his clothes and pushed beyond degradation - he is sent to his old farm house home - where he grew up.But to the surprise of the two cops, and Powder's teacher and his Counselor that meet him at the old farmhouse - this HOME is not what he meant.He runs through the field and opens his arms to the sky and summons Home - His home of light and love.In the end when he goes home and the light jumps back to the four individuals - you see that the light hits them directly in the heart and then they all realize who Powder was.Do you? Watch this film again - but this time - open your heart. You will see exactly who this gentle young man was................ "},{"Title":"Finally!","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" I saw Powder years and years ago and I saw it on TV again a week ago and there were a lot that I remembered 'cause not only the pale skin Powder has but his amazing powers he has that people discovers about him. The thing I remembered the most about the movie was the ending when he runs towards the lightning from the sky and suddenly vanish with the lightning. I love this movie cause it brings up a very important subject that should affect us all. Buelliting. I mean we are in 2006 now, and we really shouldn't care about if people are looking a little different pale,shy, walks weird, talks weird or just simply looks weird like Powder. We should accept everyone. I mean people doesn't decide how to look like. It's just something we got to live with, either we like it or not. What I really love about Powder is that he's not afraid to strike back and say his opinions about things. He stands up for himself and doesn't care about what people thinks about him. That's very positive. If you like drama about something ordinary as drama you'll like Powder. I didn't even like drama when I saw this movie but Powder fascinated me by it's good story and humanity. It's a story that will stay with you, either you like it or not... "},{"Title":"In a World of Hate-There's Powder!","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The film was a very emotional film for the young and the old.I especially liked the links to the prophets in the old testament.I enjoyed the comparison in the Green Mile and the healing/insight between the two from both films.They ought to coincide together side by side on a weekend.The end was especially important because it show's we're not alone and we are so insignificant in this World.Thanx for a Great Movie to inspire the goodness in all of us.Our world is so full of hate and discord anymore. The movies that I see on T.V or the pay channels are full of smut,evil,negative, and anti semitism.I'd like to see more Christian Films on T.V,But, Powder will suffice for now.I'm a Christian and I wept during the show and laughed also.Thanx again. "},{"Title":"Good but not powerful enough to be great","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" So, here's another story about a different person in a world that is prejudicial against what's not normal, who most of the time is very misunderstood except for few people out there who really want to help and also want to understand how magnificent this person is. And this person has supernatural powers, this time involving electricity and an enormous memory capacity, memorizing book quotations from start to finish. Powder (Sean Patrick Flanery) is this person, an albino with extraordinary powers who was left alone in the world after his grandparents death, and now having to deal with the world outside of the basement where he lived, hidden of the eyes of everybody. Target of the prejudice of almost everybody, the only friends he has are the Sheriff (Lance Henriksen), a psychologist (Mary Steenburgen), a teacher (Jeff Goldblum) and a girl (Melissa Lahlitah Crider), intrigued by his mysterious gift.And again, it's a story about seeing the most difficult thing of all the inside of someone rather than the physical appearance and learn what people have to say, discover their magic and be comprehensible to what this people are. The movie deserves some praise? Yes. In the best possible way the story was well presented but the film's magic comes from some of the situations where the great special effects are a real fun; the great casting never disappoints, all very good. But something tells me again and again that I've seen this story better developed in countless films and somehow the electricity, the vibrations coming from this flick weren't good enough to pass through my heart and make me feel something unexperienced or highly intelligent. It's just good and that's it. It tries to set some emotion but hardly succeeds in such task. Jerry Goldsmith musical score is sweeter than sugar, a little bit excessive at points. And it's a mystery to me that an albino attracted such negative attention from people like in this film, I mean, Southerns never saw one in life? If Jeremy/Powder was painted in blue I would believe in a frightened reaction from the crowd but an albino? It's more common than having Smurfs statues in your garden. It brings some positive light in showing that evolution/technology must be viewed in a lesser degree than the designs of the human spirit, and Powder does represent that but it stops right there. No more lessons to be learned, no more deeper thoughts to share. Powder is a nice film, very watchable, good to look at it but don't go with high expectations. The best film directed by Victor Salva so far, if we consider the weak Jeepers Creepers series. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Beautiful story, simply...","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is the story of a very special young man, too pure for this world.Some indications are very interesting like the day he describes as the worst of his life; the way he communicates with other people, and specifically, the way he candidly reacts to aggression and violence... and ultimately, what he's really referring to when he says he wants to go home.Eventually, being so pure and suffocating in this corrupt, blasphemous world; and clearly embodying the moral and purity figures and healing ability of Jesus Christ; he nonetheless longs to experience the tangible world, with all its intact qualities and various wonders - while always being torn away from them at some point by the dread of man's evil and cruelty.A unique character in fiction; resembling some great figures, while never replicating them; a very powerful and pure story - and I give this a 9/10 because though the depth is there, and the ideas are beautiful; the form of the film and certain scenes remain things that could have been done better. "}{"Title":"This film is for those with an open mind only","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I have only seen half an hour of this film so far, but this includes the scene with the deer. It stirred up some raw emotion. I think this is a great film so far and to those who say it is a pile manure, I disagree thoroughly. Those of you who dont know what it is like to be discriminated against, have no idea of what the story is about. I have been attacked for being different, but unlike the main character in this film, I have the choice to be different. He has no choice. He is different but have nerver known normality and therefore cant comprehend his greatness. To all those of you who give a bad review of this film, I ask you to open your minds to the world. This film passes on a simple message. We are shown simply that all life, no matter how great or small is sacred and that we have no right to shoot an animal for fun, no right to discriminate because someone believes in something, no right to discriminate because people are different and if we think we can, we are no better than the Hillbillies in the film. The others compared this film to the Green Mile, also a great and moving film and they are right to do so. This is a film that I guess you either love or hate. I think it is fantastic and hope others will view it and see the beauty behind it. Feel free to disagree. It is one point of the film. Everyone is entitled to an opinion (as well as the right to live without discrimination). "},{"Title":"What is it?","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is another movie that could not decide what it wanted to be when it grew up. It had the potential to be nice and quite enjoyable, but instead relies on hatred-fear-ignorance for dramatic affect and does so so heavily as to be close to disgusting at times. The theme is that the main character is super-intelligent but it also has the main character doing things that are too unrealistic to be believable. I think the supernatural ability aspect significantly detracts from, and is contradictory with, the super-intelligent aspect.The movie also seems illogical in typical manners. Near the beginning, the main character seems to be in danger and the person that could do something just stands there staring. Why doesn't he do something? Finally he smashes something, but  without even trying to pull the plug. It seems so stupid.Mary Steenburgen is wonderful (of course) as a kind understanding teacher. Lance Henriksen is also nice as a kind understanding sheriff. Without them and their character the movie would have nothing. To the extent that I barely notice Sean Patrick Flanery as Powder, his performance is probably excellent, but I am not much of a judge of acting ability.At the end is an explanation that the movie was inspired by Albert Einstein, but I doubt that Albert Einstein would be inspired by it.  "},{"Title":"pure energy","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Powder is an enjoyable drama, with many good points of view and very good acting. Jeremy (Sean Patrick Flannery) is an albino kid that spent all his life in the basement of his home, spending time with his grandfolks or reading. Once both his grandparents die, he's discovered and taken in the real world. It's all about discovering the world through the eyes of a teenager that hasn't seen almost nothing yet. Because of his white skin and paranormal abilities he's considered a freak by some people, that keep making fun of him. Seeing the real face of the world, brutal, tough and ugly, Jeremy's only wish is to get back home.Sean Patrick Flannery is great as Jeremy, aka Powder. He does a very good job with a difficult role. Most scenes are well created and almost every time touching, but the ending seemed to me a bit below expectations.Vote 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Strange and stranger","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Maybe it's a sign of advancing senility, but it actually scares me that not one of the previous reviewers seems to be aware that this screenplay is a breathtakingly audacious plagiarism of Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land.  That's a book, by the way.  You know, one of those papery things that Powder was grokking in this well played but slightly disjointed film. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Powder is a pretty good film, if you ask me. Okay, so it's pretty clichéd and it's far from perfect, but the story is genuinely touching and sad. Quite interesting. And Sean Patrick Flanery sure did surprise me with a fine performance. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Excellent and thought provoking","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Look to the skies, especially for lightning bolts which appear repeatedly in Powder. The name is used on a high school aged boy to describe his pasty white skin. Jeremy(Sean Patrick Flanery) is an albino who has a magnet in his brain which causes strange things to happen when he shows up. His mother died shortly after his birth during a severe thunderstorm. His father left him with his grandparents and he did farm work and lived in a basement, reading every book available to him. After grandpa dies, the boy is taken by the state. He is placed in a high school and the physics teacher, Donald Ripley(Jeff Goldblum) tests him and is astounded that his i.q. is off the charts; a teenage Einstein is in school. The other students quickly resent him as an oddity. Jeremy hears a gunshot and when he goes to investigate, sees a doe on the ground, wounded and dying. Powder places his hand on the animal and his other hand on the deputy who shot it and his body sends the emotions of the deer into the officer. His perspective on hunting are forever changed. Word spreads through the town and another cop asks him to use his telepathic ability to communicate with his wife, who is close to death. He helps them with valuable insight.His schoolmates continue to taunt him and before it ends Powder delivers an important message in humanity. Flanery shows great range as the title character; hard to believe that he later played a vigilante lunatic in Boondock Saints. He makes this film work. "},{"Title":"Pure Energy","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" We fear what we do not understand, and our fear creates movies such as Starman, Control, and Dragonfly. The mysteries of life strikes the chords of drama as some reach out to touch the unexplainable, but in others, tension coils back, ready to strike. And the story of one life dives deep into conflict, struggling to find acceptance, but is the world ready for them? Or do we retreat to normality, refusing to accept different, and reject those not of the ordinary? Do we remain blind to the intricate lines of change that follow in their wake? The conflict between understanding and denial echoes deeply in a storyline that truly captures your heart, and the entity of drama shines its light over the life of one man known as Powder. "},{"Title":"it makes sense to set this in Texas","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Maybe it's a cliché to cast Jeff Goldblum as a nerd in Powder, but the movie is actually worth seeing. Portraying an albino teenager (Sean Patrick Flanery) upsetting his Texas town via his mental abilities, the movie really gives you a feeling of the Lone Star State. I will admit that a story of people ostracizing a different kind of person has been used many times before, but the whole thing about the title character's mental abilities made this one unique.All in all, this is a movie that I recommend. I noticed that the cop looked like Pat Buchanan - and acted like him too. The aforementioned cast members, plus Mary Steenburgen and Lance Henriksen, all do quite well in their roles. I sure didn't see that ending coming. "},{"Title":"My eyes have finally stopped bleeding after watching this awful movie.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Was incensed by a previous review that made this movie out as being pretty good.  This has to be the worst movie I've seen in ten years, and that includes Battlefield Earth.  The actors really mail in their performances, and the plot is putrid.  I'll bet Jeff Goldblum wishes he could erase this one from his resume. "},{"Title":"Phenomenon a rip-off? Don't make me laugh! (and Masks...)","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Everybody mentions Phenomenon in their reviews of Powder, and calls Phenomenon a rip-off.Powder is an OK film, but consider this synopsisA pale and gentle youngster is discovered after the death of his guardian. His unique abilities lead everyone to fear him, and as the film progresses and we, the viewers, become more and more captivated by his skills, enthralled by his innocence and gentleness, it becomes clear that eventually, he will have no choice but to to go back to where he came from. Because he's just too strange for this world, too different, too difficult for everyone else to accept. And he doesn't even get the girl.What's the name of the film? Why, Edward Scissorhands, of course!And they call Phenomenon a rip-off? Don't make me laugh!There's a more interesting question here, though Why is it that so many of the performances that really move us are those in which the actor is wearing some kind of mask? Think about it; Eric Stoltz in Mask, John Hurt in The Elephant Man, Johnny Depp in Edward Scissorhands - including Lou Gossett jr. in Enemy Mine might be stretching it a bit, but I've certainly never seen him better. And I could even mention Kyle MacLachlan in The Hidden He wore a mask during rehearsals and barely moves a facial muscle throughout the film - and he's still brilliant. Might it be because the mask (or makeup) forces us to focus our attention on the acting instead, on the voice, the body language and the hints at facial expression that the mask allows us to see? And would the performance have been as good without the mask?In any case, I pity anyone living in countries where 90% of such a performance (well, any performance, really) is thrown in the garbage can, when the film is dubbed.How can you take a reviewer from Germany or France seriously, when you know he or she has only SEEN the actors and doesn't even know their voices? "}{"Title":"A good movie....until I found out.","Date":"16 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The movie is not that bad when you watch it with a blind eye. However, Disney will no longer be supported by me or any of my family after I found out the God awful truth about the director of this movie, and how Disney has betrayed the life blood of their business. Everyone knew Disney was one of the first major corporations to strongly support gay rights as far back as the 80's. By the 90's they were honoring gay unions for employees. Honestly, that's fine. Its their company and they can do whatever they please. But I think they committed the cardinal sin of looking over things about employees that NEVER should be done. Disney tried to claim they didn't know about Victor Silva's past and him conviction of child molestation. What made it especially bad is that is was done to a child actor while he was making the movie! Honestly, how does Disney not see this as a problem?! They make movies for KIDS for crying out loud! Silva is gay and I think that blinded Disney into looking over the molestation. I personally think there is a lot of looking over as it pertains to the gay community, but that's just me. However, making a man rich who is obviously a total scumbag goes beyond the pale. Don't watch this movie. Send a message to Disney and to others that this kind of support cannot be tolerated! "},{"Title":"Steaming, STEAMING piece of crap","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Hah! I was looking for something else and stumbled upon this mention of Powder. And instantly remembered how much I hated it and everything about it.What a patronising, dull, brainless piece of drivel. What in HELL is Lance Henriksen doing in this pile of shyte? Jeff Goldblum provides some brief comic relief, but then it's back to rubbish.I knew from the moment we saw the main character that this film was going to be seriously bad.The clue? 'Hollywood Mad' - THAT'S THE CLUE!Let's shuffle along, hold our head on an angle, go 'hmph' a lot and patronise every single person with mental issues on the planet!And THEN, let's write a god awful screen play with zero content, and THEN let's make everyone endure it for an hour and a half! "},{"Title":"predictable","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Emotionally handicapped teen with telekinetic power encounters hostility from frightened townspeople. Fair-to-good performances and interesting premise damaged by sentiment, predictable plot and average direction. Viewers may also enjoy Phenomenom (1996), Edward Scissorhands (1990) and Carrie (1976). (Rating B+)  "},{"Title":"Powder keg","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Trailers can be annoying at the beginning of a DVD but they can also be really useful. This film is evidence of the latter for me. We had seen this one advertised and thought it looked interesting, which is why when no other films jumped out at us from the video shop shelves we chose it.A very moving film that hits at the heart of all that is wrong in modern society - the disconnectedness of people from one another and from their environment. My sister would have seen the story as 'slow', it is not replete with action, there are no huge set-pieces, but it has an enormous power just the same.The acting is without exception excellent, and, though I agree with some reviewers that there is stereotyping, I would also say that the reason that stereotypes exist is that there is SOME truth in them and that seems to me to be their function in Powder's universe.We both fell in love with the film and with the main character. If humanity could tap into its best instead of emphasising its worst traits then there is nothing we could not achieve as a species. Hate and fear holds us back I believe and the film is about trying to overcome these emotions and seek to reconnect with the best of ourselves and our surroundings.I have to admit that the film also brought me some comfort when my sister (it's too slow) died from the long-term effects of rheumatoid arthritis; especially the ending which is truly inspiring and beautiful and a blessed surprise. Films don't surprise me very often, but this one did and I have to say thank you to all the people involved in it. "},{"Title":"Victor Salva Takes a Powder with Sean Patrick Flanery","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" You've never experienced anything quite like 'Powder' - the uplifting, must-see hit that audiences and critics loved, according to the DVD sleeve synopsis, Harassed by classmates who won't accept his shocking appearance, a shy young man known as 'Powder' struggles to fit in. But the cruel taunts stop when Powder displays a mysterious power that allows him to do extraordinary things. This phenomenon changes the lives of all those around him... in ways they never could have imagined. Hollywood stars Jeff Goldblum and Mary Steenburgen lead a top-notch cast in this unforgettable story of&#x85; It looks like lightening struck the last line from Disney's print ad layout for their DVD release.This is an alternate take on alienation. In this case, writer/director Victor Salva infuses some pointed gay-bashing into his hero's predicament. Playing the titular albino, Sean Patrick Flanery (as Jeremy Powder Reed) seems more like a shaved muscle model; yet, the leading man performs his assignment very well. The other (non)-teenage pretenders are nicely led by homo-erotic bully Bradford Tatum (as John Box). Note how the boys persist in hazing Powder, even after his telekinetic powers are obvious; this sort of sloppiness takes a potentially more powerful Powder down a notch - but, the end rises.****** Powder (10/1/95) Victor Salva ~ Sean Patrick Flanery, Lance Henriksen, Bradford Tatum, Mary Steenburgen "},{"Title":"credits given to the Green Mile should be given to this one","Date":"18 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" In my Green Mile review I mentioned the similarities between this movie and the Green Mile where the latter was even written years after this one was released. If you see both movies you will know what I am talking about. The most charming scenes in the Green Mile are taken from this movie. I am sure that all who watched this one remembers quite well the scene where Powder makes the guy who hunts the deer feels the pain of the animal. Exactly same scene when Michael Duncan makes the guy who kills the mouse feel its pain. Another similar scene or idea is when Michael Duncan in the Green Mile heals James Cromwel's ill wife which is taken from Powder who helps the Sheriff's wife to deal with her dying process.I am not saying that the Green Mile is not a good movie. On the contrary, I enjoyed it a lot but Powder is a decent one and was made way before the Green Mile so it deserves to be praised being the original at least. "},{"Title":"Ambitious but predictable and overstuffed","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is another film about a strange young outsider trying to survive in a world full of intolerant conformists. A lot of people have noted a similarity between this movie and Edward Scissorhands, a movie I loved. I really wanted to like this movie, too, but Powder just didn't have the same appeal. Powder is a teenager who has been living in his grandparents' basement all his life because his family was ashamed of him for being different. As an outsider, Powder is a quadruple threat- he's an albino, he has strange powers over electricity, he's super-intelligent and he's apparently a homosexual. The movie has too much ground to cover and doesn't explore any of these in depth. Edward only has scissors for hands, but the movie exploited this one quirk in amusing and clever ways. It isn't long into the movie before Edward makes use of his handicap by trimming topiaries, creating beautiful ice sculptures, cutting hair, making shish-kabob, etc. Meanwhile, Powder is the most singularly gifted man in history and all he does is freak out his classmates with his spoon-bending parlor tricks. Where Edward wants to be helpful, Powder just wants to show off.You would think that a guy who has lived all his life in a basement would be incredibly child-like and naive about the ways of the world. Thankfully, his grandparents had enough books on the family farm to keep the intellect of a super-genius busy. Again, I have to compare this movie to Edward Scissorhands. Edward really seemed like a clumsy, bewildered innocent stepping into the light for the first time. Powder comes across as your average maladjusted teenager who thinks his problems are unique. He's every kid in the high school gifted program who ever got his head dunked into a toilet. He's the kind of obnoxious idealist who gives impassioned, sanctimonious lectures on whatever happens to arouse his moral outrage. And he certainly complains a lot. At least Edward was quiet.Anyway, the rural townspeople react with predictable intolerance. Insert pitchfork-wielding mob here. Add locker room homophobia.All in all, this was an ambitious film that just had too much on its plate to deal with in a satisfying way. "},{"Title":"Although not completely believable a compelling look ...","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Although not completely believable, a compelling look at a very unique human being who can't be understood by the world around him.  Sad but true to the idea that us humans will always hold prejudice against those who are different than us. "},{"Title":"It's a movie","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I can't understand why is it when you people go to the movie or see a movie, you can't just open up and enjoy it.  Movies are made to enjoy - to entertain - to sometimes learn from.  This is that type of movie.  Who cares about what the Director did or the editing or the screenplay - I mean who in the hell reads the screenplay to a movie before they go and see it anyway. It's so Hollywood. This movie is about a combination of things that are not listed above.  This movie is about - love, acceptance, diversity, sacrifice, emotions, our-inner-selves, belief, and a higher power, higher than the President or whatever human you believe is higher then the President.  This same story happened a long time ago with a young gentleman by the named of Jesus Christ.  He came to Earth to pretty much give what Powder was trying to give to the World, and what did the World do him - they totally ridicule him - then they put him to death.  That's the problem with us human beings, when something or someone different crosses our path, our first thought is to hurt it, shoot it, or beat it up.  Case in point when Powder is in the cafeteria with the other boys - which I'm pretty sure was his first day, the first thing they want to do to him is ridicule him and make him suffer - why - because he's different than everyone else.  The point I'm trying to make is this.  Watch this movie with a open heart and trust me you will feel the love, especially the end - when Powder is holding out his hands towards the heavens like a cross - sort of like that Jesus gentleman I mentioned above.  You will see what I mean.  Enjoy it.  You look at this movie a lot different.  "},{"Title":"This movie has  claustrophobia.","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" In 1995 Sean Patrick Flanery was 30 years old; too old for the part. A albino adolescent genius who would make Einstein and Hawking look like preschoolers is treated like a parolee. What kind of school counselor would send such a person on a camping trip with teenage hoodlums under the supervision of a gun-fetish, stump-jumping deputy. Telepathy and telekinesis take a back seat to the antics of redneck cops. Anyone, anywhere with this kind of power would have come to the attention of someone vastly more important than a grey flannel suit department of education bureaucrat. In the real world Powder would be kept at Area 51. "}{"Title":"About an albino who is also a magnet.","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a movie about an albino who is also a magnet. Somebody thought this up, decided it was a great idea; then went to a movie studio and said, I have an idea for a movie about an albino who is also a magnet; the movie studio said, Great! Can we give you several million dollars to make it?; then the great genius said Yes, several million dollars should be enough to realize my vision of a magnetic albino. This happened. It is a real movie, people. Don't see it. Unless you like bad movies; then you must not miss Powder. "},{"Title":"Emotionally Controlling...","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"   Powder is emotionally controlling Hollywood fluff. It's boring, WAY too long, and just plain dumb. Mary Steenburgen gives a decent performance, Jeff Goldblum is annoying, and the rest of the cast is just decent.As for Director Victor Salva...well, let's not even get into his past...2/5 stars --John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Silly movie about an albino genius who has a strange relationship with electricity.","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This is such a dumb movie! Sean Patrick Flanery ('The Suicide Kings') plays Powder an albino genius who has been hidden away for years by his grandparents. After their death he is discovered by the local sheriff (Lance Henriksen) and is institutionalized in a local boys home. He is treated as an outcast by most of the locals because of his odd appearance and behaviour, which includes psi powers and a strange relationship with electricity. Writer/director Victor Salva, later to make the stupid but hugely successful horror movie 'Jeepers Creepers', presents Powder as a cross between Edward Scissorhands, Jesus and Michael Jackson. At least that's the way I saw it. Salva seemed to be going for a similar feel to John Carpenter's underrated 'Starman' (there's even a scene involving a slaughtered deer which will cause some slight deja vu), but just doesn't pull it off. There's some great actors in the cast, Henriksen, Jeff Goldblum, Mary Steenburgen, even Susan Tyrrell, but the script is very lame, and drags on until it ends with a predictable climax that you'll see coming a mile off. Maybe I'm just a cynical old git, but this movie failed to move me. Give this one a miss. "},{"Title":"This film should never have been allowed a cimena release","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Quite simply powder should never have been allowed to be released in the cinema or on video.  The fact that the director is a convicted child molester is so blantent in some scenes it is sickening.  In fairness it has to be said that no-one knew this until after the film had been made and the likes of Goldblum and Henrikson would not have touched this project with a ten foot pole had they.  The whole film is directed to show the 'beauty' within this young boy and the scene where Goldbulm is stroking the side of Flannerys face has such obvious sexual undertones it makes me feel physically sick.  Powder was an interesting story that had originality, however the whole movie is just a very sick mans fantasy about what he would feel if he met a 'perfect' boy in every way.     "},{"Title":"A lot of geezers touching ??? Quite bit Buddhist and a little bit silly,but not bad?","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" Gave it a five maybe a 6. Could be that if it was made today it would be a lot better as the special effects were very limited. He introduces himself as powder,which seems to me as a bit on an insult,but it must have been made up by his grandparents and then Mary Steenburgen starts calling him powder half way through the film?? No explanation or permission given. I also hate films that treat you as thick and explain what we are gonna do,then remind you of what we are gonna do then explain it again just in case you missed it and then here it comes. I'm referring to the bit where he goes to the sheriffs house and does the laying on of hands. Very like the scene from greenmails don't you think? Quite a bit silly ,but if you are a Buddhist or what ever the religion is that we are all one with the universe then it's right up your street. Laters "},{"Title":"Yawn!","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This a slow, poorly paced film that attempts to teach a message of tolerance by using a mutated ashen-skinned guy with unique abilities and a fetish for long hair.   Powder tries a little too hard to go for that big emotional punch and misses the mark in a big way.Pass this one buy.  If this film was a rug you'd want to take it out and beat it. "},{"Title":"Nothing special.","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" This is a kind of morality play, featuring a young albino man who has superhuman intellect and psychic powers ostensibly due to his mother having been killed by lightning while he was still in utero. With his ability to read the thoughts and feelings of others, he guages adult social relationships and situations with piercing accuracy, and he's certainly not autistic as he expresses emotions strongly and appropriately. Nevertheless, when confronted by other supposed adolescent boys (they all appeared about 25), he can't even figure out when it's in his best interest to keep his mouth shut. None of the characters, including his, is developed very much. Also, the soundtrack was too loud and too cloying, like something from a 1940's radio soap opera. I found nothing in particular to recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Should be in the bottom 100","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Wow, what an awful movie!  Where can I even start?!  This movie was completely non-linear.  It jumped from one idea to the next without ever resolving issues brought up!  It also tried WAY to hard to be emotionally gripping, and in the process just made a big joke of itself.  There were many issues raised that were never dealt with, like was Powder a homosexual? What was with the scene with him staring at the bully while he was rubbing himself down with water?!  That was just weird!  The only thing that kept me watching this film was the fact that I wanted to see how much lamer it got--and I found out that it did in fact get worse.  I don't want to spoil anything, but the end is awful and makes no sense.  If you want the classic example of an awful movie that tries WAY too hard, then Powder is your flick.  Otherwise, avoid it at all costs. "},{"Title":"The worst screenplay I've come across in a long while","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Granted, I saw it on TV, and it was no doubt butchered.  (Why language gets recast in TV dubbing is beyond me when sitcoms now include some of the raunchiest allusions imaginable.  But, of course, they never get right down into the gutter with George Carlin's Seven Deadly Words.  Heavens, say F***, S*** or C***, and you get bleeped, but describe the activity in puerile detail and we can't get enough.  Go figure.)But we would all have been better off if the entire movie were bleeped owing to the ridiculous screenplay this film foists upon us.  The scenes were so predictable and the stereotypes so obvious that dialog wasn't necessary.  Fill in the blanks.  Your choice of words would have been every bit as convincing and emotionally uplifting as the nonsense many other reviewers here seem not only to ignore, but enjoy.  A fatal flaw for this film as far as I'm concerned.  I like Mary Steenburgen, and Lance Henricksen, and most of the rest of the cast were credible, too, given allowances for the mess they had to work with.As for the child molestation business, and the claims of ripoff -- both irrelevant when this banal, derivative film sinks itself in its own morass of cliches.I was led to expect more.  I got much less.  Go see any number of other films that do so much a better job of putting the outsider among us to reveal our prejudices and fears and irrational reactions to the unknown.  Start with Tarzan, finish with Mighty Joe Young.  Most will leave you more satisfied than Powder.    "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought but still ...","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  During the first 45 minutes I thought that this movie wouldn't be as bad as most other movie of this genre. But then I was proved wrong.  "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen.","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I cannot put into word how bad this film really is.  It has the  sappiest story line I have ever seen, the editing is horrible, and above all, Jeff Goldblum's performance is just beyond bad.  He shows up every 20 min. or so and acts amazed, I know that is the only emotion he can act out but it does get annoying.Anyone wanting to join a lawsuit I am filing against the makers of this film to compensate me for the cost of the rental and time lost feel free to e-mail me!!! "},{"Title":"Can I Have the Last 145 of my Life Back?","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I simply cannot believe that any of the other reviews could possibly describe this movie as being anything less than a steaming pile of horse hockey. The people who rated it favorably were obviously taken in as suckers by the forced emotionalism of the hastily written storyline. A couple of cookie-cutter dramatic moral message scenes set to sugary-sweet classical music, and people suddenly think this is a great movie. The fact of the matter is, it's a complete waste of time, with lifeless performances, a storyline that drags on and on, yet goes nowhere, tangents that appear out of nowhere and are never resolved, and an incredibly numb-minded ending that leaves you wishing you would have spent the last 2 hours of your life picking out toilet paper at K-Mart. The forced moral message in the backdrop is so stilted and cliched, you've already seen it 500 times in other movies. How this one ever got past test audiences is beyond me. It's not worth the cost of the electricity to run your television while this is on. "},{"Title":"Pow-Me Some More...","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't get this movie... There's too much usual stories and plots in this movie which make it standard movie.Apart from that, the message is clear and plain, but then, the rumors about the director's sexual orientation which was connected to this movie somehow bothered me.It's about dealing with anomality; sometimes you reject it, sometimes you proud about it, most of the times you're trying to hide it. And it's everybody's dreaming to end your anomality in a grande-explosion which amaze many people (mostly ones who hates you or your anomality).But I can't get more than that. "},{"Title":"A well-worn formula produces a really bad movie","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Powder follows a well-established formula  outcast develops special powers, finds love, gets vengeance on his tormentors.  Many good movies have been made on this theme.  Powder is not one of them - after a promising beginning, it turns into one of the worst films I have ever seen.  The film wallows in its victim mentality, and one emerges not with a sense of victory but of depression.Rating  skip this one, see Phenomenon instead. "},{"Title":"Worst film in the history of bad films.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie couldn't possibly be worse, it is the number 1 worst movie in my personal hall of shame.  Do yourself a favor and stab yourself in the eye with a pencil instead of seeing this tripe.  I truly believe there should be a penal code that deals with this movie as a federal crime. "},{"Title":"Very poor movie overall","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"5 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  The key thing about this movie was the intense level of boredom it created. I couldn't wait to leave.  This was more than misadvertised since all the glitzy special effects crammed into trailers were, well, all the glitzy special effects available in the movie.It was a bad plot, a bad dialogue, bad actors, and a horribly misleading philosophy that the script-writers would have us believe Einstein followed. Does anybody care about the fact that Disney hired a director who was a known and convicted child-molestor? "},{"Title":"Absolutely nothing better to do? Fine. Otherwise, Avoid.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Pretty Ghastly. I gave it a four cos there were some good effects. And Jeff Goldblum was in it.  "},{"Title":"I didn't like this movie...","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":"  Why I didn't like this movie... The beginning of the movie was the worst. Allowing a baby cry for periods of time without contact is mean & shows no respect to the baby.  No wonder Powder didn't trust many people throughout the movie.  He had to cry often for a long time to get his needs met.  He uses violence against people who are mean to him.  The dialogue of the movie is poor, so is the plot of the movie.   "},{"Title":"Horrible horrible movie!","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy, Mystery","Review":" The reason why I think this movie is horrible is because the plot does not make any sense. Here is why. Powder has special powers is because his mother was struck by lightning when she was pregnant with him. The impact of the lightning killed his mother (in fact, I think there was a scene showing his mother's charred corpse). So the lightning struck a pregnant woman, charred her body and killed her but her fetus not only survived but somehow got special powers????!!!!! How ridiculous is that!!!! OK I understand there is such a thing called cinematic license and certain films depict some stories/situations that would be considered far-fetched in real life, but come on!!! This???!!! "}]