[{"Title":"I'm always chasing Rimbauds","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"65 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's a good thing not too many people saw this film when it came out no pun intended, because, if any of DiCaprio's female fans had seen him in this, one of his best early roles, his career would have been over well before he was involved in Titanic. And that's because he's so utterly convincing as the tortured, bisexual teen genius poet Arthur Rimbaud, that it would undoubtedly set many of those young ladies to wondering if he'd played the part a little TOO well, if you get my meaning. If ever there was any such thing as a male femme fatale, It's Leo right here. Rumor has it that he tried to have the video pulled a few years ago, right after his Titanic success. It's a good thing he wasn't successful, because I think that this film rates right along with The Basketball Diaries as possibly his best performance.But it takes two to tango, at least in this case, and David Thewlis is almost as good opposite DiCaprio as Paul Verlaine, who began as Rimbaud's mentor and wound up as his long-time lover. As Verlaine was ugly and overweight, whereas Rimbaud was lithe and handsome, the two seemingly would have made an unbelieveably odd couple physically, but were drawn together more by their mutual likes and dislikes rather than physical attraction. And that's what you sense through all of their scenes together, a meeting of minds more than a meeting of bodies.There were many who praised this movie, there were many who hated it, but love it or hate it, it holds a strange fascination which makes you remember it long after you've seen it. "},{"Title":"Eccentric and poetical","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"43 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not for the faint of heart or the conventional taste. It's not a fantasy.Like the real-life characters upon which the movie is based, TE is eccentric and poetical. French poet Rimbaud, who wrote almost everything he wrote as a teenager,  has been admired by some of the most eccentric creative people of the last century. He was a very unusual teenager, being some kind of genius, some kind of lowlife, and a runaway.  His poetry digs into and portrays life with discomforting and sometimes painful and sometimes ecstatic detail. His is the muse which revels in the squalor of creation.Many people will dislike this film because the two main characters, Rimbaud and Verlaine, are bisexual and not at all stereotypical. Both of them are snotty and selfish and violent and often despicable. (As Shakespeare probably was at times, but you'll never see him portrayed in movies that way.) These are not Robert Frost poets. These are worm and scat and sex and drug and rock'n'roll and get-down-and-get-dirty poets.Past that, it's the story of a great, if brief, flowering love ... the kind of love story you'd expect for people who live and breathe life in the way great alternaculture poets must.Eternity is where the sunlight mixes with the water. And the penetrating movie mixes with the prepared mind. "},{"Title":"Flawed but Interesting Story of Obsession","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I realized going into this film that it was not going to be a straight bio-pic about Rimbaud's life so that loosened my expectations for the movie a bit, which is good considering had I expected a life story I would've been sorely disappointed. This film is more about Rimbaud's rocky relationship with fellow poet, Verlaine, whom he falls in love with and subsequently about Verlaine being stuck between a rock and a hard place with Rimbaud on one side and his beautiful but ultimately empty headed wife, Mathilde on the other.The set/costume design was done well enough; not enough to win awards but enough to make the time and place believable. What stands out the most, though, is the acting and of course the wonderful violin heavy score. DiCaprio gives an inspired performance as the young, opinionated, Rimbaud as does Thewlis in his role as the older poet, Verlaine who takes him under his wing. You won't get a complete round view of either man or his life here, but what you will get is a story about love, madness, writing and the search for meaning.If you like what you see of Rimbaud from this movie, I would whole heartedly recommend his work to you and any and all written biographies as they will shed even more light on a truly great poet's life. "},{"Title":"Painful but worthy film","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This art-house film is not a crowd-pleaser but is nevertheless an excellent film. It is one of DiCaprio's best independent films before he became a titanic superstar.Rimbauds painfully self-destructive bisexual life and his affair with Verlaine is not a nice story to tell, but the drama is interesting as a study in the eccentric mind of the artist. Beneath the plot is the age-old question of whether the artist's oddness hinders his creativity or is actually the fuel for his art. "},{"Title":"Art is long, love hurts, and poetry needs words.","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of course there is pain and monstrosity in love. Two wild poets would need to live that out. But can a movie about it make any sense, without a fair portion of their poetry?Michelangelo said that painting excels when it approaches sculpture, and sculpture when it comes close to relief. An art form is enhanced when nearing its periphery, almost turning into another art form. Along this line, I am sure that the poetry of Rimbaud and Verlaine would have stood forward excellently, when recited in the movie about their relation. It would also have helped in making their interactions understandable.After seeing the movie a second time, I read some of Rimbaud's writings, and there was a slightly different character emerging from his words, than the one portrayed, though excellently, by Leonardo DiCaprio. Rimbaud's own words show that he was a victim just as much as a predator. Of course, he would say so, himself, but also this modification would have made the movie rise beyond the black and white polarity it is too often caught in.Still, I enjoyed the movie tremendously, mostly thanks to Leo and the way he made his character fire up. He might have been type-cast, to do the obnoxious adolescent, but they got more than they bargained for - he included the most important aspect of Rimbaud the prodigy poet, the artist living for art, loving for art.His acting is sometimes stunning, and not only in delicate scenes where minute nuances are essential, but also in all kinds of silliness in between. To hear him bark like a dog, really like a dog - did he do that himself, or was there an added sound effect? The pause, and the slightly humorous expression on his face, right before he tells his fellow poet that he expects more from him than his words. His posture and cocky moving about in the Paris of the noble poets, and his running on all four in the countryside. Brilliant acting.There's a lot of formidable acting also on behalf of the others in the cast, even when the script and the direction works against them. And it does, more than once. Maybe the plot got all confused, simply because the poetry of the poets was not taken into account.But a film gone awry can still be a wonderful experience. Frustrating, but wonderful. This one is. "},{"Title":"A literal literary must see dramatization...","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There will be those who watch this film for DiCaprio, which is fine, then there will be those who watch this for the fact that it's about a French Poet, Rimbaud. The former is most likely the more probable, unfortunately, thus the rating of 5.7 at the time I'm writing this review, 4, September, 2004. Rimbaud was a poet who came to fame early on. Born in 1854, Jean-Nicolas-Arthur Rimbaud was one of four other siblings, a brother and three sisters, however, two of the three sisters passed. By fourteen, he was winning nearly every academic competition he entered and by fifteen, had his first poem published in a literary review (Mason, 2003). The police took interest in him as he was a trouble maker.Some of his more famous writings, A Season in Hell, A Drunken Boat, and First Night, are what he accomplished before giving up on writing at an equally young age, eighteen! Because he was so young, and maintained such excellence, he's been likened to similar prodigies such as Mozart, and Picasso. His is a work of certain genius which we can peer into - via this short dramatic biography - if we allow ourselves to pay close enough attention. I recommend this movie to any scholar, anyone interested in poetry/writing, anyone interested in prodigies, artists (or their madd, sometimes megalomania temperament), or depressives. Overall, it was good, it sparked remembrances of Robin Williams in Dead Poet's Society (1989), Gwyneth Paltrow in Sylvia (2003), and Sean Connery in Finding Forrester (2000). All are great writing flicks about love, loss, overcoming the human condition, or being ruined by it.  "},{"Title":"Hauntingly moving story, highly recommended.","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First off, this movie definitely deserves it's 'R' rating. So if you're a young Leo fan, don't bother. You're too young to see it and far too young to understand it.Onto the review. I was deeply moved by this movie. I thought Leo DiCaprio (who I usually despise) was excellent in his role. He played the part of bisexual Arthur Rimbaud very well. Very believable. David Thewlis' role was also very well acted (and quite impressive) as Paul Verlaine.Most have said it's not an accurate portrayal of what really went on....well that's what the disclaimer on the beginning of the movie states. If you missed it, don't complain.Basically, it will move you (unless you have no emotion at all), make you think, and perhaps shock you a bit (mainly Paul's behavior toward his wife was a bit shocking). But it is a beautifully artistic film and I urge fans of this genre to experience it.  "},{"Title":"A courageous and beautiful film that talks about love and pain.","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Total Eclipses narrates the romance that is born among the poets Paul Verlaine (David Thewlis, in a courageous and excellent performance, Thewlis plays strong scenes with experience and professionalism) and Arthur Rimbaud (Leonardo Di Caprio, before being thrown to the Hollywood's stardom in Titanic). The film documents, without make-ups,Paul Verlaine's slow destruction,a man who is consumed by the love and hate that he fells for Rimbauld.Director Agniezka Holland accomplished a touching and beautiful work,counting with a perfect plasticity that reconstitutes the time and the romance among the two men in a detailed way and without shame, what can,in fact,shock Di Caprio's fans in some delicate moments.Even being a little slow in a lot of parts of the story, Total Eclipse is efficient when its seen as a drama that lectures about the difficulty of being homosexual, but besides this topic, it analyzes what happens when people abdicate of their happiness and  suffer due to social conventions, and finally it ends up in a intelligent conclusionthat only through the courage and through the love it's possible not only to break such barriers but also to achieve redemption.Director Agnieszka Holland conducts with experience a story that, in the hands of another director, could be reduced into a common and not very innovative denominator, and the lenses of her camera shows, without make-ups and courts to alleviate the impact of the scenes, the whole suffering, the prejudice and the pain that marks the relationship between Rimbaud and Verlaine. The two poets' love is realistically developed by Holland, starting by the friendship, in which the two writers begin to know important things about theirselves and discover that they have a lot in common, in terms that both are unhappy with the path their lives acquired, the doubts, the fears and the frustrations,till the beginning of the romance. The scene in which the first kiss happens, when Rimbauld seduces Verlaine and tries to get closer to him and ease his nervousness,is strong,touching and beautiful,this  decisive and provocative part is filmed and written in a sweet and human way. The focus that the production gives to the story, therefore,is natural and realistic, what can scare many people away of the box- offices for the context declaredly homosexual of the story.Total Eclipse explores and studies the relationship without making concessions and without allowing any demagogy or fear. There are rough scenes such as the one in which Thewlis is tirelessly sodomized by Di Caprio, there are moments of fondness when the two kiss each other,but in the same way the sick and morbid aspect of the relationship is expressed, when, for example, Rimbauld stabs Rimbaud's hand to prove his love.Being a heterosexual, i concluded that, instead of adopting a dogmatic and racist posture, it would be better if i  could appreciate the film not as just another plot about two gay guys who are in love but I tried to enlarge my point of view, understanding that the film was, actually, a simple feeble love history marked by the suffering and resignation. Thus, I recommend Total Eclipse as an intelligent and efficient drama, a work that deserves to be applauded by its initiative and courage, for the excellent performances and for the safe and kind work by Agnieszka Holland, who tells a love story in a distressing and realist form. Total Eclipses i rated for strong sexuality and nudity, language, and some startling violence and it runs 111 minutes.The Cast David Thewlis, Romane Bohringer and Leonardo Di Caprio.  "},{"Title":"An excellent movie that showed the power love, sex, & lust was used by a man of genius.","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movies many years ago long before Leonardo was a superstar as he is today and was riveted to the screen by the depth of his performance. The length to which he commented himself to this character was Oscar worthy, to say the least. I was so taken, I immediately preordered it to own and add to my collection. As I have watched it repeatedly over the years, my original assessment remains the same...a 10 plus! I am in shock that neither Leonardo nor the film industry has not made mention of this film when listing or crediting his fabulous and diverse character choices during his career. In my opinion, his work in this film is far and away better than even the Titanic. He really seemed to grasp every aspect of this tormented genius character which had far more depth than the Titanic character. I highly recommend you see and buy this movie. "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Genius is by nature sui generis. Most of us can only observe and wonder, and from time to time pretend we are similarly gifted. As for the actual behavior of genius, it almost always entails what is commonly known as bad manners.The other striking feature of genius, for some but not all, is what is commonly known as insanity. Although modern science has defined various types of mental disorder and found causes and cures for some of them, it really begs the question to try to judge character or morality on the basis of scientific data. Art lies after all outside the realm of science, and always will do.Having said that, I believe the film Total Eclipse must be reviewed or criticized solely on whether it is a good work of art. My opinion is that it succeeds at some levels, and fails at others.I accept that the writer and director knew exactly what they were doing at every step. Except for a few quibbles about editing, I agree that the artistic concept and the technique are first rate. The musical score is excellent. The camera angles are generally adept at conveying the actions and emotions of the cast. Outdoor scenes tend to be well conceived.Unfortunately, all that falls by the wayside because of flaws in relating the story accurately and well to its origins. Anyone familiar with the lives and work of Verlaine and Rimbaud can only cringe at the superficiality of this film. As many others have pointed out, scant attention is paid to verse, and then only in a language -- English -- that only approximates the original. It would have been a graceful beginning to make this film in France with French characters speaking French, then allowing the subtitles to fill in the gaps for non-French-speaking viewers.What that conclusion implies, of course, is that the primary cast is wrong for this film. I really hate to say that, because DiCaprio and Thewlis are great actors doing the best they can to carry the film forward. Although I would have picked a different physical specimen for the role of Verlaine (for some odd reason the face of the late German director Fassbinder comes to mind), the choice of an androgyne for Rimbaud was physically right on target.Finally, I am appalled at some of the comments here that betray a preoccupation with sex. Zany is the only word one can apply to subjective and even judgmental interpretations of this film about this or that scene or bit of action not in accord with a viewer's personal sexual expectations. My own view is that this was, if anything, a highly bowdlerized adaptation of reality. In short, recast this in French, and focus more on the full text of Rimbaud's genius.  "}{"Title":"A Pair Of Talented Louts","Date":"6 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Total Eclipse is the story of the relationship between two men who definitely made their mark on French literature. Poets Paul Verlaine and Arthur Rimbaud have been compared to Oscar Wilde and Lord Alfred Douglas, but aside from being gay the pairs have little in common. Wilde is a universally recognized talent who had the misfortune to fall in love with a spoiled young aristocrat in Douglas who had some pretenses to literary talent. Douglas was spoiled, but both he and Wilde conducted themselves well in public.Verlaine and Rimbaud were a pair of talented louts as Total Eclipse shows us in graphic detail. Wilde married for convention's sake at the time and did have two sons and was a loving husband. His is a Victorian Brokeback Mountain story. Verlaine was a drunk and an abusive husband who regularly beat on his wife and child who was totally fascinated by young Rimbaud. He was ten years older than Rimbaud in real life, the film does make him seem a great deal older. He did read some of Rimbaud's work as a teenage prodigy and sent for the country lad. You can feel sorry for Wilde and do in the films that tell his story. Verlaine as played by David Thewlis is a really hateful person, gay audiences can't work up any sympathy for him.However Rimbaud as played by Leonardo DiCaprio by look and talent makes you perfectly understand why Rimbaud became so obsessed with him. Verlaine was a political man, he was a supporter of the Paris Commune and was in fear of the police who would have loved to nail him on a morals charge if not on a political one. Rimbaud didn't have a political opinion in the world, he was a peasant kid from the Ardennes who partied hardy, drove Verlaine crazy and jealous, but both learned and fed off each other artistically. I found it interesting that Rimbaud and Verlaine flee to Great Britain of all places to be freer, the same place that in the next generation would persecute poor Oscar Wilde.DiCaprio and Thewlis play a couple of louts, but a fascinating pair of louts. Total Eclipse has both these guys eclipsing the supporting cast around them, that probably is the main weakness of the film. Still fans of both men shouldn't miss this film. "},{"Title":" In the valley of Shadows, there is only one truth,   the darkness everyone fears ","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Throughout the ages, there has always been a fine line between Genius and Insanity. The only way one discover which is which, is to troll the depths of hell and what you emerge with is the true nature of the man. Such is the story behind the movie  Total Eclipse  and the historical meeting between two notable French poets of the 19th century. The life of Paul Verlaine (David Thewlis) begins in 1871 when he was 28 as that is when he discovered young Arthur Rimbaud (Leonardo DiCaprio) age 17. Sharing a love for poetry, art, writing Absinthe, hashish and a zest for passionate living, the two embarked on a deep loving physical relationship and a troubling tumultuous affair which took the two over several countries and even prison. The movie is a fine rendition of the two tortured souls trying to fathom each other both physically and spiritually. Although each considered the other a wellspring of inspiration, their literary work often exacted a heavy toll on their relationship. Suffering for their art became a quest for self discovery and loathing of the boundaries set by the world. Eventually, thorough the haze of hatred and love, we see in the film the passion they left behind. The film is savagely real as director Agnieszka Holland and writer Christopher Hampton developed it. The end result is a monumental triumph for the lives of these giants. A real accomplishment in cinematic art and a definite Classic for the attentive viewer. **** "},{"Title":"Their Drunken Boat and Their Season in Hell","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a worthy and successful attempt to make a film about the famous literary and personal relationship between two great poets, Paul Verlaine and the young Arthur Rimbaud. How the French must have resented its being made in English! (But why did the French themselves never film this story, which is so fundamental to the mythology of their literature?) There is no use viewers and reviewers complaining that the characters are disgusting everybody knows they were, and they would have been the first to admit it. This film has not been made for the wrong reasons, with fictional characters, but is a true story. It is rather disturbing to realize that absinthe has been legalised again and people are drinking it once more, when we see how it drove these two poets insane, which is what is really does, you know! The banning of absinthe should never have been lifted. It may be a pretty green colour, but it is not romantic or at all glamorous. One strange omission from this film is any of the poetry of either poet! Very few decent translations of Verlaine into English exist, because he used rhyme so much. But he was a great and soaring poet, and of course Rimbaud shattered all the moulds and basically founded modern poetry, and had the status of a god to the Surrealists. So it would have been good to hear some of their work, especially as it is all out of copyright and no one could have objected. The lack of the poetry stops people who do not already know it from appreciating the point of all this carrying-on. Verlaine and Rimbaud were appalling, violent, disorderly, and to call them extreme Bohemians doesn't go far enough they were both quite mad as well. But then, many poets are, and often the finest poetry comes from the ones who are the craziest (David Gascoyne, whom I knew well, is an example, and Ezra Pound whom I knew less well was not what you could call well-balanced). It is often said that there is a fine line between genius and madness, but with poets, the situation is even more dire to be a divinely inspired poet it seems that it is almost a requirement that you first lose your mind. (Exceptions are those with no fire in their temperament at all Eliot, Perse, Valery, or those who have become spiritual beings while still on earth, such as Rilke.) Well, the performances and direction are excellent here. Agnieszka Holland is an inspired director, a protégé of Wajda, and perhaps her greatest achievement was 'Washington Square' (1997). She is interested in art, not commerce, and congratulations to her for that! The young Leonardo Di Caprio, aged 20, was a scintillating, wild, and wholly convincing Rimbaud. You could believe every scene. David Thewlis was equally convincing as Verlaine, despite being rather too thin for the part (Verlaine was stockier and plumper, and Thewlis looks like he hasn't had a decent meal for ten years). Romane Bohringer was an excellent choice for Verlaine's wife, and plays it just right. The next year she would make her staggering pair of films, 'L'Appartement' and 'Portraits Chinois', in both of which she sets the cinema on fire. So the talent is there, and the film is delivered. If we find these people disturbing, it is because they were. But without this bizarre tale, twentieth century poetry would not have come into existence, because it was created by Arthur Rimbaud, and without Verlaine taking him under his wing it would never have happened. Christopher Hampton's screenplay is intelligent and thoughtful and well-crafted throughout. But then, that is what he does. It is good to have this on the screen, but for those who do not already know the story, it must be a real shocker. It is also not a film for 'homophobes', and if you don't want to see Leonard Di Caprio kissing a man on the mouth, look away now. "},{"Title":"not for box-office fanatics","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I read a comment in which something like better see dharma and greg was written. You could have said  there are so many ways to waste time watching uninteresting series with no art. Of course we can't say this movie is a perfect one. And of course very few people could accept watching a movie on some boring relationship of two unknown french bisexual poets. But there are much more references to poetry in movie that people have been able to see. I don't think this movie is something you absolutely need to see to know Rimbaud- Verlaine. Better watch it after having read some of there poetry of both because there are some scenes that can recall poems of there creations anyway this movie is the kind of which can't be acclaimed by all critics for being different of those box-office stereotyped flix...The Rimbaud i like is not exactly the one played by Di Caprio but I can say that his performance wasn't that much deceiving. "},{"Title":"Pretty Goood- SPOILERS FOLLOW!","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay here's my review of Total Eclipse.Here's the plot It is 1871 and the great poet Paul Verlaine (David Thewlis) has asked to meet with the teenage writing genius Arthur Rimbaud (Leonardo DiCaprio) after reading some of his poems. What happens next involves a relationship based on betrayal, lust, violence and insanity which ends when a quarrel gets out of hand&#133;&#133;..When I first heard of this film, I expected something along the lines of the bio flicks Prick Up Your Ears and Wilde and in a way I did. Rimbaud is Oscar Wilde as Verlaine is Lord Alfred. He is Joe Orton as Verlaine is Kenneth Halliwell. He is a genius compared to Verlaine's already beautiful poetry.However, what I didn't expect was Total Eclipse mainly focusing on the homosexual relationship between Rimbaud and Verlaine. Although Prick Up Your Ears and Wilde do the same, they also focus on the prodigy's (Wilde or Orton) work and how they soared compared to their counterpart. This film does not do that.We do not hear much from Rimbaud's or Verlaine's poetry. It focuses on Verlaine's love for two people his wife and Rimbaud, with him ending up with nothing except his memories and a tumour in his knee. It would have been nice to hear what Verlaine contributed to the poetry world but all we see of him is a screwed up and violent man who instantly shows regret for what he does.The film does not clearly show what makes Rimbaud and Verlaine act so bitterly towards each other. They cant live with each other (Rimbaud constantly insults Verlaine and beings him down whilst Verlaine is a cheating husband who, despite loving Rimbaud, still loves his wife). It would have been nice to have a clear picture to why they behave this way although I can guess that Verlaine felt trapped by his mother and father-in-law and Rimbaud was just a cynic teenager who knew far too much for his young age.However, this is a powerful film and cannot fail to move. Whether you're disgusted at Verlaine's disgusting treatment towards his wife or even more disgusted at his self or whether you want to understand what there is to like about this two men, this film cannot fail to express your hidden emotions.Leonardo is brilliant as Rimbaud (and I'm not a fan of Leonardo DiCaprio). He was so believable as Rimbaud. One of his best performances! As for David&#133;&#133; woahhhhh he had a much tougher task to do than Leonardo. David had to portray Verlaine as a despicable, violent men who has a heart big enough to regret what he did afterwards. Despite his regret, there is nothing like able about David's Verlaine. You could say that he is similar to David's character, Johnny in the film Naked. Plus, if you're a David fanatic, you get to see him in all his naked glory for about 10 seconds.This film is well worth a watch, even just ince.9/10 "},{"Title":"...by pissing on them from a great height","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In concept and execution, Total Eclipse is flawed. It is not a biopic, but a snapshot of the affair between Arthur Rimbaud and Paul Verlaine. For the artistically minded to question love and the insanity of genius, and not to follow the significant footsteps of the bohemian poets. However, it fails due to a kind of Americanisation of period costume drama. There is a mishmash of accents (American, British, French) undermining the nuance of the French tongue. I still can't understand why trained actors don't seem to have even a basic grasp of high school French, or why the producers and the director were scared of subtitles in an 'Art house' film. It's difficult to buy DiCaprio as Rimbaud (although in appearance he is well cast) as with an American accent he always seems obnoxious even when it is not his intention. Delivering fragments of Rimbaud's poems and philosophy in sound bites renders them hollow. Although he is aesthetically and historically on the mark, the tone and spirit of the portrayal is completely wrong.Another conceit is that this film marginalises Verlaine. The opening interstitial might as well read Verlaine's poems were OK, but who cares? Arthur was known to have an admiration for Verlaine long before the two met, and the love between them genuine. Here though, it is painted as a vampiric relationship of convenience. Paul clinging to Arthur for fear of being alone, Arthur bleeding Paul's influence and money dry.Hackneyed scenes of Rimbaud having 'visions' of the final years of his life had me gagging, and are inexcusable. The editing of the entire piece is atrocious, particularly Paul's trial. And there are inaccuracies for the sake of ludicrous symbolism. Verlaine shot Rimbaud in the wrist. Though as it is portrayed here, he is shot through the center of his hand, to tack on a gauche Christ metaphor. You are never assimilated into the world these people live in because of the accent problem, and the energies of every cast member shooting off in different directions. Making the effort, you will find yourself wanting to like this film more than it will allow you to. The intention is to make you cry at the end, as other critics attest, but I fail to see how.Total Eclipse tried very hard to alienate its audience, the problem is that it has largely succeeded. It sours the romantic notion of Rimbaud and Verlaine for those familiar with their work, and has the unfamiliar asking basic straightforward questions which it makes no attempt to answer. Why would Verlaine keep putting up with Rimbaud's abuse, Why was Rimbaud considered a genius? He seemed like an arsehole. "},{"Title":"So dark and gloomy","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I fear and hate to admit my ignorance about these poets. But I am convinced that people, men, of such character flaws just cannot exist, or should not exist. I have never seen such deliberate cruelty, physical and mental.  And all occasioned by a complete lack of communication. Can sex really destroy everything? Aren't we more than animals? Where is the love? Sex is a desire, love is why we live. I only wish I had lived during that period of time. I would have done my level best to see that both of these men just got along. Can relationships be so stormy. I guess so. But not in my life. I am willing to listen to reason. Still I give this film high marks. I must not be as complicated as the protagonists. I saw few flaws in the film making, only in the main characters. And that would be history. It is so sad. Especially at the end when Verlaine imagines he is seeing the ghost of Rimbaud, and in toasting him with absinthe finally tricks himself into believing that he truly had been loved. All in all, I do give this film high marks. "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Biopic","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This historical drama, directed by Agnieszka Holland, focuses on the rocky relationship between the renowned 19th century French poets Arthur Rimbaud and Paul Verlaine. Total Eclipse is a based on a 1967 play by Christopher Hampton, who also wrote the screenplay. Based on letters and poems, it presents a historically accurate account of the passionate and violent relationship between the two 19th century French poets Paul Verlaine,played by David Thewlis; and Arthur Rimbaud,played by Leonardo DiCaprio, at a time of soaring creativity for both of them.Rimbaud is a teenage wunderkind known for his rebelliousness against conventional society and his surrealistic writing. He disrupts the life of Verlaine, a more conventional writer who is older and married to a dutiful young wife, Mathilde.The drunken Verlaine is unkind to Mathilde, even though her father is providing him with a house and an income to live on while he pursues his writing. Rimbaud overwhelms Verlaine, mocking his conventionality, constantly disrupting his domestic life,and somehow attracting the maniacal love of the older man.Despite its fascinating subject matter, Total Eclipse is both unflattering and loveless.It was a disappointing biography about the homosexual relationship of two famous French poets.Watching Verlaine and Rimbeau engage in endless arguments about the nature of love makes the film irritating and somewhat uninteresting.The only good thing about it is DiCaprio's presence.Nothing more. "},{"Title":"Sheer idiocy.","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've seen many biographical films, and few of them have been told with the complete witlessness of Total Eclipse. This is a story about the French poets Arthur Rimbaud and Paul Verlaine (Leonardo DiCaprio and David Thewlis), two brilliant but tortured artists who had an unhappy but surprisingly long sexual and mental relationship. I'm sure Rimbaud and Verlaine were indeed both brilliant and both artists, but there's barely any evidence of it here. Rimbaud is referred to as a genius repeatedly, but the most intellectual thing we ever see him doing is referring to someone else's work as authentic sh*t just before urinating on him. Verlaine is no better; he's a pathetic drunk who has married into money and spends most of his waking moments insulting and abusing his wife and her family (when not providing his wife's gratuitous nude scenes). Rare are the times when we see either of them writing poetry, and rarer still are the times when we hear any of it.The story begins with Rimbaud arriving at Verlaine's house at the latter's request, after he's read some of his first work. Rimbaud belches, smokes his pipe at the table, and insults everyone seated with him in ways crude enough to make any master poet groan at the wasted opportunities. Verlaine is smitten with him, either because of the looks he throws in between stealing the household items and announcing I have to p*ss, or because of the classical music score which follows him around. Soon they are having an illicit affair, though Verlaine does visit back home once in a while to set his wife's hair on fire and throw their baby carriage against the wall.From there the movie breaks down into a pointless, arbitrary series of events that I guess were included because they really happened, but haven't been shaped into any sort of story, and certainly don't do anything to make us care about the characters. Verlaine leaves his wife, goes back to his wife, and then leaves her again. He and Rimbaud move from France, to Belgium, to London, back to Belgium, etc. As they circle Europe endlessly and the movie slows to a a crawl, whatever qualities and talents they had in real life, in real life they remain.What else. Everyone speaks English in their own accents, although the characters are all supposed to be French (if I remember correctly one character even starts out as an American-accented girl, then grows into a French-accented woman&#x97;good luck following the flashbacks). We're given a fairly good look at the proper way to drink absinthe, which I suppose will come in handy now that they've decriminalized it. At some point we notice that the movie is employing its nudity strategically most every major character is seen naked at some point, but DiCaprio and Romane Bohringer are given shots and lighting clearly designed to highlight their attractiveness, while Thewlis&#x85;is not. The movie finally boils down to two horrible people meeting, having a life-changing relationship and ending up as two horrible people who are a few years older. "},{"Title":"Thanks, Agnieszka","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Total eclipse' has made me to remember that cinema can be art.I've seen it at least 20 times. It's my cult film.It is not true this movie is about two French homosexual poets. Verlaine was bisexual. He loved his wife's body. Rimbaud was in search of the knowledge through the poetry and Verlaine helped him for a time. Rimbaud wasn't in love with Verlaine. Besides, they had relations with prostitutes. Later, when Rimbaud lived in Abyssinia for 11 years, he had relations with women, not with men.The reason why I love this film is because it contains poetry. Even those scenes with sense of humour during the trip that the poets make to see the sea and Verlaine does exercise in the morning, when DiCaprio makes as a sheep, when he opens a bottle (how amusing¡) , when Rimbaud have soup with his family...Even too, the sex scenes between both poets. I think they are not so strong as someone has said. The shoots are quite closed so, you can not see their bodies, one over the other one.You can only see their faces. However, the sex scenes with Verlaine and Matilde  show full nudities. Sex scenes with a woman and a man are not so rude than between two men.When you are watching the film you can take notice of its atmosphere. It is plain  of beauty the music, photograph, the rhithm, the Rimbaud's history and... of course , the same DiCaprio. His small backside is delightful. It seems made of marble; hard. What a pity¡ We haven't a clear frontal nudity of him.  The dialogues, in general, have not waste. And the same for DiCaprio and Thewlis's  performances. If you have seen the film once, it is possible you think Arthur Rimbaud was a conceited person. That happened to me. The young Rimbaud was a genius who wanted to change the society. He didt'n like the bourgeosie and the religion of the guilt. He forgot the humility but there was charity in his heart. At the age of 19 he realised the change was impossible. He decided not to write any more. The most important work was the action, the science.There are two affair I  don't like at all the medical test in Brussels (it might have been removed) and the actress Romane Bohringer. Her face communicates nothing. We see the two poets apart from the society. That's not true. Rimbaud had friends in Charleville, London and Paris. The end is superb the redemption of Rimbaud. In the last scene poetry, music and nature.God gave Rimbaud much talent and much suffering too. We have the play he wrote during only  3 years and letters to know his life. R.I.P.I've read the novel `Arthur Rimbaud' by Enid Starkie (editorial Siruela - Madrid, in spanish).It's a great work.  "}{"Title":"Total Eclipse","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My original captivation with this film has been tempered now that I've seen it a second time. But what I originally enjoyed and also originally disliked the first time around were both confirmed when I saw it again My initial delight was due to the fact that the portrayal of Arthur Rimbaud is as close to capturing the inner workings of the mind of an artist as any I've seen, particularly in the way that he demonstrates a very logical resistance to Paul Verlaine's amorphously fawning love that he offers Rimbaud. Love doesn't exist, Rimbaud boldly proclaims. Self-interest exists. Attachment based on personal gain exists. Complacency exists. But not love. It has to be re-invented. And reinvented it is in this portrayal of two male artists whose relationship originates out of a sort of intellectual centrifugal force. Each of them recognize the monumental talent in the other and even though they pursue the bond they share to the inevitable sexual conclusion, the word homosexual never really occurred to me while I was watching the film, primarily because their relationship demonstrates their symbiotic need for each other intellectually first and foremost, quite separate from their sexual needs, which never stoops to the sophomoric level of which one is the man? which one is the woman? designation of gender roles. One must remember, and the film explicitly points out, that although this tale is only a hundred years old, the punishment for being homosexual back then was enough to send you to prison for two years. Even though I've seen this film twice in ten days, something still needles me about the casting of DiCaprio as Rimbaud. This is the first film I've seen DiCaprio in, and I'm really starting to like him, and David Thewlis, as Verlaine, I've been raving about since his blistering performance in Mike Leigh's Naked two years ago. Perhaps it's simply my expectations. Since these two giants of poetry are strictly the stuff of history now, one can't tell how on the money their characterizations are, and they ARE able to illustrate the spirits they each had remarkably. DiCaprio's performance as Rimbaud is exact in his reading of a self-appointed genius who very convincingly illustrates the alchemical origin for any true artist that of having a scorched earth policy, of reinventing the world on one's own terms and of realizing one needs to have the strongest of convictions about one's self and one's abilities to originate the future regardless of what even other artists feel about you. Poets should learn from each other, Verlaine admonishes Rimbaud when they first meet. Only if they're bad poets, Rimbaud shoots back. And in that refutation of what an artist should be is the key to why Verlaine ends up obliviously destroying not only the bourgeois life he's tried carefully to fit into to, but also the lives of those around him By clinging to Rimbaud as a moth to light, Verlaine begins to feel an acute amount of nostalgia for his own beginnings as a major poet and desperately tries to recapture that contagious spirit of capriciousness which blooms when one's hormones are exploding and you feel invincible that Rimbaud represents to Verlaine. Verlaine, ten years older than Rimbaud, met him at a time when his fear of death had prompted him to marry a girl (six years his junior who was nowhere near his intellectual level) so he could father a child, who did turn out to be a son. Romane Bohringer, as Verlaine's long-suffering wife Mathilde, is a great casting choice because although she may not have been on the same intellectual level as her husband, she was a perfectly fine person in her own right healthy, joyous, buxom, devoted, willing to take Verlaine back countless times. Therefore, her faith in her husband underlines just how much it was Verlaine's choice and his choice alone to decide whether he should go gallivanting around Europe with Rimbaud, or stay with his wife and help father their child. Rimbaud even tries to convince Verlaine to do the right thing and stay with his family at one point. Rimbaud's motivations seem to flutter between his desire for an intellectual equal and his need for monetary support, which, of course means Verlaine's wife because it was HE who married money, not her.My reservations about this film are primarily because it doesn't deal with the actual poetry of the men enough. I would have loved to have heard the voice-overs of them both during the scenes where they cavort among the goats on a hillside, or as they climb around the crags of the Black Forest, and when Rimbaud mentions to Verlaine that the writing has changed me it would have done more of a service to the audience to let them know WHY he was having his sister burn his earlier poems.The photography, as I've come to expect from director Agnieszka Holland (The Secret Garden; Olivier, Olivier; Europa, Europa) is stunning, particularly the shots of Charleville, where Rimbaud's family lives on a farm. Holland loves blood, but not as though you'd know it the few instances where you see blood in this film it's used strictly as punctuation for the symmetrical balance of their cruelty for each other, or else it's photographed just to show what the concept of flow mechanics can do to red on white.I'm glad the film chose to not end with the severing of their relationship, but to follow Rimbaud to Abyssinia (now Ethiopia) and to the end of his life, to fully illustrate that his was a spirit who was forever seeking the outer edges of experience. He lived more in his 37 years on this planet than most people do in thrice that amount and history and posterity has shown time and again that not only were his instincts correct, but they continue to be felt a hundred years later.  "},{"Title":"This movie is one of my favorites and has nothing to do with being bisexual","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many people who have seen this movie do not understand it at all. It has nothing to do with the sexual nature of the two men. It is how their lives intertwine and how they fall in love with each other's souls through their amazing writings. The sex comes naturally as two human beings - not two gay men or bisexuals.If all you got out of this movie is that, I am so sad for you! I am shocked this film hasn't made it to the top. I love it. I watch it all the time. My favorite European film of ALL TIME. The acting as well, excellent!!!!!I truly get lost in this film. You can't help but fall in love with the writing itself. Extremely well-written as well as acted out. "},{"Title":"The `National Enquirer' does French Poetry","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Imagine a movie about Shakespeare, devoted entirely to the Bard's taste in clothing.  Nothing at all is said about the Sonnets or Richard III or King Lear (let alone Troilus and Cressida).  Instead, we are treated to long discussions of textiles and imported Dutch shirts.  Tailors in Stratford and London receive extended attention, but Hamlet and Othello are not even mentioned...Total Eclipse is this kind of twisted biography.  The victims are the French symbolists Verlaine and Rimbaud, and the theme is not clothing but low life.  Here are Verlaine and Rimbaud drinking absinth, and here they are having sex (just as Paul Verlaine's abandoned wife gives birth to the Verlaines' first born).  Here is Verlaine beating his wife; next he is setting her hair on fire...  No scandal (or rumor of a scandal) is left undeveloped, and we are given all the graphic details that would be tolerated in an R-rated movie.  As we hop happily from one drunken stupor to another, we somehow forget that these individuals were creative artists first, and faithless narcissist drunkards (perhaps) second... The movie reminds us at the beginning, clearly as an afterthought, that Rimbaud's verse changed the course of poetry forever (itself a vacuous and questionable premise).  However you would hardly detect anything of the kind in the movie itself.  Instead, Verlaine and Rimbaud are portrayed in the style used by Florida tabloids to report on the exciting life of present day celebrities.  All the sordid infidelities, betrayals, and embarrassments that can be unearthed are described in excruciating detail.  No room is left to discuss the artistry, the philosophy, or the poetry. At the end, this movie does not even qualify as Cliff Notes on of the lives of Verlaine and Rimbaud.  Rather we get here the National Enquirer version of their biography.     "},{"Title":"I agree with Andy below","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Arthur Rimbaud was famous for what? For changing the face of French and possibly all modern poetry. At the age of 17. Do we see any of this in the movie? No. We have a director who thinks that being gay was Rimbaud's muse. All through the film, I kept wondering, when are they going to let him read his poetry, and show us WHY it was important, HOW it contrasted with conventional poetry at the time? I mean, if you're brave enough to try to sell graphic homosexual scenes to a Merchant Ivory audience, then why not be brave enough to bore us with some literary analysis? "},{"Title":"They're trying to deprive you of the juice!","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I blame this movie for awakening my mind to Rimbaud's poetry. I'm actually quite glad I saw the trailer for this. Paul Verlaine and Arthur Rimbaud were wild lovers, getting drunk on Absinthe and ruining local poetry readings. But that made their poetry- Arthur's poetry, anyways- better than before. Paul's was alright, but Arthur's was amazing. I have a whole book of his poetry including A Season In Hell, Illuminations and a series of letters. Also some writings about a girl named Timothina Labinette he was in love with (before he met Paul). And I have nothing against gay people, and I don't care if it's against God's word. I don't care if men were made to marry women. People can do what they want as long as they're not hurting anyone. Back to Rimbaud. As soon as I saw the real Rimbaud, I fell in love. But I could never understand his poetry because it wasn't the real thing. I was reading it online. But now that I'm reading the stuff that he actually wrote, I'm satisfied. The music in the movie is wonderful. Jan A.P. Kaczmarek does a beautiful job with the cello and the clarinet and the flute. If I close my eyes, I can imagine myself riding in a carriage with Rimbaud in the 19th century. I would love to go to a museum about him. Did I mention I have the whole soundtrack from 1995? Yeah, it's a CD. Yay. "},{"Title":"Total Eclipse","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Total Eclipse is about two self-obsessed bohemian men who cause pain for themselves, each other and the people around them. It's a harsh, melancholy film about delusions of ultimate self-fulfillment and the measures taken by these characters to find meaning.Arthur Rimbaud (Leonardo DiCaprio) is a wild, rebellious artist whose poetry is causing as much controversy as it is receiving praise. He writes to an older poet named Paul Verlaine (David Thewlis) in search of somewhere to stay while he completes the ultimate poem. When he arrives at Verlaine's home, he is crass, belligerent and anything but grateful. Paul immediately takes a liking to the young man. His wife (Romane Bohringer) does not.The two spend some more time together. Rimbaud, fully aware of his own brilliance, criticizes Verlaine's recent work and speaks his mind about everything, no matter how offensive or unacceptable it seems. In one fantastically acted scene, they attend a poetry reading. Paul, disgusted by the clichés and false sentimentality of the work being read, starts shouting S**t! until he is asked to remove himself. He proceeds to terrorize and threaten the other poets with a sword and eventually urinates on the poem that was read.By this point, Arthur is infatuated with Paul; fascinated with his rebellion and reckless, flamboyant approach to life in general. Paul is equally infatuated with Arthur's financial security, and has some feelings of his own towards the man. Eventually, delirious from absinthe, they have sex and Rimbaud makes a proposition they run off together and fill in the undeniable emptiness that they are both stifled by.This is one of the most treacherous romances I have ever seen. Corrupted by arrogance, self-interest and inner demons, these two lovers corrode each other's souls and torment each other with their sadism and bizarre mental fixations. Without the right actors, this would be a despicable and uninteresting film. Thankfully, that isn't the case.Leonardo DiCaprio's performance in this film is fearlessly theatrical &#150; much like the character he's playing, his acting is unpredictable and driven by frenzied energy. He portrays the tortured sense of inadequacy that this man experienced with chilling precision, bringing about a character that is every bit as enthralling as he is selfish. According to Christopher Hampton's script, Verlaine was a wild spirit who never found a way to deal with his brilliance. He pulls himself apart from the inside out, taking down anyone who gets in the way of his art.David Thewlis is equally astounding. Arthur Rimbaud is one of the strangest characters I have ever seen. Driven by borderline childish motivations and uncontrollable sexual cravings, he is a weak and pathetic man. In one key scene, Verlaine asks him if he wants his soul or his body. Rimbaud, obviously ashamed of his own primitive simplicity, chooses the body. Let the ninety-eight wounds of our savior burst and bleed says Paul. Thewlis's performance is powerful, unique and entirely convincing. He embodies the character both physically and emotionally.Unfortunately, the rest of the picture isn't as great as the lead performances. Hampton's script, although filled with intriguing character study and narrative style, lacks accessibility and structure. There's a masterpiece buried in there somewhere, but he doesn't quite dig it out. The result is a story that a select few will find meaningful, and the majority will find confusing or dull.Holland's direction is flawed as well, but carries the film well enough to prevent it from becoming a disaster. With the help of Kaczmarek's haunting musical score and outstanding focal performances, this is an engaging and satisfying cinema experience for anyone who finds something they like in the story. I love the story, the characters, and especially the acting. This is a movie I really enjoy. "},{"Title":"Disturbing & Brilliant","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Friends of Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan romantic comedies beware! This is a love story, but not your usual Hollywood fare. This pre-Titanic film reminds us that DiCaprio is truly a fine actor, who was willing to take risks for the challenge of a good role. And boy, did he find one here Arthur Rimbaud. Joining DiCaprio in this tale of 19th century French poets is the brilliant David Thewlis as Paul Verlaine.There is actually not a single character in this film who is really likable, and that's what separates it from the rest of the pabulum that we tend to get as a daily diet. There are moments that you adore them, then minutes later they couldn't be more loathsome. How like the real world! How like ourselves!The psychological roller coaster ride of a relationship between two brilliant, but - through their genius - thoroughly disturbed, people is fascinating and never for a second boring.It's not warm and fuzzy, but it will move you all the same.  "},{"Title":"misunderstood","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not so caught up in the film that I think it's great, but I cannot  believe the critical slams it got.  I liked that the film wasn't afraid and didn't compromise any characters; they didn't care to lessen the cruelty in fear of alienating the audience. The film was interesting as a psychological study of its characters (I do not know of the material's faithfulness, so I only refer to them as characters).  First we meet someone who knows he is a genius, which is never a good thing as it inflates the ego way too far.  Rimbaud in the film doesn't want to be another face in the crowd and hates that certain morals and methods of behavior are expected of him as a human being.  He thus enjoys being a crude sadist as the only way for him to break the monotony of mundane existence. Of course, it's terrible what Rimbaud and Verlaine do in the film.  But I do not distance myself from trying to understand the characters and put myself in their shoes simply because I would never make the choices they have.  And once I examine these characters by the film's presentation of them, I can only pity them in that Rimbaud didn't have anywhere to convey his true self in his environment (he would have probably been happy in, say, 1960s America) and felt the only way he could be honest with himself was through rebellion and cruelty to others.   I pity Verlaine that he secretly flirted with the bohemian lifestyle but couldn't build up the courage to make the choice he wanted without first indulging in his dilemma prolongedly in such a manner that hurt his wife. "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was interested in this film well before watching it. First of all because my favourite poet is Rimbaud, and his whole life and especially his relationship with Verlaine was fascinating for me. Secondly, because I knew Leonardo DiCaprio was in it, and I truly despised him that time.Even after the trailer I knew this film was for me, and when seeing the film, this feeling had not gone. It pictured Rimbaud just the way I imagined him young, confident, hurt, offensive, a genius who is aware of his being a genius. He offends others just for fun, and never regrets anything. For me this is fantastic. And LDC - he was just wonderful. The guy was ACTING, doing something I've never expected him to do! Now I even forgive him Titanic, Romeo + Juliet and all these rubbish.And Verlaine's figure was superb. He's trying to lead a normal bourgeois life, that's what everyone wants his wife, his in-laws, and himself. But it's against his very nature and when meeting Rimbaud, who is perfectly free of societal tethers, he realises he can't meet these  expectations. His main problem is given in the film, word by word when Rimbaud tells him he's miserable because he doesn't live the life he wants. He struggles between normal life and the life he desires. He admires Rimbaud's talent and deeply loves him, while the other doesn't seem to return his feelings. On the other hand he has a wife who worships him. And he uses her only to prove his power... for she's so naive, pure and vunerable.Someone told me this film  is about two sods homosexual affaire.It is not.These two men are not simply gay. The film is not about homosexuality at all. It's about a rebellion against convictions, against society itself. And about two people's - not simply love. That and friendship, lust, hate, cruelty, need and many more things.The film represents all these things very well, at least that's what I think. "},{"Title":"brilliant...","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie only because i am a leonardo dicaprio fan...but it turned out to be one of the most touching(in an peculiar way)films i have ever seen. titanic is crap compared to this(so expect great dialog). total eclipse made me want to find more about the poets,(i bought the complete works of rimbaud and am always looking for more info on him and his life...it also helps i speak some french)and it pulls you into their magnificently horrid lives.true, there should have been more poetry in the movie, but otherwise it was perfect.the acting is amazingleo acts so natural and pure...but sometimes it's hard to watch because he is so cruel and obnoxious.david also is great, but his character is sad and far less interesting to watch.this movie is not for everyone because it is quite graphic and sometimes shockingly sick, but if your open you might love it..and hopefully  read some of rimbauds poems. "}{"Title":"Thank to Agnieszka Holland for one of the greatest films.","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the masterpiece of movie art. I have seen this movie many times (at least 15). You can find all in this movie love, art, great actors (especially diCaprio, Thewlis) .Leo diCaprio is great in this movie. He is the right actor who can give to the character of Rimbaud great performance. Caprio give us the view what the Rimbaud looked like and the way he plays is breathtaking.I think this movie is underrated. But for the people who are interested in art, literature and lifes of artists and poets.   And i give it 10/10 !!  "},{"Title":"A French poet's story in English ?!!!...","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fascinating movie about two of the greatest French poets ever, accomplished with all the dedication of two high talented leading actors  the Italian-German rooted American Leonardo Di Caprio (Titanic) and the British David Thewlis (Seven years in Tibet).Nevertheless, what a disappointment that a European produced movie about French poets is brought in the English language. In the same way Rimbaud's beautifull rebellious and renovating poetry is translated in English  almost hilarious if it weren't so sad. Was this violation of French poetry really necessary to introduce French literature to a big audience ? It fails on this point. With up-to-date technology of DVD's this shouldn't happen anymore. Nowadays such a film could very decently and correctly be written and performed in the adjusted language - in this case French - and given the extra feature of an English spoken or subtitled version for those who fail the knowledge of the original language. The wrong language was - luckily - the only, but serious let-down of the film.The story itself is well told, acted and directed. It is about a literary genius blooming in the absolute freedom of youth - not restricted by any social rule. It is a compliment to the makers that the film breathes the same freedom of mind. It is in this sense clearly a European and not an American (moral majority) film.Between his 16 - when he left home and joined Verlaine (Thewlis) - and his 19, Rimbaud (Di Caprio) wrote the fine flower of French poetry. As youth goes by and the love-hate relationship with Verlaine escalates (?), vanishes (?), explodes (?), implodes (?) (find out yourself) ... Rimbaud seems to outgrow or abandon his own gift.The movie tries to give a strong impression of a young man with talents so great and powerfull, burning in his head so violently that it was a real struggle for him finding the right words to express them. Although both characters evolve during the whole story, the movie starts with Verlaine in the main role. Than Rimbaud takes over Verlaine's life and the leading part. Verlaine is taking over again in the last sequences. You get the impression that Verlaine's character was meant leading all the way, but both Di Caprio's and Rimbaud's gifts and energy are so powerfull that they take over the central part of the story. Good casting. Similarities between character and actor shine through, but Di Caprio is not gay.It is hardly known that Rimbaud still lived another 10 year or so after his turbulent and talented youth. Little is known and one may wonder about it. What is the role of his sister in this ?When the movie is over, questions rise. Did Rimbaud's talent disappear ? So hard to believe. Was Verlaine his mentor or was Rimbaud just parasitizing on him ? Why did Rimbaud never again write anything ? Or did he, and what happened with it ? It is good to see an movie that leaves you with questions and wondering. Why ?... Quote  7/10 "},{"Title":"See it for the contradiction of emotional intensity","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps I like this movie so much because I was once in a relationship with someone who had the same take on love as Leo's character in this movie. The emotional intensity displayed throughout the film is enough alone to keep you firmly planted in your seats until the end, if you like films for the works of art that they are supposed to be, and that this one is.  If you want a film for the fluff that passes for a true production out of most of the studios today, this one isn't for you.  The performances are top notch. It's tragic that people do act this way, that lives are destroyed, that dreams aren't fulfilled, but this is life.  Watching this movie will make you feel more a part of it. "},{"Title":"A good take on the life of Arthur Rimbaud, who changed the poetic world.","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is based upon the life of Arthur Rimbaud.  It is well done and is not the type of movie many actors would take upon themselves to do. Rimbaud is a wonder to the poetic world and to this day is famous in his home country of France.  Enjoy the love, hate and everyday events portrayed in this film.  Take a little time to learn more about Rimbaud and you will find the events an actions in the movie are true to his life and have had impact upon today's culture.  If you are a Doors fan, this movie must be seen. This film will be a cult classic as time passes. "},{"Title":"true psychological drama of human relations","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is based on the letters and writings of the two French poets Arthur Rimbaud and Paul Verlaine. It tells us the history of their relations, the history of their friendship. These relations were a mirror of that epoch in a way. The epoch that was full of contradictions, high insights and deepest falls. One of the brightest times in the French spiritual culture known as Impressionism.The two main characters are brilliantly performed by David Thewlis as Verlaine and Leonardo di Caprio as Rimbaud. The film is made as retrospective of old Verlaine with few fragments of Rimbaud's life.The key episodes are repeated and each time the meaning is changed. It gives a strong impact to the viewer. And what really strikes you is when suddenly a true essence of a person appears just for a moment but you notice it. Like the episode of the last meeting of the two friends. There was nothing tragic there on the first sight but under the surface we feel the deepest despair of Rimbaud who realized that he had lost his friend forever. Actually the loneliness of the artist is one of the major themes in this movie.I especially liked the music in this film. Music is dramatic, sometimes even tragic, listening to it you can't help expecting something terrible happens. But in fact nothing happens. There are quite a few films where music is such an essential element.The finishing episode is excellent. I like when the film finishes so logically and follows from all the previous events. And besides there is poetry in such a finish, it is very beautiful. I would recommend watching this film to everybody who is fond of complicated dramas. "},{"Title":"Check this classic out.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great rendition of a complex duo.  Well acted by all, unfortunately, there seems a conflict in accents.  Nobody is sure which one to use, American, French, or British.Nevertheless, DiCaprio gives it his all as usual.  Thewlis is superb, costumes are wonderful, and storyline and attention to detail is marvellous. Holland has a master's eye and Hampton is nothing less a genius of research and interpretation.  This is a terrific character study. "},{"Title":"I think Total Eclipse is in Dicaprio's top 3 films","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Though this film is loosely based on true events, it still strikes me as being one of Dicaprio's best.  Not to mention the seamless performance by David Thewles.  After seeing this film, I decided that Leo should Stay far far away from the Hollywood machine.  His best work by far is of independent flair.  I gave this picture a 9 because I found the story of two writers (poets) to be one of mutual love and abuse, and very engrossing.  I would recommend this film for anyone, especially those fans of Dicaprio who have only seen the likes of Titanic and The Man With the Iron Mask.  This story has much more to offer. "},{"Title":"Best gay drama yet","Date":"27 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the absolute best dramatization of a Gay couple's relationship to date, in my opinion.  Great pains are not so obviously taken to avoid the intimacy of the characters as is so commonly done when this subject is filmed.The power of the stars, characters, scenes, story all unite into a entrancing cinematic experience.  I like very much that this is a film about two male poets who happen to be Gay rather than a film about two Gay men who happen to be poets.  In short, their sexuality is depicted as only a fraction of the movie, not the movie entirely.  You are not distract from the film by their sexuality anymore than you would be watching A Love Story.The film is exceptionally graphic in nudity and language and as a result may not be suitable for all ages. "},{"Title":"Absolutely beautiful!!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie have been wrongfully accused to be a movie about naked homosexuality. Sure the movie is about two men who fall in love with each other, but that is just a small part of the plot. What the movie is really about is the life of Arthur Rimbaud (Leonardo Di Caprio) and his meeting with the fellow poet Paul Verlaine (David Thewlis). Here you can see the struggle of the misunderstanding young poet who falls for the older man Verlaine. This is a beautiful movie about love, lust, passion of the word and revenge. It´s like a long poem with a tragic end. The actors are great especially Thewlis in role of Verlaine. And yes Leo is naked in the movie, but that is not the real reason to see this movie. See it because it´s a great movie perfectly directed by Holland. "},{"Title":"Fantastic look at Rimbaud and Verlaine's relationship","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contrary to the majority of the posts here, I thought Total Eclipse was a well-made film with FANTASTIC preformances, great setting, and some of the best classical music I've EVER heard. Total Eclipse is about the relationship between poets Arthur Rimbaud (Leonardo DiCaprio) and Paul Verlaine (David Thewlis). The film does contain a good amount of dark material, as well as violence, profanity, and nudity.  Also, maybe a little more attention to be paid to the poetry of the two writers was needed.  Other then that, I thought Total Eclipse was a fantastic film that was snubbed Best Picture, Best Actor (Leonardo Dicaprio), Best Supporting Actor (David Thewlis), Best Original Screenplay, and Best Score.  If you don't mind dark material, see Total Eclipse, and then read some of the poetry of Rimbaud and Verlaine to learn more about the great poets. "}{"Title":"Brilliantly filmed evocation of a great destructive love affair","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Christopher Hampton's original play upon which he based his screenplay was a major scandal of the London theatre scene in the late Sixties.  The Nineties update, brought to the big screen with considerable grace and visual splendor thanks to director Agnieszka Holland, proved to be one of the great dark horses of film history.  Most of the US critics displayed their abysmal ignorance of literature, history and psychology in their reviews of this film.  Since they did not realize just how dark the personalities involved and how very complex the actual historical facts were, they trashed this film and it closed after a few weeks in most cities.  I still routinely see reviews from the likes of Leonard Maltin that describe this film as a bomb.  It should be seen only by those with a taste for unusual stories that do not attempt to prettify the past.  The performances were vividly believable, especially David Thewlis as Verlaine and the actress who played Rimbaud's sister.  I thought di Caprio's performance was marvelous though not entirely free of anachronisms (it reminded me of Diane Keaton's performance in Reds in this regard).  Holland's cinematography captures every nuance of di Caprio's remarkable physical beauty which helps make the cursed romance between the two men plausible.  I thought the ending was beautifully accomplished--it brought the story to a lovely resolution which unfortunately probably eluded the principle people involved in real life.  "},{"Title":"DiCaprio's performance lacks the depth that the actor had earlier promised to have so much of.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Total Eclipse is the kind of film an actor takes on to prove that an earlier career accolade was not a fluke.  DiCaprio was, unfortunately, proved wrong by this effort.  While his screen character may be selfish and cruel, DiCaprio fails to convey a dark soul necessary to make his portrayal believable.  He artlessly flounces the film's pointed and occasionally profound dialogue like a boy trying to fit his father's clothes, and squanders an opportunity to win back the fans he'd made through his initial screen work in the process.  While the jury is far from out on the young actor's career, it seems for now at least that DiCaprio has fallen about as far from Gilbert Grape and Ronald Reagan penultimately did from Kings Row. "},{"Title":"Poetic Romance","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A lot of people may be tempted to watch this one for the Leonardo DiCaprio nude scenes, but David Thewlis gives a terrific performance as well in this story about the absinthe-soaked love affair between French poets Arthur Rimbaud and Paul Verlaine. Interesting insight into creative process that plagues the artistic "},{"Title":"Strange Love","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The hostile menage a twois between Verlaine, his wife, and Rimbaud is extremely interesting for not just the physical attraction that Verlaine has for both man and woman; but the psychological struggles going on between the comely wife and Dicaprio's cute little infante terible'.  When you're not bi-sexual, I think, there's something quite intriguing and mysterious about the attractions human beings have for the same sex.I have never understood before the impulse I had to clap when Verlaine indicates that he has no intention of sending Rimbaud's early writings to the sister for their destruction.  I'm not being a spoiler when I tell you he found God on his deathbed. Here's something else ...... the ferociousness of Verlaine's attacks on his wife and Rimbaud's attacks on Verlaine are quite shocking; indicating a hidden presumption that brilliant sensitive poets don't hurt other people, physically. This movie will disembarrass you of that prejudice.  Verlaine is both a pitiful fellow (almost the Salieri to Rimbaud's Mozart) and a despicable husband/father.    Reading of Thomas Chatterton's suicide many years earlier, I understand that Rimbaud was quite admiring of his genius.  It seems that the tormented writer was more acceptable for society in Rimbaud's time than in Chatterton's.Yet one leaves this movie with no greater understanding of the Rimbaud genius than one had to begin with.  It is quite obvious that the obsession to write drives these people beyond everything else. I envy them that.  I wish we had actually HEARD some of their verse.     Leonard DiCaprio certainly shows some acting skill I never knew he had in either 'Titanic' or 'Romeo and Juliet'.  While you read of Michael Caine's tormented approach to having to kiss Christopher Reeves in 'DeathTrap', you heard nothing of that from Thewliss or DiCaprio.Is the absence of anything about Verlaine in the Encyclopedia Brittanica indicative of Verlaine's worthlessness or the EB's paucity? "},{"Title":"Leo is STILL a good actor!!","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Leonardo Dicaprio's performance is outstanding in this movie.  Just because his role in Titanic did not give him a chance to really show his true acting genius, you can still see that it is there!!  Total Eclipse is a VERY well acted movie (espeacially on Leo's part) but the plot and subject matter is VERY questionable because the main characters are SO mean to each other and other people as well!! "},{"Title":"Total Eclipse","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" On the surface, one would think that Total Eclipse would work as a film. A young and very gifted poet Arthur Rimbaud (played by Leonardo Di Caprio who looks the part, but cannot quite play it) is invited to Paris by Verlaine (Thewlis) and they become lovers and work together on some of the most revolutionary verse the literary world has ever known. Yet the problem with Total Eclipse, from acclaimed Polish film-maker Agniezka Holland, was that its focus was all wrong. What makes Arthur Rimbaud and Verlaine fascinating is not their personalities, but the fact that they were troubled geniuses. If the focus was on genius and how it works, then the film may have worked. But instead all we see are Rimbaud and Verlaine searching for news ways of being cruel to each other and to others. This unpleasantly sadistic dynamic sometimes leads to some of the most lively and inspired scenes, such as when Verlaine ditches his wife and her mother at the train car and escapes with Arthur Rimbaud. But more often than not Rimbaud and Verlaine come across as so unpleasant, so vulgar, so mean-spirited, and so dull that they give us no reason to care about them or find them compelling or interesting. Moreover, since the victims of their malice are usually good people, it becomes even harder to like either of the main characters or to understand why they behave in the way they do. I kept asking myself, when I saw this film, What was the point of it all? What was the method to this meanness or madness or whatever.Now possibly the justification for this is Rimbaud's philosophy of living life to the fullest. But is watching Rimbaud living life to the fullest interesting, when you see him stab Verlaine in the palm of his hand? Do you really want to see Verlaine beat his pregnant wife or set her hair on fire for no good reason? Do you really want to listen to this inane dialogue? Do you really want to watch Di Caprio's pointless belching which was probably put their for shock effect, but is more annoying than anything else? Do you really want to see a long list of sadistic acts which grow tiresome and repetitive as the film wears on? My answer would be no, because unless there is some logic for why these things are done, then the film is little more than a boring and unpleasant mess. For the record, I do like certain films with sadistic violence. Luchino Visconti's The Damned was one and Stanley Kubrick's Clockwork Orange was another, but these film were done with a sense of style and sophistication. If Total Eclipse ever had a sense of style or sophistication, it remained largely hidden from me for most of this picture. "},{"Title":"Needed more exposure to the poetry","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I knew very little about Rimbaud and Verlaine. I looked them up cursorily after hearing a reference to them in a Bob Dylan song. So I knew then that they were homosexual French poets. I think that Dylan's mention had more to do with tempestuousness in relationships than gayness. This film had nice production values, good photography, pretty good acting performances, nice period costumes, etc. I was unfamiliar with the cast, aside from DiCaprio. The film seemed to focus on Verlaine's and Rimabaud's outrageous and unacceptable behavior. I wonder if it could have been better if there had been more exposure to the poetry, because one gets little sense of their talent. Perhaps it doesn't translate well into English. But the huge turnoff was the gay kissing and sex scenes. Way too icky for a normal person. "},{"Title":"A Crazy Romance","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Young, wild poet Arthur Rimbaud (Leonardo DiCaprio) and his mentor Paul Verlaine (David Thewlis) engage in a fierce, forbidden romance while feeling the effects of a hellish artistic lifestyle.Whether the main characters in this film are homosexual, bisexual or something else does not matter. That is part of the beauty of the way the subject matter is approached we are not to think of these two as anything other than two passionate, and sometimes crazy, lovers... what the courts thought of them is beside the point.And it is a great story. I concede I know nothing of Rimbaud or Verlaine. I believe they were the subject of the German film Michael, though I may be mistaken (and even then the names were changed). But it seems it is not important to even know them... this is what it is like to be in a passionate and destructive relationship. Is it beautiful or terrifying? Certainly it helps produce great art, but at what cost? "},{"Title":"Absolutely the best tragic film ever!","Date":"7 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Forget Titanic for a moment, Leonardo Dicaprio was absolutely amazing at playing as the exuberant and crazy poet Arthur Rimbaud! He just did the job so well that I just couldn't believe this film didn't get a Golden Globe?!It was very sad, like I did cry a few times when his character died and of course had angry outbursts to Paul Verlaine aka David Thewlis. He was absolutely great too as an actor! I say the real poets would be very proud of the actors for doing a love story about them in a film more like! I think this film is the best sadist film I've ever came across! "},{"Title":"The most Brilliant film ever!","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Total Eclipse really is the best film I have ever seen. Leonardo DiCaprio is brilliant, 13 years have past since it's release and he still has to top his performance in this film. I was familiar with the Rimbaud-Veraline story before seeing the film and I personally fin Arthur Rimbaud one of the best poets ever. He is brilliant and this biopic is too. Great acting, a marvel of a film, great scenic locations and that soundtrack!!! I loved it, the music is wonderful, I thought it was a breathtaking film, I really did love it. The storyline, the characters, the subject matter, the actors, the music, the locations, the whole film! it truly is a masterpiece. I encourage anyone who likes dramas and biopics because this is one of the best biopics. Arthur Rimbaud himself would be proud with the efforts of the cast and crew because they bring his life story to life again, for our generation and to be honest, they do him proud. "}{"Title":"Fascinating effort, fails at last","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I revised my evaluation of this movie after almost five years of watching at least once every 8-10 months. I am deep lover of Rimbaud's poetry and of his character as a whole as a matter of fact. When I watched it the first time I probably had the typical gay teenagers' fascination towards the relationship that is depicted and the great performance by Di Caprio in interpreting probably the most difficult role he will ever interpret. The storytelling, direction and everything around it is so poor is almost embarrassing and the only reason this movie is getting a mere 6 (it should have gotten far worse) is the outstanding performance from Di Caprio that manages to link himself permanently to Rimbaud's figure. Everything should have been much more developed, the movie feels almost like the script was left at the first draft and never revised it. Hopefully someone else will try in the path of making some good movie Rimbaud-centred and hopefully someone will be as good as Di Caprio was in portraying him. "},{"Title":"Total Insanity","Date":"15 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Arthur is a cocky teen who's in-your-face poetry has caught the eye of Paul, a traditional French poet. When Arthur is invited to Paul's home to meet his family, they are shocked at the belching, thieving, insulting, insanity that is Arthur Rimbaud. However, Paul is enlivened by him and puts him up. Arthur shows no gratitude and makes a public spectacle by climbing to the roof stark naked and throwing his clothing into the street. Oddly, Paul is enchanted with Arthur's wild and unpredictable nature. They begin an oddly matched homosexual relationship over flowing with absinthe, violence, obscenity and even more insanity. They travel, urinate on other poet's works, eat hay from fields, beat each other, hate each other, love each other and eventually someone is shot. The movie is choppy, understandably jumping from scene to scene as the film is based on letters they exchanged. It's a bit hard to follow and a bumpy ride, and definitely a movie you'll love to hate. "},{"Title":"Better film then Titanic","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I find it a great film. One of Di Caprio's best!! Far more better then Titanic! The story of Verlaine and Rimbaud is told very nice  and in this film you feel the impossible-love they have for eachother. Great acting work. With some moments of not-understanding. but never dull! "},{"Title":"Total Eclipse with Leo is one of the best LOVE stories !!!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Total Eclipse with Leo is one of the best LOVE stories I have ever seen !!! One of the great episodes is that when Paul Verlaine is sailing away, and Arthur ( Leo ) cries aloud with request for returning. Also, the final episode makes anyone feel like crying. "},{"Title":"Somebody let some light in here","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Regarding a previous poster's comments - I'd heard it was the people connected with TITANIC who tried to get this film's video release pulled, not DiCaprio himself. I almost wish they'd succeeded. This story never adds up to anything for me - it's interesting, but in a distant, scholarly way. Now I must admit I was forced to leave to catch a bus just before the rectal exam (rats!) but I did see most of the movie and I felt very little watching it...not even during its sex scenes, because the actors had so little chemistry. It's too bad, considering all the talented people involved. "},{"Title":"A very adult themed movie","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is for SURE the kind of movie that most people would most likely NOT want to rent unless it is to see Leonardo DiCaprio's naked body. However,Leo's performance along with the other people in this movie was EXCELLENT!! The movie itself (such as in the plot and subject matter) lacks though.  The movie is not necessarly bad , it is just vulga r(at least in my opinion).  The movie is hard to watch because the two main characters are very insane vulgar, and cruel to each other and others. "},{"Title":"See this film with an open mind; but be prepared to dislike it...","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not an easy film to watch.While not one of Leonardo DiCaprio's first films, his acting in it is, at times, questionable.There are some truly brilliant scenes; but the character of Rimbaud is so unlikeable that it is difficult to enjoy much of this film.He is cruel, unfeeling, selfish, heartless and spoiled.Why Verlaine would ever give up everything for him is unimaginable.The supporting actors are great -- they are all strong actors and do a remarkable job.The photography and costumes are incredible.Mr. DiCaprio made Basketball Diaries the same year as this film -- he plays a gay character in that film as well.  Basketball Diaries is also a very challenging film -- but for some reason you feel more empathy for that character and his frailties (which in many ways were even more destructive than Rimbaud's) than you ever could for DiCaprio's Rimbaud.The only really saving grace of this film is that it made me want to read about Rimbaud -- just to see how much of what transpired on screen is actually factual.It also makes me want to read more of Rimbaud's poetry; I want to see if what he wrote is as threatening today as it was in the time he lived.So, on that level, the film achieved its purpose. "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I caught this movie late at night on HBO because I couldn't quite sleep. Didn't help much in that regard because it made me laugh out loud at the bad parts -- which it seemed to be made of.A boyish, babyfat Leo DiCaprio was just the start. His leap from this to 'Titanic' is more than epic. I was hoping to see something insightful about Rimbaud, the real-life poet DiCaprio played, who influenced Bob Dylan among others. but I'm not even sure there was a phrase of his poetry in the script. He writes furiously and produces plenty of pages of something that he shows to his mother. After reading intently for a few agonizing minutes, she says, What does it mean? My sentiments, exactly.A great example where reading the book would be the right choice. "},{"Title":"ugly, but worth seeing","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" In this very grim portrayal of the love affair between 19th century French poets Arthur Rimbaud (Leonardo DiCaprio) and Paul Verlaine (David Thewlis), we see how they in fact had a mutually destructive relationship. The movie really makes you feel like you're rubbing your face against sandpaper. You're not sure whether you want to sympathize with Rimbaud or find him unpleasant, but Verlaine is a real creep, often abusing his wife.Overall, this isn't a great movie, but worth seeing. If nothing else, it's a look at a certain part of literary history, but also of the most despicable kind of relationship possible. So if you do plan to see it, just be forewarned that it will probably make your stomach turn. "},{"Title":"Leo is the problem","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If this movie is going to work, the viewer much have some interest or regard for one or the other of the main characters. It's a stretch but I can buy David Thewlis if I have to. His is not a likeable character, but if we were mesmerized by the same light he was, we might have some sympathy for him. But no. Leonardo is no light. He is just not it, never could be, by no stretch, can't buy it, ever. It's like Keanu Reeves in Much Ado About Nothing. That is the main thing wrong with this movie. All the other problems would fade if you had the right guy playing Rimbaud and it might even be a pretty good movie, in a way. As it is, it's just annoying people doing annoying things.  "}{"Title":"A tame depiction of love, sex, violence and poetry","Date":"3 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A film that fails to live up to the provocative brazen confidence of the lives it depicts. DiCaprio manages to capture the arrogance of Rimbaud, but he has no opportunity to slide his youthful body into the intensity of Rimbaud's raw genius. Instead the filmmakers fetishise DiCaprio's body and his precocious pretense. They filmmakers suggest that Rimbaud has no care for love, sex or violence, taking them or leaving them with little thought, but they shy away from any sensuality or depth in their depiction of these perversely human tendencies. 150 years after the events they are depicting, the filmmakers, scandalised as they are with the bent of their material, are somewhat embarrassed about diving into the implications either visually or emotionally. Nothing is explained, the legend is barely depicted. This film is no excuse for other filmmakers to not deal with the material themselves. "},{"Title":"Total malarchy!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Many years ago I read Day on Fire by James Ramsey Ullman and became fascinated with Rimbaud.  Four year of high school and college French enabled me to read his writings in French.  This movie doesn't come close to expressing the passion that Rimbaud put into his poetry.  And Dicaprio is no Rimbaud-- his so called acting doesn't do justice to the Rimbaud I studied intensely.The actor who portrayed Verlaine is closer in temperament to the character-- but altogether this movie is a slanted look at the tempestuous affair between two noted poets.  C-  "},{"Title":"The film doesn't do justice to these two great French poets","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found out about the movie Total Eclipse by chance and I was immediately captivated by its subject. On the first occasion that it was showed on TV, I recorded it. Meanwhile, I have also checked the commentaries of other people on this site and they all sounded very intriguing indeed. I have to admit that the beginning of the film was rather promising and I was expecting an interesting, mind challenging experience. However, after less than 30 minutes I was already totally appalled by the way the two main characters were presented. I was prepared to watch all kind of unusual behavior generally associated with artists, but this movie made a point in showing us how awful both main characters were. I can hardly accept that being an artist justifies such despicable conduct towards everybody around, be them wives, friends or fellow poets. Taking into consideration that the movie was about two of the greatest French poets, I was somehow looking forward to enjoying their great minds and spirit, and not just learn about their destructive love affair that seemed to be the main issue of the script. The main issue, so be it, but why the only one! Very depressing and very boring after all! At the end my general feeling was that I wasted almost two hours watching a movie that had very little to say about two great artists, besides their madness and eccentricity and I felt so embarrassed for them. To be fair, I would add that the film had its good moments and the acting was very impressive indeed. But still, what a miss! "},{"Title":"Wake me when it ends...","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Leonardo gives the performance of homophobic homosexual.  The love scenes were stomach churning and painful. Half the time you wonder if he was bucking a bull. His character doesn't even touch the point of genius, just that of an egotistical brat. The movie was dark and boring. The characters were hideously filthy and insulting, dirty and selfish and should have bloody drowned in the sea they were so desperately hunting in their mad frenzied expedition. Sure, genius does touch insanity.  But such intellectualism should not bestow poignant stupidity.  "},{"Title":"OK movie, weird to see Leonardo DiCaprio as a homosexual","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This story takes place in the 19th century where two French male poets, Verlaine and Rimbaud, start a taboo like love affair.Verlaine is recently married and Rimbaud is much younger and still single. They're both very passionate and talented, and the heated love affair between them soon creates a lot of trouble.The first thing that came to my mind was that it was extremely weird watching DiCaprio acting as a homosexual and even weirder watching him making a homosexual love scene. It must've taken a lot of bravery from DiCaprio playing a part like this one.The movie was just OK but not something I would want to watch once more. The greatest thing about this movie was of course Leonardo DiCaprio. "},{"Title":"Too much production value -  too little imagination","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Few biopics of great artists have ever worked. This one was perhaps doomed from the start - dealing as it so valiant tries with one of the great enigmas of French poetry, Arthur Rimbaud. I suppose the director deserves credit for even attempting the impossible. She deserved far far better than Leo DiCaprio as Arthur Rimbaud. It would be kind to say he was miscast. He wasn't. He simply cannot act.Everyone else in the cast is excellent - even David Thewlis as Paul Verlaine. Romaine Bohringer is beyond reproach (especially in her nude scenes) as Verlaine's long-suffering wife (weren't they all long-suffering?).Rimbaud remains a total mystery, quite particularly because of this sad film. "},{"Title":"This is all about the casting","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" You can talk about the history, the biographical truth and fiction of the characters, and the homosexuality... but this is really a misfire because of the casting. DeCaprio is too Modern American to pull this off, no matter how willing he is to go the distance with such an unsavory part. Thewlis is too English an actor, with a mug that seems lifted straight out of the Swinging London films from the mod 60's. Neither actor exudes anything remotely French or last century. And the previous commentators seem to be obsessed with the homosexual love scenes but are unwilling to give notice to the straight and quite hearty love scene between Thewlis and Romane Bohringer. Not to appear a drooling pervert, but Bohringer's eye-popping figure is not a force that should be ignored. If no one else here will honor it, I surely will. "},{"Title":"A Big NO NO!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The only reason why I watched this in the first place was because I am a big Leonardo DiCaprio fan, but after I watched it once, I felt incredibly SICK! I don't recommend this at all, Leo gives a good performance but David Thewlis gives an uneven performance and the two of them together is a big mis-cast! NOOOOOOOO! "},{"Title":"Good heavens! What did I just see?","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A monumental piece of crap.Yes, my curiosity for Leo made me rent this one. Next time I'll have someone to remind me how curiosity killed the cat. Bad acting from Di Caprio and Thewlis; boring pointless plot. Leonardo was way over the top, in his effort to portray Arthur Rimbaud as obnoxious yet brilliant, he fails miserably (we're just left with the obnoxious and annoying part of the character). And what about those accents!! And the final part!!! No one in their right mind would ever take these guys for Les Poètes Maudits. Nothing memorable to see here. Go rent Seven Years in Tibet, where David Thewlis performance is much better. "},{"Title":"Thank God River Phoenix didn't star in this offal","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was interested in Rimbaud until I watched this pretentious, smutty film. I wish I had never seen it (and it has been a few years since I had the misfortune to rent it.) It left a really bad impression.This film ruined Leonardo DiCaprio films for me. Really. I have no issue with gays. I do take issue with low-life cruelty for cruelties sake, which this film specializes in. If Rimbaud was really like this film portrays, he deserves to be forgotten.I am putting in my two-cents worth because I just read that Rimbaud would have been played by River Phoenix, had he lived. I hate that Phoenix is dead, but I am grateful that he wasn't in this horrible film. John Malkovich was wise to bow out.      "}{"Title":"Vile","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is horrible.  I love Holland's Europa Europa, so I was surprised how bad this was.  I am a gay man, so the sex scenes didn't bother me.  But this movies is about two bumbling idiots.  Rimbaud was a genius some say? He may have wrote some fine poems, but after seeing what a disgusting, vile man he was I have no desire to read anything he wrote.  And the other guy, Verlaine or whatever, is nothing more than a drunken, wife-beater.  Some say this is a great love story.  Pretentious junk trying to make a vile, uninteresting story look artistic and beautiful.    "},{"Title":"Not nice people!","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The reason this film failed was the fact that both main characters are despicable.  You care about no one in the film and when the story concludes, you breathe a sigh of relief. "},{"Title":"Total Eclipse of what?","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is so pretentious, and full of its own self-importance that it's a wonder it doesn't just spontaneously combust.  Then again, that might not be such a terrible idea. Long, tedious and just plain boring it gives so-called realArt films a bad name.  Verlaine and Rimbaud are so loathsome, and unappealing that it's hard to imagine anyone being able to tolerate either of them for more than 3 minutes, much less fall in love with either one.  Talk about misery loving company!  Never in the history of film has a couple so wholeheartedly deserved each other.   The film's main selling point today would be that we get to see Leonardo diCaprio naked.  Big whoop!  We don't get to see that much, we don't get to see it for long, and what we do finally see isn't all that impressive.  The only thing that saves this film from being a total washout is that diCaprio does, in spite of the pedantic script, make you care for his despicable charcter for a few fleeting seconds.  A very few.  As a cure for insomnia, this film works but as entertainment it falls flat on its upturned nose.  Skip it, and watch Dharma and Greg instead. At least the laughs are intentional there!  This film is living proof that Leonardo didn't need the Titanic to sink "},{"Title":"Total Waste of Time","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I enjoy 'art films', and I do not mind if the protagonist(s) is/are likeable or not; there are so many examples of good and great movies where you really can't muster much sympathy for the main guy/gal.Now having said all this, it is hard to imagine a less pleasant film experience, where you do not care a wit about the two main characters.  As presented here, there is nothing remotely fascinting or compelling about either of the poets.  And, it is not homophobia (no, I don't suffer from that)that presents you from caring about these characters.  It is that Verlaine and Rimbaud, as presented here, are just selfish, vain, egotistical, twisted people, and we never see any evidence of talent, let alone genius.  There is more to genius than self-destruction, cruelty and instability.  I could watch their descent, if the film made any case whatsoever that there was a descent  that they had any morals, any great vision, anything worthwhile to say.I could not give this film any stars --just a total waste of time!  "},{"Title":"Dude, what were you thinking?","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that nobody is a bigger Leonardo fan than me, but this movie is total garbage from top to bottom.  It feels like it goes on for days, you don't understand the main relationship between the men at all, its depressing and degrading...and these are the strong points!  Even the sex scenes were boring. Hopefully Leonardo will not make another bomb of this magnitude ever again. "},{"Title":"A line that makes no sense at all.","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS There is a line in this movie that me and my dad almost died laughing to because it made no sense at all. THE ONLY UNBARRIBLE THING IS THAT NOTHING IS UNBARRIBLE I wonder how they ever came up with a line like that. Me and my dad have made jokes about other ways to say that line. Here are some of them.The only thing i cant stand is that i can stand everything.Everything is bearable except for the fact that everything is bearable.Everything is bearable except for the barribility of everything.The only thing i cant stand is the fact that nothing is unbearable.The only thing i cant stand is that everything is bearable. "},{"Title":"Who Was Foolish Enough To Bankroll This Movie?","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Almost all the movie critics who reviewed the film Total Eclipse (1995) viciously attacked it.  One critic simply said that this is a `very bad movie.'  I do not call this movie very bad; however, I sincerely believe that the screenwriter, director and producer must have worked extra hard to make this film into something totally unappealing.  First, even though both Arthur Rimbaud and Paul Verlaine, the main characters of this film, are considered to be genius poets by many French literary critics (in fact, Rimbaud's collection of poems A Season in Hell is considered to be a major achievement in French literature), the two are hardly household names in the English-speaking world.  Second, both Rimbaud and Verlaine are portrayed as thoroughly unattractive characters.  The movie portrays Rimbaud as an immature, obnoxious brat and Verlaine as a mousy but treacherous coward.  The only sympathetic character in the movie is Rimbaud's younger sister Isabelle.  Third, the `love' story-if one can call it a `love' story--between Rimbaud and Verlaine is extremely unpleasant and at times nauseating.  Now, who wants to see a movie about the nauseating `love' affair of two thoroughly unpleasant guys who you never heard of before?  I don't understand why the producer even made this movie.  Who was foolish enough to bankroll this kind of movie?    "},{"Title":"Leonardo DiCaprio worst film ever!!!!","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think that Leo looked much to old to having sex with a guy thats like 5 times his age. The sex scenes were very racy and showed a lot. Leo didn't show much. The other guy showed a lot. I wonder why he picked this role. I don't think that it did much justice to his career. He couldn't be comfortable doing those sex scenes. Leo was pretty hott though. They did a horrible job of aging him at the end.Overall i thought that it sucked. The older guy looked Sick. Leo had to be agood actor to do some of the scenes. Gays wern't around back then or at least not noticed. It wouldbe weird if that movie won any awards!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"An American JD In Paris","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" ..... or, Down and Out in Paris and London and Brussels and AbyssiniaThe Parisian social worker Paul Verlaine invites a disturbed country bumpkin with behavioural problems, Arthur Rimbaud, to the city for treatment. Verlaine's unorthodox therapy involves consuming a lot of mood-altering drink. Soon the doctor acquires all the symptoms of the patient.There are plenty of interesting films about mental disturbance The Snake Pit (1948), I Never Promised You a Rose Garden (1977), Warrendale (1967), even Girl, Interrupted (1999). Those are the good ones; this is the one with the somdomites. Verlaine slides down the same slippery slope that got Oscar Wilde.Oh, yeah, if you're interested in poetry, try Shakespeare In Love.  "}]