[{"Title":"Sweet, slow but satisfying","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Just watched this movie in TV.  Although it had a slow pace and some of the characters were not fully developed, I liked it.  Especially appealing to me, as a senior, was the locale and the truly accurate portrayal of life and times in the late 1950's.  Even the kitchen appliances and the dish ware were spot on!  I lived in a tract just like the one in the film - the San Fernando Valley urban explosion! I thought the players were all fine and the child actors were very effective. The story dragged a bit but pacing is not everything - sometimes it is good to linger a bit and be nostalgic.  This is a good movie for thoughtful teens who can appreciate the message given about  home, hope and history. "},{"Title":"A good movie for family to watch together","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this movie on TV twice. It's the first movie I've watched by Patrick Swayze. I was moved by the story and felt myself like that little Tom very much. I couldn't help crying when I saw the ending and told myself I should learn from this movie. And till then I began to understand the meaning of the movie. It's a good movie for a family to watch together. I think many people can learn from this movie that we should cherish what we already have had in hand. As the saying says, happiness lies in satisfaction.And it's not a big story, so it may not have got much attention from audience. But still I would say it's a good movie. "},{"Title":"Wish I  could see it again!","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I read one of the comments and it wasn't favorable.. but I'll venture to disagree. the movie held my interest until 230 in the am.. it made me laugh and cry and it touched my heart strings.all the little boys did a real good job acting, as did the adults. it sent many positive messages on living life and being true to yourself...and the courage to do what makes you happy.also that prayer works.... I e-mailed one of my daughters and told her she too might enjoy it.. so what if it's fantasy...it was a feel good flick and I am happy I had the chance to view it..by far beats all the horror and murder movies and give hope that the world can be turned into a better place one man/woman at a time....  "},{"Title":"If you like the sentimental, you will love Three Wishes.","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When my 5 year old and I entered the theater for this film, all I knew was that it was not R rated. To my great pleasure and surprise I found a gem of a movie I continually recommend to all my friends.After my brother and I watched it a few years ago you could have called us the blubber brothers as we both were overcome by the its generous wish for us all.  "},{"Title":"Magic will find you - if you admit it","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is better than the rating suggests. Patrick Swayze displays some tremendous acting skills as the ever blue Jack McCloud, a tramp and thorough loner. He is sincere and pervasive, as is Joseph Mazzello as Tom. The evolving relationship between the two of them is one of the three major themes of the movie. It is a relationship propelled by Tom's dear wish to have some male person around he can relate to and rely on, as his father is apparently absent. Jack, who joins the family as a stranger, develops a kind of deep and caring commitment towards the three family members. He doesn't push for it, it just happens. The second theme focuses around M.E. Mastrantonio's brilliant performance as Jeanne Holman, Tom's and Gunny's mom. Her despair mingled with hope and confidence makes her the archetype of the single parent of the Mid-50s, the era which is so superbly revived as the movie's setting. The third theme centers around Gunny, Tom's little brother, his belief in magic and fairies as well as his fears. This is the movie's underlying main theme, as the title itself suggests. The end, which makes you feel good and renews faith in what we have and ought to preserve and care for, reveals the message of the title and grants this movie an inspiring and deeply human message. Magic is out there - in everything we do and everything we dream of. It is the little things, the little signs of love and affection, of hope and endurance. Tom himself, as an adult, receives reassurance in his faith and his values by what Jack has done to his family when he was a young boy. The message is brilliant and makes this movie a solid 8/10. Be yourself, Jack advises Tom. And be happy with what you have he adds much later in the movie. Hope and love will endure against all odds, if we allow magic into our lives. The same magic we believed in as kids. It is still there. You just have to admit it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good movie!","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was up late already... But the story drew me in and as the minutes ticked by I decided this was worth it to stay up until 130 AM to see the ending even though 6 AM was going to come awfully early. This was an all-around feel-good movie... A bit of magic, a lot of courage from a single mom, a bit of baseball (and who doesn't like a bit of baseball in their movies?), a dog who might be more than a dog, and Patrick Swayze quietly helping a suburban community think outside the box. He's kindly and unfailingly honest. I'm just surprised the suburbanites didn't lynch him and stone his kind single-mom hostess after his first week there. The end had a nice wrap-around closure. Totally worth staying up for! "},{"Title":"Well acted, superbly directed and slightly flawed","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After reading nothing but negative reviews for Three Wishes all my expectations were crushed, but I watched it anyway. It was an excellent, perfectly acted (in most cases), well directed film with beautiful camera work. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio plays a single mother of two whose husband supposedly died in Korea (it takes place in the fifties). She invites a mysterious stranger who she hit with her car (causing a broken leg) to stay with them until his cast is taken off, with no idea on how he will change their lives forever.In his movies, Patrick Swayze is either good or horrendous. In this one he is both. At some points it looks like he'll get an Oscar, at others, a Golden Raspberry. The underrated Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (The Abyss, Limbo) is very good in her role, but the best performance belongs to Joseph Mazzello, who plays her oldest son, Tom. Despite being third billed, Mazzello probably has the most screen time, and should've got some kind of award for his performance (though he wasn't as good her as he was in The Cure). The other two leads were good. In his first film Seth Mumy plays Mastrantonio's youngest son, and is given very few scenes with the rest of the family, spending most of his time with Swayze's dog, who I'll go to now. The dog is completely adorable and happens to be a very good actor, even though he/she is a dog.Without revealing anything, I'll say that the ending was completely unexpected, in a bad way. It was stupid, full of holes, unnecessary and made the director look like she (I think) had run out of ideas. Michael O'Keefe plays Tom in 1995. He is so unbelievably awful, he almost bring the whole picture down with him. It would've been better if the narration had been left out. Sadly, Three Wishes was one of the box office disasters that destroyed Rysher Entertainment. (Who had my favorite logo for a production company. Bad reason)+ (GOOD THINGS) 1.) Camera work 2.) The promising cast 3.) The adorableness (is that a real word?) of the dog 4.) Joseph Mazzello's performance 5.) Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio's performance 6.) Direction 7.) The script- (BAD THINGS) 1.) The ending 2.) Flashback narrationTotal		8.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the great ones","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Certainly a mixed bag of comments on this one.  I'm definitely one of this film's boosters.  I saw it long ago on a motel tv in the middle of the night and have never forgotten it.  My memory was that it was an 80s movie; I suppose because most of the plot was set in the 50s.  When I rediscovered that it was made as late as 1995 I was quite surprised.  The fact that women directors and writers were so heavily involved with this movie explains its beautiful emotional resonance.  Even now as I write this I'm again deeply moved by the whole story and its telling.  To me it's right up there with films like It's a Wonderful Life and Miracle on 34th Street, etc.  Recently TCM has been featuring great women screen writers like Frances Marion and April Guy Blache.  I'm glad to discover that women are still and again strongly contributing to our collective screen world of emotions and feelings.  Too bad this sensitive approach seems to turn some of your reviewers strongly off.  Perhaps it's a gender thing. "},{"Title":"This movie was amazing","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I actually read a review that Siskel and Ebert gave this movie in my local newspaper. They both said this movie was horrible and gave it a few more bad reviews. Can't remember what it was, but when I saw the movie, I loved every minute of it. This movie basically shows how a simple act of kindness can bring a family closer together in times of desperation. I enjoyed how much thought went into producing such a heart-warming tale and so many times when I watch it, it makes me understand what the family goes through and sympathize with them. For people who want a movie that can truly bring a family together and show that even the most difficult things that occur in life can have a way of working out, this movie will definitely show you that. "},{"Title":"3 dreams","Date":"26 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's a great movie. Did not claim to be, but it was very well prepared and contains a very strong message and unusual. If an analysis of the film from the point of view of psychoanalysis, possibly conclude that the film shows nothing more than the desires of each family member. Just that. Are dreams that help support the reality. The role played by Swayze reminds me gunslinger Shane, a character from the magnificent film directed by George Stevens, who was the angel savior, the redeemer, the expected stranger who comes, does its job and disappears.Reconstitution of 40 and 50 is high quality and the atmosphere created in addition to the excellent performance of Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio elevates this film to a level not imagined, I believe, by their makers. Very good. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Family Film, Excellent Acting from All Actors","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love this film! I give 10/10! This film is suitable for all family members entertainment, but I think adults will love it more than kids, because of the story. There's a drama, comedy, sadness, loss, hopes, all in this film, completed sweet wonderful melodrama with a little fantasy scenes. The cinematography, the musics, and the acting of all actors are excellent, I can't forget it from my mind. Joseph Mazzello's acting is very incredible for a child actor, he made his character (Little Tom) so real with all those touching emotions. Also, Little Tom character reminds me of my childhood, that's why I love this film even more. "},{"Title":"magic","Date":"6 March 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" for message, for performance, for Patrick Swayze and for the young Joseph Mazzello. sentimental, nice, seductive. soup for soul. one of films for romantics, useful, again and again, for remind the role of miracles. and for enjoy. sure, a film for a kind of public. no surprise. but, in same measure, one of films who, without be great or unique, is a good escape from reality and comfortable way to discover the life on a different angle. a film about a meeting. and about love. about magic. and about hope. about trust. almost a fairy tale in American spirit.interesting for a form of self definition. because, like every magic, it is more than a show. "},{"Title":"Railing Against Conformity","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The film perfectly captures the conflict between the stultifying requirement for conformity in suburban small town 1950s America, and the need for personal freedom and expression. The script writing is lean and spare, and in so being avoids patronising the viewer, and it allows the cast to masterfully convey things by leaving them unsaid. Mary Elizabeth Mastroantonio is breathtaking as the quietly seething diplomat of a widow, steering her life and family through the slings and arrows of outraged neighbours, who welcomes an injured drifter, Jack (Patrick Swayze) into her home. This is a combination of period piece, family drama, and mystical tale. "},{"Title":"Annoyingly realistic fantasy !","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial (1982) made not only great money, but also great effect on the 1980s movies. Short Circuit (1986), Too Much (1987), Mac and Me (1988) are some of the frank examples. Then, Three Wishes came in 1995 as if a late and loose remake of E.T. Review carefully with me  A kid with no father, just a struggling mother. The quiet, if not dead, suburban, where nothing unusual happens. The strange, yet kind, visitor. The miracles ensue. The friendship with that alien. The refusal of the other people for that friendship and that alien. The visitor's visit ends. And there is a little bicycle chase at the end too ! Three Wishes has many good points. Director Martha Coolidge created such a pretty tender image and pace. Nearly every moment in the movie is beautifully sentimental. I loved the dreamy, rather miraculous, moments of the younger brother (with the bizarre creature, or while the flying sequence). Also, these tremendous shots for the too similar, too equal, houses of that huge suburban of a city; which portrayed the need for something different, proved that anything different would be naturally unique, and assured the difficulty of its continuation in a canned human factory like this (at one shot it sounded more like a big cemetery). And it's not perfect without leading the cast cleverly. It's where I can safely say; that no one in the movie acted in any bad way.Patrick Swayze was one of the unluckiest stars of Hollywood. I didn't understand that man's problem. He had charisma, talent, and couple of hits (the first two are enough to achieve immortality !), though at one point he unexplainably disappeared from Hollywood's map. Maybe his choices were wrong, and Hollywood didn't have mercy on him. I don't exactly know. All what I know, that we lost him long before his death out of cancer in 2009. Here, Swayze showed us why he was one of a kind, with super performance of a man wanted to be himself, even if that meant being different than all who were around him. He was deeply wounded, delicate, wise, and romantic; namely every lonely woman's dream of a drifter. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (I've always believed it's an ugly name) is one of the best actresses of her generation. She can give the right performance every time, evoking a lot of feelings inside you, with genius concentration and truthful eyes. Even Joseph Mazzello was more than fine, his tears were memorably genuine and touching.Now, cut to the no good points. Simply, I lay all the movie's faults at the script's door. It made annoyingly realistic fantasy. It truly lacks imaginary details, or &#x96; in best cases &#x96; is stingy when it comes to fantasy. If Swayze was a good ghost, then what could be his powers and miracles ? (only he has a handwriting that nobody sees ??!!). Sure his dog makes way better and more impressive ghost ! So, whether the goal was making that dog the lead character, or making Swayze the most realistic ghost ever; it weakened the movie, and betrayed its premise. Furthermore, the movie gets muddled near its end. Was she in love with he ? What did he learn out of his journey ? And the lesson of Be satisfied with what you have, whatever that is doesn't fit with the extremely happy end, where all the wishes are fulfilled (How to become content with what you have, while I give you freely all what you haven't !). And as far as this script errs, I believe that the conversations between the lead and the younger brother were the weakest. Clearly this script was too slack to write an appropriate bedtime story to be told !So that's why the movie feels boring or too long. Because all the time you're waiting for a fantasy to happen, and nothing happens. And you're waiting for the story's meanings to unfold, and nothing unfolds, at least in a way harmonizes with this story. In fact, the best moral this movie led to is the importance of individualism, especially in a society with one form for everything and everyone (so 1955 isn't chosen pointlessly). And instead of E.T., the extra-terrestrial who wants to go home, this round we have an early hippie, who doesn't want to go home, or believe in homes in the first place.Despite being a smooth piece of cinema, Three Wishes is empty for most of the time. Its tagline says If you really believe, magic will find you., well, I do believe, but the problem is that this movie doesn't have enough magic ! "},{"Title":"A very warm and watchable movie","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is not a 'major league' movie, and I don't think it was intended to be. It is a very nice and watchable feel-good movie. Patrick Swayze is excellent in the role of Jack the drifter and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is excellent in her role of a dedicated widowed mother of two. The movie is a flashback to a month in the life Tom, who is now a father of two with difficulties in his business. The flashback takes him back to year 1955, when he was about 14, and his mother took Jack the drifter into their home to heal from a leg injury she has caused. Jack develops a close relationship with Tom, but after his leg heals Jack leaves them and goes back to being a drifter. The reason for the close relationship is that Jack teaches Tom some baseball tricks, and brings Jack to coach the entire team. The coach believes that Jack is actually a Major League who left baseball after yr 1941. But this simple, unsophisticated movie has a number of Buddhist messages 'Enjoy life's every moment and count your blessings. If you try too hard you will not succeed. Everything also contains its opposite. Believe in magic.' And the blend makes a nice all-family movie. "},{"Title":"An excellent and well plotted feel-good movie","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  In your Plot Outline you state that, In an unexplained act of charity, Jeanne Holman picks up an injured, apparent tramp...  This act is thoroughly explained -- she feels responsible for his entry and is a good person in the context of the times (pre-1975).  In spite of the PG rating, this is a fine movie for the entire family.  If you've forgotten the magic of the human heart, this movie will remind you that it still exists. "},{"Title":"A great feel good-box of tissues- movie!","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The wonderful thing about this movie is that the feel of the 1950's cookie cutter lifestyle is iconic and authentic without all of the gritty realism. For a fantasy, it's fantastic in scope, well written, and well acted. The perfect movie for a box of tissues and an evening with your daughter or your girlfriends. It's a good kid-family movie as well. It immediately requires you suspend your jaded new-millennium lifestyles and your disbelief in all things magic. I caught this on tbs today and loved it. I think it's the only other movie with the boy from the Jurrassic Park franchise I've ever seen.My favorite portion was how the younger boy gets to enjoy *his* wish. "},{"Title":"Dear Friend Thank You","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It is difficult to place,the place that Jack Mcloud and Dog(Named Betty Jane) have in this film,however it will not be lost.We are to learn that the husband to and the father of two boys is reported to have been shot down while serving in the Korean War.Jeanne Holman(played by Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) and her 2 boys,Tom Holman (young Tom Holman-played by Joseph Mazzello) and GuntherGunny Holman (played by Seth Mumy)are driving in the downtown area when there is an automobile accident whereby a Hitch Hiker(Jack Mcloud)appears to have been struck.Local Law enforcement suggests that everyone go home and that this individual move along.The individual is not thought of as a honest man and is treated as a no account vagrant who may very well been laying low in some attempted insurance scam,however he does have a broken ankle and though out of site there is a cast placed on the injured ankle.The individual who was treated and released was indeed a bit down on his luck as he was residing on a park bench after a nights rest.In the account of the accident there was a dog who was unharmed and the hitch hiker.The dog somehow shows up at the home of Jeanne Holman,with a young Tom Holman credited with finding Betty Jean(The Name the hitch hiker called the dog) Jeanne Holman tells the boys that they can not keep the dog and while in route to place the dog in a dog pound Betty Jean gets loose and rejoins the hitch hiker.Jeanne Holman pursues and happens upon this individual who as suggested was resting on a park bench.Jeanne Holman provides the individual with a way out of town with this adventure not ending until somehow this individual now is a guest of the Holmans.Jeanne Holman says he can stay till he is able to walk without the cast.If there was anything that this wanderer brought with him as the days past it was having a good effect though perhaps at times bumpy(A sunbathing incident as an example).Who was this individual? It was something of a question.We are shown a Silver Star within his belongings and The Silver Star is placed between the pages of a diary,though most of the pages of this book have yet to be written,they were merely blank it was to be sure the Silver Star(5 prongs with a ribbon of blue-white-red-white-blue colors)(I personally tried to read the pages between which the Silver Star had been placed and was unable to.I increased the size of the viewing image and as well I used a Magnifying glass to look closer and could not determine what was written)It remained a mystery though even one of the parents(the coach of the little league baseball team) thought that this Jack Mcloud was an X-ballplayer from the white sox organization.Was this a planned event in time as yet to occur? Time did not forget as Jack Mcloud(played by Patrick Swayze) and Dog(Named Betty Jane) brought something back to life from the everlasting.He passed this way and provided for three wishes.A very good perhaps deeply held conviction in what would not be forgotten and in not forgetting we as well are not forgotten.This motion picture has its place but it may not be in this world that its place will reside.Its place rest in ones spirit,in ones heart,in ones soul.This is that moving a film that destiny plays apart in the ultimate determination of this films place.A honorable mention is made of an older Tom Holman played by Michael O keefe.It is,when an older Tom Holman recognizes Jack Mcloud and it is here that I stopped this film and went back.I did this more than once if only to know better.Jack Mcloud appeared not to have aged a day as time had all but stood still though for Tom Holman who was now along the way in this his life.His family,wife and children(two girls)were near by when Jack Mcloud talked again to Tom Holman.This scene takes place on hollowed ground as it is a site whereby many of our servicemen are layed to rest.I am not able to suggest that this might in fact be Arlington National Cemetery but indeed there are Flags about the gravestones of this our honored dead.Tom Holman is directed by a now ageless Jack Mcloud to take a look around and when the older Tom Holman turns back Jack Mcloud is gone.Tom Holman says as though it was all eternity that spoke Thank You-Thank You Jack.The camera pans to a previously unseen gravestone and for the first time we see the name on the gravestone of one JW Mcloud Born March 28,1919 Died Aug 6 1944.A loving tribute is(suggested) here and it will not be forgotten.There is some suggestion otherwise however there is no suggestion whereby lest we forget.I think that is the film and indeed it is a very lovely telling of this rather lovely story.The Silver Star is awarded for Gallantry In Action against an armed enemy of the United States.There is no claim made by the film makers to have told a true story though as per the roles of our honored dead with particular reference to Jack Mcloud as a recipient of the Medal of Honor no such reference seems to have existed.There is a further attempt to clarify the reference to JW Mcloud as having died during the second World War.The date of August 6, 1944 on the gravestone suggests only that allied armed forces were all over the globe with much action occurring in Italy and even in the South Pacific(Landings at Saipan was already in motion as Per the South Pacific)However there was no mention on the so honored roles of our awarded recipients to have ever provided such a privilege for one JW Mcloud.It may very well be that JW Mcloud was the name of a character whereby he as a character was provided with a life not known in this world but not lost in this world either. "},{"Title":"Good Reminder!","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This was a simple movie- easy to watch. Lots of odds and ends thrown in- bedtime with Gunny, mom's friends, etc. It was entertaining and probably worth the 2 1/2 hrs. Being a mom and a wife- it is easy to forget what Jack was trying to teach Tom. It was a good reminder! Not sure why having the little boy be sick was included in the movie. Obviously, Jack shaved or else his beard would have been much longer! So was the dog or Jack magic? Swayze did a good job- he has a calming, sincere voice. Good family movie. I'm not sure if the scenes with Gunny and bedtime might scare some smaller children. I would make sure to preview that part or at least be sitting with my children when those scenes were on, just in case that section might need to be fast forwarded through! "},{"Title":"Its a dog...no its a plane...no its a drifter who suddenly appears injured by a car?","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Although I must admit I cried several times towards the ending of this movie (probably a highly emotional day for me), I really thought there were a lot of missing pieces in it.  The most predominate I suppose is the almost total absence of the plot containing Gunny youngest son after we learn he has cancer.  The mother continues to date and socialize, even bed a drifter. The audience finds themselves wondering what happened to the young child and filling in blanks themselves.  (all the while the child is day dreaming in his bedroom? No wonder he talks to the dog since everyone else has forgotten him... "}{"Title":"Very enjoyable film","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this film today, while I had the day off work, just bumming around on the sofa when I checked the movie channels and saw that this one had just started. I thought the story line was pretty basic, and the same kind of family film idea's have been used before but this one I really enjoyed. Had a very nice ending, and the acting was pretty good. Acting was good and I agree that the boy's acting was pretty good. Very good for family viewing, might buy it on DVD for my girlfriend if I can find it on the web somewhere. I didn't find it very emotional but I can see how some people would, the film does have some sad parts, but the ending is very pleasant and rounds off a very nicely written film. "},{"Title":"Good family film with an excellent message","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This story of a young mother of two son's whose husband is missing and presumed dead in the Korean War touches your heart. Jeanne Holman (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio)hits a drifter, Jack McCloud (Patrick Swayze)with her car on the way to a picnic. Later she finds him sleeping on a bench with his leg in a cast and insists that he stay at her house until his leg is better. The two boys; Tommy (Joseph Mozzello) and Gunny (Seth Mumy) gradually come to care for Jack and Jack cares for the family.The lesson, instead of wishing for things to make you happy; wish to be happy with what you have is such an important truth in today's life but one that is difficult to remember when we all want what the neighbor has! The movie set - of brand new developments with thousands of houses exactly alike and looking very bare because trees have not had time to grow yet - is a nostalgic setting from that time in history.Patrick Swayze as Jack McCloud, is good in this part of a drifter who has stumbled into the life of Jeanne Holman right when she needed friendship, support and understanding. It seems that a lot of Swayze's characters have an elusive quality of melancholy, of an acceptance that there is something special between two people that can't be defined or captured;looked at closely; or held and kept safe like a firefly in a quart jar. Jack McCloud is one of these characters along with Jed Eckart (Red Dawn), Johnny Castle (Dirty Dancing), Sam Wheat (Ghost), Ms. Vida Boheme (To Wong Foo...), Ben Clifton (Forever Lulu /Along for the Ride), Max Lowe (City of Joy) and even Allan Quatermain (King Solomon's Mines). Swayze's character Jack Charles of Father Hood was open, brash, funny and most importantly - hopeful who learned to love his children. Donnie Darko's Jim Cunningham (Swayze) was a snake-oil salesman who under it all was really slime with real no depth of any kind being developed in that character. "},{"Title":"Bogged down by snail-like pacing... (SLIGHT SPOILER)","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"    I rented a house this summer, and the tape was left behind.  Despite knowing what kind of movie it was, I decided to watch it anyway, since I hadn't seen it.  It wasn't torturous, but let's just say it's not the kind of film you'd lose sleep over missing...   If this makes any sense, the good point is that most things are merely average.  However, the film takes an eternity to go anywhere.  Thus, rather than being charmed by its air of old-school relaxation, I found I was losing patience.  By the time Swayze sees fit to bond with the kid and offer him some life affirming homilies during a game of baseball, (I think) I was snoozing. Ah well, at least I got a free blank cassette for my trouble.  I can pretty much see why somebody wouldn't miss it! "},{"Title":"Too Much Cheese . Too Much Boredom","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  THREE WISHES revolves around the story of Jeanne a widow whose husband is believed killed during the Korean war . One day she runs down and injures derelict drifter Jack and is so guilt stricken she invites him home to look after him That`s the story set up and as you can tell it`s not the most credible premise you`ll ever see , it might have worked better if the premise led to a thriller whose subtext screams  kindness will be the death of you  but here the opposite happens as we`re hit over the head that  Kindness will be rewarded  . Obviously this movie is a fantasy This might have been bad enough but not bad enough to condemn the movie out right , but where the film falls down is something that a great number of reviewers on this page have pointed out - The director fails to bring any excitement to the pace . Watching THREE WISHES I kept thinking I was watching a sub standard Frank Capra script directed by Steven Spielberg who was having an over sentimental off day . It`s a very inoffensive movie but also a very cheesy uninvolving one too BTW if I had three wishes , I`d make everyone in the world equal , then I`d make some people more equal than others , then I`d make myself the most equal person in the whole wide world . Strangely none of the characters in this movie ever considered anything like this  "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzz!","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I picked this up at Walgreens for $4.00 *.  I was taken!  Again we have a movie with lots of talented people but, with a disappointing story.  The climax (and we're looking for the final revealing moment)or coup de grace was probably the biggest or dumbest ending to a movie. If The young son realized this wish and the mother realized her wish, why could'nt the oldest son realize his wish (I know he did'nt wish anything, and that it was wished for him)? I mean the wish should have been self evident.  And was Jack (Swayze)the White Sox pitcher or not and what was the story behind the last revelation about Jack supposed to mean?  Maybe I was sleeping (Zzzzzz)and not the movie?  Long, boring with a story not fully realized.  "},{"Title":"Dirty Dancing, now a not so dirty genie","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this for rent last summer in the video store, I used to own it when it was brand new, and I was excepting a really old-fashioned era movie. I asked my mom about it, she said it was such a very, very uplifting, great movie. I got a good idea, it could be a modern day twist on Aladdin, set in LA, and Mazzello could be an orphan, streetrat in the big city. Thought would so rock. Let's get to the movie, Jeanne Holman (Mastrantonio) is struggling to raise her two sons, Tom (Mazzello), about 11, and Gunny about 5. Gunny has cancer, and Tom sucks at baseball, and is looking for a father figure, since his father is presumed to of died in the Korean war, and Swayze's good as the vaggrant, who turns out to be a drifter, who accompanies a genie that's actually a dog, Tom's friends think he's scary and peculiar, but turns out to be kind, eccentric, and even tells stories, that tell us about his dreamy, fantasy life, I get frustrated when I can't play baseball, and lose my temper sort of easy, because I've tried for so long, and I can relate to this, it's helpful if you're struggling at something. Tom is NOT a normal kid in my opinion, despite what reviews said say he's sensitive, and serious and is an outcast looking for a family. Just like the Real Joe with emotional challenges. "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie NOT for the kids","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was billed as fun for the whole family -- NOT. It was awful. The setup/beginning of the movie has a lot of great possibilities. But it just gets stranger and stranger as the time goes on.A Family friendly movie DOES NOT include sunbathing in the nude, implied relations between mom and a drifter, cancer/deadly disease for the little brother, flying around in the sky, and losing your business and home as an adult. Depressing and weird.My 6 and 8 year old may not have picked up on some of the innuendos but from age 72 to age 6 we all hated it. "},{"Title":"One of the cheesiest movies ever made","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie made me laugh almost all the way through--which I don't think was the desired response.It's so famously bad that the people I saw it with still make references to Genie Dogs.If you like a good manipulator movie you'll enjoy this movie.  If you don't like a good manipulator movie, you enjoy this movie because you'll laugh all the way through at the silly and trite things going on that are supposed to force you to feel for these characters.  It's right up there with Xanadu on my list of dumb, sappy and yet entertainingly bad movies.Of course with Patrick Swayze, the king of Velveeta processed cheese food, in the leading role what do you expect? "}]