[{"Title":"A Misunderstood Classic","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"270 out of 331 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Calling Showgirls poorly acted or sexist completely misses the point; it's like accusing Britney Spears of not being a real musician, as though you've discovered something.Of *course* Showgirls is exploitative and demeaning to women.  Almost all Hollywood movies are demeaning to women.  Almost all of them are male-written, male-directed male fantasies. But most of them cover this fact with a thin veneer of empowerment and sensitivity, making perfunctory, surface concessions to political correctness.  It's hypocritical, dishonest and has horrible long-term effects on the psyches of young impressionable girls (and boys).  The brilliance of Showgirls is that it gathers all of the worst Hollywood masculine excess and throws it unapologetically in our faces. The movie is straight-from-the-id, primal, brutish male fantasy.  Every woman in the movie is a laughable caricature who advances, if at all, by deceiving other women and becoming a sexual object for men.  The heroine, Nomi, crosses every line, sells every shred of dignity, physically assaults her female competitors, sleeps with her boss (in the most over-the-top sex scene in cinematic history), gets her best friend raped... and at the end of the film, claims that she has gambled and won herself. This tragi-comic nod to empowerment is a slap to the face of anyone who's been paying attention.Whether Esterhauz and Verhoeven intended it as such, Showgirls is at once a camp classic and a sly satire, an example of everything our culture at once wallows in and disavows.  Sure, you can react with righteous indignation, waggle your finger at the movie, and pat yourself on the back for being so enlightened.  But maybe you should take a look around, at the billboards, the commercials, the sitcoms, the movies, the music videos, your own prejudices... and think about whether you can't find a better target. "},{"Title":"Read between the lines!","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"156 out of 185 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read through a few of these reviews and the general analysis seemed to be that this movie sucks more than the lead character does in the back room of the Cheetah Club. Well, I guess if you take it at face value, it does.However, it's not meant to be taken that way (internally, with a glass of water?), and it's a shame that so many people did. Really, 'Showgirls' is a campy, funny movie. It's a riot. And it's supposed to be.Elizabeth Berkley, in the lead role, plays her part like an actress on one of those day-time soaps - which is probably exactly what Verhoeven wanted. She does everything dramatically. She sits down, dramatically; she takes off her jacket, dramatically; and if you watch closely enough you'll even see her eating fries dramatically.Gina Gershon as femme fatale/lead dancer Cristal gives the best performance of the film. She obviously is in sync with the director and has a lot of fun with the part, and if you only watch it for one reason, watch it for her. Because, in the words of L'Oreal, she's worth it. She's a great talent and it's a shame she's not recognised more widely.Would I recommend it? I don't know. It depends on your taste. If you're looking for a drama, go elsewhere. If you're looking for a quirky, funny movie, and you don't mind lots of naked ladies running around all over the place (yes, even if you're female - I am, and I liked it), go rent it. It might surprise you. "},{"Title":"i loved this piece of crap","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"156 out of 212 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nomi is a young girl who is going to Los Vegas to become a dancer. She's starts at a strip club called cheetahs, then she makes it to the Stardust chorus line. Her friend Molly, she is a costume designer for the stardust, which helped with her career path. The lead dancer at Stardust is Chistal, and Nomi trys get overthrow her to get her part.This is such a stupid movie, but that's what makes this movie such a treat. When this first came out 10 years ago, it majorly flopped. It was seen as exploitive against women and depraved. Elizabeth Berkley from saved by the bell fame used this movie as her chance to be taken as a serious actress, and she was outcast from acting. I think this movie was made just at the wrong time. It has been ten years and what social satire in '95 was, is very different now. I found this very empowering towards women. It shows just how blind men can be; that women have more power than they actually realize.Elizabeth Berkley does do a very bad job at acting, but there is this charm she has. all the over acting brought some dignity to her character. Gina Gershon as Christal plays the best bitch; very two faced. Kyle MacLachlan looks like he stumbled off the set of Blue velvet, but brought some of Denis hoppers sleaze along with him.Paul Verhoeven directed this bag of sleaze, but like a lot of his movies, there is this mood of depression; showing life at its worse, where it cant get any worse. If you've seen Total Recall, RoboCop and Starship Troopers you'll notice this running theme of his.this does have a bit of a slow burn to it. a lot of the back stabbing doesn't happen till about the hour and half point, but its a great cynical satire till then. there's so many clichés in here, but you kinda don't think about them as most of the time your wondering if you just saw what you just SAW. And the one liners are just awesome.This may not be a master piece, its far from it. but this show just how great some bad tasting movies can be the most pleasurable experience. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as all that","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"120 out of 164 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought this film was not bad actually, and saw it as a voyage though bitchy sleazy Las Vegas showlife. Everyone goes on about the wildly exaggerated sex by the leading girl, but might that not be her style as a wannabe Vegas showqueen.I think compared to a lot of films that come out that deserve a one star rating this doesn't deserve one, I found it watchable and I think there's been a kind of herd effect to say it's trash. It's just *about* trash.So right on Tarantino for coming out alone in praising it I say. "},{"Title":"A really fun movie...despite what the critics say!","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"127 out of 186 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  People love to trash this movie for some reason. Sure, it has its cheesy moments and maybe there is some over-acting on the part of a couple of the actresses, but still, this movie has some really fun scenes.  You just can't take this movie too seriously and still enjoy it.  Watch it as if it is a raunchy comedy and you won't be disappointed. I think it is hypocritical that the same country that made the movie Basic Instinct a hit would trash this one. I just feel sorry for Elizabeth Berkley since this movie probably ruined her career. Still, I think we should all give her another chance. She's worth it. Don't all our Saved By the Bell loyalties mean anything? I want to close by saying that I am proud to own this movie in my personal video collection. It is a cult classic in the making!!! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made of It's Genre!","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"83 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The seedy under belly of Las Vegas? Nude lap dancing? A tough old broad with a heart of gold and the mouth of a sewer? A ruthless climb to the top? Kicking a fuax Michael Bolten's azz in thigh highs? This movie has it all and then some! Showgirls is one of the funniest comedies ever made. OK, so it was supposed to be an erotic drama but forget that and sit back and laugh your way through the very best of the worst movies ever made.There wasn't a thing that did not go wrong with this film. The script reads like it was created via the Hollywood processor. Feed in one part 'Flashdance', another 'Basic Instinct' and with more than a with a tiny dose of the great 'All About Eve', and then stir with a few characters lifted from a 'Mannix' rerun the Cheetah club operator (who reads like he came from pimp school 101) the chubby foul-mouthed MC with a heart of gold, and best friend who will have to suffer and ladies and gentleman, we are ready to shoot! And what about the cast? Madonna, in one of the few wise film choices she made, turned down the role of the leading lady of Las Vegas and Gina Gershon stepped in. Drew Barrymore said no thanks to the role of Nomi, the ambitious dancer who was ready to claw her way to the top, and after they hit up every B, C and D list of actresses they ended up casting Elizabeth Berkley. Who, up to then, was best known for her sweetie pie role on the tween comedy Saved By the Bell.' Director Paul Verhoven and screenwriter Joe Esterhaus re-team coming of the world wide smash hit 'Basic Instinct' and most likely had virtual carte blanche, no one to say no. They made gazillions for the investors of Basic and were at the pinnacle of their power.A lousy script, incredibly poor casting choices and direction and big glitzy production numbers and the recipe for a disaster of legendary proportions was the result.Sit back, have a glass of champagne, get ready to toss your fries and sit back and enjoy. You will be able to tell all your friends you saw it long before the Broadway musical all drag version was all the rage! "},{"Title":"Enthralling, and not bad at all","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"89 out of 133 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm glad I didn't turn this off 20 minutes in, thinking that it was basically what I'd heard and expected. Despite all the early embarrassing missteps and clunky lines delivered by Ms Berkeley, the film actually grew into an experience that I didn't want to turn off. It's ten times as good as Striptease.It's not Citizen Kane, but it's not a soft-core porn version of Rock Star (awful film) either. Most of the characters were well-developed and believable, even it the situations were not. And there's plenty of humor, the vast majority of it intentional. I'm wondering if most of the heavy derision of the film comes from Puritanical attitudes, rather than from an honest evaluation. If unromanticized sex and heavy nudity -- literally, in the case of one character -- make you (or your viewing companions) uncomfortable, Showgirls probably not for you. I enjoyed it and would watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Beyond the Valley of the Showgirls","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"48 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Every once in a while, a film comes along that strikes a chord with audiences in such a way that they react strongly; sometimes, because of this, the film can become a hit. The opposite can happen as well. Showgirls drew some venomous reviews from both critics and audiences, and it quickly gained a reputation as a bad movie--it became a buzzword and a joke immediately. An entire generation of filmgoers who were too young to see Showgirls (or else uninterested in it) were instructed that it was a bad movie when it was mentioned as such in the all-ages trailer for the big hit Scream 2. More recently, people like Tarantino and a few respected film critics began to admit that they loved the film, and while it's never going to gain acceptance as a serious film, at least people are able to see Showgirls for what it is instead an opinion based on legend.Yes, Showgirls is trashy and absurd, but we do enjoy those kinds of films. Are we saying that it's wrong to make them? I think the main problem with Showgirls is that it's a great looking, big budget film that is a pastiche at heart. Whatever people were expecting at the time of its release, they were definitely not expecting a new Beyond the Vally of the Dolls (which, like Showgirls, got the strongest possible rating at the time of its release). Also similar to Russ Meyer, Verhoeven takes Joe Esztherhas's crazy script and directs his actors to be straight faced at all times, saying these lines as if they mean it. Just like in 1970, this defied the expectations of the audience, and it got the movie panned. Whatever Paul Verhoeven intended with this film, it's hard to imagine that this happened accidentally, and even the people who claim to like Showgirls because it's so bad are missing the point just a little. I think the bizarre qualities of the film are mostly intentional, and it doesn't stray too far in style from successful films Verhoeven made before this, mostly Basic Instinct. In fact, it seems to me that the only true bungling has been MGM's marketing. Even now, as they reap the benefits of it being a cult classic that has sold extremely well on home video, their idea of how to round out the DVD edition is to get somebody totally uninvolved with the film to deliver a sometimes amusing but otherwise unnecessary commentary about the obvious instead of paying Elizabeth Berkley a couple thousand dollars to offer her own commentary on the film, which would have been a couple thousand times better.Eszterhas writes trashy movies intended to be a good time, and Showgirls is certainly that. But I can't imagine Verhoeven thinking that this movie would connect with audiences on a large scale basis; the trailers implied that Showgirls would be similar to Basic Instinct, which it is not. Maybe if this movie had come later, after another failed attempt to recreate Basic Instinct, people might have accepted it as its own type of film. The dialog is way over the top, and how utterly boring would the movie have been otherwise? Other parts of the film are marvelously conceived, and Verhoeven keeps the film in motion at all times. The only thing that truly spoils the fun is a violent rape scene, although it does fit with the reptilian tone of the movie, full of victims and victimizers; it is the one thing that grounds the film in the real world with real violence. It may not have been intentional, but it presents an interesting concept if the rape had happened to any other character, it would not have been the same. Because it happens to the film's only sympathetic character, it carries a great impact. The cinematography is flawless, and the sets are always interesting and sometimes funny (like the bizarre stage numbers). Pay attention to the soundtrack as well, Verhoeven has an excellent collection of songs, many of them written specifically for the film.Watching Elizabeth Berkley's career self-destruct on camera is one of the film's most morbidly fascinating pleasures. I beg to differ with people who call her performance bad; what actress could have played this part and made it anything other than what Berkley did? The truth is, she worked wonders with a character that was impossible to play. Her dancing is both ridiculous and a marvel. How she can bend herself into those positions and hit those marks, not to mention her famous lap dance gyrations, must be seen to be believed. Gina Gershon is great too, a leering predator who manages to be both vulnerable and invincible at the same time, and only because she seems to be the only actor in the troupe that's in on the joke. Kyle McLachlan is skeezy, with a haircut and a smile that make him resemble the creature from the ALIEN franchise more than a human being. You expect an inner jaw to emerge from his mouth at any moment.Showgirls is ridiculous, but to me it's also multifaceted and fascinating, appealing to the cynic in all of us. It fails as an engaging story, but the film itself doesn't fail to engage the viewer at all; you can laugh at it (or with it), and it accomplishes something subversive in the way it makes you consider the filmmakers and actors involved. I think most people just say Showgirls is a bad movie because they've already been told it's a bad movie. I revisit it more often than some of the other films in my collection, and it gets more absurd, funny, gross, and sometimes even beautiful, every time I watch it. Bad movies are boring movies. Showgirls is not. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"116 out of 195 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This excellent remake of All about Eve have been extremely underrated without motives. First of all,I will say it is far more sordid in its depiction of Las Vegas showbusiness backstage than the majority led you to believe. The principal guarantee is that it is directed by Paul Verhoeven, one of the most interesting and personal filmakers nowadays, with frenzy and nerve and that mixture of sex and violence characteristic of his filmography, so there's no doubt this is one of his most personal works for the screen. His perverse look to human desire, impulses and instincts and the direct way he brings it to he screen are something really unique and make him an author rather than a mere director. Talking about Showgirls, the exciting choreographies and its connection with what is being told reveal his love and knowledge of the musical genre. In addition, the script by Eszterhas is a malicious retelling of the Cinderella's tale, manipulative, funny, filled with great dialogue and a sense for rhythm than a lot of screenwriters would like to have.Gina Gershon shines in her role, but I simply can't believe why the critics deceased Elisabeth Berkley when her performance is filled with enthusiasm and energy.  Bear all this in mind, and at least, give it a try! If you know and admire Verhoeven's work, you will sure appreciate Showgirls in its just measure. "},{"Title":"The dream factory","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"30 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You want it, you pay for it. - Club bouncer (Showgirls)Showgirls is an interesting film, though people won't appreciate it for many years to come. The problem with Paul Verhoeven is that nobody realises that he's a satirist. All his films shot outside of the Netherlands are intensely satirical and not meant to be taken at face value. With Showgirls he quotes from All about Eve and 42nd Street, tearing apart those pipe dream stories that audiences have been so conditioned to absorb.Verhoeven's real target isn't Hollywood or American crassness, but rather those morally dubious Star is Born tales. The audience isn't punished for wanting to see sex and nudity, it's punished for wanting Nomi to succeed. The film is saying that in a crass society, success is bankrupt, and by pushing the pipe dream, you merely fuel this big, ugly machine.Nomi, the star of Showgirls, isn't a character. She's a piece of wood. A piece of wood not because she can't act, but because she's a mere slab of fuel, existing solely to be burnt up and combusted by her neon lit environment. She goes from strip club, to dance club, to theatre house, exploited all the way. And she loves it.By the end of the film it's not funny that Nomi is going to make the same mistakes all over again. It's sad that despite the fact that the Myth has been revealed repeatedly, she is still seduced by it enough to try all over again. It's like those Toys they give kids at Macdonald's. The child knows the toy is total crap, but they just have to collect the other one. Why? Because it's a toy, and the child's perception is that toys are fun.Showgirls deals with this false perception. The toy is crap. It's unsatisfying, but we want it because we can't find satisfaction in what we have and in where we're at.Showgirls is also intensely symbolic. Song titles mirror Nomi's apartment numbers, each of her jobs takes her one step further into hell (which ironically is her goal), she symbolically dies and is reborn, the famous lapdance is shot to mirror the sex scene in the pool, and the film ends with Nomi battered and broken and more importantly, even more ignorant than before. Then there's her dream man (hinted at by a billboard at the start) who turns out to be a devilish rapist by the end of the film. This theme of one being punished for ones fantasies permeates the entire film and extends outward in such a way that the audience itself participates. At first we're titillated, but by the end, the sex has numbed us and we reel in disgust.In terms of style, the film is intentionally over the top. It's loud, crass and overly colourful. Nomi herself thrusts her body at us in a ridiculously pathetic manner. The director's aim is not to titillate. He wants us to pity the girl's desperation, her falsity, the tasteless stains of her makeup and desperate contortions of her body. Nomi is dumb and is always begging us to accept her. And so Verhoeven subjects us to visual and aural overload, all designed to numb our minds. We leave the film stupid, and unaroused, poetically blind and unaware of the truths it has shown us.The best satires tend to raise the most unjustified hate, and Showgirls is no different. What's different is that the nudity, sex and overall tacky bad movie aesthetic of the film, prevents it from being re-evaluated or even embraced. Future audiences, desensitized to pornography and nudity, will probably accept this film easier.There's also one really good shot in the film that reminded me of Welles. The shot occurs when Nomi sits on a park bench alongside a busy street. The bench is in the foreground, but perspective is forced in such a way that it dwarfs the Las Vegas buildings surrounding it.In terms of camera work, the film is also impeccably shot. Verhoeven's camera is precise, with some beautiful steadicam and crane shots.7.5/10- An interesting satire, intentionally camp, cartoonish and over the top. Though some scenes feel tasteless, the film as a whole surprisingly seems to get better with repeated viewings. Pay attention to one scene in which children walk innocently through a theatre, nude women all around. Moment's later a woman curses violently and the kids and their mother are shocked. Verhoeven's point is clear language, violence and exploitation are far more tasteless than any naked breast. "}{"Title":"Campy beyond the wildest dreams of drag queens!","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Along with Valley of the Dolls, Reefer Madness,  and Beyond the Valley of the Dolls, Showgirls belongs in the pantheon of bad film. But don't take that wrong.  This film is so bad, that it's fabulous.From the deer in the headlights performance of Elizabeth Berkley, to the so far over the top that you need a telescope to look down at it dialogue, this film is a camp masterpiece.  Never before have so many cliches and ridiculous scenarios been gathered in one film.The plot?  A simple girl with big dreams travels to the big city to become A STAR!  She struggles against the odds, only to achieve her BIG BREAK! She rejects it all when she realizes that fame is hollow and disallusioning. Sounds like every show biz movie every made except in this version, the big dream is to be a topless showgirl, the big break involves literally breaking the competition's leg and fame involves wearing three sets of false eyelashes and sparkles as clothing.  The movie dislikes women so much that there is no female character in the whole of it that isn't either wildly catty or completely witless. Men in this film don't fare much better, but no male is subjected to a gang rape as the lone sympathetic female character is.If I remember correctly, Joe Esterhaus was paid a ridiculous amount of money for the screenplay for this film.  As penance for creating this abomination, he should be required to wander the earth, giving money to anyone who sat through it.Nonetheless, I recommend this film as a laugh riot for the sheer lunacy of it. "},{"Title":"This is one ugly film.  It's pretty good for unintentional comedy.","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"41 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  * spoilers, nothing but spoilersIn her role of Nomi (an unlikely and symbolically heavy-handed name), Elizabeth Berkeley comes off as someone with an impulse control problem and the attention span of a puppy.  She spends most of the movie with a vacant expression on her face that gives way to unprovoked screaming fits.  Her character starts the film as a jerk who treats people badly and end the film as a jerk who treats people badly.  The plot, in fact, has no effect on her personality.  This is amazing, cuz the plot is such a lame moralistic fable to begin with.  Innocent girl (from NY City?) makes it to the big city, works her way up and finally succeeds by sinking to the depths of the people around her.  This makes her want to leave, cuz, you know, she's become everything she's ever hated or something.  The problem with this story is that Nomi STARTS OUT as an awful jerk who would push a colleague down some stairs to get ahead - she just hasn't thought of it yet.  So the story, which anyone over the age of four has seen before, is pointless.The dialogue is atrocious - it's Penthouse Letters stuff.  It's how horny old men think young women talk when they're in the bathroom.  That said, there's a lot dialogue in this movie that is unforgettable in the same way that Battlefield Earth makes variations on `I have leverage' unforgettable.Kyle MacLachlan spends the whole movie with a stupid stoner smirk plastered on his face.The sex&#133; ohmygod the sex.  The simulated sex scenes in this movie are comic gold.  At least twice that I remember Nomi mounts the MacLachlan character and does this move on him that looks kinda like a fish out of water.  Her spine&#133; it sorta whips up and down so that her torso is flipping in mid air. The hilarious part is that one of the sex scenes is in a hot tub and when Nomi does her thing, her body slaps and plops the water.  Besides being unerotic, the sex scenes go on forever.I have never, ever, before in my life, wanted women in movies to put some clothes on.  I admit it - I'm disgusting.  When the sex scene got started in Muholland Dr., the thought going through my mind was `THIS IS THE BEST MOVIE EVER!'  But Showgirls takes the juvenile male urge to stare at boobies and pummels it.  About half way through the film all I could think about the all those breasts is that support is a matter of comfort.  It just seemed merciless to depict a world where there are apparently so few bras.Anyway, that's the funny stuff.  Now for the awfulness.  Black people are nurturing.  There are two characters for Nomi to crap on, despite their best efforts to help her out.  Glenn Plummer plays a dancer who wants to help Nomi perfect her absolutely jaw-dropping dancing talent and Gina Rivera plays a sweet person who takes Nomi in when she arrives in Vegas.  When Rivera's character, Molly, first meets Nomi, Nomi is attacking Molly's car cuz her luggage was stolen and the car was nearby when she needed to hit something.  Instead of beating Nomi senseless, Molly buys her some food, offers to be her roommate and help finding a job.  And it goes on like that. Nomi is basically infantalized during scenes with Molly.  This is true of Glenn Plummer's character as well, who spends most of his screen time chastising Nomi like a parent about wasting her talent.  Of course, in the dark world of Showgirls, nice people can't exist.  Plummer's character turns out to be a guy who says that every girl is a dancer of extraordinary talent to sleep with them (but with Nomi, he really means it) and after mothering Nomi for half the movie, Molly gets gang raped cuz&#133; I dunno, victims are always asking for jerks to be nice to them and that's what she gets or something equally insightful.Everyone in the film keeps talking about how Nomi is a phenomenal dancer. I didn't see anything to justify this.  Actually, they labored the point so much that it invites scrutiny that her dancing can't live up to.  It's kinda cruel really.  What if someone made a movie with Steve Buscemi where everyone marvels at how handsome he is?  I don't think there's anything wrong with his appearance, but if you spent two hours being asked to look at him and admire his features...Anyway, this movie is bad in so many ways, but it's memorable.  It's like watching Plan 9 for the laughs, but different.  It played recently at the Midnight Mass in SF - a venue that plays camp classics like early John Waters and the Mommy Dearest.  Verhoeven and Eszthehas set out to make a naughty, dark movie.  Instead they made a crude, incompetent and disgusting film.  Showgirls is probably exactly the film they intended to make and that's why it's funny.Gina Gershon didn't stink.  "},{"Title":"Introductory speech for Showgirls screening","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls a film in which absolutely everything that could fail, fails, and fails spectacularly. From the bizarre casting down to the plasticated set design, Showgirls is constantly redefining the parameters of awfulness. Who decided that Elizabeth Berkeley, the tall, leggy, Milo Manara-esqe ingénue famous for playing Jesse Spano in Saved By the Bell, could carry a major Hollywood film, let alone one as ridiculous as Showgirls? Is LizBerk really the right choice to portray a young woman so irresistible that even though she is unfailingly rude, selfish and mean, everyone wants to bend over backwards to do nice things for? What I'd like everyone to pay attention to this time through, however, is the fact that this particular narrative only makes sense if you assume that it is taking place in an alternate universe with norms of behavior and physical laws radically different from our own. It's the sort of place where all that women talk about when they are together is their nails, their breasts and potato chips. It's the kind of world where there only two types of food burgers and fries, or brown rice and vegetables. It's the kind of world where a petulant kickaholic with rage issues immediately becomes the center of everyone's world as soon as she shows up on the scene. It's the sort of place where if you find an emaciated hooker beating up your car, and you ending up getting in a fight with her, you punch her, she vomits, runs into the street and narrowly escapes being run over by a car, then within seconds of this brush with death decides to make a pass at you, instead of calling the police, you buy this woman french fries and a large coke, and watch as she repays your kindness by saucily evading your questions and angrily throwing a french fry temper tantrum, and not only do you not tell her off, you invite her to live with you in your trailer.It's the kind of world where topless dancers in cheesy Las Vegas shows are internationally famous superstars; the kind of world where Janet Jackson and Paula Abdul would actually consider starring in a topless revue. It's the kind of world where the following exchange makes perfect sense Tony, she's all pelvic thrusts. I mean, she prowls. She's got it. I wonder how she got it. Well, she certainly didn't learn it. She learned it all right, but they don't teach it in any class.It's the kind of world where mimicking the death throes of a mackerel thrashing on the deck of a fishing boat is considered superlative sexual technique. A world in which the only unselfish person around for miles gets brutally gang-raped by her hero, a Michael Bolton impersonator and his body guards Most importantly though, it's the kind of world where we, the audience, are expected to be emotionally invested in the trials and tribulations of a knife-wielding, doggy chow-eating, bipolar crack-whore with aspirations to radically improve her life by becoming a titty dancer. "},{"Title":"Watch with a grain or two of salt at hand","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"34 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls follows the exploits (and exploits!) of Nomi (Liz Berkley) who travels to Las Vegas with a dream of becoming a show-girl (set your goals high!). She lands a job at a sleazy strip bar and eventually joins a chorus line of a casino show. She befriends the star of the show (Gina Gershon) and her boyfriend (Kyle MacLachlan) and it all ends up being a bit of a love triangle. I think the film's makers attempted to create a R rated modern musical - but the problem is that the music is cruddy, the choreography cheesy (but I love the arm-flick move) and the acting flaky. It's hard to understand the motivations of the main character - she is just so spontaneous and out-of-control - it's hard to relate to her. Also - the sex is just so trashy and unsexy - it gives Demi Moore in Striptease a run for her money in terms of film unsexyness. But - this is a movie that you need to watch with a grain of salt. Don't take it too seriously - think of it as a musical comedy... and you might have a good time. "},{"Title":"Non-Sequiter","Date":"15 November 2008","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It does not follow. That's the best way to describe this movie to anyone. I've watched it several times now; I admit, the movie is so strange that even though you know it is bad you have to go back and watch it again just because you can't believe what you just watched. That's saying something for me, a person who can only watch a movie once before needing a few months to pass before wanting to watch again.What I find so intriguing in this movie is how badly the character of Nomi (Elizabeth Berkley) interacts with people, and how, amazingly, they accept her. Not just accept her, they all love her. Nomi, a woman who reacts with violent hostility to simple questions or requests, displaying herself to be a complete sociopath. Yet, strangely, every person she snaps on sees her as something endearing or wonderful for some inexplicable reason. I just don't get it.In the beginning of the movie Nomi loses it on a total stranger, attacking the woman's car before being stopped and then vomiting for some unknown reason. The woman's response? Take her to dinner, but not before nearly kissing her in the most misplaced and misguided lesbian reaction. I would have called the cops. What next? I'll tell you. Nomi snaps again when asked a simple, harmless question by throwing the food the woman was treating her to and shouting. The woman's response? She asks Nomi to move in with her. What the hell?! Throughout the movie Nomi comes off as totally unlikable to the point that I found myself rooting against her, which is ironic seeing as how she is the protagonist of the film. To be fair, Nomi comes in a few flavors. I want to say she is bi-polar but that would leave out her middle ground the smarmy bitch flavor. I hate to use that word but it's the only way to justly describe her. You'll see. This is flavor is most often displayed when during any of her many disrespectful interactions with her employers and superiors. The cringe-worthy I was having my period excuse to her boss and her taunting of Cristal Conners (Gina Gershon) later in the film.She seems to follow some set of ill-defined and unbalanced set of morals that make no sense to anyone but her. Nomi all but whores herself out for success but draws a line at icing her nipples for some reason. Then throwing the ice at the casting director and exploding on him. Wow. Then she gets the job.With respect to Elizabeth Berkley, I don't know why so many people in this film saw her as this amazing beauty with so much talent. She is attractive, yes, but by no means the most attractive woman in the cast (even if you exclude Gina Gershon, who was gorgeous). Which leads up to an incredible, vomit-enducing scene between Nomi and Cristal about how great Nomi's breasts are. They're nothing special, in my opinion. The dialogue here.... Honestly, I can't do it justice. Nobody talks like people talk in this movie. Nobody. I want to see your ass, What do you think of your breasts?,I'm on my period. Check. This movie managed to make nude women, even those as beautiful and talented as Gina Gershon, unsexy. The dance numbers failed to entice any kind of sexual desire from me. How untalented must a filmmaker be to make a nude woman unsexy? Goddess would close in a week in real life.That just scratches the surface. There's so much about this movie that is just awful and makes little sense that I have no idea where to begin. When I have more time I hope to watch this movie and ammend my comment as I go.As awful as it is, it has more rewatchability than most movies I have ever seen. It's not because this movie is sexy, as the creators hoped, but because it is a moving demonstration of absurdity and a world that could only exist in the mind of people with no scope of social and sexual reality. It is funny, I admit, but still awful. "},{"Title":"Among the greatest so-bad-it's-good movies of all time.","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Three years removed from the success of Basic Instinct, writer Joe Esterhaz and director Paul Verhoven apparently figured that they could make lightning strike a second time by spending a lot less money on talent, a lot less time on plot subtlety, and amping up the sex content exponentially. That shadowy shot of Sharon Stone's nether-regions seems positively demure in comparison to the all-out T&A parade that unfolds in this film and netted it the first NC-17 rating applied to a mass-market movie.In a performance with all the nuance of rotting garbage, Elizabeth Berkeley snarls, grunts, glares, and all but presents her hind-quarters for mounting like the wild animal she appears to be portraying. How appropriate that her character Nomi strips at a club called Cheetah's and appears in the climactic scene in matching leopard-print bustier and skirt! Berkeley's primary wild kingdom antagonist is the sultry Gina Gershon, whose pouty lips and well-manicured nails get literal and figurative workouts throughout the film, as lesbian lip-locks vie with clawing verbal catfights for on screen time while these two appear together.As much as I loved the badness of this movie the very first time I saw it, it really gets better (or is it worse?) every time I see it. Sometimes I'm tickled by bigger questions like Why does Gina Gershon's character take so much time and effort to torture this nobody Nomi chick? to smaller questions like, Why does Nomi appear in the poster for her big Vegas show wearing what looks like an Eva Gabor wig? In so many ways, this is a movie experience that just keeps on giving. "},{"Title":"A career ending movie","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"26 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The careers of everyone involved with SHOWGIRLS are all but finished Elizabeth Berkley, Kyle MacLachlan, Gina Gershon, Robert Davi, director Paul VerHOeven and writer Joe EszterHACK's career are just about over right now. The only one I think who can still make a comeback is Gina. But even so, the stink from SHOWGIRLS will last an eternity. SHOWGIRLS is the funniest, most over the top trash/camp film ever made. The dialogue is endlessly quotable. The people who funded this turkey should have asked for their money back. It's hard to believe anyone invested $45 million for this unsexy quasi-scam of a movie. If men can be blamed for thinking with what's between their legs, SHOWGIRLS is the perfect example of this. And then some. Poor Kyle. I actually used to like him. But after watching him in this disastrous movie playing the most embarrassing character ever, I have a hard time watching Kyle in anything he's done, like BLUE VELVET or DUNE.As for those who say this is a genuine critique of the USA, get real. It's just trash through and through. If it had been a real critique of the USA, religion would have been included somewhere in the storyline. As it is, SHOWGIRLS is a totally secular (and more European) product and therefore hardly an authentic view of what makes Americans tick.So, if you're in the mood to watch something stupid, bad and unintentionally hilarious, you just have to watch SHOWGIRLS. It's classic trash. "},{"Title":"Underrated fun movie","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paul Verhoeven's Showgirls is the last great exploitation film. Sure there's T&A, but big deal, the main attraction here is watching the over-the-top characters be sleazy and screw each other over for their own general good, and for the actor's over-the-top performances, especially that of Elizabeth Berkley. The Stardust entertainment guy looks like the singer of The Undertones, I thought that was pretty cool. But seriously this film is non-stop fun, watching the actors obviously having a good time is a blast!  "},{"Title":"A movie about nothing","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This review is going to be short and sweet because there is so little to talk about as relates to this film. The entire plot of the movie can be summed up like this A hooker hitchhikes her way to Las Vegas, ruins the lives of every single person she comes into contact with, and then leaves.That is literally the entire movie. And this takes over two hours to trudge through. Nomi Malone is the most unlikeable protagonist (if you can even call her that) in cinematic history. I never thought a movie could make naked women boring, but this one did just that. Avoid this like the plague. "},{"Title":"It's so bad that it's good...not","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although this movie has great set design and dance sequences, the ONLY reason to watch this movie is Gina Gershon.  Not only did she survive this turkey, she managed to boost her career out of it!Having said that, I beg some of the previous reviewers here to please wake up.  I don't mind if you like this movie for the show, the acting, the cinematography, the nudities....but don't tell me that it is a satire or a cult film.This is not the kind of movie that is so-bad-it-is-actually-camp-fun. It is bad, it stays bad and it stinks badly.  A camp movie is one made with genuine intentions and incompetency.  This movie is made by/with seasoned professionals, greed, lots of dough & zero heart.  It had too much $/credential to be excused.Also, this is NOT a satire.  To be a satire, it has to have some intelligence.  This movie has zilch.  It pretends to have a moral while it has none.  It pretends to show how women are exploited in Las Vegas while itself is the biggest perpetrator.  If you set out to do tongue-in-cheek exploitation movies (like most b-movies and porn), be honest and I'll respect/enjoy that.  Just don't be hypocritical. "}{"Title":"Not even good if you're looking for that sort of thing.","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you like porn, don't watch it. If you like musicals with dance, don't watch it. If you like drama, don't watch it. In fact, I can't think of any reason to watch it. "},{"Title":"Great.","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Now, don't take me the wrong way when I say that I loved this film. It's truly a bad film, but it's so bad that it's great! I just can't help but like the utterly incompetent dialogue... especialy the dinner doggie-chow conversation. Writer, Joe Ezerhaus, known for his over-the-top, overly sexual, homophobic, woman-hating scripts has somehow managed to bring these abhorrent traits together in such a way as to fascinate. Clearly prejudiced towards lesbians and gays, Ezerhaus writes with a strange pen here... at once homophobic but at the same time so outrageous that it can't be taken seriously. Berkley's performance is dead-on (many panned it, but really she showed true style and wit bringing a charm to a role designed to be offensive), if not for this Naomi would have been a nasty unsympathetic character and the film really would have just sucked. So, ultimatly, no credit to Ezerhaus! The success of this film (and I'm not talking box-office) resides solely on the performances and directing. With a lesser cast and director this would have been helpless trash, but Gina Gershon, Paul Verhoeven and Elizabeth Berkley bring it to life. Great dance sequences, and cool costumes make for an enjoyable film. I could have done without the brutal rape scene though. That is the films only real downfall... but then again, blame Ezerhaus for that! "},{"Title":"518th Review Truly deserves its awful reputation and then some","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a word eeeeeew. This film will make you ashamed. Or at least it really, really should. One star is given with the word (awful) as an indicator - this film is exactly that - awful. What life itself cannot prepare you for is just how awful this is. Not only does everyone spend more time with their clothes off than on, there is a sadistically nasty streak to the whole thing - including a particularly nasty rape - that sucks all the joy and silliness out of it.I finally got around to watching it having avoided it for the best part of 20 years and now understand why that avoidance was a good thing. It is seriously one of the most utterly appalling films ever made and shows that it is possible to spend millions of dollars on nothing.I will never ever ever watch it again - it's not ironic, or cultic or anything. Just gave this reviewer chills as to how this project ever got greenlighted in the first place. I will not be watching the sequel either. A film only for desperately sad men. "},{"Title":"YES, This IS a SATIRE","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Read anything about the making of this film and you will see that it was most definitely intended to be a satire by director Verhoeven. Eszterhaus and Verhoeven had their creative parting of the ways over this film. Eszterhaus did not mean for it to be a satire, but Verhoeven saw possibility in the screenplay for parody A way to include his usual sex and violence and yet also lampoon American culture at the same time. Watch any film by Douglas Sirk (one of Verhoeven's heroes) or any of Verhoeven's previous films, especially his Dutch films, for obvious proof of this. It's what the man has been doing for his entire career. This film is truly great and will one day be properly appreciated. "},{"Title":"Greatest critique of American culture since CITIZEN KANE","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you thought this film was supposed to be sexy, you totally missed the point. Sure, it was marketed that way, but marketing people are idiots. The middle-aged men who got hot watching Sharon Stone in BASIC INSTINCT are the people this film was marketed to, but B.I. was essentially an American remake of Verhoeven's THE FOURTH MAN. It was less overt. SHOWGIRLS has nothing to do with pornography or sex. It is an extremely counter-cultural view of American society, and in its own way, somewhat moralistic. If you hated the film because it offended your sense of patriotism, fine. But to say it's a bad film is silly. Structurally, visually, and stylistically, this film has no flaws. It is incredibly well-crafted. The performances are another matter. Either you appreciate this campy type of performing or you don't. Still, it doesn't make it BAD, it's simply a stylistic choice that was maintained consistently throughtout the film by all of the performers, and at the director's request. In my opinion, people who hate this film are either aping the reviews they read, or they are reacting to their own snobbery and sexual fear. Americans have no sense of humor...then again, this film is clearly not meant to appease fans of Reader's Digest. I think it's a brave and highly intellegent work. The fact that it exists at all is pretty amazing. "},{"Title":"Put it On!  Put it On!","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You know the old story of the father who caught his son smoking cigars and locked him in the closet and made him smoke the whole box? The idea, I suppose, was that prolonged exposure to something bad will, psychologically, turn off all urges to repeat that same offense. Horse Pucky! I decried, not believing such a tale could possibly be true . . . until I saw Showgirls. I like sexy naked women as much as the next guy but after this movie was jiggled in my face for two and a half hours, I didn't want to see another naked body for about the next two years (Freud would have eaten me alive).I doubt that the movie had the same effect on Joe Esterhauz, the author from whose pen this sheepdip flowed. Not long after the movie came out, I was watching one of those making of specials and Esterhauz said that the movie was a hard-boiled expose on the empowerment of women (yeah . . . okay). The special boasted that this was a recurring theme throughout his work which includes Basic Instinct, Flashdance, Jade and Sliver. I guess that Joe and I must have different ideas about female empowerment because his idea seems to be to portray women as hookers, strippers, killers and raging lesbian predators (anything outside those four categories and they're fishfood). He apparently thinks that their best activities for empowerment are knives, lesbianism, sex for cash, violence and nasty sneers (Mr. Freud, you would have had to put overtime in on this one).In Showgirls, the women could be any one of these things. Violence is so much an afterthought to their personalities that it comes out in their speech, their clothes, their stares, their dancing and even their collegian stuffed lips. It oozes from every pore and even comes out in a scene at a fast food restaurant when the heroine furiously squirts ketchup all over her french fries. For me that scene proved a commentary on the film because, well, you know how when you squeeze a plastic ketchup bottle it makes that loud flatulent noise? You get the idea.I think Joe knows that he has a lousy script because he keeps throwing in deterrents so that we hopefully won't realize that the script is featherweight. Deterrence like nudity for example which got the film an NC-17 but should have been an NC-95 so no one would have had to sit through it. The characters reside in Vegas but the movie might as well have been staged in a nudist colony. Nearly every scene is littered with wall to wall skin, whether the scene calls for it or not. They dance naked, they sleep naked, they eat naked, they talk while they're naked. The movie is so jam packed with nakedness that the sexy parts are when the women put their clothes back on! Esterhauz turns out the be the only boob attached to this project that is not on screen.The movie follows the destiny of a walking bag of hostility named Nomi Malone (played by Elizabeth Berkley whose acting comes in two flavors Stare blankly and blink) who has killer looks and the brain of an appliance bulb. She's a leather-clad bad-chick from the wrong side of the tracks who hitches to Vegas to become a dancer. How are we to be sure that she's bad? She wears leather, carries a switchblade and cakes on enough make-up to make Tammy Faye wince.Perhaps, she figures, all that badness makes her a human shield against that cold and unfeeling landscape of bitter failure and resentment known as Las Vegas. When she gets there she finds that Vegas is, well, a cold and unfeeling landscape of bitter failure and resentment.Everyone in the movie approaches Nomi like a lion smacking it's chops. Everyone hates each other (which makes us hate them and therefore the movie) but Esterhauz explains that in this hellish world of hostility and sexual vengeance Nomi learns a lesson in morality (Really? I must have blinked).Before the sun sets on her first day in Vegas, Nomi makes a new best friend, becomes her roommate and gets a job at a strip club - and she's STILL ticked off!! The roommates situation is just an excuse for pseudo-semi-sorta-kinda halfway attempt at some lesbian shenanigans hinted at because Nomi and Molly sleep naked in the same bed. Read that again and keep in mind that they've only known each other for one day.Nomi has dreams of getting a gig with a jiggle and light show called Goddess which we are told is the hottest show in town (Yeah, maybe if it were the ONLY show in town). I can't figure why she's so eager to get a part in this thing. IT'S TERRIBLE!! It's like a bizarre tribal dance in which the dancers contort in front of feux volcanoes and do spidery things with their fingers. It's like a strange pseudo-seductive dance on Star Trek only the performers lack the decency to look humiliated.The show, like the movie is dull, real dull. So dull that you begin looking in the backgrounds for other things to look at. The sets for the show and indeed the entire movie are a hammered collection of sharp, shiny things that glitter in the background and I guess are suppose to make things look sexy. At one point, I was so bored that I began staring at those sets and imaging how the pieces could be cut up and used for Junkyard Wars.* (of four) "},{"Title":"The cinematic definition of so bad it's good...","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I adore this movie. No, really, I do. If I were rating it solely on my fondness for it, I would easily give it a 9 or a 10. On the other hand, if I were going to judge this movie solely on its merits as worthy cinema--story, acting, technical prowess--it would rate a 1 or 2 stars at best.So, what the hell, I split the difference.First, let me tell you why I hate this movie. It doesn't work as soft-core porn--the sex scenes are either disturbing, degrading, or just plain silly (or even all three at once). It doesn't work as social commentary--we already knew show business was full of back-stabbing bitches and controlling bastards, so what's new here? It certainly doesn't work as a cautionary tale, though God knows it does its best in places. Indeed, this movie is so full damn of itself it's in danger of exploding like Mr. Creosote in The Meaning of Life. Either that, or it feels ready to spontaneously condense into a microscopic black hole of sheer pretentiousness.So what does this movie work as? ENTERTAINMENT! All it takes to love this movie is to know, going in, that none of the characters are likable, you're going to be subjected to a lot of oh-my-gosh-my-golly nudity and naughtiness, and that--most importantly--none of this has any bearing on anything remotely resembling reality. Showgirls takes place in its own little universe of sheer, joyous exploitation for its own sake. And this it does admirably well.And, after all, isn't entertainment what movies are for? This is a great movie to watch with your friends. Google for a Showgirls drinking game and do tequila shots. You'll be hammered before you know it. "},{"Title":"Hideous, just hideous","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Is the only way I can describe Elizabeth Berkley's so-called acting in this film!. The acting plummets from the moment she pulls out a knife and gives her best angry face in the first two minutes, the acting gets so cheesy it makes Jedward look like a formidable act. I know I seem far too critical but seriously at times the acting gets THAT bad you start feeling awkward, about as awkward when you watch a film with your parents and a nude scene pops up. I just think that the whole film is ruined by Elizabeth's poor acting and cheesy child like mood swings and hissy fits. The dancing looks awful Elizabeth is constantly looking stiff, angry and robotic. If you're looking for a cheap B list movie and a bit of skin then this may be the film for you but be warned the painful part is having to sit through watching it. "},{"Title":"Kicking ass and wearing stilettos....But someones got to do it","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Okay, the story is an over the top approach to breach the struggling efforts of a prostitute, turned to being a stripper, who later turns into a primer dancer at the stardust hotel. There it is plain and simple. What people fail to realize is the film is made to show the depths of humanity that try to deliver fascades to you and I. Let me explain, almost everyone in the movie has an ulterior motive to try and get where they want, and who they might have to trip to get there. The film exposes the underbelly of how a Las Vegas show girl might have to quit having morals, and show her breasts to get ahead. When the film was made it was to expose where the world was, as far as dancers, in nude shows and what they had to go through. Yes, it is campy, and probably could have been made with more integrity. But what is never realized by the public is that this movie maybe overtly sexual, and no-holds bard but it is honest above all else. I would know, I am a dancer. But if you want my advice, the directors cut is rated R and is a fantastic cut of the film, the NC-17 version seems to be less of a film than a slide show in sleaze. "},{"Title":"Cinema as a pelvic thrust","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In a strange coup, Verhoeven showed up in person to receive his Razzie for Worst Director. Here's a director who openly embraces badness the same way his peers embrace critical praise, who doesn't mind to be recognized for it, but if the film can only matter to us in ironic fashion or not at all, where does that leave those of us who are genuinely fascinated by trashy but soulful Nomi.The first review at the top of the Showgirls page, asserts that The heroine Nomi, crosses every line, sells every shred of dignity, physically assaults her female competitors, sleeps with her boss (in the most over-the-top sex scene in cinematic history), gets her best friend raped... and at the end of the film, claims that she has gambled and won herself. I dunno if this is a common misconception, but it's untrue in the face of it.Instead I see a girl who fiercely tries to cling to her dignity in a business that denies it, who sleeps with the only nice man she knows (even though we know he's just another scumbag) and pushes back when she's been pushed to the edge. Her perspective is skewed, but it's not without a sense of moral purpose to it. I see in her a broken human being trying to remain whole, in this sense her character fascinates me in the same way someone like Daniel Plainview does. She's unlikeable, but the movie defies us to like her in spite of all that.The means of expression, camp or melodrama, are knowingly depraved. Even the moral lesson of empowerment in the finale, as it were, where Nomi finds herself is bitterly ironic. As she moves out in the same truck she rolled into town, the camera zeroes in on a road sign that reads Los Angeles.This is cinema as a pelvic thrust. Love it. "}{"Title":"Pointlessly Pointless!!!!","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Reviewing this film would be like reviewing one of my own bowel movements. I could easily describe its texture, color, hardness, size, or buoyancy. Additionally, my whole experience of having that BM may also have been quite relaxing and satisfying; but regardless of how glowingly I describe my BM, intrinsically it is still excrement, and nothing can change what it truly is.This whole genre of film is at its very core a big steaming pile of sh*t!!!! Anyone who is into this type of soft-core crapulence needs to quit jiping-off and try to build a real relationship based on trust, respect, and personal chemistry. Stop living in a fantasy world and grow up!!!! "},{"Title":"This wonderful film only gets better with each viewing.","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Is it a satire of bad film making?  Is it a knowing take on Showbiz sleaze ? Or was it a totally sincere project, and thus in Ed Wood territory for it's compleat terrible hilarity, as cliches pile upon cliches upon horrible acting, set amongst the gaudiest, most resplendently hideous set design in film history ? Some say it MUST be satire, as NO-ONE makes films this bad, this obviously bad, with this much money behind them, in such a garish, tacky way...and expects to be taken seriously.  Except for the man responsible for Starship Troopers, that is...Whatever it is, this thing is genius, that's all I can say.There are lots of reasons, but the one that most strikes me in the funny bone is it's depiction of strippers.  I, for one, have had to endure far, far too many Dancers who take themselves utterly seriously, for sex and for other reasons, for this to be anything other than roll-on-the-floor funny.  And that is only one small level of the humor contained herein.  If this film is self-deprecating satire, and I suspect that it is, than that is enough right there to earn it a place in MY Desert Isle Five.  If not, than that makes it even better !Just watch it with your own tongue firmly planted in cheek, and it starts to make sense...  "},{"Title":"Sleazepots","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What's really gross about 'Showgirls' isn't that it's sexist, shallow or poorly acted... that's the good part! What's gross is that this is what it's creators think is sexy. Everyone involved has immature and dirty ideas about sex which makes the whole effort juvenile. Who wants to see Nomi finger herself during her monthly? Who on the planet wants to see Kyle Maclachlan naked, bang any living thing with that stupid, stupid '80s hairdo? Would you want to see Bea Arthur having sex? That's about how little I want to see Smiley McWonderchin in anything resembling a sexual position. It's troubling with a super-high EWWW! factor to see other people try to seriously depict what they think is sexy, when the most comprehensive encyclopedia of sexy you could imagine would still not have room for what they're doing. Nomi's volatility is sexy? or she's a shrieking, combative sociopath?You know how in rock movies, nothing is ever less cool than when the cool band finally performs, and you just sit there wincing at how bad it is? This is the sex corollary. Nothing is less sexy, than people who think they're sexy (and who think they're making a sexy movie) failing at both. And frankly if you've ever seen Joe Esterhaus, you really have no interest in what he thinks is sexy. Joe's 'sexy' is your 'sleazy.' Not to knock sleazy, which can be fun, but even Joe's sleaze isn't very imaginative or arousing.You could catch a popular live show called 'Sock Puppet Showgirls' a few years ago. It was deeper and sexier than this movie, because of course, a sock has a much greater acting range than Elizabeth Berkley. "},{"Title":"Not your run-of-the-mill bad film....","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is an insult to both the viewing audience and the technical crew who worked on this unfortunate dungpile.  I say this because this is not your typical bad film.  It is full of wonderful sets, excellent costumes, and all around really slick film-making.  Unfortunately, this is all wasted effort put towards shooting what may be the worst script ever written fleshed out by truly awful performances by both Elizabeth Berkley and Kyle McLachlan.The slick film-making and obvious high-cost of this film only serve to point out that nothing can save a script this awful.  I gave film a 1, but it really deserves a negative rating since it actually used the resources and talents of people who could have been out making a decent film.Some people would have you believe this film is a satire.  That's just wishful thinking.  I don't believe for a second that the horrible, stilted dialogue and incredibly wooden performances in this movie are intentionally funny, and once the initial shock of how bad this movie actually is wears off, only anger at how much money Joe Esterhazs is paid to write this garbage will remain. "},{"Title":"Sex as warfare.","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nomi's a girl with hooker makeup and a leather jacket, and nearly everything makes her angry. You won't fall in love with her, you may not be titillated by her, but... Hey, let's be honest, your mileage may vary in general with Showgirls. But anyway, its about her trying to make it dancing in Las Vegas, and her All About Eve relationship with Gina Gershon's character. There's definitely something strange and sinister going on here that has nothing to do with titillation. The problem is, it comes across as tawdry exhibitionism. You have to look beyond the boobs and into the cold and spiky performance from lead actress Elizabeth Berkley. Its a strange one when she's not angry, she's bratty and entitled. The narrative, such as it is, buckles badly 50 minutes in under its massive lack of stakes or anything interesting happening. So I can understand the Razzies and the hatred.When I was younger, Showgirls was always a guilty pleasure for me because of the nudity. Looking at it now, I'm baffled as to why. In Showgirls, sex is almost warfare. Its an open act of aggression. The strippers are openly hostile towards the clientele the entire time, and in general have this mutually abusive relationship. There's always violent thrusting or swearing. Its actually pretty interesting, but you have to see it enough times so you're not titillated any more to get to the message, which is a pretty obvious one about the abusiveness of the sex industry that nevertheless didn't earn the film any respect. But how can you blame us when it was marketed as softcore porn. Well, a lesson for next time I guess. "},{"Title":"If you strip the movie bare you exposed how truly awful the movie is.","Date":"17 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is just bad. Not 'bad' in a good way. I knew the movie was going to be a bit naughty with a NC-17 rating, but I didn't know how dumb, the film was going to be. This movie could had been a really good social commentary movie about women who work in the sex industry of Vegas but the movie took a wrong turn, somewhere in production. Directed by Paul Verhoeven and written by Joe Eszterhas, the badly written, film plot is simple enough that a brain death idiot can get it. It's about Nomi Malone (Elizabeth Berkley) a bitchy person who treat people like crap, hiking to Las Vegas, hoping to make it as a showgirl. On the way, she get help from some odd reason by Molly Abrams (Gina Ravera). I guess, she likes the way Nomi beat up her car in rage when Nomi get her stuff stolen. Lucky for Nomi, Molly happens to be a seamstress and costume designer for the Goddess, a Stardust Casino show where Nomi hopes to work. She takes Nomi in as a roommate and set up an interview with Stardust's top showgirl dancer, Cristal Connors (Gina Gershon). For some odd reason, Cristal loves to humiliate Nomi and arranges so many auditions for the chorus line of Goddess that she got the part. Although, Cristal is bi-sexual, she treats Nomi like she's a whore. Honestly, what is it her always trying to make Nomi feel cheap. There is no reason for Cristal get her a job, knowing full well that Nomi wants to claim her mantle and become the star of her show. Its bi-polar thrill-seeker dangerous dumb. While Nomi finally secured the fame and fortune she sought by doing the offensive stuff that Cristal said, she would do Molly's life turn to the worst with Molly meeting musician, Andrew Carver (William Shockley) who rape her. Since Andrew Carver is the Stardust's high-profile celebrity client, Zack Carey (Kyle MacLachlan), theater director for the casino want Nomi to keep it quiet by giving her hash-money. Nomi is force to choose from a life of fame or exposing the scandal for her friend. Honestly, what was the point of this movie? Some characters like James Smith (Glenn Plummer) are totally pointless as he plays little part in the main story, yet, he get way too much screen time. The acting is mediocre. Not the worst, but not the best. The dialogue in this movie is the worst with its corny offensive nature and bad timing. What did I learn from this movie, black people will help you for no good reason, all men are horny perverts and everybody got AIDS. The script seem like an extreme badly-written version of 1950's All about Eve with its themes. Why would anybody pay $2 million for the script, this bad? Then why did United Artist produced on a then-sizable budget of approximately $45 million knowing full well that a NC-17 film wouldn't make lot of money? The film's amounts of graphic sex and nudity is what make most people want to watch this film. It wasn't the 1970s, where soft-core porn had to be seen in theaters. It was the 1990's, where adults could just buy or rent sexual relate VCRs movie and watch them in their house with a lot more privacy. The movie should had went straight to video. It makes no sense!!! Showgirls was the first NC-17 rated film to be given a wide release in mainstream theaters. Since it had audience restriction due to the NC-17 rating, the movie bomb bad. The movie really made Stardust look bad to the point, the whole casino went under years later. Honestly, this movie killed many careers with its unlikeable characters. Elizabeth Berkley was never a good actress even during her time in 1989's Save by the Bell, TV Show, but gees, she is really bad in this movie. Her dancing is really awful as she slow as hell to hit the steps. Nomi is perfectly willing to do what came down to live, on-stage lesbian sex, screwing her boss to get a higher position, and pushing the lead dancer down the stairs to get her job, but she won't use ice cubes to make her nipples perky. What? Nomi is always angry. It's so annoying. It was a bit shocking at the time to see Berkley strip nude, since her character in Save by the Bell, Jesse Spano was a Feminism. Lot of females were alienated by the film's misanthropic attitude not only toward its characters and subject matter, but also the general human existence. Some men hate it too, as men are made to look bad and females look bat crazy. For an exploitation satire film. Fans got what they wanted. Vulgar and crude of what Vegas is, behind the glamour. It just wasn't that funny, or fun to watch. It's not that hard to find if you really want to watch it. But if you watch it on TV Due to the film's rampant and gratuitous nudity, a censored version was created with black bras and panties digitally rendered to hide all exposed breasts and genitals. Also, several scenes were removed entirely. It's brutally cut up so watch out. It's just better to find the DVD. There is a version known as Director's R-Rated Version, but like I said before. It's just cut up too much to watch. If you going to watch it, watch the NC-17 version. The Los Angeles freeway sign at the end of the movie, was a hint at a sequel was already planning for, but was abandoned when this movie debuted. The sequel was to have Nomi going to Hollywood and take on the movie business. Anyways, it kinda happen with an unofficial spin-off 2011 sequel titled 'Penny's from Heaven', released direct-to-video. It's just as bad. Overall Showgirls had its cult followers, but what happen in Vegas, should had stay in Vegas. "},{"Title":"A first A re-review. Spoilers","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Back in November, 2000, I did a review for the infamous Showgirls, but it was written despite the fact that I had not seen the movie for several years, and until last week, I had still not seen the movie until I obtained a DVD player, with one objective being to see the NC-17 version of the film for the first time in years.I want to say that the DVD's invention is a blessing. Back in early 1996, MGM/UA decided to release two versions of Showgirls on VHS one that was the original, and the other a toned down R-Rated version. Of course, the Lacklusters and Rogers here in Canada wanted the chopped-up version, so I went to the Mom-and-Pop stores to get the REAL version. Sadly, those stores are gone, with only the huge Lacklusters and Rogers left and their toned-down versions of this film. With the advent of DVD, that kind of marketing has fallen to the wayside, and now, anyone can get the film they wanted.Believe it or not, I actually want to defend Elizabeth Berkley in this re-review. Berkley, of course, probably wouldn't amount to no more than a mediocre thespian, which is actually quite good these days. Most of the blame for her poor performance should have been hung on Joe Eszterhas. The former superstar writer gave her horrible dialogue, filled with profanity and vapid sentences. He did a poor job in developing the character of Nomi Malone. All we get are the aforementioned dialogue, plus long periods of silence. I noticed in my two+ viewings last week that Berkley has little of anything to say. While the other characters have more to offer in development and dialogue, Elizabeth is saddled with this crap. I wonder if, say, Denise Richards or others who tried for the part had won the role, would they have to deliver the same lines, or was Eszterhas so unconfident of Berkley that he overhauled his script to make it more suitable for the limited actress to handle. I guess we'll never know.Despite the NC-17 rating, the movie isn't that strong. Yes, there is a lot of nudity, but most of it is topless. Nothing more than what you'd see with Drive-In fare. Only the rape scene might be strong or the beating Nomi administers to Andrew Carver. Perhaps the sexual touching? I actually agree with Siskel & Ebert that the R-Rated Seven with Brad Pitt, Kevin Spacey, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Morgan Freeman that opened the same week as Showgirls is more worthy of a NC-17 rating due to its gruesome content.I still defend the movie as a guilty pleasure, as there are so many scenes that are memorable. One scene that made me laugh was when Nomi is exposed as the criminal she is, and Kyle McLachlan's Zack Carey asks her how much she charged johns, and after saying $50, maybe $100., he says Boy, Nomi you have such low self-esteem. You know you're a fantastic f**k. Nomi smiles at him, then spits right in his face and walks out on him. Truly hilarious, although a sad reminder of what Berkley had to work with.With the Britney-esquire dance scenes, the Las Vegas glamour, and Verhoeven's good direction; along with all the memorable scenes, it all adds up to a truly fun must-see film. Yes it's terrible, but it's the ultimate So bad it's good film. By the way, I wonder if James Smith could hook me up with some jobs when I move to Las Vegas in October for the winter, he seems to find them with regularity... "},{"Title":"I have a theory about this film...","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, actually, it concerns the three films Paul Verhoeven has made since Basic Instinct. In order, they are Showgirls, Starship Troopers, and Hollow Man. Think back to the time when Basic Instinct was released, and a sexually repressed American nation, despite the misguided and utterly stupid protests of gay activists, was acknowledging for the first time since the 1970s that sex is a natural, healthy part of life and nothing to be ashamed of. The so-called Erotic Thriller had become a new mainstream, and this is where Verhoeven's problems with the mainstream American media began.As Hollow Man quickly demonstrates, the more mainstream Paul Verhoeven's films become, the more slated they get by the critics. Which is fair enough - the less it works, too. Starship Troopers toned down the sex to almost American standards (the sex scene is still far more stimulating than anything American directors have produced), and brought the violence up to a level more palatable to American audiences. It is a well-known statistical fact outside of America that parents in the USA are more comfortable with their children seeing other human beings torture and multilate one another than they are with their children seeing a decent, healthy act that forms the basic step in how our species perpetuates itself.Critics in America attacked Starship Troopers as being facistic and shallow, when the reality is that the film was based upon the same propaganda films that were shown to young Americans in the 1940s. The critical misbalance was even more apparent with Hollow Man, Verhoeven's most mainstream film to date. Here he was, giving American audiences what they indicated they want, while lacing it with a morality play based on what happens when a man with Christianised morals loses his accountability, and the critics had the nerve to claim it had no story. I think there is something fundamentally wrong with American media in light of that.Returning to the time when Showgirls was produced, the Erotic Thriller was the newest idea from Hollywood, and Basic Instinct brought a whole different audience to the theatre - those who wanted softcore porn and weren't afraid of the fact. Unfortunately, one of the minds who was responsible for creating this whole new sub-genre, Joe Eszterhas, is quite patently a sick, misogynistic, and repressed individual. Just like the gay activists protesting Basic Instinct unfairly charged Verhoeven with homophobia, ironically. If you don't believe me, I invite you to take a look at Eszterhas' two subsequent films, Sliver and Jade, then tell me that Verhoeven is solely responsible for the misogynistic flavour of Showgirls.Of course, the difference between Showgirls and Basic Instinct is that when Basic Instinct was made, Eszterhas still had to sell his screenplays to studios, whereas he only had to say I wrote Basic Instinct when trying to shuffle his screenplays for Showgirls, Jade, and Sliver to studios. Seriously, watch those three together, they should be called the misogyny trilogy.Anyway, the whole upshot of this is that Paul Verhoeven is currently copping a very raw deal from the critics. While I wouldn't call his last two films faultless, even Showgirls deserves to have its artistic merits considered. Any film that is released in a repressive society like America and somehow manages to turn nudity into a uniform has got to have something going for it.Frankly, I hope Paul does go through with the idea he was contemplating earlier - to go back to Europe and make films without the atmosphere of retarded, repressive critics and the Motion Picture Annoyance Association breathing down his neck. Maybe back there he can make films that portray the world as it really is instead of having to sugar-coat it for Americans who don't like having the mirror held up to their Christian sexual repression. Or better still, I hope his next project once again engages Ed Neumeier's services as a screenwriter. "},{"Title":"It must have been meant as a horror film (or horrible)","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Completely bad, no redeeming qualities whatsoever.  This is the first film I ever saw that made nudity boring.  The script is ridiculous, the acting even more so, and the direction passable at best.  I won't belabor those points; if you're gonna see it anyway, you'll know what I mean.For those who think that Paul Verhoeven created a 'satire' of American culture, and then point to his past work (Basic Instinct, Total Recall) as proof, think again.  Those movies did nothing but pander to the lowest common denominator, but at least there was a basic intelligence to the approach.  All the brains done leaked out of Showgirls at the script stage.   The only people who would be impressed with Showgirls as 'satire' are the same ones who are impressed with professional wrestling as 'sport'.  Verhoeven is a passable director who insists on directing comic-book movies like Robocop (another one that somehow people view as 'satire').  He's out to grab you with either bloody violence, nudity, or both.  His formula ran out on him here.  You can't blame it all on Eszterhaus.And, oh my, is Elizabeth Berkeley a bad actress or what??  She redefines scenery-chewing in this one.  She does everything but spin her head 360 degrees and ... well, she does spew at one point.The scariest part of this movie is that there are hundreds who rated this movie a 10.  I hope they're not driving on Minnesota roads or handling my food. "},{"Title":"Joe & Paul's Masterpiece!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls is the most brilliant movie that I have ever viewed.  Shocking, entertaining, and masterfully erotic, it offers everything an NC-17 movie could ever possibly offer.  The great plot revolves around young drifter Nomi Malone and how she arrives in Vegas with dreams of becoming a showgirl.  Before long though, Nomi learns that sex and career moves are hopelessly intertwined.  Boasting rich dramatic moments and sizzling sexuality, Showgirls is an unrecognized classic of modern filmmaking.Rated NC-17 for nudity, extreme graphic sexuality, sexual violence, graphic language, drug use, and for mild gore. "}{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have never been to Las Vegas and after watching Showgirls,I have even less desire to go there. Showgirls has the pace of a video game with contrived, melodramatic events crammed into every frame. In a dressing room scene, performing Chimpanzees suddenly show up and crawl over everything.After the Monkees, there is a pointless fight between two dancers.I guess the audience is supposed to cheer for Nomi's rise in the sleazy world of Vegas dancing, but Elizabeth Berkley's Nomi is not a very interesting or sympathetic figure.Some movies are so bad that they are good. This is not one of those movies. Showgirls is just bad. "},{"Title":"How can I give one of my favorite movies a 1, you ask?","Date":"8 May 2008","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Easy, it's a mind-bogglingly awful movie. Probably the worst movie I've ever seen by a very talented director (and I have seen Bonfire of the Vanities!). Elizabeth Berkley plays a young stripper who will do just about anything short of murder to get to the top in Vegas. Well, if the top is a hopelessly tacky nudie musical extravaganza. Gina Gershon is terrific as the scheming Crystal, her main rival. Gershon is the best thing about the film and the only one seemingly aware of the sheer awfulness of the film around her; her Crystal is a broadly played Texas gal who is just about as ruthless as Berkley. It's hard to pick the worst (read most enjoyable) element of the film Berkley's manic depressive performance, her awful dancing, the deliriously over the top dialogue by Joe Sleaze Ezsterhaus, the doggie chow discussion&#133; I could go on and on. A must see for lovers of terrible cinema! "},{"Title":"***1/2","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This girl blows into town and literally pushes her way to the top of a showgirl acting in a Las Vegas nightclub. Too bad, she has a checkered past.The guys in the film are shown to be shady, seedy, disgusting men. They're out mainly for a good time, making money and that singer was nothing but a crazed lunatic. The one guy who is decent and has talent is seen not to be able to make it in the business in the end.Elizabeth Berkeley is terrific as Noni and she gets admirable support from Gina Gershon, her rival, who desperately wants a sexual relationship between the two women.The ending is so realistic. With her past and what she has done, Noni has no other choice but to leave town. "},{"Title":"A well done movie about working in a over-the-top city Las Vegas","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls it's a fun movie made for open minded people that was released it in the wrong market (The USA uptight market). Reviewers did not like it nor the viewers. Complains about Elizabeth Berkley over-the-top acting is not her fault. Showgirls' Director Paul Verhoeven explain this in his own words in a Rolling Stone interview In terms of casting the movie, one of the main concerns, next to acting, was the dancing and nudity &#x97; both of those elements being extreme. The actress would have to be able to dance. And she also had to be willing to show full-frontal throughout the film. These elements, especially the nudity, are extremely difficult for American actresses to accept. And Elizabeth Berkley was the only actress that combined all three. People have, of course, criticized her for being over-the-top in her performance. Most of that comes from me. I pushed it in that direction. Good or not good, I was the one who asked her to exaggerate everything &#x97; every move &#x97; because that was the element of style that I thought would work for the movie. "},{"Title":"Berkley needs to calm the F down","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nomi Malone (Elizabeth Berkley) hitchhikes into Las Vegas and gets her suitcase stolen. She befriends Molly Abrams (Gina Ravera) who is a seamstress backstage at the Stardust Hotel show where Cristal Connors (Gina Gershon) is the star. Nomi has a job as a stripper at the seedy Cheetah Club run by Al Torres (Robert Davi). Cristal shows up at the club and buys a lap dance with Nomi for boyfriend Zack Carey (Kyle MacLachlan). James Smith (Glenn Plummer) becomes her conscience and her teacher.It's so bad that it's good. That's a popular opinion but it's not mine. Berkley's wild over-acting is too annoying. I keep thinking that this could be good cheese if Berkley could calm down. I think people are concentrating too much on the nudity of this Paul Verhoeven Joe Eszterhas concoction. The B-movie erotica is not the big problem. It's the horrible smell of angry relentless forced cheesiness. I do like Gina Gershon's performance but there is too many annoying things about this movie. "},{"Title":"How can I put this....  I don't really know","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let's be honest, who has a clue as to what Paul Verhoeven was up to here? I think I know what Elizabeth Berkley was up to - putting to rest her Saved By The Bell goodie high school girl image (unfortunately, in so doing she also very nearly put to rest the remainder of her career). Kyle MacLachlan was, presumably, taking the paycheque and enjoying the close company of assorted unclad young ladies as he did so. Only Gina Gershon emerges with any real credit.The word for this movie is lurid - in the way that Harold Robbins' novels were lurid in the late fifties and early sixties. The difference is that the sexuality displayed in Showgirls is a lot more overt than Robbins was allowed to be at the time (although he got more explicit as time went on).Verhoeven clearly intends to be melodramatic and over the top and achieves this with a kind of perverse entertainment value, albeit enjoyment derived from beneath eyebrows raised in disbelief.Poor Miss Berkley gives it her everything as she flashes her bits and indulges in the most preposterously improbable, but beautifully photographed, simulated sex scene ever.This is a film to be treasured and shunned at the exact same time. I'm not sure that makes sense, but it may be what Mr Verhoeven intended. "},{"Title":"Bare Market","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A young woman arrives in Las Vegas with dreams of becoming a showgirl and by God she achieves her noble goal. It's the standard showbiz plot that has been around since the 1930s, with titillation added. If one accepts this as the trashy sleazefest of a soap opera that it is, it's not as bad as its reputation would suggest. Although the filmmakers reportedly approached this as a serious drama, it works best as a campy comedy, with the acting providing the unintentional laughs. Berkley boldly goes where no TV sitcom actress had gone before. While she does not have an iota of acting talent, her other...um...assets are on full display here and she brings a lot of energy to her role. "},{"Title":"So bad its good?","Date":"10 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Is this the worst movie ever made? Possibly. I mean, it's no 'Cool As Ice', but its definitely in the same ballpark. That doesn't mean its not worth watching though.Now, I've read some of the reviews on here calling the film 'brilliant' and 'misunderstood', but I really think those people are seeing something that just isn't there. This is not a 'good' movie in any sense of the word. The dialog is absolutely awful, the plot is unintentionally hilarious and the acting is sub-par. It is absolutely epic in its badness.Now, the good thing is that you get to see the prissy girl from 'Saved By The Bell' naked. And it isn't entirely without entertainment value as a whole... its surprisingly fun to revel in its grotesqueness. But you also have to recognize the impact its had. I mean, as pop culture, this film really was a landmark. The very name 'Showgirls' now instantly conjures up visions of Elizabeth Berkley giving sub-par lap dances and memorable one-liners such as she looks better than a ten-inch d**k and you know it and monkey alert!.So yeah, watch the movie. It will suck, but in the best possible way. "},{"Title":"Fails where Twin Peaks triumphs (I'm not talking about surrealism)","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Verhoeven has made a pretty terrible movie with Showgirls, I'll admit. On the other hand, I think I know what he was trying to do, and I applaud his effort. Showgirls watches exactly like a soap opera campy and over dramatic, which was probably Verhoeven's intention. However, he most likely intended it to be more like Twin Peaks (minus the surrealism and no, I don't just think this because Kyle MacLachlan stars in it) using the elements of the soap opera and self-consciously playing with them, whether in order to make a funny and entertaining film or a social commentary. Where he failed was in not making this obvious enough it really does watch like a soap opera...a serious, not-intentionally funny Days of Our Showgirl Lives. I haven't done enough research to really know that this was his intention, but, I would like to point out that this movie won Worst Picture at the 1995 Golden Raspberry Ceremony, and Verhoeven was the first winner in the ceremony's history to actually show up and accept his award. "},{"Title":"Entertaining ... if you don't take the movie seriously","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a movie!!! It's poignant, it has humor, it has conflict, it has backstabbing, and it's campy. This makes it a good movie. And Elizabeth Berkley is beautiful and wonderful as the heroine Nomi Malone, a drifter who seeks stardom and gets more than she bargains for. Why take this movie seriously? Why not accept it for what it is, not what someone may want it to be? Who can truthfully criticize the acting when the movie obviously is not meant to be taken seriously? Who cannot but smile at some of the lines that are truly laughable? That does not make a movie bad. It makes the movie entertaining, and if entertainment is what you want, then this movie is for you. But please ... please ... don't take this movie seriously. "}{"Title":"Is Vegas this much fun and wacky?","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  * Spoilers * The main thought I had while watching this movie for the first time yesterday was, Is Vegas this much fun and wacky?  As one of the two people on Earth that have never been to Las Vegas, I wonder if 'sin city' is even the smallest bit as portrayed in Paul Verhoven's high energy film. Also, the rape scene was a bit too extreme for me, but it did set up for a later kick-butt scene (literally) for dancer Nomi to reek vengeance on behalf of her attacked friend. Lastly, I can't decide if Miss Berkley is a good actress or not. I was so blinded by her lovely face and fantastic body that I will definitely watch this film again and again - if only to watch her go through her paces on the dance floor (and in that extremely hot pool scene!)  Thank you for making this film, Mr. Verhoven! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Only joking - this film is rubbish - but, and this is whats strange, its actually very watchable. I would classify this as rubbish that knows its rubbish - which is preferable to just rubbish i.e. Oliver Stone, Fincher or all British movies. "},{"Title":"Should be required viewing at Film School...","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...for how NOT to do a movie.  I can see the lesson now If you have a bad script, bad actors, and an over-rated HACK director, throw in a lot of gyrating breasts and market it as a sexy romp.Paul Hootenvooten and Joe Ass-Smell-House should have been run out of town for foisting this vile, steaming loaf of antelope offal upon the moviegoing public.  This movie is bad, Bad, BAD on SO-O-O-O-O many levels.  The ONLY way to watch it without gnawing off your left leg (to get your mind off the agony)is to treat it like the Swarzenegger vehicle Commando and tell yourself that it's a satire.  It HAS to be a great big joke, because no one could make a movie this bad and be serious about it.  What were they trying to say?  That everyone in the Adult Entertainment business is a scumbag?   Do they think we didn't already know that? Deep down we all know that Tony Soprano is a worthless scumbag, but he has a few decent qualities, and he occasionally tries to redeem his poor, rotten soul. It is for this reason that we grudginly cheer for him and hope that he can save himself.  Even poor little Alex, leader of the Droogs in Clockwork Orange has a deep love of classical music and with this one tiny spark of humanity, we can accept him as the anti-hero and we can feel his pain when the whole world seems to collapse upon him.  This moral redemption is utterly absent from Showgirls.  While there may be a few times you aren't actively hating the main characters, there aren't any times that you're liking them.There's only one person I don't hate in this film The change girl who asks Nomi if she wants to try some dollar slots.  She's not screwing anyone over, she's just trying to be helpful and do a job.  Ten seconds of redemption in a two hour movie...typical Verhoven. "},{"Title":"still hard","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was amazing. Seriously, if you are ever alone in the house and need to unwind, pop this in and GO TO TOWN! This was such a hot, hot movie, so hot it was cold, but so cold it was mildly warm and so mildly warm it was hot! Brilliant direction, BRILLIANT nudity. Of course the female nudity was a bit much though. Its fun for the whole family!!!!! RENT IT TODAY! "},{"Title":"A post-modern masterpiece, yes !","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  1895  les Freres Lumiere's first public screening takes place at the Grand Cafe in Paris. 1995  Paul Verhoeven shoots SHOWGIRLS in Las Vegas. In-between, a century of entertainment and moviemaking. SHOWGIRLS is Verhoeven's birthday present to Cinema's 100 years. Verhoeven knows film history and film technique pretty well  movies are, first of all, grand illusions made of light and movement, plus a few other components. With SHOWGIRLS, a brilliantly insane script offered the director a unique opportunity to mix all these components of modern commercial cinema into one hell of a movie  light and movement, colour and music, dialogue and gesture, action and melodrama. All brought to their most outrageous heights. Plus tits... One thing is missing though  the eye-popping explosion you would have found in almost every American movie made in the 1990's. Well, maybe the explosion is this movie itself. Verhoeven knew perfectly well what he was doing with SHOWGIRLS  he was throwing a second degree stinker at the audience and the reviewers. Most hated it, a few hugely enjoyed it. And enjoy it more with each viewing. Some day, an entire book will certainly be written about SHOWGIRLS by a cultural studies buff. This movie tells so much about what is entertainment today  teasing and bad taste, as in the incredibly tacky picture of Nomi on the freeway poster in the last shot of the movie. In a scene at the beginning of the film, after getting out of jail, Nomi and her so nice african-american friend drive away in a car  if you look carefully, you'll be able to see, as the car leaves the frame by the right, a very brief reflection of Paul Verhoeven and his camera in the back window, pointing at us. That's the point  the real subject of this movie is moviemaking itself. Paul Verhoeven crafted with Showgirls a true post-modern masterpiece, non ? PS  see it with Kubrick's EYES WIDE SHUT... Those two are from the same breed...  "},{"Title":"A Good Film That You Have To Think About","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ok,Ok and Ok,This movie is a little PORNO..yes,it is..but this movie have an history that is true...in the city of las vegas it happened...and we see this movie just think about the sex scenes and the body of the actress who work in this movie,this isn't right...We have to pay attetion with the history...The life of a model...a model who is used by men..My Personal Rating For This Movie Is *** / **** - the porno scenes can be more HARD THAN THIS.... "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a truly great film.  If the French had made it, it would have been hailed as a great of World cinema.  Its so much more than satire.Hey, but don't take my word for it, see it for yourself and make up your own mind. "},{"Title":"Nowhere near as bad as what is being claimed","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film I think was a first/last ditch effort by Berkley to attempt to gain status within the facade that is Hollywood.  Unfortunately it didnt work.  She's far too tall.Apart from that the movie was not as bad as what everyone said.  to tell you the truth I wasn't bored for one second because the entire story was so well plotted and the directing was top-notch.  Berkley's acting could be maybe one of the main failings however of the film.  Actresses who agree to do these types of movies as a debut for their future careers cannot hope to be recognised for sheer guts alone  you have to be able to act otherwise you don't come off looking any better than a porno actor.  Speaking of which, I think Chasey Lain could have done a great job in the lead, with maybe jill Kelly or Debi Diamond playing Gershon's role.Trust me, there are definately worse movies out there Daylight, Con-air, Thin Red Line, Streetfighter, Summer of Sam, just to name a few "},{"Title":"not nearly as bad as you think","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls tells the story of a stripper who longs to better herself by working in a chorus line.  In contrast to the hokey, sentimental cabaret movies of the past, it's ugly and filled with unsympathetic characters. Decent acting and script, believable story and fine choreography.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone said!","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The problem I found with this movie was the beginning and the ending, otherwise the rest of the movie was really good. I didn't like the way she just rolled into town and quickly left in the end, had they made a better beginning and ending I don't think the critics would have been so harsh on this movie, once it gets going its a really fun movie to watch.The acting is not bad and the sex and nudity isn't as big of a deal as the press led everyone to think. Elizabeth Berkley took all the heat for this movie and I think that was all wrong, she deserves better then all the harsh criticism she received. All in all it would make a good rental. "}{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film to me seemed to be what made Boogie Nights possible.  Sure Elizabeth's acting could use a little work, but this was her first film straight from Saved by the Bell.  What a change of character, and I think it is pulled off well.  The story is intriguing, and I truly enjoy the characters, which I believe are pretty close to the way some people I know truly are.  I am a huge fan of this film, and would recommend this great movie to anyone over the age of 17.  It is not a kid movie, or a teenage flick, sure it has some hard subject matter, but don't let that stand in the way of a great film. "},{"Title":"Loved Gina Gershon's performance","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ***Spoilers included!***SHOWGIRLS is a somehow brought over the water and left thirsty film. I was waiting all along for some serious twist to happen, and after seeing it (a few times), I am still at the same point. I guess seeing Basic Instinct I was expecting too much from Eszterhas (or maybe Verhoeven?). By my opinion the final moral of this story is, if you want to succeed in showbiz, cheat and walk over the bodies, but don't get caught at it. If you do, move to another town and start doing it again. Is that what Hollywood is all about?I think Elizabeth Berkley was persuasive enough in her desire of moving up, but Gina Gershon was not given enough space to prove her talent (will somebody eventually notice her capabilities, please?). And since I am more of a romantic soul, I didn't focus that much on a getting a career content (maybe this was my mistake), but on a relationship between people part. So, what was this chemistry between them all about? The first time I saw the movie, it was dubbed in Italian, so I understood only part of the story. And I had the feeling, Nomi and Crystal had something going on. After seeing it in original, I still think the same, only I am not sure anymore, what this something was. Was it a rivalry between them? This is what was obvious from Berkley's performance. She seemed too much of an ice rock, only focused on getting to the top. So, if this was the case, why was it necessary to include that eating-each-other-with-eyes scenes, those hand caresses, those dance scenes with them almost kissing, etc? Well, I guess there was supposed to be something more, and this was obvious from Gershon's performance. Although putting Nomi on a solid ground about what showgirls really are, Gershon knew for sure how to express Crystal's desire for Nomi. And this was the point that left me thirsty. A kiss at the end of the movie was fulfilling this desire? I think Crystal felt the same, brilliant Gershon's acting in that last scene made this clear.Thanks to great Gina Gershon's performance I am rating this movie 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Elizabeth Berkley is great","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I waited a long, long time before I watched this film. I was a fan of Saved By The Bell and could not imagine the actress who played Jesse Spano doing a role like the one in Showgirls. It seemed unseemly to say the least. I found that I could not take my eyes off the screen. I am not a fan of porno but I did not find the scenes that are close to being porno disturbing. I found the fat emcee at the Cheetah club funny and it was clear she had a good heart. I found myself engrossed in following the story of Elizabeth Berkeley's character. Nomi Malone is a strong willed person. Elizabeth Berkley has ratcheted up the strong willed nature several levels from the very strong willed Jesse Spano in Saved By The Bell. They are in two different worlds. One is comfortable middle class America and the other is the predatory sex trade. She shows that only the tough survive and she is more than up to the task. Amazingly she shows extreme vulnerability at times and at those times she needs support from a good friend. When her friend is brutally raped, Nomi takes matters into her own hands and kicks the crap out of the rapist. If only justice could be dispensed so quickly and correctly.I liked the full circle that ended the movie. I think this movie will stand up to all the criticism it has received and that Elizabeth Berkley is great in more ways than two.  "},{"Title":"OK, so it's not Oscar material","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OK, So it's not Oscar material, but who said it would be. I don't think anyone expected for ShowGirls to be intellectually stimulating or emotionally gripping. I myself enjoyed the film enormously. I think it was very picturesque and true-to-life, once you get passed all of the nudity, that is. You may have trouble getting used to seeing Elizabeth Berkley nude through well over half the film, as most of us remember her as Jesse from Saved By The Bell. Although Gina Gershon as Cristal Conners stole the show. She was a beautiful talent as always. I've seen ShowGirls many times over just to watch Gershon dazzel the screen. If you like Gina Gershon you'll love this movie. So go rent it, Darlin "},{"Title":"What's everybody complainin' about?","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can you say about Showgirls? I don't think I have ever had as low expectations with a movie like I had with Showgirls. Guess if I was surprised when I actually came to the conclusion that it's rather good. The critics thrashed Showgirls when it came to Sweden. They criticized the story... There's nothing wrong with the story! They criticized Berkley... OK, I don't think her performance in the beginning of the movie was very good, but she grew into the part, and by the end of the movie she was actually pretty good. This is not a masterpiece - or a classic - or anything like that, but it's an OK movie that makes you fell pretty good.  "},{"Title":"As bad as all the reviews says","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bad acting, over acting, etc... But the seediness of the business doesn't lie, it's all there. I'm surprised with all the dancing Elizabeth Berkeley does for this role her body wasn't as toned as it should have been. On top of that she can't dance. And Gina Gershon I normally like but seeing her in this film really irritated me. But I like movies about the chorus line so I have this on DVD.I don't know how you can see the finished product of this film and feel good about releasing it, some parts are so stupid.I would like to have seen Michelle Johnston have a bigger role in this film and do some dancing. "},{"Title":"The Blu-Ray version is a total Rip-Off!","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Blu-Ray version of this movie is a total rip-off. The package includes two discs. Contrary to what is indicated on the back of the case, the Blu-ray high-res version, encoded in MPEG-4, is not on the same disc with the bulk of the special features. Rather, the MPEG-4 high-res version is on one disc, and the special features that are listed on the case are on the disc that has the DVD version.Even though high-res version is encoded in MPEG-4 (vs. MPEG-2) and even though it is encoded at a bit rate about 10x greater than the bit rate used for the MPEG-2 (DVD) version, it is not very much sharper at all. In truth, it is just barely possible to tell any difference at all. I had to switch back and forth several times to convince myself that there was any difference at all, and prior to doing that I was ready to conclude that they had simply taken the DVD version and re-encoded it in MPEG-4 at a higher bit rate (which is technically possible). The Blu-ray version also suffers a terrible annoyance that the DVD version does not have each and every time that you press the pause key or the fast forward key, there is a large progress bar that covers up much of the screen. The capability for the disc to implement this progress bar is one of the features of Blu-ray (which I feel is entirely pointless), but this annoying progress bar is much larger and more annoying than any other such progress bar that I have seen to date, on any of the Blu-ray discs in my collection of several dozen.The bottom line is that this Blu-Ray is not appreciably better than the older DVD version, and not worth the additional cost, even for someone who does not own the DVD version and who, for whatever reason, wants to own a copy of this ridiculous movie. The only attraction here is Elizabeth Berkley, and there just isn't any reason to buy the buy the Blu-Ray version. If you have to have it, save yourself a few bucks and get the DVD version. "},{"Title":"No Show","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I thought I had seen Showgirls before, and it hadn't seemed so bad. I would have given it a 5/10. Not even worth reviewing, really. Apparently that's because I saw it on edited broadcast television before, with all the Show edited out, leaving just the Girls. Now that I've seen it on HBO, I have to confirm it's simply dreadful.First of all, it's tough to find a casino show (or shows, since for some reason this casino had a good 1+1/2 hours worth of dancing) quite that bad. Most shows after 11PM are topless (even the curtain pullers at the sea lion show). But I am hard pressed to think of a single show where the primary concern is whether the girls' nipples are erect. Yes, backstage is just a fountain of nudity, but up front? Gee whiz, can't say that the shows in Vegas are quite so detail oriented.And I would be mighty peeved if I were in a casino and I had to pay $60, plus the pre-requisite $20 tip, to get into such an amazingly tawdry, OK, that's just a nice way to say bad with tits show. Even if we got comp'd, I'd be peeved. I do have to give praise for coming up with the most amazing reason for massive amounts of breast exposure in a movie. There could have been more, but I don't know how.Secondly, that television editing managed to pull out lots of lame scenes, like sex in the pool (wow, that Elizabeth is a workhorse, but I worry about her back) and even more lame lines (such as every single one prefaced with dahrlin' and I just had to have (a Ferrari)). Shakespeare can rest easy.Thirdly, the lesbian angle, sex, Kyle's hair, and violence never went anywhere. We had one lesbian kiss at the end (so?), the completely unconvincing sex in the pool (again, Elizabeth must have a standing appointment with a chiropractor) and one rape scene (which, if you have to have violence, is really the worst sort, but was completely unconvincing). We could have used a bit more of one of these - any of the above.Amusing ramp up movie for the bachelor party and good for critiquing how movies designed to be deliberately commercial can go wrong - I really see no other redeeming feature. "},{"Title":"'Showgirls' is so bad it's good","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I liked Showgirls. It's a classic camp film that wasn't ever intended to be campy. And Elizabeth Berkley deserves credit for even doing this role. She was unfairly targeted for the movie's poor performance and bad overall script. Every one else associated with the film survived and continued to work. Poor, naked Elizabeth was left the scapegoat. But there were some really good performances despite the script. Gina Gershon was good as the villain. Gina Ravera was not bad either as the best friend. Alan Rachins' performance pumped life into an otherwise thankless role. This film was also very entertaining. If a film isn't going to be great or even good--and even if it's just bad--it at least better be entertaining. Showgirls is. The best stuff in the film are the production numbers. If director Paul Verhoeven ever decides to film music videos--unless he has already--he'd be very good at it. As far as the sex and nudity in the film. I've seen better; I've seen worse. After a while, it didn't seem to matter one way or the other in the movie--you seen one gyrating, 5'11 makeup heavy actress, you've seen them all. "},{"Title":"A film that was rather unfairly but very understandably trashed.","Date":"23 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Verhoeven has made many great films - he has an eye for great still images, the ability to string these together to create gripping movie sequences, an amazing capacity for effective set design and a great sense of choreography - but he is not a great director. This requires the ability to draw great performances from even marginally competent actors so as to consistently create well rounded characters. To see this we need only compare his film characters with those of (for example) Stanley Kubrick, or even David Hamilton who has shown a much greater ability to exploit nudity without turning his characters into caricatures. Although Verhoeven has created some very complex characters such as Catherine Tramell in Basic Instinct, few if any of them could be called well rounded. He has acknowledged that he long wanted to create a true NC17 film, designed and created from the start for a purely adult audience and several of his earlier films were intended for this purpose, but their backers always forced enough cuts in the final draft to allow the film concerned to receive an R rating. Showgirls was his first film funded in advance to allow for an NC17 rating and it pulls no punches in showing the seamy side of both the Las Vegas entertainment industry and the characters in the film. The outline story is very similar to Flashdance - gifted but untrained dancer has big dreams, but is forced to work in a floor show to earn money until a big break comes - and the critics did not care for either film. But Jennifer Beals' character in Flashdance was much more rounded than Elizabeth Berkeley's in Showgirls, and it attracted enough audience appreciation to prevent Flashdance's run ending prematurely. It is not realistic to blame EB for the fact that the character of the brazen hussy with a vicious temper which she played made this impossible for Showgirls. Did Joe Eszterhas not appreciate that the exploitation of more sympathetic characters would have contributed more to the development of his story? Mick Martin in his well known Video Guide writes that Showgirls is possibly the worst ever big studio production, and comments that this is in part due to the atrocious acting of Elizabeth Berkeley. Such comments are nonsense - EB may not be a great actress, but she appears to me to have done everything her Director demanded reasonably competently - to blame the failure of the film on her acting is grossly unfair. Its problems resulted from bad scriptwriting which featured nothing but unending sleaze that becomes increasingly hard for any audience to continue enjoying. The film satirises sexual exploitation by the entertainment industry, but falls into the trap of itself using sexual exploitation to attract its audience. This generated a puritanical backlash in the U.S.A. that led to it being almost universally trashed. (Apparantly this did not happen to nearly the same extent in other countries where SG remains a well respected work).Much of the dialogue is smart, witty and enjoyable, but this was not enough to save the film when there were no sympathetic characters to attract the empathy of the audience. However, as many IMDb users have recognised, it remains both enjoyable and effective in its exposure of show-business foibles if the viewer accepts its limitations and concentrates on its strengths whilst watching. It attempted to highlight, not just the exploitation of girl performers, but the fact that even top showgirls in major reviews in Las Vegas are at least as subject to this exploitation as the strippers in small and shabby bars. It failed largely because major misjudgments made the film itself appear exploitive. For making an honest attempt to achieve a difficult objective I feel it deserved more credit than it received. As for humour, one scene will in my opinion become a classic. This is where the producer of the revue is auditioning a group of 20 or so girls for a vacant spot in his chorus line. He starts by telling them he is a prick and goes on to reduce the potential candidates to the final two by humiliating each girl as badly as he can before dismissing her. When he asks Elizabeth Berkeley (Nomi) why she is participating if she has had no formal dance training, she sweetly replies that she came to watch him being a prick. More scenes such as this and her career might have survived the debacle. In fairness to Hollywood, playing the part of a stripper no longer means curtains for an actress - among others, Darryl Hannah and Demi Moore can testify to this. But the part played must display acting abilities as well as a shapely bosom and, sadly, Showgirls gave EB little chance to do this.If your only interest is seeing a skin flick with virtually no story, EB in Showgirls exposes more skin more often and for longer than most girls in other T & A films. More important, if you are prepared to see a badly flawed but interesting and sometimes challenging film, and will not be upset by this exposure, you should forget the adverse reviews and rent a copy. "}{"Title":"So bad it's a must see.","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is so bad you must see it.It was supposed to be a star-making vehicle for Elizabeth Berkley of saved by the bell which was actually a pretty good show. I suppose they thought they could cash in by taking a semi-attractive star from a tame kids show and showing her in a lot of nakedness and sexual stupidity. Instead it was just plain embarrassing.By the end of the movie you end up hating her so much that you're glad the movie trashed her 'career'.Probably the best scene is her sex scene in the pool. It is so poorly acted and shot it is painful to watch. You can tell they thought they were creating some kind of ground-breaking sexual energy, but it just failed miserably.A couple years ago they brought out a Showgirls boxed special with a shot glass and poster. I don't know how it sold, but I would love to have been a fly on the wall in the pitch meeting.I saw this movie once a decade ago, yet I find myself compelled to spend 4 minutes of my life berating it.Anyway, enjoy. "},{"Title":"Everything that went wrong, did -- in making this film","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film should go into the Murphy's Law of Film Making. Everything that went wrong, did. The casting was wrong, the editing was wrong, the story went wrong...oh my.The one thing that really bothered me was the casting of Elizabeth Berkley and Gina Geshron was wrong, wrong, wrong. If we start there, the acting rolls should have been reversed. But even before that, they needed a story. Sure its interesting to know about the cut throat business of Vegas Show Gals -- the auditioning, the age, the weight, the beauty and what would happen if a street wise girl broke into that and got to be a chorus girl in a big legitimate Vegas Spectacular, and still wanting to be the star of it. Nice story, coulda been a good movie. But this failed. There was nothing cut throat about this story, it seemed more like a male fantasy --wanting to be a girl 2 girl soft porn film to the masses. It failed there too.A good idea that was lost with everything that could go wrong in a film. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth I-Am-FEARLESS-Berkley...","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...took a viciously unfathomable amount of heat for having the courage to turn up the heat in Showgirls, a movie that elevates trash into art. A lot of people think this film is disgusting, but to ME, what's disgusting is how Ms. Berkley (a fearless Leo who does her Leonine pride proud) was anything but lionized for her willingness to lay it all on the line - and lay it, she does, as only a Leo can - with supremely confident and dazzling royal bravado. (Yes, of COURSE I am a Leo too.)   Kyle M. is great here as well, playing the role of Sleaze Personified, and Gina Gershon vamps it up good an' proper to beat the band.   I am still trying to get my hands on the version of the film I saw in theatres, where Nomi's mind-numbingly erotic lap dance sequence and the kick-ass sequence at the end aren't edited. If anyone knows where I can find this, it wouldn't suck. "},{"Title":"a post-modernist masterpiece","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  1895  les Freres Lumiere's first public screening takes placeat the Grand Cafe in Paris. 1995  Paul Verhoeven shootsSHOWGIRLS in Las Vegas. In-between, a century of entertainmentand moviemaking. SHOWGIRLS is the director's birthday present tocinema's 100th year. Verhoeven knows film history and film technique pretty well movies are, first of all, grand illusions made of light andmovement, plus a few other components. With SHOWGIRLS, abrilliantly insane script offered the director a uniqueopportunity to mix all these components of modern commercialcinema into one hell of a movie  light and movement, colour andmusic, dialogue and gesture, action and melodrama. All broughtto their most outrageous heights. Plus tits... One thing ismissing though  the eye-popping explosion you find in almostevery American movie these days. Well, maybe the explosion is this movie itself. Verhoeven knewperfectly well what he was doing with SHOWGIRLS  he wasthrowing a stink bomb at the audience and the critics. Mosthated it, a few hugely enjoyed it. And enjoy it more with eachviewing. Some day, an entire book will certainly be written aboutSHOWGIRLS by a cultural studies buff. This movie tells so muchabout what is entertainment today  bad taste, as in theincredibly tacky picture of Nomi on the freeway poster in thelast shot of the movie. In a scene at the beginning of the film, after getting out ofjail, Nomi and her nice african-american friend drive away witha car  if you look carefully, you'll be able to see, as the carleaves the frame by the right, a very brief reflection of PaulVerhoeven and his camera in the back window, pointing at us. That's the point  the real subject of this movie is moviemakingitself. Paul Verhoeven crafted with Showgirls a truepost-modernist ma "},{"Title":"Joe Esterhaus got how much for this?","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Astonishingly bad. A clear contender  for a future 'R' rated version of MST3K.Girl goes to Vegas with big dreams. Will she get her big break? Not with those moves. Along the way to this epiphany, she interacts with equally interesting people.The movie is a series of scenes in which Our Heroine walks into a situation that deteriorates until she storms out. We are meant to feel her pain. We feel our own instead.Only redeeming quality Gina Gershon is on screen for a few minutes. "},{"Title":"Famous For All The Wrong Reasons","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I didn't set out to watch this film, I stumbled upon it late one night. I'd heard about it of course. I knew of it as the film that ruined Paul Verhoeven's career in America, one of the biggest flops of all time and a movie with an infamously heavy dose of frontal nudity. To put it simply, this film has not had a good press.So what is Showgirls about? The story revolves around Nomi (Elizabeth Berkley), a drifter and dancer, who comes to Las Vegas with the usual dreams of stardom and success. Initially, Nomi finds work in a sleazy strip club before an encounter with Gina Gershon and Kyle MacLachlan presents her with an opportunity to audition for a role for the inane and supposed hit show, 'Goddess'.Essentially, its the old 'climb up the ladder' story with a small town girl battling against sleazy nightclub owners, rival dancers, corrupt producers, pop stars and, eventually, her own ruthless ambition as she tries to make a living and a name for herself. It's also a tale about the depravity of Las Vegas- and people in general.So what's wrong with Showgirls? Why the bad press? Let's start with the main character Nomi. Despite being the female lead, I found it a tremendous struggle to empathize with this character. This was because of Nomi's inability to react to almost anything without throwing a temper tantrum. After about twenty minutes of the film, I seriously began to question whether this character really was the good guy and not a Catherine Tramell-esquire beautiful psycho. I don't think five minutes went by without Nomi shouting at someone or storming off in a major huff! Also, later on the movie, she was responsible for some pretty heinous acts of violence. I hate whiter-than-white characters in films because not only are they annoying, they're unrealistic. However, there's no point in a film if it can't make you, in even the slightest way, feel for the main character(s). At any point, did I cheer the brainless savage that was Nomi on? The answer is an emphatic no.If anything, considering her many sins, I half-expected the ending to provide some poetic justice that would show Nomi just how stupid she'd been and teach change her ways. This did not happen. In fact, the ending appeared to suggest (in an effort to set up a sequel) that Nomi was going to take her pouts, tits and merciless beatings to Hollywood and continue her reign of terror there. Nomi is not alone in being impossible to like. There is not a single likable character in this movie. Whether this is a statement on show business, I cannot say but what I can say is that it doesn't help the movie any. Perhaps Nomi's best friend and trailer buddy, Molly Abrams- as perhaps the only nice person in all of Las Vegas- is the only exception. It doesn't help any of the characters that they were imprisoned within a quite awful, awful, awful (yes, it really is worth three awfuls) script. I wasn't expecting sharp, witty or remotely intelligent dialogue but I at least expected a shade of realism. Instead, I was wincing at practically every sentence that came out of each and every person's mouth.The main antagonist could be said to be Nomi's rival, Cristal (Gershon) but I think the entire dirty, nasty world actually assumes that role. As such, and with Nomi proving just as dirty and nasty as the rest of mankind, there's no one to like and far too many people to dislike for this film to prosper.Gratuitous nudity and graphic violence are a staple of Paul Verhoven's cinematic output. They're in his good films (i.e. RoboCop) and his bad (i.e. Hollowman). Like the previous teaming of director Verhoeven and writer Joe Eszterhas, Basic Instinct, the threadbare plot ensures that Showgirls is less a story of any real substance but simply of a piece of erotica produced on a Hollywood budget.Showgirls has a lot of nudity. I don't think the word gratuitous even does it credit. Berkley spends a great deal of the film nude in some capacity. Her lap dance on Kyle MacLachlan is frighteningly frenetic and yet, despite being near the beginning, is probably the film's first and last exciting sexual scene of note. Their swimming pool sex scene is similarly fantastically overblown (how Berkley doesn't give herself terrible whiplash during what amounts to a tremendously OTT sexual fit is a miracle).Elizabeth Berkley is a well put-together girl and so it's no chore to look at her naked. However, soon enough, the enormous volume of nudity renders any intended shock or even erotic value of such exposure meaningless. You are soon desensitized to the naked flesh thrust in your face essentially for the entire duration of the movie. Beyond the sheen of tanned skin and constant barrage of T&A, there is nothing to Showgirls but a childishly simple premise dressed up with awful dialogue and unsympathetic characters that is desperately, with the aid of its oodles of nudity, attempting to masquerade as a serious adult film.So why did I watch this film and why did I review and write so much about it? Firstly, I watched the film because I was curious. I kept on watching because it so awfulness was just so damn entertaining. Yes, this is the film's singular redemption- it is so, so bad that it's actually fun to watch! And thus its fun to critique! 2/10 (for the sheer fun derived from its awfulness) "},{"Title":"the one Hollywood soft-core film to wriggle through..","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's something about soft-core pornographic films that are in a way fascinating to me. Most of course watch it for one purpose alone, which I won't mention here, but to see how the acting is so by the books, the stories so cheesy or overwrought, the music so annoying, it almost brings on the same fascination one gets in watching a bad science fiction movie from the 50's; the fact that it is so poorly made and mediocre is what makes it, ironically, entertaining to the reptilian centers of our brains. Enter in one of the more talked about films of the 90's, Showgirls, directed by Paul Verhoven (who, before his Robocop and Total Recall days, did soft-core, or 'night-owl' films in Holland), a film that garnered attention as an NC-17 film in an age where it was, and still is, very frowned upon in release form. There are breasts, there are butts, there are some graphic depictions of stripping, gyrating, flaunting, and just out right getting-in-on. It's led on by a story that most of us could write, if we decided somehow that we could write the old' fish-out-of-water story with the trashiest sense of drama and timing. In short, it's one of the more watchable bad films of the era.Eliabeth Berkley is the girl who just wants to make it in what she's got, which of course is her body. She does want to make it in acting too, or dancing, or one of those fields someone who goes out to Vegas aside from the gambling goes for. She of course becomes a stripper, but also gets a gig in a high-class showgirl showcase in a casino, with a rival in the extremely sexy Gina Gershon. Of course there are some meaningless sub-plots, one of which with Kyle MacLaughlin, and an ending that's so around the corner you'd need beer goggles to lose sight of it. So really, why would one want to recommend Showgirls? Is it for the the obvious right away, the same stuff that you can see in slightly lesser quality on Cinemax after midnight? The choreography of the dances on stage involving the massive sets and special effects? Or for the storyline and acting, which pillages every single low-rent melodrama on Lifetime crossed with every bad soft-core you've seen perusing through Blockbuster? One can say for sure Berkley's had better days, especially so with MacLaughlin, although Gershon does seem to come out of all this as one of the better things in the film. In the end, I would recommend Showgirls to see perhaps once, maybe just to usher in the youth to know this is and is NOT how sex in Vegas is, or for something 'different' from Verhoven. At times it's laughably bad, and yet I almost mean that as a minor compliment; there's something to be said about films like these, where you feel sort of filthy after watching it, but your at least glad there aren't more out there like this. Some may even find it as a 'cult' classic. I'm not one of them. But I was glad to see it once, or twice depending on the time of night... "},{"Title":"Did Ed Wood rise from a Plan 9 grave and change his name to Verhoeven?","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I immediately knew this film would develop a cult following, but, of course, not in the way Verhoeven had hoped for. This is one of the dumbest dramas(?) of all time. The ultra-cliché premise of a wide-eyed bimbo - with a mysterious past - hitch-hiking her way to Vegas to become a showgirl is a premise that writers of pulp-fiction would shy away from on grounds that it is too cheap and dumb. Berkeley's awful over-acting is hard not to notice from the very start (though, in a way, it fits the movie), but I can't help but sympathize with her because she looks as though she believed that this role was her big breakthrough chance which made her try really, really hard, giving it her all to do it right. (It makes me cringe. I really pity that dumb woman.) But the harder she tried, the more she overacted, and the worse she got. Additionally, far from being her big break, this film will probably haunt her forever.Pitiful attempts to make statements or send messages, or just to philosophize, fall so very, very flat. The characterization is a combination of movie-cliché stereotypes and illogical, hence unpredictable behaviour. Ultra-cretinous dialog infests this strange, Verhoevenish Las Vegas showgirl world, and a multitude of dumb - sometimes mind-numbingly dumb - scenes abound kids in dressing-rooms, girl-fights in dressing rooms, ice being used as nipple-hardener, the rasta guy losing his job for the second time over Berkeley, the sabotage of a showgirl colleague by throwing marbles(?) on the stage - so that she may break a bone or two (very funny), rape by celebrity, revenge for rape of friend by means of karate chops, etc.Verhoeven would like to have us believe that the world of Las Vegas showgirls is no different than the Old Wild West if there is someone who displeases you or that you don't like you just spit in their face, or punch them, or throw marbles(?) on the floor while they're dancing, or push them down a flight of stairs, or fight them in the dressing-room, etc. And what's with Berkeley's sudden display of martial arts moves on the unsuspecting rock star? I mean, we know that she has her mysterious past and all that, but does this mean that she is a karate expert as well? There's plenty of t**s'n'a** here, but I must say that it's the dialogs that steal the show from the showgirls. Examples I liked you when you came... I liked your blue eyes... (Kyle) You have great t**s. They're really beautiful. (Gershon)Thank you... (Berkeley) You're a stripper! (Davi) No, I'm a dancer! (Berkeley) I have a problem with pussy. I always have and I'm always gonna, but I meant what I said to you (previously). (rasta guy) You know, it's not like I'm seein' any money from writin' that number (song). I may as well touch a little p**sy. (rasta guy) Must be weird not having anybody come on you... (Davi)You f***ed her, didn't you? (Gershon) Does that p*ss you off 'cause you're jealous, Chris, or because I beat you to the punch? (Kyle) There's also this strange fascination that everyone seems to have for Berkeley's character, as soon as she reaches Vegas the black girl offers her free lodging; Kyle - although constantly surrounded by naked girls - gets more horny than ever over Berkeley; Gershon, Kyle's woman and show-star, can't wait to get a lesbian thing going with Berkeley (who, as a true blond free-spirit with a shady past has - naturally - nothing against a little lesbianism on the side); the rasta guy loses two jobs for Berkeley, while being constantly rejected by her (even kicked in the groin at one point); Davi and the fat woman actually go to visit her when she makes it big as a showgirl, etc.The most unbelievable part is that Verhoeven didn't set out to create a camp classic - he actually was aiming to make a great drama (his interviews made this quite clear); he took this script SERIOUSLY. Already in Basic Instinct (and Total Recall to some extent) there were signs that this director didn't care much for logic or stamping out absurdities in scripts, but who would have thought that he'd be capable of one day creating a monster-mess of this kind. "},{"Title":"Not the worst movie of all time ...","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" but very close.Can't think of one right now, but there has to be something filmed that's worse than this bad writing, bad editing, bad directing, horrible acting, atrocious dancing (which the movie is sort of supposed to be about), the list is an endless badness festival.Others have detailed how unrelenting the poor acting and directing and all the rest, so let's talk about the glimmers of the positive Nudity. Man, Elizabeth Berkeley may be a dreadful actress and dancer, but she is quite a beauty, and has no problem wandering around in her all together. Which is actually quite nice.Double that for Gina Gershon. Her character is quite unpleasant, but Gershon plays her quite pleasantly. And the fewer the clothes she has on, the better she is. And she has very few clothes on during the movie. So there is that. But she is a very likable actress, perhaps the most redeeming aspect of the movie.In a dreadful series of awfulness, there are two standouts First the tendency of Berkeley to splunk herself down on a car in ire, and Kyle MacLachlan with a sklopf of hair hanging down across his face most of the time. Very annoying.This move should be shown in college film classes as how not to make a film. "},{"Title":"Wrong film at the wrong time I guess","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film has been slammed by more people than possibly any other film. So, despite avoiding for the longest time, after beginning research into Paul Verhoeven' catalogue of films for film studies class, it was inevitable that I would have to see this film.'Showgirls' is clearly a Verhoeven film in many ways. It is overtly sexual visually that can only be his work and provides the subtle satire and critical analysis of contemporary America - if you wanna make it big you gotta gamble. However the film falls short on the filmmaker's perfect camera direction, a good movie score and the memorable characters of his previous (and some later) works. 'Robocop' is one of the most tight fitted and edgy Sci-Fi's with 'Total Recall' a good, original epic in its own right and 'Basic Instinct' before and 'Starship Troopers' are arguably some of the greatest films of the 90's. It's obvious from the start with its jumpy cuts, obscure camera shots and cheesy acting by the various protagonists that this isn't on par.However I fail to see why this film has been so burnt badly as it is. Having watched the man's classic Dutch 'Turkish Delight' amongst others so believe it or not, I was expecting MORE cross nudity from this film. Maybe its because I'm British, and here in England where we are far less conservative we feel less shocked when seeing the all-bare flesh of a naked women. Maybe its because this was far too serious against the new found Pulp Fiction fanatics that had spawned in the previous 6-12 months but whatever, it seems that this film isn't half as sleazy as other late night American television shows and the plot has far more to say than what meets the eye. As James Smith explains to the ever so naive Nomi No matter at the Cheetah (all stripper club) or at the Goddess (a far more fancy but still erotic dance club catering for the rich and famous) you still strip like a hooker. Perhaps this is not just an analysis of just Nomi's situation or even Vegas but of America where, whether a stripper on Playboy or a star singer like Britany Spears, a pretty girl in America gets on by because of her sexual identity. This is a powerful message that I got in the film and feel proud of but maybe it was too much for many Americans to handle. Perhaps this is also and analysis of Verhoeven who, after being promoted from Holland to Hollywood, he still makes the same sex and violence but just more glamour able (and successful). A parody of his career if you like.Whether you like this film will simply matter on your view of sex. If you firmly believe this should only be viewed in the bedroom, hated 'Basic Instinct' or you're not a fan of sex (the latter being my personal believe why so many Americans have scorned this movie) then you won't like it. However, if a naked woman on your TV screen doesn't get to your head too much and you can look past it throughout the film (which IS possible) you may just find this an OK movie. But not a great. "}{"Title":"That the script, acting, direction and story are all terrible is no surprise but the lack of sexual impact is a real failure","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With her eyes fixed firmly on the bright lights, Nomi hitches a ride into Las Vegas to pursue her dream of being a dancer. With her luggage stolen within seconds, Nomi finds herself alone until a kindly woman takes her in off the street. Luckily this woman happens to be a dresser at one of the big shows in town and, while stripping to pay the rent, Nomi gets to meet the movers and (literally) shakers within the business. It is not long before she starts to get some breaks and things look like working out for her; however, can she survive among the betrayal, bitchiness and excesses and keep her naïve, down to earth spirit? Ermmmm &#150; no, no she can't.How easy it would be for me to throw my hands up and attack all the easy targets in this messy shambles of a film; but I want to be fair to it. Baring in mind that it is a softcore drama with nudity in spades, is it any surprise that aspects like story, dialogue, script, direction and acting, all came a far second to the excessive nudity etc on display here. Needless to say these things are all terrible but what genuinely surprised me was how unsexy the whole affair was. It was delivered with all the emotional involvement of a lapdance &#150; in fact, no, scratch that, a good lapdancer makes you believe the illusion, here it just felt cold and distant. For the erotic genre this is the whole ballgame and to miss that target is to disappoint the audience you are going for in the first place. The whole film is so overblown that it becomes an unengaging meat wagon of women's bodies &#150; all of which look nice but really they didn't interest me after a short time. Of course it didn't help that the aforementioned aspects didn't work for a damn either, but this was the most surprising failure. The other failures were just greeted with resignation by me &#150; the script is awful, a story driven by lazy plot devices from the moment Nomi arrives in Vegas up to (and including) the final scene of the film. The dialogue is just as bad and is clunky at best, laughable at worst.With this to work with it is no wonder many of the cast struggle, but what is so wonderful is just how totally inept Berkley is. Her Nomi spends the film either smiling hopefully or storming off in a huff pushing things as she goes &#150; how we were expected to care a fig for this person I'll never know. What makes it worse is how remote and plodding she is as an actress; there seems to be nothing behind her eyes, no understanding of her character and no ability to make a person out of her words &#150; she can show me her T&A as many times as she wants but I've seen it all before and she quickly became a tired one-trick pony with nothing to offer. What was even more wonderful was her lack of irony or her total ignorance of the irony of her character being offered chances partly due to who she was sleeping with while at the same time she herself was allegedly having an affair with her direction. Add to that her OTT performance and laughable delivery, all topped up with her epileptic fit in a swimming pool and you've got one of the most inept things I've ever seen. Gershon does sultry lesbian better than anyone but other than her sizzling scenes, she can do nothing with the character &#150; even her girl/girl stuff seems lame thanks to her lack of chemistry with Berkley. Support from people like MacLachlan, Davi and a few others is OK but nobody can hold their heads up with this with any sense of pride.Overall this is as bad as people say but did we expect anything else. The excesses and bad aspects may provide some laughs and enjoyment but really it is hard to care or stay with it. Of course, for an erotic film, what was most surprising is just how unerotic it all is &#150; being sexy is not the same as crude excessive nudity at every turn &#150; sadly the film can't stop it and very soon I was staring at the screen about as detached from it as I could be. It was only the terrible turn from Berkley that made me unable to turn away &#150; like a rabbit in the headlights. "},{"Title":"Better than What Dreams May Come","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls is a modern day All About Eve, which was a well made but incredibly boring movie from 1950. So how do you make an old boring movie interesting? Simple, get Elizabeth Berkley to run around naked and kiss a few people. Well that's what was hoped. Unfortunately this was not enough and Showgirls fizzled. The people who see more into this movie are in sex appeal denial, or claim the directors never wanted this movie to be taken seriously. They say it was actually only ever meant to be poking fun at Las Vegas and Americans. Not True. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Love it or hate it (2015 review)","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are a good number of reviews made over the previous years, but I thought I'd add my input, 20 years after the release of this film.I'll explain why you should and should not watch this film, depending on who you are and what you like, and then you can decide for yourselves about it.Why you shouldn't watch it I Showgirls is not a film for everybody nor does it try to be. To this day, it is the highest grossing NC-17 film, in spite of being considered a financial mess for the studio that produced it. The very fact that it wasn't attempted to tone it down to get an R-rating, even though NC-17 is practically a financial death sentence, gives you the first clue about it. Vulgarity and swearing are commonplace across the film, naked bodies are recurrent, and sexual moments although not plentiful are all quite explicit and lasting.II There is no semblance of fable-like morality here, so don't scratch or try to find any. Due to the cultural background that the Western public (and I'd argue a sizable part of the non-Western one) has been imprinted with for generations, people expect every tale to end in a 'positive' note following paths where A) Either the conflict is resolved peacefully. (Turn the other cheek, violence is never justified) B) Good triumphs dramatically over evil when dialogue is rendered impossible. (The righteous champion must stand for what is right) C) Characters find redemption at last following a cumbersome road (Stick to your principles and/or purify yourself of your past sins). D) Acceptance and peace is found in light of the unsolvable situation. (This world is messed up but if I live a virtuous life, I have nothing to fear).Those are broadly the outcomes that people are programmed to expect and accept. They match the baggage of Christianity, of humanistic civil right defense, and democratic feel-good that composes the collective psyche of the XXI Century society.Showgirls is nothing like that, so if you're not capable of looking past these archetypes, don't bother watching it really, it's just going to anger you and annoy you.III The acting can feel over-the-top and artificial if we contrast them to what people appreciate nowadays.Elizabeth Berkley can seem quite dramatic in her performance, somehow being reminiscent of theater more than TV/cinema. If you can't get past that stylistic difference, then you might probably not enjoy it.If you have no qualms with the previous points, let me tell you now all the good this film has to offer.Why you should watch it?I Showgirls is never boring.The organization of the 2 hour film is very well done. The story never goes too slow nor too fast, although there might be moments where you feel as if the characters are acting bizarrely, you do get to live periods of 'action' (represented in choreography and physical exertion, chiefly Nomi's), and periods of 'rest' where they converse and have interesting exchanges.I'm an easily bored person, and I'm not foreign to the idea of doing a full stop in a film before the first hour if I feel I'm wasting my time. Showgirls never had me thinking I hope this ends soon or what a drag. Sex only happens technically one time only, so it's not a burnt gimmick, and though insinuation is recurrent, if you can treat it as a contextual feature rather than be shocked by it every time, it doesn't hinder the general story at all, and rather adds realism to it.II Showgirls treats the whole showbiz industry and the people around it, as well as their work and habits very realistically and accurately. I have been backstage in plays and dealt with people who are committed to this industry to know a tidbit, and except for the occasional odd event (Nomi suddenly jumping live her second day, which isn't entirely impossible in the industry anyway), the pressure, competitiveness, underhanded tactics to get ahead, as well as the stress and rush required during presentations are all there and are all perceivable by the audience.III Showgirls, simply put, shows you how the overwhelming majority of people around you, really are.They are not these incredibly insightful or scheming characters that sometime are shown in horror movies, thrillers, political dramas, who against all logic saw every angle and every turn and made a big plan about it. Except for one character you meet at the end, they're also not particularly 'evil' (heavily loaded concept to begin with) or vicious. And except for the one character that is victimized by the former, there are no good and virtuous people around either.These are people that take their lives as a situation given to them, care about themselves, try to get money and pleasure if they have a shot, but still take the chance to feel remorse, to tone down a bit their vice to feel right about themselves, and on overall are just reactive to the ambient values of the current society. If anything, they're terribly normal, which is something that might explain why people reject this film so much, getting to face something that is just their naked world instead of the fantastic/comedic/horrific (ultimately fake) story that takes their head off things.IV) If you have felt during your life somehow leaning towards cynicism, this movie will click just right with you, but also keeping a chance to surprise you. Which when you think about it, is quite the feat.I personally enjoyed Showgirls, and although I am not going to become the utmost defender of it, I feel as if it works for what it set out to be. Not perfect of course, but still 8/10. "},{"Title":"Filmed in Tack-O-Rama...But a Guilty Pleasure","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Abysmally shallow dialogue, cardboard characters, woeful choreography, wretched casting, godawful sex scenes, bad toupees, and whoever did Elizabeth Berkley's make-up clearly hated her guts - And that's pretty much Showgirls in summary. And yet, I couldn't look away.The fabulous Gina Gershon bravely threw her all in it. Kyle McLachlan did his best not to look as if he wanted to curl up and die. As for the star, Elizabeth Berkley, she could do nothing to redeem what was a truly unlikable character. (For some reason Hollywood seems to prefers to write 'spirited' women as obnoxious nutcases). And her sex scenes! The poor woman honestly looked like she was convulsing (again, check Kyle McLachlan's face in these scenes - it's not unbridled passion but career-crushing humiliation you're looking at there).I can't say I'd recommend this to a lover of fine dialogue and nuanced performances. However, if your the kind or person who lists The Room and Plan 9 From Outer Space among their favourites, it's a hoot and a half. "},{"Title":"Worst Picture of 1995? Worst Picture of the 1990's? I guess the 90's were a great decade","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unfortunately the 1990's weren't that great, just that the Razzie's target every movie that has bad reviews and a bad plot/script (admittidly so, it is atrocious). But the movie is very entertaining, not just for the nudity but for the choreography, the bitchiness of the characters and the music (Walk Into the wind was a good song, notice it got the Razzie prize for Worst Song).I also read Showgirls is up for Worst 'Drama' of our first 25 years, I might have bad taste in films but I think The Last Action Hero, The Blair Witch Project, plus many other films could have filled that spot. Trust me it isn't that bad of a film, a good film but not great, just a terrible script. I think that Waterworld should've taken Worst Film.I must be a bad judge here but i don't think Elizabeth Berkley was that bad at acting (certainly not to win Worst Actress), some scenes she is unconvincing but she is convincing in other scenes (when she has clothes on). Of course sadly this film destroyed her career before it even began, Unlike other stars in the past (even A-List stars) that make mistakes, no one will hire her for anything so, as someone on these boards said she had critical aclaim for her acting on Broadway I don't think she'll ever have the chance to show these talents and win an Oscar, they would never take her seriously anyway. "},{"Title":"It's Not THAT Bad","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  About two weeks ago, the Sundance Channel aired Showgirls uncut. I had only seen it on VH1 previously. I have no idea why ANYONE would air this movie if they have to cut so much content out, by the way. When I saw it on for VH1, I thought it was just terrible but then when I watched it on Sundance, uncut, in all of its glory, I was surprised to admit that it was not the train wreck that people made it out to be.Even though I don't think that this film is Oscar caliber, it should be given a bit more credit. This was the story of a woman who did what ever she could to become more than she was. And she did it by any means necessary. I also believed that there was quite a lesson to be learned. Nomi, Elizabeth Berkley's character, learned that her choices are likely to affect everyone in her life. Perhaps, this was a coming of age story. A woman with big dreams learns that it's not all about her. Although I could see why critics would bash this movie, I find it hard to believe that after really watching this film, someone wouldn't give it a chance. It may not have been great, but it certainly was hard to forget. I mean, I can't even watch Saved By The Bell anymore, without thinking that I've learned Jessie's dirty little secret.;-)I would give this movie a 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I sat here tonight and actually watched Showgirls for the first time. After hearing all the hype about how bad the movie was when it came out in 95, at first I couldnt figure out for the life of me why Showtime would put this bomb on at 900 on a Saturday night in 2004.  Then it occured to me there have got to be others like me that were like 12 when the film came out that are seeing it on cable now and watching it.  After watching the film-in its entirety-I have to say that the film did not live up to the hype....it was worse then anything you can fathom if you havent seen it.  I decided I had to come to this site to see what others had to say about it.  I was absolutely shocked to find 238 responses!!  It is quite amazing the amount of people still talking about this film 9 whole years after it was originally released, as a good amount of the comments....like this one...have occured in the last 6 months. "},{"Title":"This movie ain't that bad, ya'll!","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Say what you want, this movie is entertaining enough.  It's stupid and totally gratuitous.  You have to admit that's what makes it so funny to watch.  The bad acting by Elizabeth Berkley is hilarious!  Gina Gershon was the perfect uber bitch.  Bad plot, bad acting, over-the-top sex scenes is pretty much what makes this movie entertaining.  It's just basically your typical guilty pleasure movie.  Rent it or watch it on cable, but this movie ain't all that bad. "},{"Title":"Why are people so critical, this was funny as hell!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have not laughed harder at a movie in the last decade than I did at this one. I mean, not The Big Lebowski or Zoolander. This has you smiling at first and rolling on the floors as you go. It tells the story of a not very bright dancer with poor acting skills. Or is that the actress who played in the role. You know it;s funny, when comedic acting is this good, the character and actress blend into one in the same. Well, anyways, this chick, who used to be in Saved By the Bell, shows her breasts a lot (among other things) and she dances, kind of, well, she does not really dance very well. And this, along with the parody of acting, makes this quite possibly the funniest movie ever. Moreover, with the nudity, you get two for one. Where was Oscar when this was made!? Where is Showgirls II!? Encore! Encore! "},{"Title":"Ultimate guilty pleasure...","Date":"2 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This really is a bad movie, but you must admit, it is maybe the number one guilty pleasure movie ever made. I've only seen it edited on TNN, so I haven't seen any nudity or sex or anything. I don't know if I would rent it, though. I expected Joe Eszterhaus, the writer of this movie, to do much better, since Flashdance is one of my favorite movies ever. That was a much better stripper movie, although it was more of skimpy clothes dancing rather that the full monty. Flashdance actually had a pretty good plot, with the take your passion and make it happen theme, and a killer soundtrack. Showgirls just sucked.  3/10. "}{"Title":"Better than bad","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, I do like some genuine crap.  I hope I haven't totally lost everyone's respect here.  I just love what Paul Verhoeven does.  This is 100% camp classic.  About as sexy as About Schmidt but far funnier, Showgirls takes Verhoeven's sexual excesses, most famously previously showcased in Basic Instinct, and takes them to extremes.  It has no point.  It has no taste. It is absolutely glorious.  Sometimes it pays to sit through a bad movie. "},{"Title":"I Had to buy a copy! Camp Trash!","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All I can say is this...Elizebeth Berkeley overacted everything... I mean EVERYTHING !!!!! EVERYTHING she was in, she overacted. It was so laughable, I had to buy a copy.The movie itself was good, but if they had cast someone with talent in the Nomi role, who knows what kind of impact this movie would have made? "},{"Title":"Dirty, nasty, sinful, guilty little pleasure","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is by far the worst acted, worst written, worst casted, worst directed movie I've ever seen...and strangely enough I can't help but watch it over and over again. It has that Oh...gross! Gimme another taste feel going for it, like cranberry juice, only sexier. I hate this movie and adore it at the same time. I give it one star because it is soooo God-Awful, but so are most other guilty pleasures. "},{"Title":"So campy and horrifyingly bad it is actually entertaining","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In the spirit of Mommie Dearest, Showgirls is such a terrible film that it is actually entertaining.  I would like to hope (but have a sneaking suspicion that it is probably not actually so) that the filmmakers recognized that they had quite a dud on their hands and figured that the campier they made it, the more accepted it would become as a camp classic.Any film that stars a Saved By the Bell alumnus (Elizabeth Berkeley) as an ambitious strip club dancer with dubious talent and trashy looks who butts heads with characters such as a ruthless diva (Gina Gershon) and a slimy and duplicitous producer (poor, poor Kyle McLachlan) set in Las Vegas is destined to travel down the road to Valley of the Dolls-ville.  Therefore, this film, if viewed with appreciation for its inherent horridness is quite watchable.  Since its release, demise and subsequent notoriety in 1995, Showgirls has seen a revival in midnight showings across the country &#150; a fitting fate for one of the campiest and shamelessly bad films of the last two decades.--Shelly  "},{"Title":"overall bad film...Gina Gershon is it's saving grace...","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While I would agree that over all this movie is very bad....I feel Gina Gershon is it's saving grace.....plot is bad...dialogue is bad....actors/actress' are bad..Gina is great....if your a fan of Gina Gershon....don't miss this movie... "},{"Title":"Went so over the top they downgraded the film","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed the personal battles Nomi Malone had.  All throughout the movie she refused to give into prostitution or even being a high class call girl type.  Later on we find out that she had been down that road before and she was trying to better herself.  She was confused and just wanted to be accepted for something else besides her body in a business that thrives on it.  Kyle MacLachlan's character accepted her and that's why she was with him, not because she loved him.  I never got the feeling they were in love.  The swimming pool love scene was so over the top it was laughable.  Some the scenes were not realistic because they tried to be serious, but ended up being funny.  The nudity is good in this film.  The end with Nomi trying to get revenge came out of nowhere and wasn't needed.  I like how she is able to find the guy who stole her suitcase.  I enjoyed the film.  4/10 "},{"Title":"You're Better Off Renting Porno","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you're interested in seeing this movie at all it is for one reason only- and that is because you crave nudity. More specifically, female movie star nudity. But, if you just want to see a good story line, decent acting, and nudity in either soft or hardcore forms, you're better of renting a porno. This movie was a complete waste of my time. It attempts to make you understand how girls can try and reach for their dreams, but turn to the adult entertainment industry because its easy money. The actors in this movie should have their heads chopped off with dull axes because everyone in this movie is disgustingly sleazy. I would have rather watched a good film with no nudity, than see Elizabeth Berkeley get naked in a movie. ...wait a minute, no I wouldn't. Anyway, don't watch this. Men will hate it because the story is too drawn out and stupid and the nudity is not worth it. Women will hate it because of the nudity.  "},{"Title":"as they could say in CHINATOWN - forget it, it's new Hollywood....","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Coming off the success of TOTAL RECALL and BASIC INSTINCT, it was inevitable that Paul Verhoeven would want to indulge and his 1995 offering, which I saw at a West End cinema on it's opening weekend, was a classic case of too much of not enough.The classic tale of new girl in town who becomes the star of the show doesn't quite come off, regardless of how much nudity, sex and drugs you put into it.Offensive and sexist in places but too juvenile to be controversial, SHOWGIRLS merely fell by the wayside "},{"Title":"Numbing","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There was so much T&A in this movie that after a while I became immune to it. Fine talents like Gina Gershon and Kyle Maclachlan were completely wasted. And Elizabeth Berkley can't act to save her life. Nor can Glenn Plummer. I've seen Glenn on Fresh Prince and the Women of Brewster Place. He needs to go back to acting school. "},{"Title":"Dog Food Anyone?","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is so bad it ends up being a very hysterical comedy. Or perhaps a great horror film. Depends how you look at it. Elizabeth Berkley is SO bad in the acting catagory (its really mind boggling) that she brings this film beyond just bad into the realm of the bizarre. Throughout the film she growls and spits and with that mouth full of teeth she resembles a werewolf. Not once in the film does she have a normal sane moment. The other actors? Servicable but no great shakes. R_rated version funnier especially in pool scene with Kyle McLaughlin (is that how you spell it?)were the sexual antics are sped up (to qualify for that R) so it looks like Berkley is doing abdominal exercises on speed. Summary Line about dog food is the scene were Berkley and Gershen are discussing their eating habits. Funniest scene (too many to list) scariest scene ..Berkley growling at the guy she hitches a ride from at the beginning with her switchblade. Nudity abounds in this turkey but alas sanity, good acting, writing and directing do not. "}{"Title":"From The Director of Robocop and Total Recall, Get Ready for Showgirls!","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I guess like the old saying goes, money talks and b.s. walks.Having been rather surprisingly succesessful with two sci-fi work ups and the out of leftfield thriller Basic Instinct, Hollywood had gotten a taste of the wonderful directing talents of Dutch director Paul Verhoeven. Then the men in high places summoned up this concept. Oh Lord, why did you allow this ?I would say that a great idea was squandered with poor acting, but I can't! This was never even half of a good idea! I can say this, it is shot brilliantly. The sound is well mixed and breasts are nice. But come on, Paul how much did you really expect to make with this? You must have had realized it was a failure by the time Ms. Elizabeth Berkeley had ten minutes of film in the can. But thankfully those of lusting for more in the classic Verhoeven style were treated to the highly satisfying popcorn shlock of Starship Troopers and Hollow Man later in the decade. "},{"Title":"Wonderful stripping scenes, terrible story, acting, etc.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was long curious about how this movie would be.  Is it as bad as everyone is saying?In winter 2001 I finally took the plunge and saw this movie.  I bought the DVD before I had ever seen it (it was fairly cheap and frankly the novelty of watching the stripping scenes over and over I thought was more than enough justification for the price of the DVD ;)).The verdict  Lots of good eye candy, but zero substance.  What compelled Paul Verhoeven to sink so low?  I've enjoyed his other films a lot (though Basic Instinct was overall so-so), but it's hard to believe he'd turn in such a poor effort.  Someone tell Elizabeth Berkely that she can't act!And what was the point of that rape scene with Berkely's best friend in the film?  That was completely tasteless!  It's truly hard to believe that these actors would stoop so low for the B-grade storytelling quality of the movie.Despite the fact that it was so terrible, I don't regret getting it on DVD. Berkely's stripping scenes were phenomenal.  The sex scenes were great, too (the lap dance she gave to Kyle McLachlan and the pool sex scene are one of the best sex scenes ever made).  I am glad to watch those scenes whenever I feel like it.  Just don't ask me to watch the movie as a whole again. I'll wretch! "},{"Title":"So bad it may be brilliant...","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...But probably not. I gave it half a star just for the pool scene, because I'm a red-blooded male. Kyle, my brother, did you even read the script? I actually caught myself laughing out loud during scenes that I'm sure the makers of this steaming pile of celluloid did not intend for humor. Or maybe they did... thus displaying a hidden brilliance I doubt even THEY knew they had. I have better things to do today than spend more time on this movie. "},{"Title":"Sex Film Noir hits the G-Spot!!!","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Even some reviewers who were favorable at first turned downright nasty...WHAT THEN, is the G-SPOT this movie hits?The other G-spot is that of GUILT. Remember, NOTHING brings out HYPOCRISY as much as sexual honesty (go back and read Lenny Bruce).  That, and actually having a coherent story and actors who are perfectly suited to their roles, is the big fat sin that Verhoeven and Esterhas have committed here, and why so many moralists and faux-snobs hate the film. Horrors -- that anyone deal forthrightly with the panorama of sex culture, that exploitive ambiance of Vegas!Well, it IS that kind of culture, it is capitalism, it is the desert, it is the primitives, it is dog-eat-dog, and how money rules over sex...if you don't like that, don't blame the filmmakers for a fascinating sexual film noir.The moaning how exploitative the film was, is due to the ongoing biblical saga of sexual hypocrisy in the USA and the herd instinct that we prevails among movie reviewers. The reactionaries have nearly brought back the Blacklist! As if a little nudity is GOOD but A LOT OF NUDITY is BBAAAAAADD!At least these filmmakers and actors had the guts to create a risky film, and so, SEE THE FILM, and ignore the bluestockings whose overall contribution is nil because they simply don't create anything, they just stone the first cast instead.  If you want a fluff movie, this isn't for you.Indeed Verhoeven's storytelling here is very consistent with his Dutch films, even with the classic morality in his SOLDIER OF ORANGE.Not only is there nothing exploitative about SHOWGIRLS, but it is balanced, lean, and impeccably written and acted and will eventually find a less clueless audience.So let it suck you in or fill you up, but Gina Gershon and Elizabeth Berkeley rock the rocks off in this movie!  What decade did you say you are living in?  And check your MPAA Church Lady at the door.  "},{"Title":"Superb in every way","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I actually had this film (the NC-17 131-min. version) for nearly 10 years before watching it. Was I ever surprised! I saw the low rating, read reviews, and sort of expected something, well, sleazy. NC-17 or not this is now 2015. Some people must really be uptight. Elizabeth Berkley did an amazing performance. A very talented and accomplished dancer, she was tough, real tough, and who else could have done the part like her? Other performances were excellent as well. The story? Not bad at all. Well paced, and not what I would call predictable. Kept my attention. Glitzy but it is Las Vegas after all. Many in the cast were obviously professional dancers Las Vegas style. Dancing doesn't get any better than this. Sexuality? Welcome to the real world for those who don't live in a box. Ignore the negative chatter and enjoy the show. "},{"Title":"Pretty Darn Great","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kyle MacLachlan's rear end has created a career all for itself, debuting its talents in David Lynch's Blue Velvet, and now once again here. Yes, that tush of his brings its A-game once again in this cult classic piece of exploitation film, proving that a little booty goes a long way. And the pool scene was amazing! I've never seen such a realistic and terrifying portrayal of an epileptic seizure between two actors. Really great stuff.I hope Mr. MacLachlan, now that he's in his more advanced years, will grace us again with the cinematic mastery of his lil' booty. Overall wonderful performance. An absolute showstopper. "},{"Title":"...Nothing","Date":"27 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ladies and Gentleman, boys and girls, get ready for a film that took home 7 Razzie awards including Worst Film and Worst Director. It' also a movie that almost ruined everybody's career. So put your arms together for the wickedly crappy and the one and only Showgirls. (ノಠ 益ಠ)ノ彡The story is about a mysterious young drifter enters Las Vegas with the hopes of becoming a dancer. After working at the seedy Cheetah Club, a chance meeting leads her to audition for the Goddess production at the Stardust Casino. She soon learns that this new, glamorous world comes with its own set of rules and pitfalls.What shocks me is when good and decent directors making the absolutely horrifically bad movie, and this has happen before but it always keeps surprises me how good director who made good movie that has dropped so down low. Paul Verhorven is a director who in my opinion makes enjoyable guilty pleasure movies that you will be a idiot to take them seriously, but Showgirls may have been the biggest down fall from Paul Verhorven.The directing in this movie has to be the most dullest and the most uninspiring directing and that was hard for me to say that because this guy is a great director and he has made good movies before, but this movie takes his talent and throws it out of the window.The acting and the character's in the movie wasn't really all that well done, I didn't really buy into they characters because none of the actors give nothing with they performance and that's why in some scenes where a big drama happened and it didn't work because the actors give a lifeless performance that I didn't give a sh*t about.The writing in this movie has to be one of the worst writing I've seen since...well every bad movie with bad writing. Dialogue like, I liked the way you came. or Dancing ain't f**king. Awful just awful writing.For positives I don't have much to say and normally I go in full detail of everything, if a movies good I got a lot to say, but if a movies bad then I got the right things to say, but with this movie it's nothing really when you think about it. This movie doesn't give me anything to say or to go in long sentence of why it's good or bad, the movie overall is just nothing, end of story. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are some films with great potential that somehow go horribly wrong. This is one of them. As social commentary I give it an eight; for story and acting a five. Add in some comedy and the result is a film worth watching twice. This may well be the funniest movie ever made. My husband and I laughed out loud dozens of time while watching it. This cast interacts with absolute precision, whether walking around a room or interrupting each others' wisecracks. The script and direction meld into a strong movie. What's best is that not one character ever withdraws tongue from cheek. They know it's not serious, and so do we. It's just fun. Like most other reviewers, I saw this film when originally broadcast and never forgot it. "},{"Title":"A schoolboy's fantasy","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Walking through a video store as kid in the '90s (when they still existed), Showgirls' cover stood out for the nearly naked woman, the perfect intriguing image for a boy going through puberty, and I felt some curiosity to see it- though I wanted to see Striptease more. Of course, both films have reputations for being awful, both dominating the Razzies in their respective years- except Striptease, while not good, didn't really deserve the scorn. It was Showgirls that set the prejudice against nude dancer movies, and for a reason.Showgirls might have worked for me when I was 12- the women in this show lots, lots of breasts, some backs, and some, including the star, go full frontal. The dancing is sexy. But everything surrounding those scenes is poor, mediocre at best. This definitely didn't have the artistic merit to justify the gratuitous nudity- making this look like a cheap exploitation piece or simply a schoolboy's fantasy. The plot is thin, wherever it exists, borrowing from All About Eve. The acting, especially Elizabeth Berkley's, is awful. The dialogue is cheesy (I like having nice tits). The situations are unbelievable (she immediately pulls a knife on the guy who picks her up when she is hitchhiking). The dancing scenes may have erotic value and the women are beautiful; everything else is either excruciating or morbidly fascinating, like how you can't look away from a car wreck. Who knows, maybe it is possible to make a masterpiece film about strippers- this one, and Striptease, aren't it. "},{"Title":"Imagine if the script had been good","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Good intentions don't always equal good results. Sometimes there's a kink in the machine and you end up with a dud. If one tried to add up the number of films made with good intentions, they'd have a real sore behind. One of the most famous film disasters is this piece by famed director Paul Verhoeven. Intended to be a study of the world of Vegas showgirls, what it really is is a beautiful train wreck. It's like a skin flick with high production values and an A list director and cast. It's a shame the film didn't turn out the way the filmmakers planned, but that doesn't mean it isn't still a great time.Pros Cast does it's best with the material. Dynamite direction. Concept with potential. Great score. Gorgeous cinematography. Equally stunning sets and costumes. High camp factor. Flows at a good pace.Cons A lot of awful dialogue. Shallow, cliché filled script.Final thoughts Let's not sugarcoat it folks; 'Showgirls' was never going to win any Oscars. With a script this bad, it's a wonder it even made it to the big screen. That aside, it's one of the most enjoyable bad movies of our time. It's pretty to look at and provides a few chuckles. It's also disturbing at times and fortunately those scenes are not played for laughs. Watch it alone or with friends, but do yourself a favor and watch it.My rating 4/5 "}{"Title":"A terrific soft core fantasy","Date":"4 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1995 'Showgirls' was the most controversial movie to ever come out of Hollywood. It's entire subject value had eyebrows lifting everywhere. The theme itself was a lure to many boys and men to rush to the theatre halls. The MPAA had a difficult time in rating the movie due to it's high sexually graphic nature presentation. I for sure had never seen so many women roam around topless so casually in a movie. No commercial movie to that day had I ever seen nudity depicted in a casual manner. I assume not many directors had the courage to do what Paul Verhoeven had attempted. He surely set a new standard and trend for cinema. But is is unfortunate that this did not become a long term frenzy. Without a doubt he made a daring movie which has gone beyond the realms of conventional cinema. Many would regard it as a true classic. The reason for this being that no other movie has chartered this territory even in the past 15 years.Paul Verhoeven is a competent director. Prior to his career in Hollywood he made movies on the genre of war and erotic natured movies. However I would rate his Hollywood career being his best. His first 2 movies 'Robocop' and 'Total Recall' were sci-fi. After that he made the box office hit 'Basic Instinct'. It's a surprising transition to move from sci-fi to erotic thrillers. But I guess it proves his versatility. 'Showgirls' obviously happened due to the success of 'Basic Instinct'. His collaboration with writer Joe Esterharez returned to the screen in full glare. Joe is a great writer and has always projected the different views of female empowerment in his novels. However the one flaw with 'Showgirls' is the script. Joe's one complaint with the movie was that he felt that sex and nudity camouflaged the small details in his novel. This made the plot appear thin and vague. The audiences admired the movie less for the plot but appreciated Elizabeth Berkeley performance. Mario Kassar is the executive producer this time round and also produced 'Basic Instinct' too. 'Showgirls' does not manage to recreate the magic of 'Basic Instinct'. But both movies are are different and the same team perhaps felt that this would be a profitable venture. The director manages the theme very well. Being a originally a outsider from the industry, he has brought life in to the movie with his creative skills and individual knowledge.The movies central theme is on Las Vegas showgirls. Rather than giving the movie the title 'strippers', 'Showgirls' was more of a respectable title. Vegas is renowned for it's casinos and gambling industry and employs a large number of people. As well as being a tourist attraction, it is also a wealthy state. The movie does not intend on exposing the seedy side but rather concentrates on showing the journey of a woman who is enthusiastic to become a high level showgirl. Many people she encounters throughout the movie are self centred and manipulative, but her character too has many negative qualities. Elizabeth Berkeley gives an honest performance. Her dancing abilities and acting skills are at their highest potential. Her portrayal as a ambitious and ruthless individual is very convincing. However she is not entirely a selfish person. She possesses feelings and demands respect like others too. Her performance is very inspiring and the manner in which she carries herself on screen is very professional. SPOILERS Nomi Malone played by (Elizabeth Berkeley) hitches a ride to Las Vegas. Her intentions are clear from the outset. She aims to become a popular Showgirl. A clothes designer Gina Revere lets her stay with her in her trailer. After enquiring at a few clubs and strip bars, Nomi gets the opportunity to dance at the Cheetah club. Robert Davi is the manager. Without wasting any time she becomes a professional dancer and catches the attention of everybody including Zack (kyle Mullikan) the entertainment manager and Crystal Conner s) Gina Gershon. Later she becomes lucky and gets the opportunity to audition for a showgirl position at the Stardust Hotel. She realises that it is not too easy and to become a high class dancer is very competitive. Her first dance is based on a volcano theme show. She electrifies on stage and becomes the highlight and talk of the town immediately. She becomes the media and people's favourite instantly. After spending a intimate night with Zack, she receives the lead position in a show. This upsets Crystal and she threatens Zack. This creates a conflict between Crystal and Nomi. After the show Nomi pushes Crystal down a flight of steps. This secures her position in the long term and leads to better things. However her friend Gina has a horrid encounter with her idolised singer, which makes Nomi think twice about her career and what consequences may occur if associating with the wrong people. END OF SPOILERThis is Paul Verhoeven's less intellectual movies, as the content level is low in contrast to his previous movies. He gives an alternate view of his understanding of the entertainment business in Las Vegas. Under the glossy interiors lies a world that is full of people that are self centred, selfish and corrupt. It is awkward that Nomi feels strange when others behave towards her in the same manner. I could not understand why Esteharez shows Nomi's struggle as being too simple. She had to too easy for her. But I was convinced with her Short term struggles and I'm sure that many women may be able to relate to her character. The movie progresses at a moderate rate but the second hour is more productive as Nomi's character develops in to a complex phase. There are many dance sequences in the movie. They are pictured on a extravagant level. "},{"Title":"Bad movie","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To say that Showgirls was a bad movie is a bit of an understatement. The script is just terrible, bad directing and even worse acting. Elizabeth Berkley who previously was known for her role on Saved by the Bell took about as dramatic of a career turn here as one can going from brainy goody good girl to stripper/showgirl. I commend her for the effort in wanting to break out into more challenging work and be taken seriously as an adult actor but she just doesn't have the acting chops to pull it off.Not to say that this movie doesn't have a bit of a guilty pleasure with replay value since it's one of those kind of movies where it's such a train wreck you can't help but watch. And as bad of an actress as Berkly is she did look very nice nude, you have have to give her that much credit at least. "},{"Title":"funny very very funny","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is one of my favorite movies. I love this movie is because Elisabeth Berkley is so awful at acting it is humorous. in the begging where she is throwing fries for no reason. ). However, if you don't find that sort of thing funny, then this is not your movie it will be a waste of time and money (if you rented it). For though who like cheesy movies you will love this movie will a passion. Overall, the movie is garbage in every way possible Additionally, the plot line stupid anyway. A girl who wants to go to las Vegas to be a fancy stripper. If I ask any girl i doubt that girls want to be stripper. the plot line is unbelievable. However, I find the movie very very funny. If you want to laugh your ass off then watch Showgirls. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ShowgirlsThe act of stripping only became acceptable once overweight women learnt they could lose weight doing it.And while the stripper-cum-showgirl in this drama needs more than the suffix -aerobics added to her occupation to gain self-respect, she finds it in Las Vegas.Arriving in town with nothing but a dream of being a dancer, Nomi (Elizabeth Berkley) gets lucky when she's introduced to Cristal (Gina Gershon), the haughty head showgirl at the Stardust.Enthralled by Nomi, Cristal and her entertainment director boyfriend (Kyle MacLachlan) arrange an audition for her. But not before seducing her.Once in the show, Nomi and Cristal's friendship begins to deteriorate as the two compete for the spotlight.A campy combination of comical lines and sensual situations, Showgirls is one of the best worst movies ever.And while bare-chested stage shows are a highlight of the strip, they're not as arousing as the topless buffets. (Yellow Light) "},{"Title":"I thought this was a good movie.....to jerk off to.","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls, Showgirls, Showgirls. The Highest grossing NC-17 movie and it was still a bomb. I bought the V.I.P. edition...because it was like a porno. And most of those pornos had silly plots. Showgirls is more like a porno than an actual movie. You pay more attention to the tits than anything else. You don't enjoy the story, you enjoy the tits and the sexual content. That's Showgirls. Elizabeth Berkely's mainstream career as ruined because of this piece of shat. If you want a good old fashioned porno, get the V.I.P. now. For those who want to enjoy the story, back off. This movie won 8 razzies and was nominated 6.The story 4/10. Special Effects 20/10 (it was reaaaallly hot). "},{"Title":"i thought it was good","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i saw showgirls for the first time on cable last night. i LOVED it! i thought nomi was spunky and fierce. gina gershon was snakey, and as usual mesmerizing.OK- it had some flaws? like for a movie about dancing the choreography wasn't always photographed in a flattering manner. sometimes they went for closeupswhen we should have pulled back to see the entire scene...but! it was surprising, funny, audacious, salacious- at no time could i predict what would happen, or how the characters would react. just like real life. in the end i felt as if i'd been watching people that i knew, that i'd competed with and struggled with. the characters and their situations lived for me, in a way that non- artists might not be able to understand. so- I liked it. and i would watch it again, and i think that it's no worse than many other movies that came out at that time, and could be said to be better than some of the dreck that's out now. it was way better than i had been led tobelieve it would be.  "},{"Title":"You got something wrong with your nipples?","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   Ah Showgirls, reading the memorable quotes section. The film in all its   cheap camp comes back to me, this is probably is not a good thing. The above line is just one more ridiculous statement that the character, Tony Moss makes. The writing in this film is probably the worst that I have ever encountered. In fact it is no surprise that this film is played to booing crowds with drag queens up the front mocking it. This film is just so terrible. But at least its funny. You have to give Paul Verhoven credit that he actually accepted the raspberry award in person. You never see Madonna there and she has been nominated so many times!  One of the key factors in this film is Elizabeth Berkley as Nomi Malone. Yeah, she comes from a bad background and has come to Vegas. Why? Who knows? Her acting is just so over the top. Malone is so angry she takes it out on her fries. She is so ANGRY! In fact she overacts so badly that even now the scene with the fries make me laugh. Her dancing seems to consist of boxing. Run, Nomi is on the dance floor!     Why is Kyle Maclachlan here? Was he short of money or what? The scene where Malone and Gina Gershon talk about eating dogfood...What the hell? This is just bizarre. What you essentially have here is a simple film about rising to the top. It seems like a kind of strippers Flashdance. But it has virtually no story and performances that seem to come from the Jim Carey school of acting.  The thing about the film is that not even the nudity saves it. If I want to see naked people having sex, I will hire porn. The video clerk may look at me like a sad little man but this is better than having to sit through a film like this just for female nudity.  There are things in this film that are just so stupid. For example, in this universe it seems that the only way to become the head stripper is to throw the current boss stripper down the stairs. Is life for strippers this tough in real life? It is amazing then I don't see more strippers in body casts.'It must be weird, not having anybody cum on you.' Excuse me? What? Joe Eszterhas this line has caused you to forfeit your screen writers license. You must be stopped to protect the general public at large. In fact it is better not to focus to much on this film because the whole thing gives me a headache. Possibly one of the most stupid, campy and idiotic films ever made. I give it a 2 out of 10 for having some of the most stupid lines ever written. It should be made into a musical.      "},{"Title":"Words just can't describe it!","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Film Quarterly recently devoted an issue to Showgirls, with four very serious essays by four respected film scholars! I kid you not! I defy anyone to get through the first paragraph of the first essay and not suppress their disbelief -- and their giggles. MGM has tried to pass the movie off as so bad, it's good with a web site featuring Nomi's and Cristal's now-immortal bonding over Doggie Chow. Problem is, unlike Plan 9 From Outer Space (which isn't the crime against humanity some think), Showgirls doesn't lend itself as camp (save for the Nomi/Zack sex scene, which has to be seen to be believed!) because Verhoeven and Eszterhas are as dead-serious about their opus as the gang at Film Quarterly!Where do I begin? Well, having lived in Sin City, I can tell you no club would ever stage something as God-awful as Goddess. From the 1st-Grade sets to the Nazi-biker costumes to the migraine-inducing music to the pelvis-obsessed choreography to the no-concept concept, it doesn't resemble a Vegas show so much as it does a pornographer's version of a Vegas show.Why are children backstage where naked ladies - including Mom! - say, as the little girl puts it, the f-word, the way you and I breathe? Where's Child Welfare when you REALLY need them?!And it's totally inane! Take Nomi and James. First he dismisses her as the no-talent skank she is. Then after she kicks him in the crotch, he decides she DOES have talent, and tries to convince her to do serious work. But his idea of serious work is sleazier than what she does at the Cheetah! So where does this serious artist and his serious work wind up at? A strip club! Let it not be said that Paul and Joe don't have a sense of self!It's a tribute to Gershon, Plummer, Davi, Ravera and Rachins they are able to give the dialog a brevity it doesn't deserve. As for Berkley, I always thought she got a bum rap, the world blaming her for this stinker while the REAL culprits got off scott-free! Meryl Streep couldn't have pulled Nomi off, and Berkley, with her odd face and doe eyes, was in way over her head soft when she is supposed to be hard, and psycho-bitchy when we're supposed to be rooting for her!BTW, Verhoeven and Showgirls both contain the word ho. Coincidence? I think not. "},{"Title":"Not Camp!  Exploitation!  Funny Exploitation, but Exploitation nonetheless!","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is not meant to be satirical!  Paul Verhoeven is just a bad director, and Joe Eszterhas is an even worse writer!  It's not camp, it's just bad.  I might argue that a movie like this is demeaning to women, but it's just too horrible not to laugh at.  I love watching this movie with friends as we laugh our asses off at the ridiculous dialogue and situations. Why the hell would Molly ask this physically and verbally abusive girl to move in with her?  Wouldn't Nomi have to give fingerprints to the police to get a cabaret license to work as a stripper?  Which she wouldn't get because of her criminal record!  You could go crazy trying to justify the contrivances and fill in the plot holes.  They honestly thought they were making a good movie.  That's why it's so damn funny!  "},{"Title":"Beyond Belief","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This might have been just another young-girl-follows-her-dreams-to-the-big-city-only-to-lose-everything-yet-di scover-her-true-self story.  But Eszterhas and Verhoeven ensure that Showgirls is at least more memorable than that.  Violent over-acting, jaw-droppingly bad dialogue, and a narrative which is radiantly free of plot will have these 131 minutes of celluloid burned agonizingly into your cortex for all eternity.  Others have defended this film as a brilliant satire of American culture along the lines of Starship Troopers.  But the battery of ludicrous sex scenes, flailing pudenda, and languorous lesbian kisses gives the game away.  Perhaps the crowning achievement of the Hollywood erotic-thriller genre, Showgirls unwittingly exposes it for what it really is an excuse to fill the screen with a few dozen pair of admittedly shapely and extremely well-lit breasts. What I want to know is how they all did it without laughing &#150; especially Eszterhas, who apparently got paid $2 million for his work. Can I have that job? Please?! "}{"Title":"This is a great movie","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie. If you wish to relax and view a erotic movie you found it. Most people who wrote negative comments were missleaded by that fact that director is Paul Verhoven. But I think they don't understand image of this movie, it is much better than of Streaptease You should not expect serious drama or something like this when you are going to see it. Just relax and whatch )  "},{"Title":"Uh, well... it was funny","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Actually, this is NOT one of the worst films ever made. No way. It is though one of the worst in the last decade and definitely the worst Paul Verhoeven ever made.Having seen all his movies (from the days of The turkish delight, to the Verhoeven/Ezsterhas soap-(don't-cross-your-legs)-epic, and of course the rest) I can say that in one thing he is absolutely serious He never, ever, takes his films serious. Definitely. So, if you watch Showgirls to find any inner meaning, anything more than the glamorous, glittering surface and the nude bodies floating on it... well, sorry, you lost.The nudity, yes. Verhoeven wanted to do a provoking film about the behind the scenes of the dazzling world of the big time shows. No problem. He grabs a wannabe (I'll show it all) star, gets a couple of good actors and a few dozens of nice bodies together, a poor excuse of a screenplay and... voila!  Showgirls is alive!Even in this magniere, this film is bad. Camp, yes for sure. Kitsch, also. But not a camp classic, just a show off for some really bad taste.Oh, there are good sides in this film. The beautifull bodies, for instance. The full frontals (did you people in the US got another version without Naomi's FFs? Funny, but it happens all the time, you know) some very Kitsch-y sex scenes (all-time kitsch classics, actually) and the camp atmosphere.Nothing more, though.  Rent it, if you want to see how the director of the grandioso Flesh and Blood and the man who gave meaning to the total bull of Ezterhas's screenplays, makes fun of himself. "},{"Title":"To coin a cliche...","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Did we all see the same movie?  I thought this film was rather loathsome.  I checked the time about halfway through, expecting it to be about 1000 when it was only 915.  It DRAGS that much!   Nobody in this film had any redeeming qualities, the dance numbers had no emotion, and just when you think it couldn't get any worse, it just suddenly stops.  No real ending, just *pfft!*  Comparing this to All About Eve is too much of a stretch; the comparisons to Valley of the Dolls are better. "},{"Title":"No, it's just BAD.","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls is a bad movie. A very bad movie. It's not 'underrated', it's bad. It is not 'misunderstood', it is just bad. And as for 'social commentary' - please. I can only assume that people are defending it and attributing nonexistent depth to it because they liked it and are feeling guilty. I have formulated this theory because the very thought that there are individuals out there who consider Joe Eszterhas a social commentator is too depressing to contemplate. I've seen 40-year-old North Korean propaganda films with better dialogue than Eszterhas writes. Really.Believe me, nobody likes nonstop nudity and lesbian undertones more than I do. Nobody. Nevertheless, I freely admit, as you may have noticed, that it is a bad movie. Very, very  bad. "},{"Title":"Love It!","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I guess some people have a hard time understanding how much work goes into making a film, and how little could possibly be left up to chance, especially when you are talking about a budget of 40 million. This film is brilliant, but obviously not for all tastes. If you've ever studied Sirk, seen Imitation of Life or Written On The Wind, you know where this film is coming from and why it is so darn great. It's a melodrama folks, and melodrama is a very strange genre that people either love or hate. To run around screaming that this movie is so bad that it's like a soap opera is pretty stupid, because it's supposed to be like a soap opera. That's what melodrama is. It's the framework of a dramatic text, but it is very overwrought, hence the term melodramatic. It makes you laugh, it makes you cry, it makes you scream in shock, and in this case, it makes you think. Verhoeven is a director who, throughout his career of 40 years, has used melodrama as a device. It allows him to create distance and express bigger ideas by adding more layers of meaning to whatever insipid text he is working with. His first Dutch film to be released in the US, Turkish Delight, was a blatant rip-off of the popular US film Love Story that went on to win a foreign language Oscar. Through its use of melodrama it provided a distanced, critical view of hippies, free-love and the role of religion in a changing society. (Amsterdam had become a Hippie mecca by the 70's.) This was something that the American Love Story could never have conceived of doing. Showgirls is no different. This movie has humor but it is inappropriate to call it a satire. A more appropriate description would be to call it a fatalistic, socially critical melodrama with a twisted sense of humor.Bash Showgirls all you want. History will vindicate Verhoeven. (Though I don't think it will vindicate Hollow Man, the first film by Verhoeven that I would openly call hackwork--far worse than Showgirls-- yet even Hollow Man has a few tricks up its sleeve with its sly Dan White references.) "},{"Title":"Better than Vegas.","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *Spoiler warning*When I got to the scene where Nomi is pointlessly chucking her slot winnings up and down I was beginning to think this film was not going to make any sense.Then Nomi throws up and feels the need to scrape her fries furiously.I thought that Verhoeven must have been away that day.As the film progressed I realised that the film allows you to enter a parallel universe where Las Vegas is sexually charged and menacing. A land through the Phantom Toll Booth. There is no need to try to follow the plot as it is wafer thin and obvious.No, you can spend your time indulging in the campy dialogue, the energy charged erotic dancing, Dave Stewart's perfectly suited music, and the fit bodies on the screen.After seeing this film I spent $35 on a ticket to Enter the Night at the real Stardust Hotel/Casino/Resort. It was not even close to this for intensity, eroticism and a damn good time. (And Enter the Night even manages to be homophobic)If EFX ever ends its run, the MGM Grand could do worse than put Showgirls on stage.10 out of 10 for entertainment value. But Verhoeven was right to end his relationship with Joe Eszterhas after this. "},{"Title":"Yuck! Rent a good porn instead...","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, I admit it, it's nice to see Elisabeth Berkleys tits and vagina lap dancing, and she does have a beautiful body.  But, it's not nice to see her act. Actually her acting is so bad that the lap dancing loses its charm. I wonder what was going on in her head as she read the script and decided to do the part, she must have understood that a film with so much nudity and sex would probably destroy her career permanently.  And Kyle MacLachlan... what was he thinking? The guy is a talented actor who I feel could have gone very far, especially as he has already reached cult status thanks to the movie Dune and the exellent TV-series Twin Peaks. Well, I must say, if you want this kind of action it's totally okay to rent a porn movie instead, you'll get more bang for your bucks. "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  While I definitely can't say that this is a good movie, it is perfectly watchable and occasionally entertaining, at least.  But for the most part, I was just sitting there, indifferent to the happenings on the screen.  I wasn't bored, I just didn't care about these people...but then again, how could you?  I don't think that I've ever seen a movie with so many characters that I hated.  The only character that was even remotely likable was the victim of a senseless attack at the end, so they certainly weren't trying to make a feel-good film.  Now, if all of the leads had died in a horrible explosion, THAT would have been a feel-good ending! "},{"Title":"Technically impressive, but not very enlightening","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   From a technical standpoint, this movie is quite impressive -- great photography, great choreography, great sound, and gorgeous women.  But as far as being an accurate portrayal of what a showgirl's life is really like, I feel it's a failure.  It gave me the feeling it was written by an avid fan of this sort of entertainment, who was relying solely on imagination and conjecture.  I realize I'm on shaky ground here, being no expert myself on what happens behind the scenes of the adult entertainment business.  It just seemed like every twist and turn the plot took, including the brutal rape sequence, left me feeling like I could have imagined it myself.  There wasn't one detail that made me feel the least bit enlightened.  Overall, this movie ends up being not much more than another piece of adult entertainment itself, albeit an impressive one. "},{"Title":"AAAAARRRRRRGGGHHH! MOMMY! MAKE IT STOP!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OHMYGOD! This is absolutely the biggest waste of celluloid that has ever taken place.  I actually saw it on video, and I forced myself to sit through the whole thing.I kept thinking, It must get better.  It's not possible for a movie to be this bad all the way through.  Somebody must have had the good sense to tell the director what a terrible thing he is doing to the movie going public.Nope.It started bad and just kept on... being bad.Normally, when I rent a movie, I wait for the credits to see who  is responsible for the one outstanding feature.  I couldn't do it.  Not only was there not an outstanding feature, but my muscles were starting to ache from the sheer terribleness of this terrible, terrible movie.  I couldn't stand to watch it for  another second.I turned it off and I was afraid of my TV for two days afterward.I am not exaggerating.I am  contemplating legal action against the producers for causing me loss Of enjoyment of life.  "}{"Title":"Possibly the low point of American cinema","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a thoroughly wretched movie.  Incredibly giving porn a bad name, SHOWGIRLS not only has the typical non-existent plot and bad acting of a skin flick, it also obviates any t&a value by tossing in a disturbing scene guaranteed to leave a bad taste in the mouths of viewers who found this drivel arousing.  The best that can be said is that it isn't bad to look at. That's not much.  SHOWGIRLS is flashy exploitation that fails on all levels. "},{"Title":"Disastrously underrated","Date":"21 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You know, I'm a film buff and I've seen a lot of movies and I strongly claim that Showgirls is better than %80 of them. First of all it has a straight and fast-narrated story. Believe me, that's where most movies start to lag. The story begins from the very first scene and we learn that a girl in a shortage of money has come to Vegas to find a job as a dancer. This theme has an initial suspense in it which the script never lets it to fall down. Yet some may be bored by the dance scenes but personally I love dance and gaps made by dance sequences in films. From Godard's Band Apart which influenced the dance scene In Pulp Fiction to the Travolta's nice moves in Saturday Night Fever which is also an underrated film. Plus the group dances and choreographies are so fancy and erotic in Showgirls. My favorite one is when two main female characters participate on a stage show and the rivalry between them turns the dance moves into a sort of battle.About the eroticism in the movie, I think this is the aspect which has made everybody to give this title a low rating. But I really don't see Showgirl as a mere erotic picture. It has a story-teller script. The naked scenes are parts of the story. They are a part of the everyday life of characters and the environment surrounding them. Actually here is the point we can speak about the realism in the movie. Showgirls is a realistic movie, it's like a mirror that reflects the true hierarchy and competitions in the night club industry. But the kind of realism is not like Italian or French realism, it's Hollywoodian Realism. It does entertain you while giving you shocking facts about the subject.There are some great movies with similarities to Showgirls. First of all consider All about Eve, which was made in 1950 about the replacement of generations and rivalry among the Theatre superstars. Some say Showgirls is a remake of All about Eve in a modern entertainment industry like Vegas show business. But personally I don't agree with them, the characteristics of two main female Characters in these movies are different. Another close film to our topic is Casino made by M.Scorsese at the same year that Showgirls was produced. Both pictures are made in Las Vegas in splendid and fancy sets and locations, and both have an intensive plot concerned with cruel industries. The irony is that Casino was celebrated by critics and nominated for several awards whereas Showgirls was deemed trash and a worthless sexual fantasy. I think it has the name of Scorsese as the director its reception was different. Although some figures like Tarantino have applauded the movie.Boogie Nights by Paul Thomas Anderson is also near to showgirls. It was shot 2 years after Paul Verhoeven's movie and I don't know whether Anderson had seen the other movie or not but if you like Boogie Nights I strongly recommend you to see Showgirls. "},{"Title":"Not great, but certainly not that bad","Date":"29 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Some other reviewer wrote Not as bad as all that and I agree. Showgirls won't win any Academy Awards, but I still found it to have many redeeming qualities, including periodically good acting, if you're a guy...some VERY sexy girls doing their dancing thing, and really not a bad storyline. I've seen WAY worse movies, ones I couldn't even finish. The women are gorgeous, the dancing incredible...to me, it's a Vegas movie! So, it deserves to be a cult classic. Elizabeth Berkley (Hot!), Kyle MacLachlan (loved him since Twin Peaks), and Gina Gershon plays a flaming bitch so masterfully you REALLY hate her astonishing good looks and power...again, not a bad film, despite it's obvious technical and, sometimes, acting flaws. I think it's been underrated for years. 2 stars, no way!! It's a WAY better film than that. I gave it a 6, which is more fair considering what the film DOES offer. Besides, I'm sure the behind-the-scenes is pretty true to the way that business operates in Vegas. "},{"Title":"Brilliant sleazy cult classic, unpredictable and engaging","Date":"8 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The ultimate boys' movie? I'd say so, but then that'd be denying it to any women who like to see powerful female characters who put every sleazy, heartless male character in the film in their place. And then get naked.If I could sum up Showgirls in one sentence it would be Not what you expect it to be. From the word go, Showgirls is unpredictable to say the least. There are a number of scenes which will have you attempting to predict an ending which any other movie would have gone for, but rejects the Hollywood templates and tells it's own, surprisingly compelling, story.That's not to say that it isn't swimming with hard-to-believe moments, most characters in the movie seem to have the mood swings of a person with bipolar disorder - the smallest unfortunate event sends the characters into thrashing emotional convulsions while a little good news sends them into giggling ecstacy. It's not necessarily a bad thing in the unusual, illogical world the film creates, but you will be well aware you're watching one-liner spouting cartoons instead of characters you can believe and relate to. Like many cult classics, though, (RoadHouse comes to mind), within a few scenes you'll be immersed in the world of offbeat, sassily-scripted 80s wise crackers.Of course, this paragraph is inevitable in this kind of movie, and my apologies to the entire female gender, but the real star of this movie is the large amount of female skin on show, and it most certainly delivers. While I don't believe any actor or actress should be cast for their body, Showgirls never fails to deliver some really stunning female figures. Of course this isn't of importance but it's the film's selling point.Indeed, contrary to what may be implied by the film's poster (or even the name), Showgirls portrays some strong, powerful and unpredictable women with deep and interesting histories, particularly the protagonist, whose character arc you will not even begin to predict. Nomi (Elizabeth Berkley) takes no prisoners and for once a mainstream film doesn't end in apologies and reunions.Much like the film's recurring theme, Showgirls gambles. Unfortunately not all gambles pay off and I believe this was completely slated by the mainstream critics, but if you're anything like me, this cult classic hits the jackpot. "},{"Title":"Worst film in history? Certainly not!","Date":"28 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I would rather say that the movie captivates and bursts with raw sexual energy.Sure it is over the top - but what isn't in Vegas? It is exactly the way it should be, and the fact that people who are uncomfortable with their own sexuality give it poor ratings is a given, just like the fact they start to giggle at the more explicit scenes because they are uncomfortable.Nope. This is a classic, like it or not. Verhoeven has provided a glimpse in the ruthless world of Vegas show business and he has succeeded. The show must go on - life is a stage and everything in the world of big money is superficial at best.And no, goodness is not rewarded by the god of free market capitalism either.Well done Paul - I was on the set when you made Spetters in Maassluis and loved every minute of it - pure genius. Showgirls is my second favorite film of yours, Flesh and Blood my all time favorite closely followed by Soldier of Orange, Spetters, Turkish Delight and of course last but not least Basic Instinct. Required viewing for any film fan. O, and do try and get the uncut versions. Nothing scary about sex, especially when it is put on film by Verhoeven.My rating for Showgirls is 8/10. "},{"Title":"Remember the snake vomiting up a victim in ANACONDA?","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is one of those so bad it's good movies. Except this one is bad through and through. Liz Berkley of Saved by the Bell plays a prostitute who hitches to Vegas to become a showgirl. There she encounters big-time showgirl Gina Gershon and a host of slimy males, led by a wobbly Kyle McLachlin. Our naive little prostitute soon learns there is a cost involved in clawing your way to the top. Berkley is perhaps the worst actress to star in any film of the past 30 years. She can't deliver a line and she surely cannot dance. Gershon hams it up as her sinister rival/buddy, but it's not enough to save this train wreck. Obviously, Verhoven wanted to paint a picture of Las Vegas and the kind of Americans drawn there as ugly and incredibly stupid. In this, he succeeded beyond his wildest dreams. It is actually fun to watch certain segments of this nightmare, as I happen to agree with Verhoven about Vegas and those who frequent it. I highly recommend it to lovers of truly awful cinema. For everyone else, keep your eye on Berkley's artificially inflated chest, which is frequently exposed and out-acts her at every turn. Hell, even her eye makeup out-acts her. "},{"Title":"Showgirl Power!","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I first learned that Show Girls was a box office disaster and crushed by critics, I was honestly surprised. Myself, I always found the movie quite fresh and entertaining, and still do. I never owned a copy of it, but sometimes I still catch it on some channel late at night, and leave it on - as my little guilty pleasure. Perhaps it's not so valuable as a film, but what I like about Show Girls is that it's an ultimate girl power movie, a topless girl power movie in fact. It's not so frequent that strippers or/and prostitutes are shown as winners. And not through finding a rich prince to marry, but by simply being good enough and bitchy enough to get what they want. Nomi Malone may be quite illiterate and not very smart, but she has her body and knows how to put it to good use. Moreover, she manages to do it without loosing much dignity, seeing her own strip dancing as art. The character of Gina Gershon is, by nature, no different from Nomi, however she's made a career due to her ability to compromise and accept the rotten nature of the show biz. But Nomi is too aggressive and hot-tempered to compromise. Being celebrity may not be her thing - but she still rocks. "},{"Title":"Extremely underrated","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eleven years have passed since the making of this movie, but I've only just got round to watching it, because I was bored and it was the only watchable programme on Hungarian TV tonight.One of the main reasons I've never even thought of seeing this film is the amount of bad reviews it received. And how wrong I was to listen to the movie critics.Once the film got under way, I was hooked. The directing, the acting and the script were nothing special. But the music, the dancing, the glamour and the sheer beauty of Elizabeth Berkley stole the show! My rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"Not quite sure how to describe it","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's pretty bad, but it's not the worst I've seen. And I can see why it's considered soft porn, because for the most part it is. Everything is so over the top it's unbelievable.NC-17. If you are offended by female nudity (there is QUITE a lot of it) than you shouldn't see this movie. I can also see why it's considered a stupid film but that's another reason why it's good. It's so bad it's good.SPOILERS My only real complaint is William Shockley. I loved him on Dr. Quinn Medicine Woman as Hank Lawson. But in this movie he plays a singer who brutally gang rapes Elizabeth Berkeley's friend. I just can't see Hank as a rapist. "},{"Title":"Trashy brilliance","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When a film is maligned by critics and the movie-going public alike, I think there must be some saving graces in the face of such fierce criticisms, and in Showgirls there is much to cherish. The performance of Elizabeth Perkins as the lead, Nomi Malone, was savaged by many pompous critics upon its release in 1995, but this is actually one of the most amazing aspects of this gloriously tacky yet watchable movie. Perkins throws herself head first into the role of Nomi Malone, investing the part with a glorious trash-dummy aesthetic seldom seen in film today. Perkins personifies a kitsch vampire, blood-sucking life out of this self-consciously tawdry retelling of All About Eve. Gina Gershon also rises to the challenge with an equally alluring yet brilliantly camp performance as Nomi's rival. The lighting and cinematography paints the visceral, hyper-real beauty of Las Vegas in its multi-faceted tones and stands with other artier endeavors such as Leaving Las Vegas. To summarize, an upmarket cable effort with a distinctively European feel (courtesy of the director). Not for puritans or Janet Jackson super-bowl complainers. "}{"Title":"brilliant camp classic of our time","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  those generations before us had whatever happened to baby jane and the valley of the dolls... we have showgirls, and as it says on the VIP box, we're finally old enough to see it.it would be easy to lambast this film for acting that resembles an infomercial and a script that is more transparent than a showgirl's pasty, but that would prevent allowing yourself to sit down, have a martini, and enjoy this terribly campy, hilarious film.where else are you going to see-nomi's strange ability to find a car to throw herself on whenever she is in crisis-kyle maclaughlin's attempt at being sexy, rather than that guy from twin peaks who drinks too much coffee, not to mention that haircut which vaguely resembles Hitler...-an obese woman make her breasts pop out of her dress, on cue, repeatedly-two obviously heterosexual woman attempt a hot lesbian scene for the gratification of the men in the audience (ok, that you could see anywhere)-epileptic pool sex-a crackwhore who can't pronounce one of the most famous designers of the decade (oh, i LOVE ver-sayce)-the movie that destroyed elizabeth berkeley and kyle maclaughlins' careers, yet somehow gained gina gershawn (sp?) respect-that little girl from saved by the bell licking a gold poll that was previously humped by countless nasty-a$$, skanky strippersoh yeah, and it's the only movie that actually makes you laugh during a rape scene (and i don't mean nervous laughter).what's not to love?i say vote 10/10, and adore this masterpiece of trash  "},{"Title":"Indeed, open up!","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  # First of all, I want to refer readers to jessfink's comment (the 4th (?) from bottom). I do fully accord with his approach to Showgirls. He has it all in there. # So i tried to express myself in one phrase here I don't think this film intends to represent reality (in contrary to some other annotators) - instead I see this as an arty, artistic, and even artificial reflection of reality - and I think it's incredibly entertaining, see it as a burlesque! # Heed its extremeness, imo done fully intentionally, and in this way acted great, like designed. Grant yourself to look at awesome nutty nomi and this ludicrous show (ah) and all the other things out of this point of view and it could be quite something for you. # Have fun!  "},{"Title":"Very underrated film","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Don't believe the critics and prudes that slammed this movie because of the over abundance of T&A. How could anyone make a movie about a burlesque show in Vegas without T&A?  This film (and particularly Ms. Berkley) did an outstanding job in portraying the often less than desirable world of Vegas showgirls and manipulations needed to truly succeed at it.  This film in no way deserves the rap it's taken from day one, mostly from prudes who are offended because of the skin in the film and often decadent behavior of the characters.  It's about Vegas and those folks just don't get it and never will.  Anyone who's ever spent considerable time in Vegas, or wants to, will love this movie.  You prudes should just stick to watching Mary Poppins and reading your bibles.  Can I get an Amen? "},{"Title":"Dynasty on Ice","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you want to see a big budget version of Dynasty then look no further. Showgirls is just as camp, just as bitchy, just as over-the-top and just as funny as any Aaron Spelling production.Admittedly my friend and I were the only two people laughing in the cinema but I suspect that was because everyone else there was trying to watch the movie as though it should be taken seriously. Very odd.The signpost at the end of the movie said 'Los Angeles' and I'm still hoping that one day there will be a sequel set in La La Land. I can dream, can't I? "},{"Title":"A strong Razzie winner from 1995","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSAfter watching this movie you automatically start to repeat Berkeley's most diffucult and challenging line (in ca. 6th minute) f**k multiplied by 8. Some of the most hillarious stuff1. Am I right? Did Cristal sort of forgive Nomi the attack on her? Aaa, Nomi did it to become a main star, so Cristal could forgive her.2. Zack didn't call the police after the rape. Now, he's sure Carver will get away with it and will sing in his hotel. Did that bonehead forget that the victims who are conscious, have average memory and can speak are actually able to call the cops as well?3. The black guy (the dancer) with the dreadlocks confessing that he's a sexoholic.4. Nomi, a prostitute, saying that she has sex only with men she loves.5. The guy at the audition (the nasty one). Lee Ermey in Vegas.6. And finally, my favourite. Orthodontic Elizabeth as a sex symbol, showing her most precious part of the body throughout the whole movie (and I'm not talking about her breast). There is only one positive thing in it. Verhoeven is the only director it the Razzie's history who accepted the award in person. Brave guy.1/10 "},{"Title":"forget the critics, this is great","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie a 10 out of 10, to offset the unfortunate ratings from the copycat critics who are following the critical conspiracy against this hilarious movie.  There is nothing wrong with this movie people!  When this movie came out all the major critics condemned it simply for the fact that teen TV star Elizabeth Berkeley was setting a poor example for young women by exposing herself (all of herself!) in her first feature role.  Although her acting may not be the greatest in the classical sense of acting, it is purposefully campy and funny (remember she just finished the TV series 'Saved by the Bell').  It's really too bad she was blacklisted after doing this movie.  Paul Verhoeven does a good job directing and is finally able to unleash the camp side that he hinted at in all of his previous films (especially Robocop).  Personally I enjoyed this highly entertaining film which is as good as the movie 'Bring it On', which is about cheerleading. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I know everyone hates this movie, but i absolutely loved it. The dances, the music, the Las Vegas setting.....it makes me wanna be a stripper.Elizabeth Berkley is horrible at first, but by the end she ok, cut her a break.I was plenty surprised at how much this movie rocks. "},{"Title":"Leave your inhibitions (and money) at the videostore for this evil movie!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Three years after his success on 'Basic Instinct', director Paul Verhoeven did a movie that I am sure many people asked 'why?' That movie happens to be 'Showgirls'. On the back of the video cover for this film it states  The team that tantalised you with the controversial 'Basic Instinct', is back to take you one step further. Yet I feel with Showgirls the 'team' took us one step too far! This film is widely known as 'one of the worst movies ever made', with Verhoeven regretting ever touching such a project. With its weird and bitchy story, empty characters and more onscreen 'flesh' than you could ever imagine, I would have to agree with the general consensus and say that Showgirls 'is the worst movie I have ever seen'.Nomi Malone is an ambitious young woman who has moved to Las Vegas looking to break into the fiercely competitive world of 'Showgirls'. But before she can make it as a dancer, she has to be become a stripper at the Cheetah Club, where she will do more than take her clothes off. If she wants to hit the big time, she has to be prepared to do anything......For a film that I hate, there is so much I want to say as to why I feel that way about it. The actors that were chosen for this movie have a lot to do with it. Its main star is Nomi (Elizabeth Berkley), who looked very raw to the acting game. Some positives for Elizabeth include the great body she has, and the wonderful dancing ability she portrays through her character. Yet she really does look like a dumb blonde in 'Showgirls', so naive in a very evil world. Berkley has continued to act (to my surprise) in such movies as 'Any Given Sunday' and 'The First Wives Club'.Nomi accidentally makes friends with Molly (Gina Ravera) who is one of the more likable characters in the movie. She is about to graduate from Fashion College, and works backstage on showgirls. Her character has something happen to her late in the movie that even I find too hard to mention. Another likeable character is James (Glen Plummer), who meets Nomi in a nightclub that he works in. She gets him fired for 'dancing with her'. James tries to win Nomi over in his personal life, and so she can help him in his quest to be a dancer, although he fails miserably in both aspects. The problem I found with 'James' was that his character is very hard to understand. Plummer is most recognised in the 1994 hit movie 'Speed', as the Jaguar owner.Yet this film has more characters which I despised, more than I liked. Crystal Connors (Gina Gershon) is the star attraction of the Showgirls show. She is also very bitchy, evil and demands he own way every time. I am one viewer who did not like her that much. I liked Gershon much more in the '97 action movie 'Face/Off'. Then take the character of Zack Carey (Kyle McLachlan), for the entire movie you think he is a good guy and that Nomi could do no worse than to have him as a partner, then he turns out to be just as bad if not worse than some of the other evil characters. McLachlan had a better role in HBO's 'Sex and the city'. Other people such as performers in the 'showgirls' and at the stripclubs all bring this movie down in my view.I can understand why Verhoeven took on 'Showgirls'. Its premise would have suited his sexual appetite, and you can see where he has put his own touches on it. I am certain that he would have wanted as much sex in 'Showgirls' as possible. Sadly the sex in this film became very dull after a while, with the 'female form' becoming something boring and unattractive. In fact you breathe a sigh of relief when you see the girls putting their clothes back on. Thankfully there were no references to the crucifix in Showgirls, a subject which I know Verhoeven is obsessed with.The screenplay for 'Showgirls' was written by Joe Eszterhas, whose script has some good areas. I enjoyed the whole area of the stripclub scene, and what it can involve, and how far a person will go to make it in the dancing arena. Yet there are some ordinary areas as well. The whole 'bitchy' feel came across too much, making this film for me a very evil one. Yet the story's characters were very shallow, with more of them hateable than likeable. Some of the blame has to lie with Eszterhas.All in all, 'Showgirls' is a movie I feel was a waste of time watching. It sexually exploits and degrades women, treating them as if they are not real people. It also shows dancing to be an 'eye for an eye' kind of industry, something which would distract new upcomers to the dancing profession. There are many moments in this movie that I found very hard to understand or watch, and once you have watched it you will understand what I mean. Finally, I want to mention that some of my friends have experienced what it is like to be in a stripclub. From their description, it sounded 'classy and fun'. Yet after watching this garbage, you could be turned of the by idea of ever going into a 'stripclub'.CMRS gives 'Showgirls' 1 (Bad Film) "},{"Title":"Naked Women???? Where???","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  they should have titled this film Hot Nude Girl From Saved By The BEll , I mean its all nudity, and no story....the story is pretty flat....pretty girl dances in strip clubs for money, then becomes a big showgirl, gets naked alot..the end...I dont know what Elizabeth was thinking but, she would have done better making straight porn films!!!! this is every Young teen guy's dream, to see a film with Tons of naked girls, and they dont have to go the porn section to rent it!!!and of course there are two rated versions of this film, R and NC-17 the new X rating...the film only has One sex scene....but most of the film is nudity...final thoughts this film wasnt made to show the life of a showgirl,or Elizabeth's great acting skills.... it was made to see how many limits could be pushed with this film...the question here is, how much is TOO much???  "},{"Title":"i comment not to rent","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  paul verhoeven is a great director he has made great movies like for example total recall and it's a great mysterie that he has given us this 100 minutes of garbage. there are no sympathic characters there isn't any plot twist there is many nude but the girls are too ugly and too skinny the acting is very bad even amateur theatre can do better the and the story moves like a slug. now we all now why there is a fast forward button or better a eject button on your vcr or dvd. my comment is not to rent and certainly not to buy it "}{"Title":"Hey, Folks... It's Just A Movie!","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw Showgirls several times. The first time because I wanted to relax and watch a movie. That was accomplished. The next time I watched it was to see if I had slept through it the first time, and missed all of the material that brought on the negative comments about it. It turns out that I had not slept through it. It actually kept me quite entertained.I find that too many people go to a movie and are disappointed that someone dared to make a movie differently than what they themselves would have done. If you do not like a movie... don't go back. By complaining about what you saw, you have generated possibly the largest number of comments on this website about any movie ??! True or not, it did not prevent my enjoying it.Anyone that asks me about the movie (that has not seen it yet) is told that I enjoyed it. I tell them that it follows a young dancer through apparent steps that dancers go through, if they are trying to reach the big time in Las Vegas. Factual or not, we see what we like to think is the way it is, which turns out to be what you would not recommend for your daughter, or any one else's daughter. The film certainly does not glorify the Showgirl career. I tell them that there is a lot of nudity above the waist, as one would expect behind the wings of a Vegas theater. I also inform them that a rape scene is involved, and if any of these things bothers them, and will ruin their day, then they might not enjoy the movie.If nudity of any nature bothered anyone of those people that have written a review of this film, then why did they go to see it? Did they think that Las Vegas showgirls wear long john undergarments under those bikinis and G-strings? I also note with interest, their comments about how they get used to the nudity; how they accept nudity as the uniform of the dancers. Nudists or Naturists have been telling us this for many years. People that stand to have personal gains from our overreactions to bare skin (undergarment and clothing manufacturers, magazine and book publishers, film producers, internet providers, etc.) have cultivated this line of thought (fear?) for a long time.Because of the discussions of this film's merits and qualities, I suspect that the VCR tape and DVD market has reflected it. Hmmm.. brings to mind the old addage about hoping your new book would be banned in Boston, so it would increase it's sales. Those that think this film was a financial failure are sadly mistaken, and it is still not over.Use your mind! Decide for yourself! It costs you a couple of bucks to watch it and find out what YOU think of it. Have you ever been disappointed by a movie that the critic's loved? Enjoy what YOU like! "},{"Title":"THE WORST","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls is far and away the worst movie I've ever seen.  Granted, I wasn't dumb enough to pay for a ticket to Battlefield Earth, but I can't imagine anything being more mindless than Showgirls.It combined the worst acting, worst directing, and worst writing I've ever witnessed, all in one movie.  One of my friends said it best This is the first time I've seen a t*tty movie where I didn't want to see any more t*ts. "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was every bit as bad as the critics rated it.  I found the straight dialogue scenes so silly and laughable, I had to fast forward the tape past them.  The first scene turned me off to the entire movie; who accepts a ten dollar bill from a stranger to gamble and leaves all of their personal belongings with him.I remember Kyle MacLachlan's role as Paul Atreides in Dune.  How much money did they have to place in front of him to get him to accept this crap?The sexual scenes were boring and appear to have been designed to be anti-erotic.  I could have gotten a bigger rise out of a visit to the local gentlemen's club.  Sucked doesn't quite describe how bad this movie was. "},{"Title":"The worst ever","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls is the worst movie I've ever seen, and I've seen a lot of them.  I couldn't believe that any film could so seamlessly combine bad acting, bad directing, bad writing, and bad production, but Showgirls did it.  I think that one of my friends said it best This is the first time I've ever seen a t*tty movie where I didn't want to see any more t*ts. "},{"Title":"Underrated, overrated","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Technically an excellent film, and I basically agree with the notion that its a satire. If its been so successful in making people upset and disappointed, then perhaps that was its pt? Verhoeven is a good enough director for me to give him the credit of having put on screen nothing by mistake. It suffers the way all his movies suffer...when he wants to show you something awful, he does. But where other directors have the token moral center character, the one who the audience goes by that and teaches us the lesson, or learns with us. Showgirls, like Starship Troopers is a cruel joke. Either you get it and are genuinely disgusted with what it says about us as a society, or you don't.I give this film a 7 in real life, though I voted 10 just for the sake of raising its score. There are a lot worse films out there.**spoiler** I'm not sure this spoils anything...but the scene with the monkeys running amok, and putting on makeup. God, thats the single most obvious metaphor i've ever seen...It works, but rather like a sledgehammer does. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, over the top","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Many people see this movie as one of the worst of all time. I think it's brilliant, because the scenario, acting and style have more than you would expect. Try to see beneath the surface, and discover that this over the top production is funny, cynical and a delight to watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"In some ways, Brilliant","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  From an analytical standpoint, this film is really very brilliant, though I can see why people might not have enjoyed it. It is a very offensive movie. Some people have said that you shouldn't need to know about the rest of director Verhoeven's career to enjoy this film. My reply would be that you are missing out on a great deal of subtext if you do not. Verhoeven's film (especially his early ones, and the ones he wrote himself) are extremely intelligent. Did an intelligent man (and a Jesuit scholar--a doctorate in fact) just suddenly become an imbecile? Of course not. Watching Verhoeven's early work casts a new light on this film and helps the viewer understand what Verhoeven was thinking when he made it. In this light the film IS satirical, beautiful, and downright fascinating.  hates I see something new every time I watch this film, and it is one of my personal favorites. Though, if I was having dinner with an American, I might not admit it. "},{"Title":"Just as bad as everyone says","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd always avoided this movie because everyone I know, and almost every review I'd read, said it was bad. After reading Eszterhas' fantastic book, Hollywood Animal, I thought it was time to judge for myself.My friends, and the press, were right on the money. From the very start, this is a laugh-out-loud mess. A lot of the blame falls on Elizabeth Berkley's manically bad performance. She goes from calm to over the top anger without nary a pause or nuance, and it happens in almost every scene she's in. It's a turn worthy of Scarface. She is cute, though.Without doubt, the real culprits are Eszterhas and Verhoeven, the creative team behind the much better Basic Instinct. Almost nothing in Showgirls works. The tone is sometimes campy, sometimes erotically dark, and sometimes big Hollywood spectacle. If they would have nailed the tone, I think audiences would have liked it, regardless of the bad press. The really strange thing is that even with all nudity, it's not that sexy. Go figure. Hollywood Animal is a great read, though. "},{"Title":"why bad?","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Let's face it people... 'Showgirls' wasn't that bad.Besides Berkley's acting and some bad dialogue, the movie was interesting and funny.So it wasn't an Oscar material movie but it became a cult classic and people keep watching it. Besides all the bad things there is still Gershon who gave a nice taste to it. Beautiful, sexy, talented, nice voice, mouth, nose, and whatever else she offers.After this, she played in a lot of good things so the movie wasn't that bad. nice dances, nice costumes and of course Gina Gershon.As a Paul Verhoeven movie it was good, just like Basic Instinct which was good but not that wow of a movie.Just to end this, 'Showgirls' should have not received such bad comments.It was a change from the typical routine movies that we get to see everyday. "},{"Title":"Campy","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OK I admit it. I am strangely drawn to this movie. It is technically awful but it has to be one of the top 5 campiest movies of all time. One can not help but be mesmerized by the movie. The dialogue is so bad it makes you laugh. Some notable bad lines* When Nomi's friend's from Cheetah's come to visit her on the stage. Al, out of the blue says,  It must be weird not to have anyone c*m on you WHAT??????? Where did that come from!* Gaye says  I met my husband when I chipped my tooth on a quaalude, he was my dentistI recommend viewing just for camp value! You have to see it!  "}{"Title":"Verhoeven's Unsung Masterpiece","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you didn't like 'Showgirls' I'm sorry but you just didn't get it. If anyone else besides Verhoeven attempted to make such a movie, he would be eternally ridiculed.But when a genius like Verhoeven, probably Hollywood's best current director, decides to make a movie about the sleazy side of Las Vegas' glamor, he creates high art.The story is very interesting. Shallow, but interesting. It is impossible to walk out in the middle of the movie. The direction is superb. Very impressive shots, especially during the shows. I would also like to mention the sound of the movie, which is magnificent, really adds to the whole experience.'Showgirls' is an intense mix of raw reality and high class glamor, all delivered in excellence by the master Paul Verhoeven.10/10 "},{"Title":"Unentertaining","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" SHOWGIRLS opens with Nomi Malone hitching a lift to Las Vegas where in a short series of unlikely events finds herself all alone in the big bad city . After kicking a car the owner pulls her up about her behaviour and then decides to let her become her best friend . Gosh isn't that friendly and isn't that just so realistic . Come on all you budding film stars and screenwriters and directors , just hitch a lift to Hollywood kick a parked car and all your problems finding affordable accommodation will be solved . If you think the start of the movie is contrived wait till you see the very last scene SHOWGIRLS opened to a critical panning and almost empty cinemas . It's a bad movie but unforgivably it's not bad enough to be entertaining . It's just a plot less story about Nomi Malone wanting to be a dancer in Vegas , though there's never really a convincing motive as to why Nomi wants to be a dancer . Is it the money ? Is there prestige as to someone being a dancer ? Apart from Wayne Sleep or Michael whatshisname can you name any dancer in the world who's a household name outside of their own household ? As for her dancing there's a distinct lack of continuity as we see Ms Malone flopping about like a fish out of water at a disco then in the next dancing sequence he's tightly choreographed The film might have worked if Paul Verhoeven and Joe Eszterhas had introduced a thriller plot . They actually manage to do this but only about ten minutes from the end . If they'd introduced an invasion from outer space ten minutes into SHOWGIRLS I'm sure the critical acclaim and box office takings would have considerablly improved . Hot naked women in every scene does not necessarily make for an entertaining movie Looking on the bright side while Mr Verhoeven may never direct a film of the same caliber as TOTAL RECALL or ROBOCOP at least he won't be directing a movie as dire as SHOWGIRLS "},{"Title":"Sigh  Open your minds, people","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It takes a sophisticated film maven to truly appreciate Showgirls for the genius piece of camp art it is.  Besides myself, I have found few people who can truly appreciate it for the gasp-inducing paean to penis it is.  How great is this movie?  No, seriously, how PHENOMENAL is this movie?  Again and again I watch in rapt fascination, delirious with glee as it gets more and more horrifyingly awful and more and more garishly tacky with repeat viewings.  Was Gina Gershon ever more perfect?  Was there EVER a worse performance than Elizabeth Berkeley's?  Was ever a film more misbegottenly awful than this one?  Was there ever a more phallic-worshipping, self-indulgent movie made by a supposedly competent professional?  And was there ever so much fun in watching the train wreck?  I adore it.  You have to allow yourself to be swept away by its complete and total awfulness.  Seriously.  Smoke some pot, open a bottle of Perrier-Jouet or Mumm's, even, get ripped and REVEL in the over-the-top 4th-grade acting, the inane dialogue, the cardboard characters, the cliches, the soulless vapidity, the miscogeny, the jaw-droppingly, astounding gratuitousness of it all...it is simply a bonanza of bad, all wrapped up in twinkly lights and sequins and breasts.  It is simply divine.  A masterpiece of ineptitude.  Majestic in its failure.  My all-time favorite.  It never, ever disappoints.  Open your hearts and minds to the cult of Showgirls and you won't ever regret it. "},{"Title":"A look into the world of bi-sexual strippers and showgirls...who cares?!","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie makes a totally pointless impression. The story and characters are totally uninteresting and the movie is way too long. None of Verhoeven's style and excellence are present in this movie, so not even fans of him will get a kick out of this.This is a movie with basically zero story. The movie is not really heading anywhere and the characters certainly don't make this movie more interesting either. Nomi Malone is a pretty weird character if you ask me. It is unclear at times what she exactly wants and she keeps changing her mind time after time which gets a little annoying after a while. A movie were you already don't understand the main character is per definition already a bad one of course. It really is the pointless story and the not understandable characters that ruin this movie.The movie takes itself way too serious. I have the feeling that the movie would had been better had it more humor and satire in it. But none of Verhoeven's typical humor is present in the movie. The only typical Verhoeven aspect present in this movie is nudity but besides that, there is no other way that you can tell that Verhoeven directed this movie.The nudity might be about the only thing this movie deserves credit for. I mean, this is finally a movie that isn't afraid to show total nudity and the main actresses aren't afraid to take of all their clothes and do some explicit scenes.It isn't really that bad as a movie, I mean it is still a movie that had been made with lots of flair and style but the totally pointless, uninteresting and ridicules story makes this a movie that you probably would be better of not watching.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"I don't know why...","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...everybody dislikes this film so much. I think it's pretty realistic and close to life. well, close to the life of a 23 year old las vegas strip club dancer who's doing everything for stardom, but close to life. i mean, come on it's joe eszterhas for christ's sake, it can't be that bad! and it isn't. it's one of the best. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all, this movie is nothing but satire of obsession with POWER and its necessary attributes career, success, sex, money, glimmer, etc. It includes all the elements necessary for this kind of movie poor but ambitious girl, Las Vegas, trying hard, etc. etc. All these components are blown out of proportions and it seems that really bad acting and lousy plot was what Verhoeven wanted from his team. So almost everybody noticed it and almost all comments include keywords satire, parody, bad plot and acting. But then there is also one very important thing that one can only feel about when watching the movie - there's POWER AND FORCE in it so strong it almost vibrates. Everyone is pulling so HARD, doing everything as if their whole life and security depends on getting into the show or meeting some right person. One smart person said If you want something from people make them be scared of you. Make them believe that you will kill for that cigarette or that ice cream. When they believe you they will give you everything.  "},{"Title":"hilarious sleezefest.","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls is one of those movies that falls into the genresleezeart. It's not a movie to be taken seriously in any way and it definetly is the quintessential bachelor party dream movie.To be fair though I saw this in the theatres(went in not having any idea what it was) and proceeded to  definetly be entertained so the evening wasn't a total waste. This is, at least a mvoie one can howl over. When it was over most of the comments were about how bad it was. But at least it wasn't boring.In all seriousness-the title itself is a dead giveaway that one isn't going in to see shakespear. Showgirls is what it is-its a movie about Las Vegas,strippers and what else?-showgirls. Not a movie to take seriously but hardly boring-and though i have no desire to see it again I could see this one being viewed in a big party situation with people whooping and hollering-its that kind of movie and it knows it.But I don't think the movie was meant to be taken seriously. This is not a sex moive that thinks of itself as anything else-I didnt get the feeling, unlike wild orchid for example this movie thought it was great-it was just a  sex and showgirl party movie and speaking of wild orchid this one at least managed to be better then that so thats 1 good thing. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie, much much better than the 3.5 rating, I give it a solid 7.","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I hesitated to rent Showgirls because of all the negative, and now I know unfair, reviews it received. A full 25% of IMdb votes give it a 1, which is ludicrous. They either never saw the film, or were simply jumping on the bandwagon of bad reviews. It isn't perfect, but it is well-written, directed, and acted, and makes a very striking commentary on a fringe lifestyle, that of Las Vegas entertainment. It variously examines trust, betrayal, friendship, competition, boundaries, justice, greed - and does it in a way that you should never take too seriously. Elizabeth Berkely as Nomi is great, and you can see she really exposed herself (pun intended) for this role, physically and emotionally.  Took a lot of guts! If you are offended by female nudity, you won't like this film, because there's lots of it. But it fits with the storyline.CAUTION -- SPOILERS --The film starts and ends the same way - Nomi is hitching out of a town, and is picked up by the same guy in a pickup, who the first time steals her luggage, and the second time, perhaps a year or two later, drives down the road with her switchblade at his throat, demanding I want my suitcase. In the meantime, Nomi gets work first as a lap-dancer, then in the chorus of a prestigous LV show, sleeps her way into the good graces of the show's manager, the star played by Gina Gershon tries to seduce her, unsuccessfully, she pushes Crystal down stairs after one act and inherits the star role and becomes a LV hit,her roommate is brutally raped and beaten by her hero, a famous singer and his two men, Nomi gets revenge and beats the snot out of him after she is told she CANNOT call the cops. Eventually this all makes her realize that she really is a prostitute, which she had denied, and leaves town presumably for a better life.Some say Elizabeth Berkely became blacklisted in Hollywood after this film, because in many ways it comes off as a soft porn film. Maybe she can't act, but in this film she was just great. Her range of emotions, her hot-headedness, and of course her beauty. And, the scene where she beats the snot out of the dastardly rapist is great, and her expressions are perfect in her outrage. Second best whipping I've seen, the best being the one Don Johnson gives the sleazebag in The Hot Spot.Overall I give it a solid 7 of 10 and worth a repeat viewing.  "},{"Title":"Just might be the world's first erotic comedy","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The year was 1995. Paul Verhoeven and Joe Esterhaz decided to team up again to take the envelope-pushing sex and nudity they brought to the screen in Basic Instinct to its logical conclusion by making a mainstream movie that would show as much flesh and sex as it wanted and would not settle for a simple R rating. Showgirls was meant to be a revolution in filmmaking that ended up being a punchline instead. So what happened? Well, the biggest flaw with the film is its star, Elizabeth Berkeley. One of the unfortunate drawbacks to making a movie with excessive nudity is that most established actors won't go near it, meaning Verhoeven had to set his sights a tad low. She really tries but she is not even remotely believable as a tough-as-nails drifter. Every time she tries to act tough the results are hilarious whether she's putting the smackdown on a rapist, pulling a switchblade on a man in a truck, or beating the tar out of a basket of fries.The only thing worse than watching her act streetwise is watching her dance. Characters gush over how she's a great dancer with such raw talent despite the fact that her movements are often sloppy, herky-jerky, and in some cases, resemble an epileptic fit. This all comes to a head in the ridiculous pool sex scene, where she flails and flops around like a fish on dry land. Then again the very nature of the film likely scared away any actresses with true dancing ability so you take what you can get, I suppose.Not that she has a lot to work with. Her character, Nomi Malone, is mean, nasty, and prone to violent outbursts even before she gets corrupted by stardom. She has little to no backstory so it's never really explained why she's like this. Even more baffling is that people are willing to help her as she treats them like dirt. She nearly assaults Molly, the first person to reach out to her, and rewards her hospitality by ranting and raving like a lunatic. She mouths off frequently to her sleazy boss at the strip club and never gets fired. Then the movie has the gall to play her refusal to put ice on her nipples as a show of integrity.The rest of the cast is pretty solid despite being asked to deliver some terrible lines. Kyle MacLachlan is good as the scummy boyfriend, though he deserves an Oscar for maintaining composure in the pool scene. Robert Davi is dependable despite the absurd misogynistic dialogue he's given. Gina Ravera, the only likable character in the film, Molly, is decent. Gina Gershon definitely looks like she's having a blast.I don't know what to make of Verhoeven's direction here. He's proved he can direct but yet he also somehow accepted the pool scene. Not only is it Berkeley's worst performance, you can clearly see MacLachlan in tighty-whities in one shot (Hooray for double standards!). As for the rest of Berkeley's bad acting, he could probably only do so much. He also makes a HUGE rookie mistake during the marbles scene by having the actress complain of a broken knee despite falling flat on her back. A lot of people also seem to suffer compound fractures in this movie despite the absence of protruding bone.The writing is so bad that I am baffled that MGM paid 4 million for this thing. The dialogue is pointlessly vicious and about as subtle as a brick through a plate-glass window. The characters are all vile backstabbers (except Molly).Nomi, as written, is too stupid to live. She leaves her suitcase with a stranger while going off to gamble. Despite being street smart, she's never heard of Versace or an MBA. She tries to hide her past and refuses to give out her SSN when hired as a showgirl, which not only would prevent her from getting paid but raises serious questions about this movie's timeline. In the film we see five or six performances of her show so does that mean she got hired, became the understudy, and sabotaged Cristal in a week? Nomi gets found out rather quickly and even if she hadn't, the lack of SSN would've prevented her from getting her first paycheck so that gives us maybe two or three weeks. The movie ends with her hitchhiking out of Vegas, despite the fact that she could likely afford at least a used car, just so she can implausibly end up with the guy who stole her suitcase at the beginning.There is really no point to the James character. He's set up as the love interest only for him to immediately drop her and go into a shotgun wedding with one of her co-workers at the strip club. After ONE date. It's all so rushed and clumsily written that it feels like padding. Though it was almost worth it to hear him utter the immortal line, Everybody got AIDS and s**t, and see him verify that Nomi is on her period.Finally, there is the controversial rape scene. It is unnecessary, disturbing, and cruel but yet it's one of the few scenes that works. It's mainly unnecessary because Molly is willing to have sex and the movie has already gone into overkill establishing Vegas as a terrible place with terrible people. So what was the point? To get Nomi to leave Vegas? Couldn't they have found another way? Nevertheless, it is satisfying seeing Nomi get revenge on her behalf (bad acting aside).The end result is a film that's impossible to take seriously, but certainly never dull. It's been said that Madonna was one of the original choices to play Cristal Connors and Jenny McCarthy was seriously in contention to play Nomi, so it could've been a LOT worse. "},{"Title":"So bad it's actually kinda good","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls, showgirls, showgirls. It's probably the greatest camp classic in 20 years. Some people think that the director Paul Verhoeven decided to make a subversive art film without telling anyone. The end result is stuill hilarious and highly entertaining.The plot of showgirls is simple. Nomi Malone (Geddit? Played by Elizabeth Berkely) is a young mysterious drifter who after hitching a ride to Vegas finds her self down on her luck. She is taken in by Molly (Gina Ravera) the films only remotely sympathetic character. Even though Nomi dreams of being a showgirl, she takes a job as a stripper at the local cheetah club where everyone is a gynecologist. Cristal Conners (Gina Gershon), the star of some klassy topless revue takes a liking to Nomi and gets her on her show. Even though Nomi's only real dance training is giving spastic lap dances, she manages to end up as Cristal's understudy. What happen's next is basically All About Eve updated to the 90s with more gratuitous nudity, weird dance numbers and bonding over puppy chow.Showgirls is actually a solidly constructed film if you ignore the plot, the dialogue and most of the acting. The worst acting is from poor, poor Elizabeth Berkeley. Her attempts at sexy and seductive come across as confused. The poor girl can't even eat a hamburger convincingly. She also for some reason decides to play Nomi as someone who randomly breaks out in spastic convulsions when giving a lapdance, having sex or at the club. On the other hand, Gina Gershon is hilarious and amazing as Cristal Conners. She was probably the only on in the cast that was in on the joke and it really shows, darlin'. Even the best actor can't save some of the dialogue. Apparently Joe Esterhas was paid $2 million dollars for this script. That's $1,999,999 more than it's worth. The dialogue is so stilted and melodramatic. There are some unbelievable lines. My personal favorite is Man, everybody got AIDs and s**t although It's Ver-sayse and You got low self-esteem baby, you're a fantastic f**k are up there. Showgirls is an amazingly terrible movie that somehow ends up being hugely entertaining. The dialogue and acting result in some great mostly unintentional laughs. The whole thing is so over the top there is no way to take it seriously. "}{"Title":"Some fact of the showgirls movie","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I never expected to see the day when I would grow bored with the sight of boobs but it turns out that today is that day. Showgirls has so much pointless nudity that you become desensitised to it, meaning the film is reduced to its desperate performances and threadbare plot. But the movie inhabits its own little world where people talk and act like these characters - certainly, it has no basis in reality. The plot, which I suspect Eszterhas wrote on the back of a napkin, feels like a recycled Flashdance or All About Eve but with the adult content turned up to eleven.Gershon has fun as the bisexual (naturally!) star of the Strip but MacLachlan hams his way through the picture, resulting in the most ludicrous and spasmodic sex scene in cinema history. I got the feeling that Verhoeven and Eszterhas were coasting on their previous success with equally shameless murder-mystery Basic Instinct but this lacks any of that film's sense of drama, chemistry or tension. This is a hackneyed and cheesy glam-fest, offering little to the average viewer besides laughable dialogue, a dreadful soundtrack, a stupid script and no sense of self-worth at all. "},{"Title":"Liking this makes you more guilty than eating After Eight mints for breakfast","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How I wish I could write this review anonymously. No one should publicly admit to liking Showgirls. There's very little to like about it. Yet I still do. And, looking at some of the other comments on here, I'm not the only one (perhaps there's a secret 'Fight Club-like' organisation out there somewhere for people like us?).It's about a young woman who drifts into Las Vegas with dreams of being a dancer. She ends up being a stripper. However, her fortunes don't stay that way for long, as she's offered a role in a top Vegas casino's show... which involves taking her clothes off.In case you've never heard of this film, it does involve a lot of female nudity. Now, this naturally attracted a lot of criticism of the film being sexist. And, in short, it is. However, isn't that the point? We're getting a look into an industry (whether it be the stripping industry, the showgirl industry, or even the film industry) which is heavily male-dominated. It's run by rich middle-aged men who get to decide which young 18-21 year old females get the parts. Of course there's going to be a heavy element of sexism and quite a fair share of sleaze involved.I won't try to defend Showgirls and say things like 'the nudity empowers the women,' because that would probably be untrue (and rather pretentious). But I will say that the nudity is at least valid. Making a film without nudity about a subject involving strippers and erotic dancers would be like making a film about the Second World War without soldiers.It's all pretty cheesy stuff. I don't know whether that was the film-makers' intentions when they made it, but that's the end result. Everything is very dramatic. The lead characters dances overly-dramatically, walks overly-dramatically and, if you look closely, even eats a hamburger overly-dramatically. It's kind of like the acting quality you'd expect from an afternoon soap (but with more nudity, obviously).However, if there's one redeeming feature that can genuinely be talked about, it's Gina Gershon, who plays the femme fatale 'Cristal Connors.' She seems to revel in flitting between evil and seductively charming and is a joy to watch when it comes to baddies.I don't think anyone should recommend Showgirls to anyone, without knowing what sort of films they're into. You'll either love it or throw a brick at the TV. Best to just tell people you hate it until you meet up with them in some underground car park with the rest of the Showgirls fans. Remember, the first rule about liking Showgirls is that you DO NOT admit to liking Showgirls. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth Berkley in Showgirls shows it all except for acting","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is about a girl played by Elizabeth Berkley who moves to Las Vegas and along the way becomes a stripper at a sleazy strip club. She auditions to work at a big-time Las Vegas strip show, where Gina Gershon is the reigning diva. Gershon seems to have a hard-on for Berkley from the first time they meet. However, she doesn't allow that attraction to get in the way of her diva-like attitude. During the movie, Berkley's character pushes Gershon down a flight of stairs, and she becomes the reigning Las Vegas diva.There is plenty of nudity, including full front and back nudity by Berkley. Her boobs were the best actors in the movie. Unfortunately for her, she is in the same category as Annalyne McCord and Kari Wuhrer - two other beautiful actresses who can't act. They're nice to look at, but when they open their mouths, it's apparent five seconds later that they got where they are because of their looks and nothing else.I gave this movie a 3-star rating. It has a slight story that seems to be shored up by a lot of nudity that's expected in a movie about Las Vegas showgirls. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the twentieth century","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Okay, maybe that sounds like hyperbole. But this tale of Nomi and her exploits in the city of sin is one of my personal favorites. The story is insane, the characters are monsters, and the millions of dollars spent on sets and costumes push this insane monstrous spectacle into a unique realm of film the glittering nightmare. In some ways, this film is almost a horror film, and if its final twenty minutes had been spent in an orgiastic spree-killing, I think no one would have been surprised. The texture of the story is brutal, foul, and nasty -- but somehow Nomi always manages to be innocent, beguiling, sweet and seductive.As for specifics Gina Gershon will never have a character as great as her character in this film. The whole lesbian-lite thing that she played with in the 90s comes to a head in this film, and although (spoiler? I think not) she and Nomi do not have full-on sex in this film, they come about as close to f***ing each other without f***ing each other as possible.Vegas is portrayed as a stripmall with tourists. The hotels are reduced to a front door with bellhops, an auditorium with strippers pretending to be dancers, and one or two suites with a view of other hotels and casinos. The city's inhabitants live in ramshackle run-down tenements, and you'll see alleys more often than real streets in this film's dark take on the town.Nomi herself is a cypher. She is, to put it charitably, batshit insane and fragile to the point of being a danger to herself. She stages meltdowns at the smallest inconveniences, pulls a switchblade when threatened, beats people like a thug, and her simulated sex acts are so obscene that it makes the real sex scenes seem lame in comparison. Nomi is also innocent, loving, loyal, funloving, and beautiful. There is something about her body (and you'll see her body, I hope this isn't a spoiler) that no other young actress has ever really done.I think that's one of the historical points of this film The actress Elizabeth Berkeley had just come out of many years as a teenybopper sweetheart, so seeing her take so joyfully to this hooker/lesbian romp was very unexpected. Her career was to have been destroyed by this film, we were told twenty years ago -- told wrongly. Berkeley took this role and set it on fire, and her portrayal of Nomi is one of the best things ever filmed.Other performances to watch Glenn Plummer is great in this film. Kyle McGoughlin is so sleazy you'll want to leap into the screen and slap him in the face, except that you'll end up with cocaine and suspect sexual fluids on your hands. Robert Davi is sexy and slinky and works a line between abusive sexist and huggable teddy bear. Gina Ravera is the friend you wish you'd make on your first day in Las Vegas.All in all, I can't recommend this film highly enough. Of course, I'm giving it an 8 instead of a 10 because it has a few flaws. "},{"Title":"Las Vegas description","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a typical Paul Verhoven film. He makes them funny, and quirky. It is well description of Las Vegas of those times. There are a lot of naked girls running around, trying to sell their bodies and trying to make that buck. How many of those in Vegas, my God! My ex wife hated this film, we even had a quarrel about why did we go to the movie theater to see it. I did not feel so bad about it. It was time well spent, when you go to the movies, it usually is.I remember David Latterman show immediately after this movie came out, when a leading actress tried to do a lap dance on him, we all laughed so much. This film was OK to watch I did not feel bad about it. "},{"Title":"Lots of other things besides the bare naked females to watch","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is the first NC-17 film to get a mainstream release and is the highest grossing one in history. While it's scored very well and has a number of interesting characters, the film has the inevitable feeling you're watching someone's masturbatory fantasies or their wet dream. To be exact we are watching Joe Eszterhas's masturbatory fantasies/wet dream. It's a little awkward. The story is actually interesting, I thought, even though many people only care about the massive amounts of TnA. A book I own called Mr. Skin's Skintastic Video Guide The 501 Greatest Movies for Sex & Nudity on DVD says that Showgirls has over sixty scenes with breasts making it Mr. Skin's all time favorite film without a doubt. Showgirls has been notoriously panned by critics since it's release. In my eyes, all it is is a glossy, big budget exploitation film. It's a porno with a storyline, movie stars, and a purpose.The plot Nomi Malone (Berkley) is hitchhiking in Nevada and after she gets robbed of all her belongings she meets Molly (Ravera). Molly is nice enough to let Nomi live with her for a while till she gets her life on track. With the help of Molly, Nomi gets a job at a sleazy strip club called Cheetah's Topless Club. Molly also introduces Nomi to Cristal Connors (Gershon), the biggest showgirl in Nevada.Right of the bat, Nomi doesn't like Cristal due to her snotty remarks and smartass tone. Nomi see Cristal and her boyfriend Zach (MacLachlan) come into The Cheetah one night. By forcefulness from Nomi's strict boss (Davi), Nomi gives Zach a lap dance and both develop feelings for each other. The rest of the film is Nomi's struggle to become a respectable showgirl in the Vegas light.Showgirls delivers a hell of a lot of backstory from Nomi's life. With this being advertised as a sleazefest, NC-17 rated film having lots of backstory is actually kind of nice. I liked the character development, and especially like Kyle MacLachlan's character in the film. MacLachlan also starred in a thriller called The Trigger Effect. A film many hated, but I couldn't help but like.The film is worth it for the amusement factor, and the fact you can see beautiful women like Berkley and Gershon. Showgirls is entertaining, but still it doesn't really come to the level of being good. It's main focus are without a doubt the female's breasts and butts. You can only look at that so much and then it becomes uninteresting.Director Paul Verhoeven, director of Basic Instinct, Robocop, and Starship Toopers didn't take too much of a career leap directing this. Basic Instinct was almost as perverted as this film in a way. Bottom line Showgirls has entertaining sites, sounds, actresses, and production values, but the material runs thin quickly and becomes drab around the eighty minute mark.Starring Elizabeth Berkley, Kyle MacLachlan, Gina Gershon, Gina Ravera, Robert Davi, and Alan Rachins. Directed by Paul Verhoeven. "},{"Title":"A Magnificent Movie","Date":"28 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1995 'Showgirls' was the most controversial movie to ever come out of Hollywood. It's entire subject value had eyebrows lifting everywhere. The theme itself was a lure to many boys and men to rush to the theatre halls. The MPAA had a difficult time in rating the movie due to it's high sexually graphic nature presentation. I for sure had never seen so many women roam around topless so casually in a movie. No commercial movie to that day had I ever seen nudity depicted in a casual manner. I assume not many directors had the courage to do what Paul Verhoeven had attempted. He surely set a new standard and trend for cinema. But is is unfortunate that this did not become a long term frenzy. Without a doubt he made a daring movie which has gone beyond the realms of conventional cinema. Many would regard it as a true classic. The reason for this being that no other movie has chartered this territory even in the past 15 years.Paul Verhoeven is a competent director. Prior to his career in Hollywood he made movies on the genre of war and erotic natured movies. However I would rate his Hollywood career being his best. His first 2 movies 'Robocop' and 'Total Recall' were sci-fi. After that he made the box office hit 'Basic Instinct'. It's a surprising transition to move from sci-fi to erotic thrillers. But I guess it proves his versatility. 'Showgirls' obviously happened due to the success of 'Basic Instinct'. His collaboration with writer Joe Esterharez returned to the screen in full glare. Joe is a great writer and has always projected the different views of female empowerment in his novels. However the one flaw with 'Showgirls' is the script. Joe's one complaint with the movie was that he felt that sex and nudity camouflaged the small details in his novel. This made the plot appear thin and vague. The audiences admired the movie less for the plot but appreciated Elizabeth Berkley performance. Mario Kassar is the executive producer this time round and also produced 'Basic Instinct' too. 'Showgirls' does not manage to recreate the magic of 'Basic Instinct'. But both movies are are different and the same team perhaps felt that this would be a profitable venture. The director manages the theme very well. Being a originally a outsider from the industry, he has brought life in to the movie with his creative skills and individual knowledge.The movies central theme is on Las Vegas showgirls. Rather than giving the movie the title 'strippers', 'Showgirls' was more of a respectable title. Vegas is renowned for it's casinos and gambling industry and employs a large number of people. As well as being a tourist attraction, it is also a wealthy state. The movie does not intend on exposing the seedy side but rather concentrates on showing the journey of a woman who is enthusiastic to become a high level showgirl. Many people she encounters throughout the movie are self centred and manipulative, but her character too has many negative qualities. Elizabeth Berkley gives an honest performance. Her dancing abilities and acting skills are at their highest potential. Her portrayal as a ambitious and ruthless individual is very convincing. However she is not entirely a selfish person. She possesses feelings and demands respect like others too. Her performance is very inspiring and the manner in which she carries herself on screen is very professional. All that being said I would give her 10/10 for body exposure. SPOILERS Nomi Malone played by (Elizabeth Berkley) hitches a ride to Las Vegas. Her intentions are clear from the outset. She aims to become a popular Showgirl. A clothes designer Gina Revere lets her stay with her in her trailer. After enquiring at a few clubs and strip bars, Nomi gets the opportunity to dance at the Cheetah club. Robert Davi is the manager. Without wasting any time she becomes a professional dancer and catches the attention of everybody including Zack (kyle Mullikan) the entertainment manager and Crystal Conner s) Gina Gershon. Later she becomes lucky and gets the opportunity to audition for a showgirl position at the Stardust Hotel. She realises that it is not too easy and to become a high class dancer is very competitive. Her first dance is based on a volcano theme show. She electrifies on stage and becomes the highlight and talk of the town immediately. She becomes the media and people's favourite instantly. After spending a intimate night with Zack, she receives the lead position in a show. This upsets Crystal and she threatens Zack. This creates a conflict between Crystal and Nomi. After the show Nomi pushes Crystal down a flight of steps. This secures her position in the long term and leads to better things. However her friend Gina has a horrid encounter with her idolised singer, which makes Nomi think twice about her career and what consequences may occur if associating with the wrong people. END OF SPOILERThis is Paul Verhoeven's less intellectual movies, as the content level is low in contrast to his previous movies. He gives an alternate view of his understanding of the entertainment business in Las Vegas. Under the glossy interiors lies a world that is full of people that are self centred, selfish and corrupt. It is awkward that Nomi feels strange when others behave towards her in the same manner. I could not understand why Estehares shows Nomi's struggle as being too simple. She had to too easy for her. But I was convinced with her Short term struggles and I'm sure that many women may be able to relate to her character. The movie progresses at a moderate rate but the second hour is more productive as Nomi's character develops in to a complex phase. There are many dance sequences in the movie. They are pictured on a extravagant level. "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very few movies have captured my imagination more than Paul Verhoeven's Showgirl. After almost 16 years it is one of more visually exhilarating movie I ever remember. If it is true that that this movie has received devastating reviews by the critics when it was released, I'm sure that it was because it was too advanced for the taste of his time and completely misunderstood. Extremely sexy and shameless without being vulgar, depicts a kind of woman more similar to our taste than 15 years ago. Every allegation of misogamy is completely misplaced. In this movie Elizabeth Berkley is amazing beautiful, in my mind almost an archetype of the woman's beauty, and her performance outstanding for an unproven actress. The fact that the movie still has a big audience and still provokes discussion so many years after its release proves all his artistic merits. "},{"Title":"Sooner or later you're gonna have to sell it.","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sure, it's over-the-top, cheesy, over-acted, loud, and silly, but it is fun! Come on, there's Gina Gershon, who had us in Bound. She looks like she wants to bind Nomi the moment she sees her.It also has Detective Irene Daniels (Gina Ravera) from The Closer. as the friend of Nomi (Elizabeth Berkley), who is trying to get her in the dancing business. The real guy trying to help her is James (Glenn Plummer), but first he has to get her over her over-acted attitude.Of course, she is doing lap dances in the meantime. The dance she does for Zack (Kyle MacLachlan) for Cristal (Gerson) was one of those over-the-top moments. But it was nothing compared to the one in the pool.She passes everyone on her way to the top, some times not nicely. Then she find the real price of stardom. She was no willing to pay it.And, it's got monkeys! Sure, it objectifies women; just as reality shows, commercials, and most everything else these days. "},{"Title":"A pretty vulgar show with maybe a little entertainment value","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For kinky costumes, feisty/vigorous dance moves, spectacular light shows, and insurmountable bosoms, you cannot beat Paul Verhoeven's Showgirls. So why then did this movie have to be so vulgar and mean spirited?Could'nt this have been a slightly nicer movie, with at least a few good one liners to replace all the sexist remarks? Verhoeven really over sells the product. It might've helped a bit if Showgirls was marketed as a two hour porn, but nope, it is determined to be a fictional film. As repulsive as it looks, the film is not completely dry of entertainment value. The (for lack of a better euphemism) dance numbers are hot s**t. It is certainly very demanding on Elizabeth Berkly. If only she had spent as much time with an acting coach as she did with her dance choreographer. She delivers most of her lines like an infuriated loon, for no reason. By the time we find out why her character is so angry, it is way too late. Exposition comes at the beginning of a movie, not in the last twenty minutes. Quite frankly, nobody in the cast is a respectable character. Showgirls settles for being superficially entertaining. It doesn't even attempt to make its overlarge ensemble of characters into people that we want to spend time with. The screenplay comes with a rushed ending that leaves so much unexplained. It almost opens the door for a sequel, and quite frankly I wouldn't be surprised if Verhoeven had that in mind. Little does he realize that he has sold us way too much already. Some of it is entertaining in a lobotomized way, but the rest of it is pretty gross. I can probably recommend Showgirls as a two hour porn, but if you even consider treating it as a motion picture, you are barking up the wrong leg. "}{"Title":"uncomfortable film about post-industrial alienation","Date":"11 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nomi has become an empty vessel, her internal gyroscope deformed, her soft voice a hollow discordant plea submerged in an ocean of despair, and her emotional affect the metal language of machines. Director Paul Verhoeven uses bright vibrant colors to offset the drabness of Nomi's inner world; he wraps her in a cold dense fog of desperation and hopelessness. The film is constructed around her vague perceptions and undefined suffering as she spirals deeper into the vortex of an untreated mental illness. She is devorsed from a successful businessman and has a child but this seemingly perfect life is kept afloat by surface tension, this precarious balance of her emotional thermodynamics. Nomi becomes isolated from the world, detached from others and alone in a crowd, when she speaks it seems reflexive and passive, her physical actions pre-programmed and manufactured. When she has an affair with Cristal Connors, the star of Goddess, her husband's colleague, she is victimized because he takes advantage of her weakened emotional state. Verhoeven films the tryst without love, using the cold steel bed frame to create stark right angles, the physical act very mechanical. The rusting intertwining pipes and hulking steel of the factories and shipyards are painted in bright living colors while she is dressed in dull greens or black, breathing life into this static non-living matter. Verhoeven shoots in medium long shots with empty space between characters, separating them from each other with expertly fabricated compositions. Nomi is ultimately lost; diminishing in the foreground while a giant smokestack vomits yellow poison. (A) "},{"Title":"Delicious sleaze","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I didn't think this was possible, but somewhere halfway into this movie, I got fed up with breasts. The plot's about nude dancers, so I guess in a way it's functional but dear God, no more. When you're not seeing breasts, they're being discussed or at least mentioned, in case you briefly forgot they existed. Also somewhere along the way a morbidly obese woman claims she's had a wart on her vagina. It's just a really solid screenplay. Writer Joe Eszterhas tries his best to give his characters some depth, and by depth I mean nude scenes. Sure, there's something about Nomi having a bad childhood, but really, Eszterhas himself doesn't even seem to care. This doesn't mean the movie is without merits though, because it does capture how sordid Las Vegas (presumably) is. Every scene is bathing is a very nasty atmosphere, which I can only assume is the point. Also, some scenes are just so hilariously awful they're way more entertaining than movies that are actually good (the sex scene!). This movie is bad, but I had no problems with watching the entire thing. "},{"Title":"It's obviously terrible, but to some extent amusing.","Date":"4 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't know what rating to give this crap movie. That is the first time that has ever happened.Paul Verhoen's Showgirls is simply just awful. We know it. It bombed back in 1995, and people still hate it today. But you know what, though a terrible film, it is still entertaining. The reason why the whole film is filled with tits. The entire movie. People don't just watch it for plot or dialogue. They just watch it for tits.Showgirls is the story of Nomi(played by Elizabeth Berkley), a drifter/ stripper who tries to become a showgirl. They like Nomi cause her attitude. Eventually, Nomi goes a little extreme, by injuring people and sleeping her way(sleeping with the executive, played by Twin peaks Kyle Maclaughlan)to get to the top.You know, it's an awful film. There is a scene where the lead showgirl and Nomi are having a discussion on Puppy chow. What, what engaging conversations. This is a bad film. If you have ever seen the film, Wild things, well, that is obviously better. I loved that movie actually. That is a good film cause it is sexy, and it's interesting from beginning to end. This on the other hand. Well, the movie is tits. I settle my case. I don't know what to rate it. I am up in the air on that one. It's terrible, but good in some way. "},{"Title":"For anyone doesn't go to strip clubs, and wants to take a look !","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's not showgirls, it's showing girls ! It got all the spices; stripteases, sex scene, some violence, and lesbian tension. Actually it could've been deeper with more, but it didn't want to. So don't concentrate on the Satire as its makers didn't too. Otherwise why the tagline is (Leave Your Inhibitions At The Door) ?! I laugh whenever I read an angry review about this movie where the reviewer shouts the acting was BAD ! Well, dear whoever you are, you're so wrong ! Because who would evaluate (Peter Weller)'s performance as (RoboCop) for the same director ?!! Actually this movie is more frank than these people; whereas it presented its point of view without any pedantry at all. And its point of view, for any dumb didn't understand it yet, is to SHOW (and it's a case where the movie makers were so truthful to their cause !). It is unruly commercial movie. And I don't think that its makers should be ashamed of themselves, since they spared no effort to present their goods, the same old goods, however so pure this time and without big stars. The thing is the final product couldn't be serious or funny, having nothing for the critics or the connoisseur viewer (and maybe not much for the usual viewer as well!). So as a movie about the hidden world of strip clubs it is catchy but with little to present. As a thriller it's comic. As a remake of (All About Eve) it's a bit sleazy but Hot ! And as entertaining movie, it's boldly, dirtily and full timer sexy.(Elizabeth Berkley), who's a funny pretty actress by the way, said in interview while the shooting that she loves to dance; well it appears. She forgot mentioning loving  fame, money, and not selecting scripts strictly. However, she was maybe so strict when she selected this one, thinking that this would make her a number 1 Hollywood star, or another Sharon Stone, unfortunately the movie didn't hit the mark that Basic insect (for the same writer and director) did, and she didn't have yet roles as big or better (she didn't even have the chance to make a sequel !).Without much ado, we all know that the only rich thing here was the dances. I won't say (..and the sad matter that everything else was poor) considering that there wasn't anything else intended in the first place! It's not porn, or possible musical, it's in tasteless faraway area between both, being nothing but one long striptease of a movie which doesn't want to be high or artistic. And according to that it's distinct. Yes, rubbish got its lovers. And this movie got millions since it is sincere rubbish. Big part of its allurement comes from being seemingly another sexy fluff while it's surprisingly wilder. So it is cult for everyone doesn't believe that Hollywood can be that cheap (namely oversexed to die-hard extent), for anyone who loves erotic dances, and for anyone didn't go to a strip joint or experience a special lap dance before (or will !). In a word  (Showgirls) is about achieving fame and money through dealing with sex and violence; that pretty much sums up the story of the movie AND the movie itself ! "},{"Title":"Unique eye-candy with some fascinating character interaction - brilliant in its own quirky way","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you prefer European films that focus on exploring human experience in original ways, you may find that you love and respect this film as much as I do. Throw away all formulaic commercial stories, past and present -- this one is going where no man has gone before. How many intense alpha male conflicts have we seen on film over the years? It's about time we had a really intense one about alpha females. We start out seeing these characters as fascinating female captives of the business of pleasing men -- but it's the gradually unveiled reality of their underlying competitiveness and forcefulness that turns out to be most intriguing. The writer and director understand women on a deep level -- the rules of mortal combat are very different for females. There's a wonderfully developed psychology to this one-of-a-kind mano-a-mano movie and, for those who have some knowledge of psychology, it presents a surprising degree of veracity -- especially for what was generally regarded as a skin show. And, oh yes, it IS a skin show -- a superb one -- certainly one of the great cinematic paens to the female breast! But this turns out to be a very serious film after all. Elizabeth Berkley and Gina Gershon both turn in fascinating, absorbing performances. The movie went to some expectedly dark places and a lot of viewers just couldn't handle the juxtaposition of the dark with the erotic. I think the ending needs a bit of a re-edit -- way too much denouement for me. But this one is a keeper in my book. "},{"Title":"Disgusting","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having read some of the other comments about this movie being a sly satire perhaps I am being harsh and maybe missing the point of the picture, but the point still stands that this film is a self-indulgent and unnecessary exploration of female nudity. One can't finish this film without thinking that most Elizabeth's Berkley's acting is done by her breasts and that the dialogue was clearly slapped on in the last minute simply as an after thought to the dominating focus on the strip, sex and dance sequences which in themselves focus only on the physical not the thematic.I really couldn't stand this film (and I'm not gay!) There is nothing in this movie which one can take away other than an erection and that sadly does not make a good film. I would argue that this picture does have the potential to be a camp classic if it were not for the obsession with nudity, the director has done more then make a point he has just enjoyed watching Elizabeth Berkley exploit her very attractive physique! As a result of this the film loses all credibility.I think the best example to reflect its glaring faults is to compare it to the ultimate camp classic, Dirty Dancing. Dirty Dancing avoids the easy route, nudity and extensive sex scenes, the suggestioin is made without the actual physical displayal of flesh and it is that which makes the film good. Showgirls doesn't have that simply because of the director's desire to make the film a strikingly unsubtle sex film.Thus the film is awful and really should be left in past or moved to the top-shelf with the x- rated pornos! I'm very happy to say that once is enough for me! Do yourself a favour and watch something with more integrity and perhaps a little more respect for women. "},{"Title":"Probably the most impressive Camp Classics of the 1990's.","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An mysterious stranger by the name of Nomi Malone (Elizabeth Berkley) goes to Las Vegas to be Showgirl but she has her suitcase stolen and has no money at all. When she makes an new friend Molly (Gina Ravera), who gives her an chance and live with her at her trailer park home. Nomi finds an job at a sleazy strip-joint but when her friend brings Nomi to meet Cristal Conners (Gina Gershon). The most talented Showgirl in Las Vegas and Cristal brings her producer/boyfriend Zacy (Kyle MacLachlan) at the Cheetah Strip Club to see if Nomi has any talent. Once Cristal is impressed with Nomi's dance moves, Nomi is asked to go at the audition at the Sawdust Hotel. Where Cristal is a star of the show titled Goddess. Nomi got the job to be one of the dancers at the show. But Nomi finds herself in a sleazy world of entertainment, competition and fame. While some people are trying to find out if Nomi is hiding something from her past and tries to uncover her true identity.Directed by Paul Verhoeven (Black Book, Hollow Man, Total Recall) made an enjoy campy drama with plenty of laughable dialogue and an awful unintentional funny lead performance by Berkley. Although She does tries hard in the film but her dialogue and as well as her character development doesn't help. But she can't be the blamed on this film, which many critics hated her performance. Which she got most of the blamed on this film and her career isn't as strong as it is now. Since she's best known for the t.v. series Saved by the Bell. Director Verhoeven and Screenwriter Joe Eszterhas (Basic Instinct, Flashdance, Nowhere to Run) tries to be make this film extremely erotic and provocative but doesn't come even close. It's probably the least sexiest movie ever made. Although NC-17 rating, the film has. I felt it's unfair rating of the movie. I seen worse R Rated movies than this one. Which it was more violent or more seductive than this movie.The Fully Exposed DVD Edition, DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an enjoyable silly commentary by the die-hard fan of the movieDavid Schmider, Trivia Track, four brief behind the scenes footage and more. This movie has anything what makes an Camp Classic unique and Showgirls, it is the top of it's class. But Showgirls isn't always fun to watch, especially when an key character gets raped towards the end. She's the only likable character in the film and it is played by Revera. MacLachlan gives an surprisingly stiff performance in this film. Glenn Plummer's role an ambitious wanna-be dance teacher is good but his dialogue suffers as well. Only Robert Davi's role as the owner of the Cheetah Club and Gershon's role in the movie. Davi and Gershon are the only ones in the film has any real fun in the movie. The Highlight of the film is the odd relationship between Berkley and Gershon & The dance sequences are well done as well. Too bad, director Verhoeven made this film way too seriously. When he was making it. He thought he was making an high class Drama but instead he made an unintentional comedy at best. But Verhoeven did tried his best as well. Showgirls isn't an boring movie. Since it is the winner of Seven Razzies Awards including Best Worst Director and Best Worst Actress by Berkley. This is an extremely pleasantry film to watch, when you are alone or having an bunch of friends drinking an couple of drinks will find plenty to enjoy in this movie in the worst possible way. Also watch out for the even more bizarre/censored TV version as well. Don't miss it. Super 35. (****/****) "},{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This films follows the life of a girl looking for stardom as a showgirl in Las Vegas. I can see the Director's style in this film - almost instantly recognisable as one of his films. He normally never takes his films seriously. It is pure entertainment.It seems to have slightly less production values and artistic merit than a lot of his other work and the script has some laughable lines which I presume are intentionally bad as it definitely adds to the enjoyment of the film. I like this style of acting too - not too serious. It had pretty terrible reviews by the critics but some influential people did like it such as Tarrantino mentioning that he thought it was one of the best films of the year.If you like this one, I also recommend these other Hollywood projects from him Basic Instinct, Robocop, Hollowman and Starship Troopers (I'd say the weakest was Hollowman but it's still quite enojyable). He has also released a new film recently that has unusually had universally rave reviews (from what I've read) but I have not seen it. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I had heard it was but.............","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is still a real stink bomb of a movie. It's not in the same class of dreadful as, say, Valley of the Dolls but it's bad enough that I was feeling sorry for the cast for the damage this was doing to their careers.Paul Veerhoven has directed some okay films and I thought his Total Recall was pretty good so we know he is capable of a better job than he did here. His technique is fine but he seems to have forgotten he was also working with actors who needed direction. Some of the acting makes me wonder if there was any rehearsal or even a script.Yes, there was a script if that's what you call that thing written by Joe Esterhaus. And to think he used to be one of the premier writers for Rolling Stone back in its 70s heydey.This movie is dreck - not awful enough to be good and not good enough to watch. All it is is a big misfire.Don't bother. "},{"Title":"a Bad Bad movie but not as bad as always claimed","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While most reviewers ripped this movie apart when it first came out, it isn't a bomb i can say that much,However, it is a bad movie in the sense of an Ed Wood movie.The plot is silly, the dialogue bad, the sex scenes embarrassing, and not one character has chemistry with any other.I usually love Verhoeven's films because he is so talented. I loved the Fourth man, and Robocop still is a favorite movie of mine. However, these are art films(Yes, RObocop isn't just an action movie as it wants you to believe). Showgirls isn;t art. its trash. Its what you expect to see on a soap opera only with the nudity and sex left in. Berkley is decent, Gershon was wonderful choice, but the script just let everyone down. Whatever the appeal first was when they read the script obviously doesn't translate to the screen.The movie now plays on VH1 with the directors name removed(he should of done that before the release), even in a edited version you can see there is no hope in to making this mess good.some claim it's a retelling of all about eve and Cinderella. Maybe it steals its themes from there but its no where on par with any of those.still, i've seen worse so i can't completely trash the film. it would make a great MST3K episode however "}{"Title":"Comparison to 'The Red Shoes'","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Conceptually, 'Showgirls' is an twisted remake of 'The Red Shoes'. The plot and acting of Moira Shearer in 'The Red Shoes' is on a par with, and certainly is no more believable than the acting of Elizabeth Berkley, if both were evaluated by standards in place today. In my view, Joe Eszterhas did a disservice to Hans Christian Anderson. There actually is a story floating on top of the realistic non-pornographic nudity, which is not necessarily gratuitous when you consider the context in which it appears. Gina Gershon and Kyle MacLachlen do a good job with what they were given to work with. Rumor has it that the the idea for the film was conceived between the 2nd and 3rd Double Lattes by possibly inebriated Paul Verhoeven and Joe Eszterhas at a local upscale restaurant after a very long dinner meeting regarding an entirely different project. "},{"Title":"What the","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was shocked and disturbed by this movie the nudity was so full on, the script so full of hole and the acting was cheesy... I loved it. If you haven't seen it go for it, it's the type of movie that every one has to see. It is so bad it's good. Though there are many cringe worthy moments throughout the movie, it at times is entertaining. If anything see the movie for a particular love scene, in which Burkley looks like she is having a seizer, it's probably the best acting I have ever seen. This is a movie to be watched with friends with a few beers and be prepared to laugh hysterically, at the bad hair, the bad breasts and the term in which Versace is used. All up see it because, this is a one of a kind movie. Brilliant yet trash. "},{"Title":"Showgirls","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK, so it's trash. I mean Showgirls is complete and utter trash. But it's artful trash, and therefore it is not a total waste of celluloid.Showgirls was Dutch filmmaker Paul Verhoeven's fourth American film, his first being RoboCop (1987) and was followed by Total Recall in 1990 and 1992's Basic Instinct. It has been said that with the release of 1995's Showgirls, director Paul Verhoeven and writer Joe Eszterhas were attempting to start a movement in Hollywood that would include the release of many NC-17-rated pictures; Showgirls was the first. Unfortunately, as with some brilliant marketing ploys, the plan backfired and Showgirls was awarded the Razzie for worst picture of the decade; an honor I (as well as many others) feel was warranted.Sure, it's almost non-stop and excessive skin and f*****g on screen for two hours. Verhoeven is bringing his unique European touch to Showgirls, which I feel is an element most of my fellow American moviegoers did not pick up back in that turbulent year of 1995.But as I stated earlier, it's trash, but it's good trash.3/10 "},{"Title":"Showgirls was a blast","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Danish cable television just aired 'Showgirls' and I loved it. Then I read some public critiques on it on the net and they had me wondering what these people expected of it; some social realism or what? I found the movie a blast. It was a great Hollywood entertaining flick; it had humour, action, a passable plot, nudity in an artful way, sex, and good acting. Elisabeth Berkeley did an awesome piece of work as the feisty Nomi. What energy she had, often having to shoot dancing scenes in high heels 16 hours a day and being 1/6th of the movie stark naked! Gina Gershon was superb as the bitchy, calculating and seductive Crystal, and Kyle Mac(something) was not bad either. The last (French) kiss between Nomi and Crystal was justification enough to watch the movie only by itself. "},{"Title":"a bit of trivia","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" when showgirls was awarded a rasberry (RAZZIE) they showed a sex-scene in the pool to characterize the film. Paul Verhoeven actually was there to take the award home. and he even prepared a little speech.he said that in the Netherlands people always found his films too crude. and that people shunned him for the explicity in his films. now that finally in America there are people to disapprove his work, he must then finally be accepted in American society. this way he managed to turn something negative into something positive. that's also an approach i haven't seen before in Hollywood directors.this is off-course a Razzie-award first.i can already imagine the look on the organizers faces to see Paul Verhoeven approach the stand. "},{"Title":"failed but not failure","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember when this movie came out in theaters; Elizabeth Berkeley was trying to escape her typecast from Saved by the Bell. I'm not sure she did; she's still 100% ditsy in this one. Though this film originally intended to be a drama about those poor mistreated showgirls in Las Vegas, it turned out to be a B-movie comedy about bad acting and bad sex films. It failed in its original intentions, but it is well worth watching for a laugh. It's comedic value is sure to make it a cult classic. Gina Gershon's worldly wise tough exterior showgirl only belies Elizabeth's painful gullibility, greatly adding to the comedic value of this one. "},{"Title":"A director has two paths, either the good movie path or the bad movie path","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Now, he accidentally stepped into the bad movie path. I think he was meaning to make a good movie. And it did have potential. But the main problem was the casting(Elizabeth Berkley) and the script. Now Elizabeth Berkley, let's start with her. Most remembered before as Jessie from Saved by the Bell. What a dramatic change of characters. Nomi is not a character that can be loved or have some kind of feeling. I mostly just wanted to kick her butt. Because she didn't put any kind of energy into her character as Nomi should have been portrayed.**********WARNING SPOILERS************Then there were some questions, like1.) How could no one notice Nomi pushing Crystal down the stairs? Molly was the only one who noticed?2.) Was the rape scene with Molly neccessary? I couldn't really see how it fit with the story.3.) James turned out to be a jerk. And you then question his loyality and when he's being honest or not. I don't know, I'm going to be kind and give it a 3/10 "},{"Title":"um . . . .","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie because I wanted to see what the fuss was about.  And I am offering a reason because watching the movie makes a person ask the question.The plot is that a young woman wants to be a feature topless dancer in Vegas.  After a while she achieves that ambition and the movie is over.At least one reviewer proclaims that the female lead refuses to be a prostitute.  Since she does a lap dance for the male lead that is paid for by Gina Gershon, it seems to me that she did include prostitution.  What she would not do was bed a friend for free.Will anyone see a movie whose female lead is Elizabeth Berkley?Also, it's a matter of taste, but I prefer to look at women who are not too thin to be runway models.  No point in renting this for the nudity in that case.BTW, Berkley achieves her ambition as a dancer by tripping the lead dancer; turns out Gina got the part that way, too.  There's a real lesson about the ethics of topless dancers, I guess. "},{"Title":"Despicable","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For lonely sad-acts who don't have any porn movies this is the answer. But even the horniest of people may get bored as every two minutes a breast is flashed. To the plot. There isn't one. It's just one big porno. The script is without exaggeration the worst ever written. I'm not too sure the movie isn't the worst ever either.  "},{"Title":"One of my favourites.","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't figure out why this movie is given such a hard time.  Keep in mind that the story here is of a woman who seeks fame and fortune in Las Vegas, but she wants to be known for her talent rather than her body.  What would you expect to see from that storyline, sex, nudity, betrayal, people trampling one another to reach the top?  It's all here and if that's what was expected, it delivers BIG TIME.  The movie made me feel as though i was right there watching in person, it seemed to come alive before my very eyes.  Elizabeth Berkley gave a fantastic performance which captured my attention from start to finish, i can't believe she is the same actress who was in Saved By the Bell.  The rest of the cast were all great too, the movie has the most dazzling dance performances i have ever seen.  Forget Dirty Dancing and Flashdance, i'll take Showgirls anytime.  Showgirls would be listed among my top ten favourite movies of all time and i have seen thousands so that's saying something. "}{"Title":"Paul Verhoeven's best movie","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Clearly Paul Verhoeven's best movie. Everybody I know who have seen this film thinks what the story is the worse thing they ever seen. But I don't think they understand what this movie is about. Showgirls is not just about  striptease and sex. It's about reaching the top and how some people are ready to sacrifice everything to get there.But most of all It's about friendship between Molly and Nomi and they do everything for each other. It's also about hate and envy between Julie and Annie (funny).Glenn Plummer is very funny as well. My mark 7+ "},{"Title":"Sucks, but not in a good way!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If there is a worse movie out there, some production company kept it from hitting the theatres.  Imagine a wonderous budget spent on a film about girls willing to beat the crap out of each other for the chance to appear naked on stage.  Who the hell writes this stuff?  While most people would say that this movie was supposed to be just a glimpse at some T&A, I would have to say that even that wasn't great.  There's actually one scene where Jesse Spano is dancing around for some dude and then he put his hand down her pants to find out that it's her time of the month.  Who the hell writes this stuff?   "},{"Title":"Just trashy T&A...","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't appreciate dancing or dance films, but at least this one got one thing right -  when the plot is dreck, and the acting (except for Gershon and Maclachlan) rotten,  show T&A, lots and lots of T&A.  Everybody enjoys a little bit of candy sometimes, even  cheap nickle and dime quality... "},{"Title":"Flawlessly bad the best bad film ever made?","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watch. Cringe. Watch Cringe.This is like an Ed Wood film with a $100M budget. I can't really make out what point our esteemed film crew is trying to make here, but they're saying it with style and professionalism.Elizabeth Barkley is way out to lunch as Nomi. Oh my god! She brings the character to life, but what an idiotic character! Supporting players Kyle Maclachlan and Gina Gershon are studiously slimy. Viva Las Vegas, y'all.You have to see it to believe it and even then you probably won't believe it. I suggest you watch this as though it were a mystery. Comedy. No, a horror movie. No....... "},{"Title":"A raunchy tale of a hooker's adventures in Sin City","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is crazy. The acting is alright, but mostly i treated this movie like a comedy. There is so much skin in this movie that it takes away from any plot.The plot was just an excuse to get the ex-Saved By the bell star to have sex with guys and me a total b**ch to all the people around her. Unless you're looking to get yourself off, dont bother with the film. Cuz that's basically what its good for.The plot would probably only be enjoyed by females, but the sex scenes would only be enjoyed by males. So, i dont know who would enjoy this movie. The only credit i give to this movie is that director had the guts make it a hollywood film, and actually be a hotel-room romp, with the quality of a porno film. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films of the last decade!","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film had more comedy in it than many of Hollywood's intentional comedies.  Perhaps if they had tried to market it as a comedy, it would have been better received; after all, why must every American comedy fall under slapstick?Needless to say, I had a great laugh watching this film in German in Europe, on VH1 with the floating tops, and the NC-17 version over the years.  This is a film that comes across as painfully unresearched (i.e., showgirls usually become strippers, rather than the other way around, because strippers make far more money), Elizabeth Berkley overacts the entire time, with Nomi seemingly having alternating manic-depressive episodes, and the dialogue is hilarious and eminently quoteable.  I'm not a whore, I'm a dancer!  Good bad stuff. "},{"Title":"So, what was the moral of the story?","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	Spoiler Warning! If you want to see this movie without any knowledge of what this movie is about, or how it ends, you should crawl out from under your rock, or stay there. Yeah, stay there.Showgirls. Is this really classifiable as a movie, or is it something else?  Is it a new beast unseen before these times, or a beast that has been seen around town foaming at the mouth and chasing kids coming home from school? Yeah, the latter of the two fits just right. I my mind, I see two people, running down a hallway. One is carrying a book of Aesop's Fables; the other is carrying a can of crumpled discarded writings by Anias Nin. As the two pass each other, a third person, carrying a copy of `Spastic Dance Moves for Dummies,' comes screaming around the corner and runs right into the other two. After the clouds of words settle, the three look in the middle of the hallway to find a neatly stapled script with the title Showgirls. Two of them run away in terror, but the third picks it up and a movie is made from it. Not many realized, but this stack of paper had powers that could alter peoples' minds, kinda like the Jedi mind trick. And now, here we are. A completed thing that was about 2 hours long and about as frustrating to make sense of as Vector Processing Architecture is presented to us. Thank you? No.A girl moves to Vegas to be a dancer, but not that kind. However, it is that kind that she becomes. After beating on a car, she meets a seamstress who works at the Stardust. After a sex scene with the show's producer, which looks more like an epilepsy fit, and some other scenes with dialogue so poor that it creates rifts in time, this girl pushes her rival down the stairs. Who is to take her place? The girl, you know, whosywhatsit. She then decides that dancing is not for her, and she leaves town. The moral of the story is that inflicting injuries is how you get around in life when sleeping around is not enough. Did I like it? Sure, it was fun to watch, yes, and to listen to. But I cannot escape the thought that the people who saw the first A-Bomb explosion must have thought the same thing I was thinking, what monsters create such things?  "},{"Title":"Non stop CHEEZE!","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Campy, cheesy, and fun!  This movie is really hilarious (except for the rape scene, of course).  The dancing is great, I love the costumes and the acting is over/under the top.  Sure, some say it's a waste of two hours but for me it fulfills some dancer fantasy of running of to Las Vegas and be a showgirl. I just saw it on VH1 again and I can't help but really laugh at how they computer generated bras for the girls in Naomi's scene as the star of the show.  Elizabeth Berkley looks beautiful and certainly overacts her agression. You won't believe all the cliches!  They just flow right along. "},{"Title":"A Comedy If Anything Else","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen Showgirls 5 times, the first time was the NC-17 version, and I have to say, it is more funny than compelling.  This is the type of movie you just let go and watch.  Don't look for any answers to the universe or a Rocky scenario with Elizabeth Berkley struggling to be somebody.  Just watch it for the funny movie it is.  The characters are hilarious and after going to Vegas many times, it is believable that the life of a showgirl is a dog eat dog world.  So everyone who wants to complain that they wasted two hours of their life watching this film, realize you could have just let all biases go and just enjoy a funny film about people we run into everyday. "},{"Title":"Glitz and G-strings are always fun...","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Is SHOWGIRLS really that bad? From a humorless critic's standpoint, yes; the movie has some of the worst acting and dialogue ever employed in a big-budget Hollywood movie. It's two hours of celluloid I'll bet that everyone involved quickly put behind them.But for anyone who appreciates what is commonly referred to as camp, it's a near-masterpiece. SHOWGIRLS (like BEYOND THE VALLEY OF THE DOLLS, an early camp classic) is pure pop entertainment that just gets better with repeat viewings. It'd be nearly perfect if it wasn't for that buzz-killing rape scene. With its endlessly quotable dialogue (I'm erect - why aren't you erect?), ridiculous choreography (gotta love that lapdance) and constant nudity, SHOWGIRLS is the Velveeta of cheese-fests, and it's certainly not boring.Not boring. I can't tell you how many movies cannot fulfill even this basic requirement (try sitting through GLITTER more than once, for instance). SHOWGIRLS is best seen with the booze of your choice while in the company of several of your closest catty friends to maximize the MST3K-like experience (question, for example, why Nomi appears to have two different-colored eyes). And, c'mon where else are you gonna see two women bonding over dogfood?  "}{"Title":"A Bad Remake","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was nothing more than a bad remake of 42nd street with breast. All i can really say is next time make it a full blown porn or don't bother making the movie. Also the acting was terrible it was like watching saved by the bell (the flunked out of college years). "},{"Title":"No doubt about it The WORST film ever, but...","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...I certainly didn't hate it. I just didn't *like* it.I first saw the NC-17 version on video when I was 17. First off, I didn't think that the film deserved such a rating, since it's really no worse than what you see on the late-night movie channels, and all those sex-fests are rated 'R'. The nudity wasn't anything to write home about, either. I think if the writers, directors, and producers of this movie weren't going for cheesy soft-core porn, they could have really made a great, shocking film about what showgirls in Vegas have to go through to make it to the top of the business.'Saved By the Bell' cutie Elizabeth Berkley is Nomi Malone, a gorgeous stripper who wants nothing more than to do be a Vegas showgirl. The way to the top isn't easy. She has a bonk the right guys, use the best drugs, and shove the right leading showgirls down the stairs of the dressing room so Nomi can take their place. The three steamy scenes of the movie consisted of Nomi showing her breasts to a Vegas impresario, a wild sex scene in a pool (Nomi looks like a fish out of water, literally) and a brief lesbian kiss between Nomi and her main competition, Cristal Conners (Gina Gershon).Not a bad movie, if you have nothing better to watch. I would imagine the director's rated R version is worse. But even though I admit I didn't hate it, I still vote it as one of the worse (if not THE worse) film ever made.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made-deserves all of it's razzies","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on VH1 a while ago. Because there was nothing else to do I just started watching it and even the first 20 minutes are unbearable.The movie is basically like going to a strip club. There's a ton of naked ladies who just need to get paid (and in this case so do the actresses).Showgirls would have been at least an OK movie if it weren't so much about getting female nudity. Even though the bodies are nice, the script, acting, and directing are all horrible. Grade F "},{"Title":"What a hoot!","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  LOL, I am 'Laughing Out Loud' as I type this!This movie is so bad, it's funny.  As I've mentioned in past reviews, I like to rent 'the worst movies of all time' to see what all the fuss is about.  I had the pleasure of renting Showgirls over the weekend.I don't know where to start.  First, the movie is offensive to a lot of people.  Consider this 'UNNECESSARY' dialogue that goes something like this  He says I want to make love to you.  She says Not now, I have my period.  He says No way!  she says Check if you don't believe me.  So the guy sticks his hand down her pants, grins, then smells his fingers.What a mess!  I wasn't really offended by this flick because I have seen enough porno.  But what a hoot.  What what kind of writer and director are these guys?  Why not just hire Nina Hartley and Tom Byron and go for broke?The acting is so bad.  The dialogue is much worse.  So much so, I fell out of my seat laughing.  Consider when one of the dancing females falls on stage and cries out in horrific pain My knee, my knee, oh my God, my knee!  A stage hand comes out quickly to help her and touches her knee, she screams, and he says It's her knee!  LOL, I can't stop laughing.Anyway, if you are like me and enjoy laughing at bad movies, this is a MUST.  Considered one of the worst of all time, I recommend having some laughs.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With `Showgirls,' Verhoeven has made an obviously scandalous, shocking movie.  He has already done such movies before.  The story of the main character, disappointingly played by Elizabeth Berkeley, and her life in Las Vegas, could have been presented in an interesting and appealing manner, but the problem here is the terrible script.  It lacks interest and originality, maintaining a continually monotonous pace in which characters remain mediocre because there is no plot interest.  I don't really understand why Eszterhas is one of the highest paid writers in Hollywood.Verhoeven gives us a combination of `Flashdance,' `A Chorus Line,' and music of the 40's that results in a movie that isn't artistic or interesting.  The erotic elements are poorly handled here.  The director seems barely in control.As for the acting in this movie, there isn't much to say, except that I'm really disappointed that the nice girl in `Saved by the Bell' would have agreed to take on such a sleazy role.  I hope Elizabeth Bentley will do better next time. Overall, the movie is a disappointment.  I expected a dramatic story about Las Vegas, perhaps a description of the dancer's discontentment with her job.  I can understand that people like the movie because it presents a lot of naughtiness and naked bodies and such.  That might have worked if the movie had had a good plot.  But it doesn't, so it's better to avoid it.   3/10    "},{"Title":"Possibly The Worst Movie of All Time","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is possibly the worst movie of all time.  Nomi Malone, the character played by Elizabeth Berkley, spends the entirety of the movie having one big hissy fit.  So bad it's worth watching.  I recommend this one for a good night of accidental comedy.   "},{"Title":"Unforgiven in Las Vegas","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Folks, this is a movie, it is THEATER, and on a grand scale. It is not a documentary, not a romance, and not really a drama. It is more like opera or Shakespeare, where knowing the story ahead of time, or having seen it before, makes it even more enjoyable to watch (I hate opera, by the way, but if operas were staged as dynamically and erotically as this movie, I would change my attitude). The central character here, Nomi, in many ways reminds me of William Munny in Unforgiven. She is an archetypal outlaw, unapologetic about past and present transgressions of other people's rules, but with a very precise moral compass of her own, a compass which sets the direction of the entire story arc, and which allows her to triumph over much smarter and more powerful people. She went to Las Vegas and won herself.I rented the DVD mainly to watch the dancing. Because of the many poor reviews I planned to fast forward through the rest of the film. But to my surprise the whole movie proved excellent, and I would happily watch it again. This rates it 8/10 in my view -- higher than the 6/10 I rate Unforgiven, which I did enjoy but have no desire to watch again, and worlds higher than the 2/10 I gave to the offensively self-contradicting and self-defeating Moulin Rouge (the blood in Moulin Rouge is obscenely out of place in that frenetic cartoon; the blood in Showgirls is part of the story -- underneath the makeup and the ruthlessness are people who bleed).And the dancing is great. An actress can fake being an astrophysicist or a lawyer. She can't fake being a dancer. Elizabeth Berkley is astonishingly good, both as an accomplished dancer, and at giving the impression of being a mostly unschooled natural talent, adept at picking up moves quickly (I photographed dancers for 7 years, and even the most talented still have to work and practice hard). Gina Gershon is not quite on that level as a dancer, but she is equally good in her role. The ongoing confrontation between the two women is mythic in scale, and ties the movie together perfectly. It makes me wonder what went on behind the scenes at Delphi, and in the goddess temples of the ancient world. Whatever expectations you might bring to this movie, try to set them aside. You still might not like it, but accepting the film on its own terms certainly worked for me.  "},{"Title":"movie is bad............its bad!!!!!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I bought this movie on DVD.  It is horrible, but I used it a lot, if you know what I mean.  I am done watching it.  I wonder if anyone wants to buy it.  The only movie I can think of that is more horrible is coyote ugly.  I used that one too, but it is horrible acting. "},{"Title":"I have never! Ever! Ever! Never! Nerver!","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this in the theaters on opening night. Wow, this movie was terrible. Of all the movies where I've thrown comments out loud at the screen, this has to be the one where I got the best reception. The house was packed and I had the entire theater literally crying with laughter. Nobody cared that I was providing color commentary! The screenplay is atrocious. As an aspiring screenwriter, I will never understand how Joe Haagen-Dazs has made so much money writing scripts. It gives me hope cause if chock like this gets produced, my stuff should get greenlighted just on general principle. I forgive Verhoeven because the man is obviously a tad deranged but he has provided me with a couple of classics. Still, I am appalled. The nerve! I have never! The acting is a spectacle in itself. Only two people walk away unscathed, Gina Gershon and Gina Ravera. I hate to say it but I actually laughed at the scene where the latter of the two walked out into the middle of a party with blood running down her legs after being raped by some Fabio-wannabe and his goons. I don't find the subject of rape amusing in any way but that's how bad this movie is! I have nothing else to say other than this movie sucks golf balls through garden hoses like nobody's business. Grade-A chock! If you feel the need to be insulted, rent this or have someone else rent it. Either way, you'll still feel cheated. This movie stinks! The equivalent of having someone vomit on your favorite white linen suit. Warning may cause side effects such as stomach cramps, mind cramps and cramp cramps. The horror! Rating 0* out of *****. "},{"Title":"The Thing Is, They WERE Serious...","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A camp classic and considered oh so cool in NYC??? Oh, Really? People, People Work with me here!!! They were SERIOUS when they made this film, they weren't trying to satirize anything. Ezterhaus is the most overrated -- and most obscenely wealthy - screen writer of the last generation. This was just Flashdance with naked dancing, no music, and an even more absurd plot. It was like watching a trainwreck in slow motion.As for the director, producers and the rest of those criminally liable, I can only imagine that the months of looking at bare-breasted actresses parading around left them brain dead and salivating. Even a good editor and a P.R. campaign AFTER the FACT, claiming that is was an inside joke, couldn't save this turkey. "}{"Title":"Pure trash, but good stuff nonetheless","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are simply too many reasons to list why this film should never have been made, from the overtly sexist undertones to the ridiculous dialogue and complete lack of character development and believability.  BUT, I discovered, to my surprise, the funniest film I have seen in a long time. Get your best friends together and laugh at every frame of this film.  From the moment Nomi flicks out her switchblade warning Chill to a would-be suitor, to the scene where she seduces a friend with a lapdance and pushes his hand down her pants to prove she's on her period, to the HILARIOUS lapdance and sex scene in the pool with Kyle MacLachlan (we were taking bets on when Nomi would throw her back out) this film is trash at it's absolute best.  And the funniest thing of all is everyone seems to be taking it all so seriously, as if we were really supposed to care if Nomi becomes the big slutty star she wants to be.  The great lines are too numerous to mention, but here are a few To Nomi - So, where are you from?  (Nomi throws her fries around and mopes) Different Places!. To Nomi - You're a slut! Nomi (after countless lapdances and nude scenes) No I'm not!.  To Nomi - If I'm erect, you're erect (a man referencing her nipples).  What a movie. "},{"Title":"The greatest comedy never made.","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My best friend said, no one could have made a comedy like Showgirls.  So true, so true.  So much nonsensical dialogue, including bizarre references to eating Doggie Chow and sugar snaps.  Elizabeth Berkely overacts with the intensity of an earthquake.  Now mind you, I'm not trashing this movie, it is one of my favorites.  But don't rent it unless you're in the mood for a good laugh.  And you can play drinking games with it too!  Take a shot everytime Nomi (Elizabeth Berkely) snatches something, or everytime she flings herself onto someone's car. You'll be drunk before the opening credits have ended. "},{"Title":"CLASSY T&A SOFT CORE FLIC","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No need for a long winded review of this masterpiece. It's just great eye candy with gorgeous gals shaking their booties and flashing their boobs. I thought that Gina Gershon did a good job here (not surprisingly); she looks great  and provides us with  the few moments of genuine acting ability in this fun film.  "},{"Title":"Fun Trash, 7/10","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes this movie is bad, but so what?  It is what makes this movie some much fun too watch.  You just have to be in the right frame of mind when you watch it, plus, you can't take anything seriously or else you will end up hating it.Paul Verhoeven is my favorite director, and even though this is his weakest USA film, it is fun to watch.Still waiting for the 2 Disc special edition DVD! "},{"Title":"Must See","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is just one of those films that everyone must see.  It's like-- if I had to sit through it, EVERYONE SHOULD!!  Seriously, it's one of the funniest things I've ever seen.  I quote it regularly.  It's one of those movies where everytime you think it can't get any worse-- everytime you think Verhoven can't top the last scene-- he does.  Everyone needs to see this movie-- just to see why we call Elizabeth Berkley the human dolphin.  "},{"Title":"So bad it's good","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the main reasons that American critics didn't like this movie is because Showgirls is jaw-droppingly pretentious.  For example, the lead character, a showgirl, is called Nomi.  Get it?  No me?  Awwww, poor little showgirl!  Furthermore, the acting is wooden and overblown, the story is inherently shallow and boring, and the characters are cliches, at best -- although Kyle MacLachlan is wonderfully intense, in a certain flouncy way. Gina Gershon does OK, too.  Non-American critics may have liked Showgirls, but that's because they are very far away and have formed their cartoonish views from watching other Hollywood movies about America.  Having said all that, I do recommend this movie if you have a taste for glitzy, appalling kitsch (e.g., Inside Daisy Clover, with Natalie Wood). "},{"Title":"a classic example of movies that just shouldn't be made","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Offensive, unpleasant, downright awful story of a drifter who hitches her way to Las Vegas and becomes a lap dancer in a sleazy, low-rent nightclub. She has big dreams of becoming a showgirl, and is eventually given the opportunity where she then claws her way to the top. To say that this film is bad is a drastic understatement; laughable mess plays out like a mainstream porno movie with ridiculous lines, uninspired performances, and an abundance of gratuitous nudity and perverse sex scenes. Even worse, it goes on for too long and becomes especially pointless in the third act. One of those films that's bound to be remembered for influencing viewers to ponder the question of just what in the world were they thinking? * "},{"Title":"Disappointing effort by Paul Verhoeven","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paul Verhoeven is one of my favourite directors and most of his films I have seen several times. 'Showgirls' stands out because, well, because it is no masterpiece.The problem with this film is that the story is simply too corny and uninteresting. I mean, a naive girl who wants to 'succeed' in Vegas and ends up as a fancy stripper...come on! The only thing that puzzles me is what her original plans for making a living in Vegas were...The reason why the film was highly anticipated was that it was rumoured to become a $50 million porn flick. However, the biggest problem was that the sex and nudity, as they were eventually brought to us, simply were not extreme enough to pull in the punters. So it was given an NC-17 rating in the States, but cutting out a few seconds provided it with an R-rating. 'Turkish Delight', which Verhoeven had made little more than 20 years before 'Showgirls' (and which was voted 'Best Dutch Film of the Century' by Dutch audiences) was more explicit, but also more inventing, daring and erotic.However, 'Showgirls' is not as bad as all those Razzies, picked up by Mr Verhoeven himself, would suggest. The film IS entertaining, slick and stylish, and should by no means be taken as seriously as it was done by most critics at the time. Still, I give this film a 4 out of 10, because Verhoeven failed to deliver what he had promised a slick, expensive big-budget porn flick! "},{"Title":"BOMB","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pitiful, awful movie about a drifter who dreams of becoming a Vegas showgirl. Unfortunately, she must first become a lap dancer and discover how sex and careers are intertwined. This hokey, constant display of nudity plays like a soft-core porno. "},{"Title":"Not what others think (possible spoilers)","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Of course this movie had a limited plot and second rate acting- who here actually thought that a movie titled Showgirls featuring a naked woman on the video cover was going to win any Oscars? I didn't find this movie to be that bad, until the end. Or more accurately, the graphic rape scene that victimized the nicest character in the movie- actually, the only nice character in the movie. I had lost the VCR remote control, and was forced to watch (and hear) the scene until I could reach the VCR and fast forward manually...and that is a scene that stuck with me for awhile. I believe that one scene was one of the most disturbing I've ever seen...which was followed by a frustrating realization for Elizabeth Berkley that her friend's sick attackers would never be brought to justice. I really think that the screenwriters and/or director could have toned that one down--it's impossible to enjoy the movie if you know that's coming up. "}{"Title":"near perfection","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All the critics who saw this movie are truly a bunch of liars. Everybody told me that this was a total flop, a disaster, etc. Well, I have news for all of you my friend, this movie is excellent, one of the best of the 90s. The only bad thing about this film is when they beat the girl like hell, truly awful scenes, sick stuff. I mean, how can you dislike a movie with an heavenly beautiful actress like Berkley? For god sake she is having nude scenes for about 95% of this very good film. The scene where she is doing the private dance for the guy is classic stuff.very good ***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The Best Bad Girl Movie Ever Made","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I didn't know how to interpret what I was looking at until Robert Davi said his first line.Then I said, right out loud, Oh, now I get it!This movie is right there with every B-grade titillation flick about good girls gone bad masquerading as a cautionary tale, with a twist - this film wants to be bad, and succeeds as high art because of that. "},{"Title":"The point is moot","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Is there anything I can say that hasn't already been said?I don't believe so.The NC-17 rating, to the way it was horribly marketed, bombed in theaters, the critically clubbing it got and of course, the movie's own badness. I hope there was a lesson learned here. Showgirls is a very feeble attempt. An attempt at trying to make an audience (who have mainly shown up on the promise of some female skin) care about a ragtag of characters trapped in a formula 'claw your way to the top' storyline seen many times before in many different ways. Predominately exotic dancers, aka strippers, these 'showgirls' as they are so called in more classier avenues.A lot of the problem with Showgirls arises in the fact that it doesn't know what it wants to be. That's my take. Is it supposed to be a story about a bunch of lost souls trapped in a sad, dirty industry or a pretty high budget, high profile excuse to see some girls wrap their physical assets around a metal pole? I think the answer is somewhat obvious by tone. Two different worlds. Two different ideas. Two different thought processes. The film is a mess. Not on the level some make it out to be, but still a mess. No one could convince me otherwise. Showgirls is an experience ... and not of the good kind.Even with the lowest common denominator - the T&A - does this movie fail. There's skin on display, but much of it isn't of the titillating sort. The story is a test pattern, there's only brief flashes of arousal, so what else is there to say? Paul Verhoeven can do so much better as a director. Actor Kyle MacLachlan and actress Gina Gershon both good at doing their respective things albeit fun to watch in Showgirls are still very much wasted. Meanwhile the virtual unknown, Elizabeth Berkley, actually fares pretty well, with clothes or not. In fact, Showgirls as a film fares a lot better today than it did in 1995. Go figure. Whenever you peg it as so-bad-it's-good or you just downright loathe it, there's no denying Showgirls has left its mark. "},{"Title":"Contains lots of nudity","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a drama movie about a women (Elizabeth Berkley) who wants to be a dancer in Las Vegas.She starts out in strip clubs and works her way to the top.Her goal is to be a showgirl in one of the big Las Vegas shows. This movie is quit shocking and shows many things that other movies doesn't show,like naked girls,rape and naked girls.This is totally a guy movie,because it has no story and you basically just see naked girls for two hours.I found the movie quit cool the first time I saw it,but the second time it was boring.So if you have not seen it,then you might find it entertaining. But if you are thinking of seeing it again I advice you to rent an adult movie instead,because it is not that cool.Not good enough. "},{"Title":"Da Mikestar's died an' gone to heaven......","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  So many naked chick's, Da Mikestar's eyes hurt........Lap dancing, throwing up on people, god, how good does a movie get???? Great for a double feature with 'bound', this movie truly did set an example for more to follow.....All you useless director's out dere.....Make more movies with pretty ladies, and then you'll get your audience! "},{"Title":"Best unintentional comedy since Mommy Dearest.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I laughed at, not with this crapper of a movie.First of all, the character of Nomi, comes off as a naive and inexperienced girl from ...get this....New York City!!   That was to me the most laughable part of the plot.  Elizabeth Berkeley's performance actual lent credibility to the years she spent on Saved by the Bell.  It's no surprise that we don't hear or see much from her anymore.This movie was barely watchable, and most of the sex and nudity scenes were downright unclimatic, the pool sex scene, I won't even dignify that with a comment.  The sickest part of the movie was the gratuitous, and graphic rape scene.  The only thing that stood out in this movie, was the performance of Gina Gershon, who I think has to be THE sexiest woman in Hollywood, and one the all round best actresses.I can't imagine anyone who is not lurking in the back of a theater in a raincoat, enjoying this movie.  But then again, there is no accounting for taste. "},{"Title":"Puts the gratuitous violence back into sleazy softcore.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With all the fuss that has been made about it, you could be forgiven for thinking that Showgirls was somehow ground-breaking, but the only things that distinguish it from a myriad of earlier sexploitation movies are the big budget, the publicity, the glossy look, and the overpaid writer. The acting, dialogue and plot are even less convincing than in many of the porn movies I've seen, and putting a rape scene in a skinflick isn't new it was commonplace in the 70s and earlier. If you want to see bare breasts and satire of American culture in the same film, watch a Russ Meyer movie instead of this sleazy rehash. "},{"Title":"Hey! Hey! It's Showgirls!!!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   It used prime time film and camera angles but failed miserably in acting and plot.  It's the classic tale of a soap opera that only a dime store hooker could love.  Strangely, the dancers all mirror the show Survivor in their attempt to axe each other and be the champion dancer of the land.  And the sex scene in the pool....well....what planet did you say you were from Elizabeth?  I was almost convinced she would belt out Pavoratti and turn into some killer sex alien like the girl in Species when he climaxed.  The funniest part about the movie is that it probably made at least 70% of its box office sales through horny guys in the theatre jerking off.  yes, my commentary is sick and tasteless, but well proportioned to the likes of Showgirls. "},{"Title":"so bad its good, so bad its good, or something like that","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls is one of those rare films that cannot be forgotten. Those who hated it have a real problem. I liked it so I don't have a problem. I have viewed it several times and found it to be all that those who like it say. It is also all those who hate it say. That is probably what makes it so unique. It is something to everyone. Good or bad. I doubt that many films having this quality have been made.      In my opinion Verhoeven has created something new by playing mindgames with the audience. The writing and direction ranges from very good to poor. At one instance, Elizabeth Berkley's acting is very good. The next second it is poor. The entire film is this way. Gina Geershon's Texas accent comes and goes. Robert Davi is harsh one moment and then gentle and caring the next. That is what Verhoeven wanted. The savaging that Elizabeth Berkley received after Showgirls was released is very disturbing to me. That is what all people connected with this film provided. And in my opinion, they did well. It is unfortunate that so many people missed or did not appreciate his intent.  "},{"Title":"Joyously trashy","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     Isn't it wonderful when a movie just KNOWS it is trashy and just wallows in it?    I like this movie. It put me in mind, strangely enough, of the 1930s depression-era showgirl movies like Gold diggers of 1933. The gold digger movies also knew they were skirting the edges of censorship for their times and they also know this was what their audiences wanted.    The plot concerns a woman of questionable background who arrived in Las Vegas and hopes for a job as a show girl in a casino. the movie follows her as she pays her dues in stripper clubs and lap dance parlours as she makes her way up the Vegas ladder. The film is contraversial in that the camera never flinches for a moment and whereas in other films the camera pans away from steamier, or even more violent moments, in this film, it focusses clearly on everything. Elizabeth Berkeley is the star of this film and this is a far cry from her role on TV's Saved By The Bell where she played a high school student. You won't be blamed if you feel sort of strange seeing her in re-runs as a high schooler after seeing her in this rather lurid movie.    Yes, there is plenty here for the moral crusaders to crow about, but this film came out a few years ago and Western Civilization didnt crumble did it? "}{"Title":"A truly great film","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't judge a film by it's box office or whether or not the majority of filmgoing dolts liked it. (Though, it should be said, Showgirls cost 45mil and earned 60mil worldwide, not including video and dvd sales. An ok profit even when you include the advertising budget. Especially when you consider that 90% of all theatrically released films lose money.) Face it, look at the list of top grossing films for any week of the year and it's 99% unwatchable garbage. Obviously Showgirls upset a lot of people, or didn't mesh with their idea of a good film. For myself, I can't get enough. I see so many wonderful things in it. I see dozens of homages and references to other films I love. I see Paul Verhoeven's creative (and gently mocking) use of American idiom. I see a refreshing view of sexuality in which breasts are so common that they become no more interesting than wallpaper, (which--for those who have never seen Follies Bergere--is exactly what this world is like.) I see incredible photography, brilliant blocking, unforgettable characters, insanely fun dialogue and a kind of psychotic-yet-critical view of American culture that you just can't find anywhere outside of a film by Paul Verhoeven. In my opinion it's a nearly perfect film (Nomi's sleazy past should have been more of an issue,) and that's not sarcasm, thank you very much. The much-maligned rape scene really says it all. If you watch the film more than once, you see something quite amazing in the cutaways during the rape. Every single nasty unpleasant couple you've seen during the film is dancing together in the background behind Nomi and Zach. Even Nikki and the Japanese businessman Mr. Okida can be spotted together. Accident? Hell no. Cynical? Extremely. But so is American Beauty which everyone seemed so excited over. (I hated it. So smarmy. The ending was obviously re-written from a more superior version. I've been told that proof of this is on the DVD commentary by the director.) Anyway, I guess my point is, enough already. Everyone knows that a lot of people responded badly to this film. And there are enough negative comments here to fill a dump truck. I'd be much more interested in reading a few thoughtful things people had to say about the film than 500 messages that just say I hated it! Avoid at all costs! Who cares if you hated it? Congratulations, you're one of the herd. Any film that affects people so deeply (negatively or positively) obviously has more going for it than meets the eye. There aren't many other bad films on the IMDB with this many user comments. (And no, that's not proof that it's an especially bad film. It means people are debating it passionately.) "},{"Title":"Great fun If Your a 15-year old male (me)","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie had always made me curious to see it since it had played in theaters in fall 1995. I had never got a chance to see it until last night, when a cable channel broadcasted it un-cut and all I have to say is Wow!.The movie had so much female nudity you *almost* get tired of it! I cannot believe it! It was unintentionally funny. Awfully acted as well. But the 135 minutes race by, and I taped it and will probably watch it again.The movie made me think of 8mm a movie that I thought was grim, disgusting and even depressing. Showgirls was (for the most part) completely different, bright and fun (except for the rape part). I turned off 8mm. It was the first and only movie I have ever shut off.All I can say is if you're like me, WATCH THIS AWFUL YET GREAT FILM! On the movie rating scale, I give it 2 out of 10. On the T-movie scale I give it 9.5 out of 10! "},{"Title":"There is a world of difference between intention and execution...","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     Those who defend this movie invariably cite the fact that It's meant to be a satire, and point to Verhoeven's previous filmography as evidence.  Robocop was an extremely well executed jab at 80's corporate greed and fear of new technology.  Starship Troopers occaisionaly got its messages muddled.  Now we have Showgirls, a movie who's message (If there actually is one) is so unapparent as to render the film a failure if it was even originally conceived with a satirical slant.   Regrettably, movie making is a business, and we the audience are the consumers.  Would we call a car a success if it had a stunningly powerful engine, but wasn't marketed as having such and therefore nobody noticed?  No.  Bad analogy I know, but the point still survives.  It is no good making a 'satire' if the mass audience and/or critics fail to notice, and I'm sorry, but a few indignant reviews on this site don't qualify as a fresh appraisal, especially when the user rating doesn't correspond with the defenders.  The people have voted with their feet on this one it seems.  Fight Club is an example of a satire that found its audience, if not with the general public, then at least with many critics.   In any case, I'm not entirely sure if these 'advocates' are not having a little joke at our expense.  I hope to God they are.  Folks, one point, facetiousness does not translate well to print.  Bear that in mind, or people might think that you actually like the film!   The sex is more explicit in porn, and there are less examples of people straining for 'credible' acting.  They know they are making a film with a clearly defined aim, and they cut to the chase.  Not so with Showgirls unfortunately.  Yes, I was turned on by the naked women, but only because they were naked women, not because the director had tried to make it an 'experience' for me.  This is the least erotic film with lots of nudity in it that I've seen.  That's hardly a glowing recommendation...   (OFT-REPEATED SPOILER.)   ...and the pool sex scene?  Laughable and gross at the very same time; the film-makers should have taken that opportunity to have both characters drown... Now that would have been entertaining! "},{"Title":"A good story, badly acted.","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought the crux of the story was very good and insightful into the world of exotic dancing,although sad to say the acting left much to be desired.Elizabeth Berkley as Nomi was wooden and shallow the only exception being her ability to move well in the dance sequences. I felt Gina Gershon could have been a little bit nastier and bitchier towards her contemparies and yes she did deserve her come-uppance. Paul verhoeven directed well and kept the story tight and the circle was completed with the end sequence.Basically I would describe this film as a soft-porn movie with cash to spend on sets and names. "},{"Title":"I laughed so hard, I almost died.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen Showgirls several times now and I recommend it to everyone with whom I discuss film.  Why?  It's just SO terrible, it HAS to be seen.The dialogue in this film is so atrocious--I have heard second graders come up with better taunts on the playground than anything that is spoken by any character in this entire film.  In fact, while watching this film at 2am, I had just listened to Penny's naive He's not SERIOUS babble and laughed so hard tears were streaming down my face and I woke up everyone in the house.It also took me until about the sixth viewing or so for me to determine what the plot was supposed to be.  I say that because upon the first few viewings, there appeared to be absolutely no plot whatsoever--just a story told for no reason whatsoever.  I started figuring out what was supposed to be foreshadowing and pieced together, upon complete knowledge of the film, precisely what the plot was supposed to be.  Oh, I get it now.  She acts the way she does because... she was a hooker?  Huh?  Is any of it making sense now?Needless to say, the characters are more wooden than the children in Mrs. Doubtfire.  Does *anyone* have any motivation for what they are saying, or do people in Las Vegas actually spend all of their time sitting around trying to say cliche billboard/porno-esque lines all day long?  Is everyone truly one-dimensional?  Does nobody there have motivation or personality? Several times during this film I've sat staring and wondering, WHY on earth did he/she just DO that?  Why did Nomi up and start using coke?  Why did Cristal waver between bitch and friend at completely non-plot-forwarding moments?  WHY DID THE BLACK DANCER GUY EVEN COME INTO PLAY?  AT ALL????The more I see this film, the harder I laugh.  It's so all-over terrible, it makes me appreciate my favorite films all that much more.  It's the standard on How Not To Write A Screenplay.  Pretty film to watch?  Sure. And nine minutes in to the first nudity scene never hurts either.  Definitely a flick to watch with your friends (and a little alcohol probably wouldn't hurt either).  "},{"Title":"Silicon dream","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is pure fun, just like a soap opera for adults. There are some satirical elements in this film, because the message is, just to use your body to reach to the top. But if you want to see real social criticism, watch Verhoeven´s elder movies like RoboCop or Starship Troopers, because the satirical aspects are better worked out there. Nevertheless Showgirls is trash at it´s best. Where else could you see so much fabulous B-actors like Gina Gershon, Robert Davi, Kyle MacLachlan or Glenn Plummer in one film (okay, in John Carpenter´s Escape from L.A. perhaps...)? I can´t exactly remember Elisabeth Berkley´s performance, but there are two other things I still can remind about her... By the way thank you for the brilliant self parody in First Wives Club, Liz! Don´t take Showgirls too serious and you´ll have a lot of fun with it. There are two films with the same theme this one and Striptease with Demi Moore. I think the decision is quite easy... Unfortunately, this film didn´t succeed with its box-office returns, because of its permissive representation it was not accessible for youths. Other movies with less sex and more violence were rated lower - and were much more successful. In this way Showgirls could be Verhoeven´s personal struggle against censorship and the conflicting moral of society. "},{"Title":"A pretty skunk","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was very strange to see Paul Verhoeven's considerable directorial skills utterly fail to redeem this movie.  There were good performances by Gina Gershon and Kyle MacLachlan, among others, but the extremely weak script and astonishingly bad acting on the part of its well-meaning star, Elizabeth Berkley, could not restrain this movie from being terrible.  And commenting on the way its characters regard women, even the supposedly sympathetic James Smith character, is like shooting fish in a barrel.  There was no attempt to show any respect toward women whatsoever.  Oh well.  At least it didn't pretend to.And all that being said, it's fun to watch.  The hackneyed lines make you groan, the T&A is fun for those who are fond of such things, and Verhoeven's style, at least, is imperturbable.   "},{"Title":"GREAT CINEMA","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Joe Eszterhas, while admittedly a campy screenwriter, was a well-respected political writer for 20 years before he wrote Flashdance, and therefore he is fully capable of weaving social commentary into anything he likes, including this brilliant film. But it is Verhoeven's Sirk-influenced direction that truly brings the film to life and elevates it miles above anything coming out of Hollywood today. This is a film way ahead of its time, a true work of art. People who are not well-versed in the study of cinema are likely to have a purely emotional reaction to the film, which--while not being totally irrelevant--is not very interesting. The entire history of film-recorded images (including porn) is represented in this one great movie, released in 1995, the 100th Anniversary of the birth of film. That's no accident. Those who can't see the incredible layers of meaning in this film might want to consult an optometrist. "},{"Title":"A misfired whatever it is","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In terms of satire, SHOWGIRLS is pretty limp. What exactly is satiric here? In terms of parodying our sexual desires and all that mumbo jumbo? Please, if this were parodying society's addiction to sex, than I think some more actual sex would have been in the film. As full-throttle sex scenes go, there was only one, and to say the least, it was ridiculous. Whatever anyone says on here, the filmmakers were quoted to say that they made this film with the most serious of intentions. Never was the word satire or parody used in their wordplay. As far as Elizabeth Berkely's acting talent? She's a good lap dancer. "},{"Title":"Very HOT film!","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well Showgirls may be a bad movie but I did have a guilty pleasure watching it, It is Paul Verhoven's worst film but yet it is an enjoyable experience. Showgirls is a big hot soap opera with cheesy dialogues, bad acting and tons of nudity. Verhoven wanted to do a movie about the difficulties of the lives of lap dancers focusing especially on Nomi a beautiful professional dancer who is forced to strip to become famous in Las Vegas. The movie is more about how these girls are treated than about stripteases (although there are lot of these sequences) and it shows a different look at Las Vegas (Mike Figgis and Martin Scorsesse made 2 different movies about Las Vegas this same year). Where Showgirls succeed is in Verhoven's direction full of hot and colorful images creating a warm and exiting atmosphere, accompanied with a crazy soundtrack, the viewer almost feel that he's in a strip club. Maybe for some people this is not a sufficient reason to watch this film but for me it is. Verhoven is the only director in Hollywood who dares to do what others will never do, maybe he was very occupied making his movie very provocative and shocking that he forgot the screenplay. But honestly Showgirls is an enjoyable and funny stupid movie, I recommend it to all Verhoven's fans.** out of ****          "}{"Title":"VALLEY OF THE DOLLS for the Nineties","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" . . . but butterier - creamier,smoother,richer - no, please - this is cheese - a lip smackin' smoked Hickory Farms log rolled in nuts! This lusciousness sticks to the roof of your cinematic dome and won't slide off until you've seen it again . . . and again and again (and dragged how many neophite friends through it with you) - howling, pointing at the screen, whipping our heads around toward each other, throwing our manes back . . . or just clinkin' our Champagne flutes, winkin' our false lashes, puckering our gloss slicked lips and sizin' each other up, DARLIN'   "},{"Title":"The film everyone hates to love","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Everybody I know saw this film, and everybody loved it. Of course it's not Shakespeare, and it's not totally inconceivable that it won the Razzie for 'the worst film of the decade' recently. The critics hated it, and so did every so-called movie-expert. But at least it's an entertaining film that knows exactly what it's doing, with fair acting and a good amount of (ahem) female talent. The whole thing is beautifully shot, and the music is truly fantastic. I thoroughly enjoyed it, and I'll give it one point for every time I saw it...................8    "},{"Title":"why did I see this again?","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Some consider this a satire of American Culture. Some how I really doubt that. The one thing I can say the movie was, is that is was horrible. The only reason why I stayed as long to see it was because the women were hot, and the fact that everyone in the theater seemed to make their own comments out loud which made everyone laugh. I almost felt less of a person for even seeing it expecting something else.If you want to see this for good acting, good dialog, good character developement, good director, good cinimatography, good screenplay, good music, or anything else they could give any type of an award for then DON'T SEE THIS FILM. If you want to see it for naked women and.......... that's about it, naked women, then by all means this is the film for you. "},{"Title":"a film less suited for the big screen than a cartoon flip-book","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie 3 years ago and the emotional scarring it caused me has not gone away.  I felt compelled to re-comment on it and place another vote. This may be against the Movie Data Base rules, but this movie is REALLY bad. "},{"Title":"It can hardly get worse","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are people who claim this movie is satire, but I wonder, about what? American culture? Then it's probably something only Americans get, because I certainly don't.Even worse, besides the claim of satire, the movie has nothing else. The story is thin at most, the nude girls are not even remotely erotic, and the whole experience has been one of intense boredom.  "},{"Title":"Check out the pool sex scene","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unmissable is this movie, as you laugh at every scene. This film is almost as good as the scene where Nomi expresses her anger by squeezing ketchup on her fries. But the highlight must be the pool sex scene with Kyle McLachlan, a real classic of the worst sex scenes of all time. It's got to be the only sex scene where I rolled laughing on the floor. And the movie is not a comedy. Really, don't even get near this piece of crap. Ban it from your reality, because it's not worth five minutes. Really. "},{"Title":"WORTH MORE THAN SAID!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie can divide you,but you must see it a couple of times to decide.It has some elements that are very good.Think twice before you decide.I personally loved the dancing,songs,actors and i believe if they fixed some details it would be much better. "},{"Title":"Curiosity killed the cat that dragged this in.","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a soap opera type story about a young showgirl that goes to battle against a more experienced Vegas showgirl. If the promise of nudity, partial nudity, erotic situations and sexual violence prompted you to endure this film; you are not among those that say Where is the script?  Elizabeth Berkley, from TV's Saved By The Bell has a lot to live down. Gina Gershon will open your eyes and dot them. She appears to at least be having fun in the her state of near and total nudity. Bachelor party flick. Teenage boy heaven.  "},{"Title":"So Much Was Spent on So Little in this Criminally Overlong Sleasefest!","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I admit I'm not a big fan of Paul Veroheven. He puts in way too much unnecessary gore in his films (esp. Total Recall). But with Showgirls, I lost most of what little respect I had for this guy. After this turkey, he's lucky to still be working in Hollywood.The production values are impeccable. The price tag must've been obscenely hefty, so it's a shame no one gave any thought to actually developing a coherent plot. Joe Eszterhas' script is basically one pointless scene after another, linked in a way that just happens to resemble a narrative. (If anyone understood the purpose of that dumb chimpanzee scene, please enlighten the rest of us.)Elizabeth Berkly overacts terribly. I hope she puts this mess behind her soon. (In case you're wondering, I never watched Saved By the Bell) The supporting cast isn't much better, but to be fair, they didn't have much to work with. The dialogue is laughable-check out the scene where Liz talks about eating dog food. It's a hoot.Unless you want to see what all the hype is about (and most of you will anyway), just skip it. It isn't worth the trouble, even with the scarlet NC-17 rating.Rating * (out of ****)131 min/Released by United Artists "},{"Title":"Plan 9 for the 90's","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's true what they say,some things just can't be put into words.One of those things happens to be explaining just how bad Showgirls is.At times it's so ridiculous you'd swear it was a parody.Afraid not.Director Paul Verhoeven reportedly made this with serious intentions.Just so you know how jaw droppingly stupid Showgirls is,I'll give you an example of a conversation that takes place in a resteraunt.With totally serious expressions on their faces,mind you.I've eaten dogfood-You have-Yep,a long time ago,doggie chow-I used to love doggie chow too.....eeer okaay... By the way,notice how there was never any explaination why he made a film that was so below his usual films(Total Recall,Robocop)it's because the success of his Basic Instinct allowed him to pick and choose his next film.Sure,a movie about the lives of showgirls(while showing plenty of T&A along the way)seems like a good idea,but who could have ever in their wildest nightmares imagined how bad it would turn out.Amazingly,Verhoeven somehow recovered from this financial disaster,because he later released the big budget Sci-Fi thriller,Starship Troopers.My theory is they intentionally made it laughable to cash in on the fact that audiences like to laugh at movie mistakes....There's just no other explaination!!! "}{"Title":"on a so-bad-it's-good level, this one reigns supreme.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  if you rent this movie expecting a good movie, you'll end up throwing it out your window after about the first half hour or so. BUT, if you view it with a b-movie so horrible it's hilarious minset there is a ton of entertainment value here.elizabeth berkley, who's acting skills are null and void, DOES have a stunning body. scenes that focus on this seem to be the most successful. i do agree with people that she does have a scary smile though. all the other people in this movie act like someone slipped sleeping tablets in their drinks. surprisingly, this movie is not as bad as people made it out to be, but it's still pretty poor. this is a great movie to MST the hell out of.rating3.5 "},{"Title":"Ouch","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The nadir of Paul Verhoeven's career.  Material this poor doesn't deserve a good director like Verhoeven, it's more suitable for Joel Schumacher or someone like that.  The rather uninteresting erotic thriller Basic Instinct (which I found neither erotic or thrilling) is a masterpiece compared to this.  It's hard to believe this is the same director as the excellent, lesser known than it should be The Fourth Man (much more successful and interesting erotic thriller than Basic Instinct), and the brilliant Reagan-era satire Robocop.  I'm glad Verhoeven ended his relationship with Eszterhas after this film, Verhoeven did redeem himself with Starship Troopers a couple of years later, written by Robocop co-scripter Edward Neumeier.Showgirls does have a certain undeniable camp appeal, and some memorably hilarious dialog, but it's just not worth it.  At least it's polished crap, with Verhoeven's favorite DP Jost Vacano (ever since Jan De Bont rather unwisely quit cinematography, along with Barry Sonnenfeld) providing the good cinematography, but you know what they say about a polished turd. "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad...","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When Showgirls was released, it was welcomed with a barrage of bad reviews, which led it to be the reigning champ of the 1995 Razzie Awards. Following all of the criticism and bad-mouthing, I finally decided to rent it one night with a friend of mine. And I was surprised - it wasn't that bad.No, I didn't like it for the gratuitous nudity (my friend and I happen to be gay, but that's beside the point). It was so overdone that it has a campy, cult-classic quality to it. Elizabeth Berkeley and Kyle McLachlan were bad in the movie - but they were meant to be bad - it's like a parody of the kinds of people that make a living in Las Vegas. Only Gina Gershon shows any real promise (before anyone heard of her), and now she's building herself to be one of the more promising actresses of the late 90s.Sure, the writing is horrendous. The direction is lame. (Most of) the acting is laughably amateurish. But I was never bored by the eye-dazzling set designs and the inspired dance numbers. Just expect the worst movie ever made, and Showgirls will surprise you. It's not that bad. **1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Not that bad of a movie","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was a huge fan of Saved by the Bell so I couldn't wait to see this movie when it came out. The fact it was so controversial made me want to see it more. After watching it the first time I didnt think it was that bad of a movie. I dont think Elizabeth Berkely is the best acress though, but I thought Gina Gershon was very believable as Crystal.The movie does have some truth to it. In the world of exotic dancing, there is alot of competition. Club owners are always looking for the next best thingand you always have the guys who think that just because you dance that gives them the right to your body...hence the rape scene in this movie. The life of a dancer in Vegas is always in the fast lane. Anybody who didnt like this movie cuz of the nudity and the mild pornographic content should have known what this movie was about before viewing it. Not that mad of a movie. I dont think Elizabeth Berkely totally deserved her raspberry Award for worst actress though. I give this movie 7/10    "},{"Title":"Gives porn a bad name!","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I read in the Trivia section for Showgirls that a man on an airplane watched Miss Berkeley in Showgirls without realizing she was sitting beside him.  I wonder if it's not a case of his refusal to talk to her?  What would he possibly say? What a great movie? You were brilliant?  Maybe his mother taught him If you can't say anything nice, don't say anything at all. "},{"Title":"Laughable dialogue, pitiful acting, lots of skin ---- The epitome of cheap fun","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls is not the worst movie I have ever seen, the critics made it out to be one of the trashiest films of the century. It was a very, very poor movie, but I have definitely seen worse. The main thing wrong with this movie was it's howlingly funny dialogue, there was not one single line that manifested creativity, truth or intelligence. Elizabeth Berkley gives a flat-out awful performance as the lead character, all she did in this movie was lash out with words like F**k off!!!, B*tch!! and I am not a whore!!! Gena Gershon was okay, but the vile script didn't give her a chance to express her talent. There is practically no plot, just a lot of naked girls grinding their you-know-what against poles, catty confrontations, Elizabeth Berkley storming out of every room she's in, and some sex scenes that borderline porno material. The only positive thing about this movie was it's direction, it was flashy and intriguing, and it almost distracted me from it's overwhelming crappiness, ALMOST. Showgirls is not the kind of movie you can take seriously, only watch it if you're in the mood for campy, trashy fun. "},{"Title":"For one, I enjoyed seeing Ms. Berkley naked.","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought Berkley's performance was brave, sexy, and wonderful.  Years from now this film will be considered a classic.  Thank you Ms. Berkley for getting naked for your art.  The bad reviews will probably prevent Ms. Berkley from appearing nude on film again and that's a shame.  For one, I enjoyed seeing Ms. Berkley naked.  Most male film reviewers are gay that's why they trashed the film.  If she can't find roles in films anymore she should go on the road with her dance act from Showgirls.  She would pack the house every appearance. "},{"Title":"Confession.","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw the second half of this when it was on TV. There was heaps of nudity, but I could point out what was missing even without seeing the complete film. So, one day, I saw it down the local video shop and I decided to go the whole hog and see the uncut version. I have to make a confession. I really liked Showgirls. Not for one minute did I take it seriously. I didn't laugh at it, in spite of all it's faults, but when Berkley and Gershon (two extremely beautiful women) struck up a conversation on their shared love of dog food, I threw in the towel and cracked up. The nudity does get annoying after the first hour and that rape scene was totally repulsive (Molly was the only character worth caring about). But it was great fun to watch and it will one day become a camp classic. Great soundtrack, great photography, movies don't get much better than this.AUSTRALIAN CLASSIFICATIONR18+ Sexually Explicit Language,Nudity,Violence,Sexual Scenes.(This version is uncut so be prepared for loads of breasts.) "},{"Title":"An icky movie...","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought Paul Verhoeven was a good director. Oh yes he&#133; was. When I saw Showgirls I could not believe me very eyes. The film was awful and stupid. Some of the dialogues were completely icky. As a matter of fact the screenplay was unbelievably bad. Another thing that makes the film absolutely bad is Elizabeth Berkley's performance. She plays her role curbstonely but she is not the only one. Gina Gershon's performance is also bad.           "},{"Title":"I wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't seen it.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls Q & AQ. What possessed Kyle MacLachlan to be in this film?A. Hey, they're going to pay me AND I get a lap dance from Elizabeth Berkley?  What the hey!Q. Why was Elizabeth Berkley constantly groping herself?A. She was originally groping for some motivation, since a close reading of the script would have given her no clue whatsoever about why her character acted the way she did.Q. Did the filmmakers actually think that Nomi Malone's transformation into the G-Stringed Avenger after the incredibly gratuitous rape scene would fool us into believing Nomi had some real redeeming qualities?A. Evidently. "}{"Title":"Side-splittingly funny camp classic.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This isn't a bad film.  Bad films are boring, predictable, and insulting.  This film is none of those things.  When I first saw it in a theater on its opening weekend, I knew this was going to be a camp classic, and I wasn't surprised to learn that it played as a midnight movie in New York City, where one woman said she had seen it over 100 times.  This movie is never boring for a second, for several reasons.  First, of course is the ample nudity throughout.  Second, the actors give it 100%, including newcomer Elizabeth Berkley.  Third, the screenplay by Joe Esztherhas is loaded with outrageous dialogue, so much so that I can't believe this was intended as a serious drama.  Director Paul Verhoeven gives it his usual flashy direction.  "},{"Title":"You don't need MST3K to make fun of bad movies!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stumped for an idea of how to have a delightful time next Friday night?  Rent SHOWGIRLS, pick up a few sixpacks, invite three or four of your funniest friends over ... and let the hilarity begin!  This movie is so wonderfully, hysterically *bad* that not only will your jaw drop -- it will fall right out of your head and roll onto the floor.  BONUS Gina Gershon (whose makeup resembles a drag queen at the annual Pride parade) appears to be in on the joke throughout the film, while Elizabeth Berkely appears to be operation under the delusion that she is really taking part in a serious film about sexual attitudes in contemporary society.  It's impossible to rate this movie on the standard scale of 1-10; as an erotic drama, it's a 1 (it is neither erotic OR dramatic!) -- but as a screamingly funny camp classic, "},{"Title":"Enjoying Trash","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I saw the trailer of Starship Troopers the speaker said from the director of Total Recall and Basic Instinct, a guy in the audince shouted  what about Showgirls!. Everybody laughed...I have to say this movie was as far as cinematography excellent, and after all the bad stuff you hear about it, it actually enjoyed me. Great) dialouge, smooth shots, lousy acting and lot's of unmotivated unerotic nudity. As good as it gets...  "},{"Title":"","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is actually the best pornoflic i have ever seen. Because this is a pornographic movie, no talk about it. The amount of T and A you see in this movie well exceeds the amount you can count as acceptable to help the story. About a tenth of this would be enough. But as I said earlier it is very good as a porno flic. "},{"Title":"Stupid but Fun!","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My god, this was a horrible film.  And I mean bad in every sense of the word.  And that's what makes it so damn entertaining. "},{"Title":"Sorely disappointing","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow.  Women really DO sit around all day and feel their own breasts.  -And I STILL didn't like it.  How could this be?If you want to show naked women for the sake of showing naked women, fine. (Many films show beautiful countryside for the sake of showing beautiful countryside.  No-one has a problem with that.)  But you don't need to travel to Las Vegas strip joints in order to do it.  Let's pretend that we're making some kind of comment on the nature of sleaziness.  No, I'd rather not.Look, I wanted to like this movie.  I admire the studio's courage in deciding to wear the NC-17 rating rather than make pointless cuts, and I wanted this to be the test case that tore down a ridiculous restrictions. But it's awful.  The plot meanders alarmingly, until we feel like we're listening to a disjointed anecdote that has so far covered gone into laborious detail about the speaker's encounter with a shop assistant, his drive to work, an argument he had with his wife, and something that happened to him last week, and is still no nearer to resolution.  To be honest I walked out.  Never have I come so close to the end before giving up.Cinematography was excellent - I mean, truly superb, gorgeous, a style I haven't quite seen elsewhere.  Had this style been applied to something truly erotic the result could have been a masterpiece, however bad the script.  Instead we got Las Vegas. Is there a less arousing place?  Well, probably there is, but you take my point. "},{"Title":"One hot B****ing movie!!!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I strongly recommend this movie for guys that likes movies with naughty women that do naughty things.  It has plenty of sex and nudity, and, the acting isn't really that bad for a 'porno' flick.  But, I do not recommend it for people who have a weak gut feeling toward porns.  I think Elizabeth Berkley and Gina Gershon were hot in this movie and it is a must see! "},{"Title":"Slick, Sleazy, Trashy Fun!!!","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film, contrary to what some of the other reviewers would have you believe, is NOT a satire.  It takes a subtle hand to pull off a satire and the word subtle is one that Ezsterhas and Verhoeven never knew the meaning of.  It's not great art, either...but it IS great sleazy fun if you're willing to roll with it.  From the campy/vampy acting to some of the most unintentionally hilarious dialogue in recent memory and the most overheated sex scenes to appear in a mainstream movie, everything about this flick screams CULT CLASSIC!!!Verhoeven has even admitted he knew he was making something totally without socially-redeeming value here and so he just went over the top (which he does in all of his other movies too, anyway)  Some can't stand the excesses, but those of us able to appreciate them will have a fine old time with Showgirls. "},{"Title":"Looked at as comedy, it's a masterpiece","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to agree with a previous user, this is the best bad movie ever made. Unlike a lot of others, I don't think it was intended as a comedy, but it's hilarious.  I don't think anyone could act THAT badly on purpose.  This thing HAD to be written by a pair of 13-year-old boys; I've never seen a movie with this much sex and nudity that was so utterly unerotic.  You keep watching it until the end, utterly repelled, but unable to turn it off because you keep thinking, it can't POSSIBLY get any worse, but it does. Well on it's way to becoming a cult classic. "},{"Title":"To be a whore or not to be, that is here the question","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A beautiful little tale about an outcast arriving in Las Vegas and meeting in a movies-typically compressed and a little bit contrived plot with different cameos of her own future self she could have become if she had been able to submit her integrity to a cause, in other words to be a whore. Well, she is so afraid of it she balks even at the real thing. "}{"Title":"Bad is bad","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The reviews for this film seem to say that this is a way to have Europeans get a laugh on us dumb Americans by showing how relentlessly materialistic we are; and how Americans have a repressed attitude toward sex, which attracts to vulgar displays such as this movie has in abundance. I happen to disagree.  This movie is bad, and bad is bad in any context. If you make it through the first hour, I guarantee the scene where the film's only sympathetic character gets raped for no apparent reason will have you slamming off your VCR in disgust.I don't think I'm particularly slow to catch a satire; I caught the same theme of American consumerism in Melvin and Howard, and enjoyed that film, perhaps because it was clear the director loved the film's characters. Nor do I think Americans are screamingly uncomfortable with sex on film.  The Unbearable Lightness of Being and Like Water For Chocolate  were well regarded by just about everybody.   Showgirls just plain isn't good.  "},{"Title":"not great.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've just read all the comments that are available on this movie, and I have to weigh in here.  First of all, it seems the Europeans like the movie and the Americans do not.  Fortunately, the Americans who haven't been objecting to the nudity and such, which is totally conscionable if it's forwarding some purpose. In this case, however, I cannot see any purpose whatsoever.I am an american who doesn't particularly like other Americans and seldom agree with them, but I was nearly embarrassed to be seen leaving the theatre after witnessing this celluloid nightmare. Fortunately, I only paid a dollar to see it (and, oddly, I was sitting in that theatre with an audience made up largely of senior citizens... they must have been Saved by the Bell fans).I'm a fan of good films (from Casablanca to the Truman Show), and this film failed worse than any I've ever seen on that level.I'm a fan of camp (from the original Star Trek to To Wong Foo), and this movie fared only slightly better on that level.I'm a fan of pornography (from pure sex to down on the farm 3), and this film didn't even cover that area particularly well, apart from one lap-dance scene, which was wonderful.If, as the Europeans aver, Showgirls was supposed to be funny and/or satirical, I can certainly admire that intent.  However, it really gave the viewer no clues whatsoever to suggest that.  I never once knowingly winked at the dead-on portrayal of Americana--I was too busy staring at the screen with my mouth hanging open, wondering what atrocity would be next to greet me (the on-the-rag scene and what-the-hell rape scene were the biggest train wrecks).I do agree, however, with one earlier reviewer everyone should see it, just to say they have. "},{"Title":"The greatest bad movie ever made","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film puts all other so-called bad movies to shame. While watching this movie, I prayed it would never end. With each succeeding scene so much more unspeakably awful than the last, I wondered during every fade,  What could they POSSIBLY do to top this?  And every time, another credulity-straining, intelligence-insulting, improbably-scripted-and-acted scene would blessedly follow. Verhoeven, the director of such diversions as RoboCop and Basic Instinct, has achieved what few filmmakers have ever done.  He has succeeded in getting from EVERYONE in his cast, a perfect, deadpan recitation of the most mind-numbingly stupid screenplay ever written. This film is beyond camp.  It is like observing a  real-life cult brain-warping at work, the pinnacle of collective mistaken belief  could everyone involved with this film really have thought a good movie would result?  The serious filmgoer must experience Showgirls.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly subtle satire.","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, you read me right. I rated this film as a2 AND as an incredibly subtle satire. Here's the satire. With great daring, the dauntless team of Eszterhas and Verhoeven has deliberately made A LOUSY film. Yes, folks, that's it. As a daring act of postmodern nihilism, they have deliberately made a bad film, as the most clever way imaginable of satirizing a culture which seems to THRIVE ON MEDIOCRITY.Note, for example the 'bad' acting. Clearly, Verhoeven is encouraging poor acting from the cast in order to symbolize the vacuity of spirit and the insipid moral character fostered by decadent late big Capitalism. Lynch and Scorsese have taken you inside the minds of madmen. Here, Verhoeven ,in his genius , goes even further than such hacks.He deliberately takes us INSIDE THE MINDS OF DULL PEOPLE. Such brilliance! What a daring deconstruction of the postmodern self! Note the pointless, tasteless, witless and cliche ridden script. Clearly, Eszterhas is here satirizing our post-literate culture. In short, Showgirls is the most devastating assault on the foundational  assumptions of our culture since-dare I say it- My Mother the Car. "},{"Title":"Now what ?","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's difficult to like this movie and it's difficult to hate it.  I can't see why all this fuss about it when a trashy, ridiculous  piece of dreck like Strip-tease gets the best defense. I can't really see a satire in there - I feel like Verhoeven has taken  to the extreme what makes Hollywood today  no substance, no  originality, no brain, but a lot of gloss and artifice - which  makes it watchable depite a stupid, cliché-ridden script. Of course, Starship Troopers will do so, so much better&#133; but  without Esterzhas, fortunately ! And by the way, it seems that  if Americans want to keep American's cinema American, they'd  better think for a while. What would they do without Schwarzenneger, Andy Garcia, VanDamme, Emmerich (Don't you ALL  love Independence Day ?), Caro, Tony Scott (Don't you ALL love Top Gun ?) Paul Anderson, John Woo, Renny Harlin (that's  Finnish to you) and ban forever works by Hitchcock, Polanski,  James Whale, Fritz Lang and some others they are sooooo pro "},{"Title":"Oh, Boy!!!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw the original title for this film...HOgirls. And Showgirls, was their second choice? Yikes! I want to know who sits around and thinks of these idiotic ideas for film. Don't these people know that they have no redeeming value other than to ruin the careers of actors who are bad enough to begin with, I don't think Kyle-whatever-his-last-name-is needed this pile of garbage to drive the message home. And if you're going to do a film like this, at least make it sexual. Berkley is about as sensual to me as Martha Raye doing a Poligrip ad. Her scuzzy appearance and hard demeanor are neither sexy nor attractive. Gershon, however, is very sexy in her role. Verhoeven should have cast her in the Berkley role and fired Berkley on the first readthrough. Gershon exudes the perfect sensuality needed for the role. She has that look. She has the persona. Christ, she has the body! As always, I found myself laughing at supporting players like Robert Davi, Alan Rachins and Kyle-however-you-spell-his-last-name. I wonder if Verhoeven can possibly disappoint us even more, but it's obvious that someone's happy. He's still making movies... "},{"Title":"You don't think this is genuine art, do you?","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Joe Eszterhas and Paul Verhoeven gave us one big wet dream of a movie with this one. It fails on pretty much all artistic and dramatic levels; the dialogue....well, the less said the better. It's more laughable than erotic (remember the scene with the monkey? or how about the woman with that special dress?). On a plus side, the sets and dance numbers are intricate and well-executed. Too bad the rest of the movie isn't. As one critic put it, what a waste of a NC-17 rating.  "},{"Title":"No Matter What Anyone Else Thinks","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No matter what anyone else thinks I like this movie.  Really.  Honestly. Okay, so the acting is questionably odd.  It is indisputably beautifully filmed.  The story does touch me personally even though most people may think it is stale.  I cannot really explain how it touches me.  I like the idea that the audience never really knows what has been going on with the main character.  I like the way she travels nomadically.  As for the NC-17 rating, I just want to note that another film, Seven, which debuted the same week as Showgirls is much more deserving of being marked NC-17.  However, Seven has gone on to win awards and critical praise and is even being shown on network television.  However, I am sure that before long though when enough people of my opinion regarding this movie unite, Showgirls will be a TV14 movie of the week too.  "},{"Title":"No!  Me!","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You know how there are all those films out there (I can't think of an example of one at the moment) where our idealistic heroine moves to the big city to become a ballerina and instead has to earn a living as a stripper until she finds the fighter within and realizes her dream as a ballet star but finds it's lonely at the top so she leaves the city and goes back to her roots?Well Showgirls is different.  It's about a girl, Nome (get it, No Me or Know Me?)Malone (Elizabeth Berkely)  who's already found the fighter within.  She dreams of becoming a dancer in Las Vegas but instead she has to earn a living as a topless dancer in Las Vegas (but in a club that's kinda tacky!) but then due to intervention by another topless dancer ( a lesbian who does coke a la Sharon Stone in Basic Instinct,), Nome realizes her dream as a topless dancer star but finds its lonely at the top. So she beats the crap out of the Michael Bolton clone who rapes her best friend and leaves Las Vegas to go back to her roots  topless dancing in some small town and doing crack cocaine.The makers of this film swear that this was not supposed to be parody but rather an unflinchingly honest look at the underbelly of the entertainment industry. "},{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Story of a girl who goes to Las Vegas and becomes a lap dancer.  That's the premise of this big budget mess of a movie.  How lucky Charlize Theron was to lose out on starring in this movie.  The rape scene was cut for its U.K video release. "}{"Title":"Dismal.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   From the appallingly bad writing to the (unintentionally funny) overacting of Elizabeth Berkley (did she really think this was going to be her big break? She must be dumber than she looks then), this is Z-Grade schlock of the worst kind. I couldn't actually watch the whole thing in one sitting. What was so surprising about this movie was that there were actually some decent actors in it, but they were given absolutely nothing to work with. Kyle McLachlan will never live this one down.Showgirls was tacky, long-winded and amateurish from start to finish. Easily the worst film I have ever seen.   "},{"Title":"The biggest waste of money....","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Hey.. I figured that I would give a brief detail of how bad I think this film is.  It sucked.  Never have I seen such a waste of technicolor in all of my days.  Elizabeth Berkely must have been broke or absolutely desperate for work in order to have taken this role on.  However, last night she did a fantastic performance in the TV show Brothers' Keeper this show proves to be promising especially if she is a regular.   "},{"Title":"The new gay classic.","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is now official. Valley of the Dolls has been replaced with an even campier film.  I have attended three Showgirls parties in West Hollywood since this film came out on video - I think that makes it offical. When Naomi is in the car eating a hamburger and doing it so dramatically the official line to yell at her? You eat that hamburger, girl!  "},{"Title":"The most non-intelligent movie ever!","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is simply the worst flicks in the american cinema history.Even Ed Wood films are better!Showgirls have the worst acting ever.It is an insult to human intelligence.Some kind of a Jerry Springer show with sex scene! The biggest garbage of the history of cinema. "},{"Title":"Oh, the humanity!","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There was not one redeeming quality about this movie, except that it eventually ended. Even if it was intended as a satire or a statement on American society, it was still bad. Poor acting and dancing and a storyline that offered nothing new. You say that the movie was at least visually engaging? I sure that Hell is too, but I wouldn't use it as a selling point. "},{"Title":"HEE-LARIOUS","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If ever I am in a bad mood this movie can lift me up because it's so damn funny - AWFULLY good.  It ranks right up there with some of my favorite bad movies such as Chained Heat The Lonely Lady or Big Bad Mama.  I own a copy that I lend out to friends all the time. Elizabeth Berkley rocks! I never get tired of watching this film. "},{"Title":"Joe Eszterhas and Paul Verhoeven's Classic Camp Masterpiece","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite all the nudity and sex, this is a very old fashioned movie.  It's the old make it to the top by sabotaging your co-worker story that we've seen in such movies as Valley of the Dolls.  Then you find it's lonely and tough at the top.  oh well....Joe Ezsterhas has to be the worst writer ever!  I mean does he for a minute take anything he writes seriously?  Basic Instinct and Flashdance are so unbelievably over the top, they're hysterical.  This movie however, is his crowning achievement.  A camp classic of bad taste, that ranks with Mommie Dearest and Valley of the Dolls.  Whoever thought that Elizabeth Berkely can act was very mistaken.  Gina Gershon, however, seems to be the only person aware that she's making a camp masterpiece and vamps it up as Cristal in the best performance of the movie.  If you love campy over the top soap operas, then Showgirls is for you! "},{"Title":"Like a car crash","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I agree, this is not a brilliant piece of work. However, there are some sex scenes, that, for better or worse, you can't stop watching, like a gruesome auto accident on the side of the road. "},{"Title":"Slow, boring and lengthy","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really don't see what all the fuss is about. This movie was supposed to be one of the most explicit films made for cinemas, in that it was given an NC-17 rating in America (or something - it's R-rated over here). But it was too long, most of it was in shadow anyway, and there was not much to it. Basically it was a case of 'how far can we go without it being pornographic?' I don't think they went that far at all, and it could have easily gotten an MA rating in Australia. All there was was sex. Tell me how 'Species II' got an MA rating, yet 'Showgirls' is R-rated. I haven't yet met anyone who has liked this absolute shocker of a flick. "},{"Title":"Very,Very Appalling.","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was pointless, and I can't be bothered writing about it here are the results. Acting-0.8 (Appalling) Actors-1.0 (Very Poor) Display-2.0 (Fair) Plot-1.0 (Very Poor) Opening-1.0 (Very Poor) Ending-1.5 (Poor) Pleasantness-0.5 (Appalling) Fun-1.5 (Poor) Overall-0.8/5.0 (Appalling)  "}{"Title":"Total Trash","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film definitely belongs in the worst movie ever made category. Elizabeth Berkley not only can't act, but she can't dance either. This is the silliest, sleaziest, trashiest movie I've seen in a while. "},{"Title":"garbage movie with a couple of entertaining scenes","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Can I just say that this was one of the hardest movies for me to sit through. EVER!! What a piece of trash, could they have shown me one more set of breasts please??? Elizabeth Berkley was brutally bad, Gina Gershon wasn't much better. A couple of hysterical scenes though - Thrust, Thrust, Thrust - If you've seen it you'll know what I'm talking about. Or how about It's a Versace!!! I couldn't stop laughing. Or right before the end where she beats up the long hair and she's screaming F--k You! F--ker!!!. What a riot.  "},{"Title":"Heavily underrated","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After seeing this movie for a couple of times, I really can't find a way to hate this. It's sure not one of the best pictures of all time. Elisabeth Berkley sometimes over-acts (dances great anyway), and it contains some unnecessary violence. On the other hand the music and the choreography were great! If there was an Academy Award for the last part it should be one of the favourites. I've never been in Las Vegas, but I really think it would look a lot like this, even behind the scenes. I think that in a few years people would more appreciate this because it is a classic. "},{"Title":"Makes Batman and Robin look like Godfather.","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I went into this movie expecting it to be bad, due to all the horrible reviews and stories I've heard, and this movie actually exceeded my expectations on how bad it was. It's horribly paced, climax is absurd and makes no sense, and the dialogue may very well be the worst written dialogue I have ever heard for a mainstream movie. The plot is OK, but it completely unravels by the end (which was rushed, made no sense, and came completely out of nowhere) and there are just scenes in this movie that defy description in the level of unintended badness and absurdity. Some have said that this film can be viewed as a satire. DO NOT BUY INTO THIS. There is nothing for this film to satirize and it's just plain bad. Yes, there are a few jokes thrown in, but for the most part it is so painstakingly awful, from so many different perspectives, it's shocking an established director was behind it. The only thing that makes this film decent, in any way, is that it had money behind it, so it doesn't look cheaply made. I will also give them credit and say that the strip club scenes are well done, assuming they are showing a realistic and seedy nature of such establishments. This I found to be very believable and the one time that this movie actually seemed to be going somewhere. Besides that it's a movie to behold and wonder exactly how unintentionally bad a mainstream movie can be. "},{"Title":"Crap","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I know that this movie is sort of like a cult movie, so i watched it&#x85;. BIG mistake. If you are a movie lover and enjoy actually good and meaningful films, i do not recommend this for you. There's not much to say about this movie, it had it's moments, very few of them. And all of the other content was utterly awful, 2 hours of it. Unrealistic, over the top, pretentious piece of crap&#x85;All you're gonna see here is boobs, ass, well basically something between striptease and pornography. Practically no logic plot and boring or stupid characters (stupid - not in a intentionally good way). So, if you are curious, just want to pass the time or laugh at it, go ahead. Otherwise, don't bother... "},{"Title":"You know a movie is a disaster when the only good award it gets is for the DVD packaging...","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A momentous task in my life is done - I have watched Showgirls- and I have to say it was better than I expected but still not worthy of more than 3 stars.Let's start off with the lead actress (Elizabeth Berkly). She is the worst I have seen. She had one facial expression, sucked at trying to be serious, and couldn't dance her way out of hell(lots of huffing and puffing). I didn't even think she was that good looking, she has a horse- face. She had no grace at all and looked ridiculous in her role. The lead character, Nomi , said she wasn't a whore but oh she really played the whore/slut card pretty darn well throughout the whole movie.Every single character seemed to blend together and was lifeless. Really, there were no stand-out characters, they all were one-dimensional and had less expression than a plastic Barbie doll. There was nothing genuine about anyone, they were just trashy, self-centered, sex egotists, and didn't have the slightest emotional appeal. Throwing in that Andrew Carter guy was a very bad mistake as he served no purpose in the film and the background on him was non-existent. He was a big jerk to begin with and when he said I like your ass, he turned out to be just a dirty- minded scumbag who thinks of women as nothing more than something to grab onto and enjoy. At least he got his ass kicked by Nomi.Surprisingly, this movie proved to have some entertainment value, albeit in a different sort of way. Lots of sexy dancing and adult oriented behavior but other than that the movie seemed to drag on for more than its worth. The first time I saw the nudity and sexual scenes, I was like Yeah, this movie isn't so bad but then it started to be poured on and on, relentlessly, making it hard to watch. It's hard to appreciate the beauty of seeing some naked body parts on screen when you're almost seeing it the entire time. It should be treated as a reward for watching the film, that is built up to instead of making it look trashy and tasteless. Even for me it got to be kind of sickening to see all of those women walking around naked for a half hour. The plot was just plain stupid. Nomi, a drifter supposedly from New York, comes to Las Vegas wanting to become a dancer and has to climb the ladder and fight the odds to become a top Vegas showgirl. For what? Is she that trashy and desperate for a living that she has to resort to selling her body? And it was played out in even worse fashion. The jokes and humor in this film were crude and just plain unfunny. Who came up with she looks better than a ten inch dick and you know it? That ugly hoe popping her boobs out again and again was supposed to be funny? Terrible script and actors/actresses alike who were about as exciting and thoughtful as a glass of water.There were some highlights, if any, in this movie that seemed to hold up what was a essentially a piece of garbage film that I'll never see again. The dancing was sensational, and the Elvis-look- alike guy in the truck was cool...and...well...that's about it. The costume design was downright trashy and it seemed like every flashy dance scene had the women stripping off their clothes and being groped all over. Only a movie to see in your private time. This movie doesn't even deserve an NC-17 rating, if you even call this a movie. It wouldn't even qualify as a good porn film. It was like a bunch of D-list actors thrown together who don't know where they are going or what to do. They just partied, danced and what not until it was over. There was no chemistry between any of the characters and the progression of getting to know any of them was lackluster. There is so much more wrong with this film but that would probably take a while to write about so I'm just going to say this movie should not be on anyone's wish list. It is the movie that should be banned all across the world (and space if there are civilizations out there). Guard your sons, guard your daughters, this movie is the god of everything terrible and an example of bad-movie making to learn from. A trashy film that even landfills would be scared of. Why it spawned a sequel, I have no clue. "},{"Title":"Screech's revenge??","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Who do you have to **** to get off this picture? --attributed to Bette Davis Who did Elizabeth Berkley have to **** to get starred in Showgirls? The movie seems intended as a love letter to her, though I don't recall anyone in the 1990's saying, Remember Jessie from 'Saved by the Bell'? God, I wish they'd get her into a porno flick so we could see what she's got! What Berkley's got in Showgirls is a more explicit version of her petulance routine from that Saturday morning teen show. Berkley plays Nomi, a girl essentially from nowhere who wants to become a dancer. (And I do mean from nowhere. She has no family whatsoever, and later in the movie, another character has to explain to her what an M.B.A. is.) For no good reason, Nomi decides that becoming a dancer involves hitchhiking to Las Vegas. From that point, the script goes into two major loops. One is that, in one form or another, all the major characters have an obsession with either Nomi's dancing or her breasts. Either Nomi's being told how beautiful her chest is, or she's being told how much raw talent she has as a dancer. I don't know from Las Vegas, but having seen a few dancers and a few breasts in my day, my frank assessment is that Berkley is not outstanding in either department.The other loop is that Nomi is forever either showing off every inch of her lithe body or doing her best to simulate the sex act, only to go running off in anger every time somebody insinuates that she's a hooker. Now, where would anyone get that idea (other than her mentors requesting that she ice up her nipples before every show)? The movie's main, er, thrust is that Nomi works her way up to being a dancer in a show featuring what we're told is Vegas' star attraction, Cristal Connors (Gina Gershon). Eventually, we're told that Cristal has designs on Nomi, mainly so that screenwriter Joe Eszterhas and director Paul Verhoeven (the same enlightened team behind Basic Instinct) can indulge their lip-smackin' woman-on-woman fantasies.From there, the movie goes into a hyper, NC-17 variation of All About Eve, or what it would be if Bette Davis and Ann Baxter decided to get it on before they went into career damage control.Despite this movie's seedy reputation, it's not fun enough to be a good bad movie. It does have some Ed Wood-like dialogue whoppers -- when Nomi's old boss sees her hit the big time, he blithely comments, It must be strange not to have someone c*** on you -- but not enough to sit through this slop. Mostly, the movie makes you wonder how it dragged in actors such as Kyle MacLachlan, L.A. Law's Alan Rachins, and most notoriously, Gina Gershon who, with her big breasts and monotone line readings, comes off like Adrienne Barbeau's big sister. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good and so stupid it's funny.","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that you will either like or hate. It falls into two categories, so bad it's good and so stupid it's funny. I think the reason this movie got really bad reviews from critics is because of the excessive nudity and sexuality. And I agree that their is excessive nudity and sexuality. But I was not expecting something Oscar worthy. I watched it with an open mind. The acting was so silly that I laughed. But that is what makes this movie so good. Another reason it is so good us because it is so bad. It even won most of the golden raspberry awards, including worst director. Do not go into this movie expecting so Oscar worthy or very serious. Just go into it with an open mind. "},{"Title":"This film is not just about showgirls","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you believe the world is only about nice and genteel people you won't like this film. I liked it the first time I saw it but wondered why. So I went back to see it a second time. I liked it much better the second time. Why? Showgirls is about integrity and the things that must be done to stick to it. In the very beginning when Nomi pulls a weapon this is not the act of a nice passive girl. This is the act of someone alert to defending herself with offense.Every step along the way, Nomi wants to be in control. She has reason as her past hasn't treated her well. There are things she can't control if she is to pursue her ambition. She is disappointed but deals with it. She is wary and mistrustful of any signs of love and is slow to reciprocate kindness. When she finds someone she does love, she defends that person as she would herself.In the end she learns and we learn. If she can succeed on her own of beating the system we learn as well as she. This may be why many love this film. Those who don't care for it may be a part of the very system that oppresses. I wonder.Addendum What amazes me is the number of reviewers who disliked it. This review is directed at them. Aren't they confusing the film's content with its quality? The content is nasty. Ever had nasty done to you? The film is about dealing with nasty. Ever seen Macbeth by William Shakespeare? That is nastier. (Verified by a 3rd viewing last night.) "},{"Title":"such a brave film","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One thing about me is I love it when a movie doesn't hold back. It tells the story how it is or was supposed to happen. War movies that show all the blood, gore and troubles that war really is. Being a showgirl isn't an easy job for most average women. As I watched this film, I was surprised in the first 40 minutes or so with the level of nudity. But, as the film progressed, I became more comfortable with it. It is the world these women either want or need to be in. These places are there for male entertainment because this is what most men like. We may not admit it, but it is a fact. This film represents what someone would most likely see in one of the places represented in it. In modern times it has been scaled back in some places mind you. Simply put, the world this film depicts is solely for adults. It is not an R-rated world. For the bravery of the director and the actresses who made this film, I give it a 10 out of 10! "}{"Title":"Unrelentingly grim","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Verhoeven's Hollywood output is subversive stuff in that his films tend to be brutally satirical but also unblinkingly satirical. Robocop was a vicious satire on violence, the police state, and action films in general (with a generous sideswipe of television news and sitcoms), but if you were unaware of Verhoeven's intent with the film, you will most likely only see a brutally violent action film supporting a fascistic police state. Much the same can be said for most of his films which tend to have a secret intent that is often directly opposed to what you are actually watching. Which brings us to Showgirls, which is a unrelentingly grim tale of a drifter (played with absurd intensity by Elizabeth I'M SO ANGRY AT THIS BOTTLE OF KETCHUP AND THESE FRENCH FRIES Berkeley, whose acting chops graced us prior on Saved by the Bell) who hitches into Las Vegas with the dream of becoming a dancer. That's it. If you think anything is going to happen or change, you are sadly mistaken. What follows are two hours of horrifying bleakness that gives Larry Clark's Kids a run for its money. Showgirls, of all of Verhoeven's films, is a tough one to sit through. I am loath to call it satire, because beyond the lead actress' laughable super-intensity, there is little to laugh about. This is a movie filled with awful, hideous, uncomfortable sex scenes and seedy, wholly unsympathetic characters who will, over the course of the film, achieve nothing except to send the viewer into a spiral of soul-crushing despair. I would like to think that there is something more to this. After making Basic Instinct and all the plaudits it received as an 'erotic thriller', I expect Verhoeven reacting with some distress. Sex does not equal erotica and the nihilistic Bret Easton Ellis-esquire series of wealthy people killing each other off (with no value judgment because they're all so evil and lacking in humanity or worth to begin with) was not intended to titillate. 'Sex?' he asked, 'They want sex? I'll give them so much sex they'll never want sex again!' and thus Showgirls was born. With every passing minute of film, a little piece of your humanity is chipped away. It is an epic in human degradation, showcasing all that is bad and wrong, with only the most rudimentary slapped on 'moral' of staying true to yourself and your friends. My theory is that this film was intended to be extremely unpleasant viewing, a horror flick where we the audience are both the monster and the victim. Its intent is to highlight how low life can sink and to show vehemently that bared breasts and a lot of sex does not make something sexy, and perhaps to make the audience re-examine their thoughts on the long line of so-called 'erotic thrillers' that were so popular in the late eighties and early nineties (most of them starring Michael Douglas, to everyone's misfortune). Maybe this is how Verhoeven has come to view America or Hollywood, an entire population of swindlers and whores. Yet as much as I believe there is more to Showgirls than what is seen at face value, its face value is so dreadful and off-putting that it's hard to stare into that abyss and search for meaning. It is one of the most grueling experiences in modern cinema and it may permanently ruin sex on film for those who view it. It is brilliant in its awfulness. "},{"Title":"Trashy, sleazy mainstream flick.","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Why all the hate for Showgirls? The director and producer knew that soft core was getting lots of attention in the mid 90's so they decided to invest millions of dollars on a mainstream movie of the genre.We got the winning elements. Sleaze, sex, nudity, vulgarity, etc. I wouldn't say it's a classy movie but it surely has quality production values but the vulgarity is just too heavy! Elizabeth Baerkley truly shocked me with her performance. I always looked at her as Jesse from Saved By The Bell but in this movie she totally blew my mind.There's plenty of nudity and steamy sex so you won't be bored on the T&A factor.This movie deserves a cult status and a Surreal Life chance for Elizabeth Berkley.Give it a chance if you are an avid consumer of trash cinema like me. "},{"Title":"irresistible trash","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sure, this is an awful film--but that hasn't prevented it from gaining a cult following. As the first big budget, high profile film to receive an NC-17 rating it has a certain historic importance. There's a certain amount of hypocrisy in the self-righteous denunciations most critics chose to give this film one feels that if it had been made in Italy, France or Japan it would have been considered art. As it is, when Americans do trash, it's just trash. In spite of everything, I have to admit I enjoy this film. Paul Verhoeven's direction is never less than competent, and the widescreen photography is very good, taking advantage of the Vegas and desert locales--giving it almost a spaghetti-western look. Elizabeth Berkeley's Nomi is such a fierce little creature, who uses her looks, sexuality and dancing skills to get back at a world she has every reason to be angry at. Gina Gershon's Crystal is such an over the top bitch you end up liking her in spite of herself. Kyle MacLachlan is good as the hotel entertainment director, and Robert Davi gives a memorably sleazy performance as the strip club manager. There have been better films about Las Vegas--The Godfather Part 2, Austin Powers International Man of Mystery and Viva Las Vegas come to mind--but few that really capture the glittery, unapologetically vulgar mystique of the city that has built itself on appealing to everything vile and sordid in human nature. Showgirls will probably be remembered long after more pretentious, artier films have been forgotten. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK, I know it's just a movie, but ever since the beginning Nomi treats people like sh*** (meaning insulting, yelling, kicking etc...), however, they all love her, and they all help her without she even asking them to, when in real life does that happen? Also, there's a scene in which she's dancing and she starts licking the pole...what the f***????? was she that dumb to realize that she's probably licking other strippers ass*s, and sweat by doing that? She's all the time looking perfect and with a lot of makeup on, even when she wakes up from sleeping, looks like she's got her own personal make up and hair stylist that fixes her while she's sleeping.There's a lot other things I could write, but I don't have time, please feel free to add them in your comments. "},{"Title":"this movie rocked","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i cannot believe how amazing of a film showgirls was. don't get me wrong, it was complete and total crap, but what wonderful crap it was. in order to appreciate this film as i did you would need to have an equal appreciation for the absurd. it helps to be able to applaud when one ridiculous extreme after another flickers across the screen. does this movie make sense? nope, it's not supposed to. if i wanted realism i'd go see schindler's list. when i wants escapism, i'll see a movie about a stripper with a heart almost of gold that starts to turn to coal but then is saved. as awful and f-ed up as this sounds, even the rape scene keeps with this mentality. the movie is progressing along at it's bizarre-o world rate when out of nowhere, *boom*, horrifying rape sequence. when i say horrible i mean horrible on the scale of the accused. that crap is violent, scary, and degrading. how do we follow up this rape-sequence, why, of course, with our favorite stripper revealing her secret identity as a vengeance fulfilling kick-boxing master assassin. with eye make-up for miles. (spooky thought, the rapist is played by a gentleman who is the spitting image of the writer/director of this little gem, paul verhoven.) long live nomi malone and crystal connors, how you taught us well. "},{"Title":"Hysterically Funny","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My rating is based exclusively on camp value. As a REAL movie, it's around a 1.5 Here in New York, we have a revival series called Chelsea Classics which shows camp classics such as Showgirls, ...Baby Jane, any Joan Crawford movie, Mommie Dearest - you get the idea. This movie is HYSTERICALLY funny. From the opening moments when Nomi gets saved from being runover on the highway by her future room mate and then they immediately share an undeniably homoerotic moment after which Nomi pukes, right through to Crystal and Nomi discussing Nomi's breasts and eating dog food, to when Nomi thrusts her dance teacher's hand down her pants to prove that she's having her period (yes - he sniffs his finger!!), to the slo-mo closeup of the big lesbian kiss and the infamous sex scene in the neon lit swimming pool. The audience is howling - HOWLING with laughter - just as they did when it was first released. It is definitely the OTHER type of classic. Sooooo incredibly awful that it is irresistible. One of my favorite quotes - Crystal asks Nomi what she does. Nomi says she's a dancer at the Cheetah. Crystal's reply as she eyes Nomi like a slab of prime rib I don't know what it is that you do darlin'... but if you're doin' it at the Cheetah, it sure ain't dancin' Rent this. Right now. "},{"Title":"Showgirls.","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is one of the best movies I have ever seen in my entire life. Better than any other movie ever made. Sure my friends and family criticize my taste in movies, but who cares? They just don't understand it's awesomeness. I, clearly, do. I mean, the movies just leaves me wanting more. Nomi Malone is my idol. I felt for her. I can relate so much to this film. I feel like I myself have a Cristal Connors keeping me from being the best. And who hasn't had a Zack Carey who makes them feel so special at times and so worthless at others? And of course the best friend, Molly Abrams. Everyone needs someone they can always count on. No matter what anyone says about this film, you need to see it for yourself. Be open minded. This movie is amazing and if you give it a chance, you will too see how riveting this film is. "},{"Title":"Makes Sex Boring","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie about sex, but most of the characters aren't particularly sexy. But then, the characters are all scum, and the best thing that could happen would be for all of them to die, making the world a better place. Nomi Malone comes to Las Vegas, wanting to be a dancer and a star. She's not very smart -- a recurring theme -- and gets robbed of everything she owns, except the clothes on her back and her switchblade. Things happen, mostly not worth detailing. She makes a friend who works as a dressmaker. She gets a job as a stripper. She meets Crystal Conner, who can't wait to get into Nomi's pants. She meets Zack Carey, who can't wait to get into her pants. She meets James Smith, who can't wait to get into her pants. And she goes from being a stripper to a star. All this is accompanied by lousy Decalogue, bad acting, stupid plotting, and dance numbers. Some of the dance numbers aren't bad. If you don't know what a lap dance is, you'll find out. But if you're looking for a good movie, keep looking. "},{"Title":"Read this review, love this movie","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Listen, this movie is amazing. It is not a porn movie, is it an ADULT movie. I love it because it is interesting and unorthodox! Nomi (Elizabeth) is an amazing actress. There are scenes in this movie that you will never forget. The scene that i will remember forever is Nomi beating up her favourite rock star because he raped Molly Abraham, her best friend. This movie is also a tearjerker. In the end she leaves everything she has worked for, she leaves Crystal, Molly, Zack, everyone for a new life which poses the question - how many times has she done that before? Watch this movie. Its amazing, Best movie i have ever seen and you will love it so much. "},{"Title":"forget what you have heard and read, watch this film!!!","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film may not have the hottest sex scene or the best plot but it's definitely worth seeing! It promises tits and arse, and it gives you tits and arse. With the sexy Elizabeth Berkely and the amazing Gina Gershon you can't really go wrong. I think Glenn Plummer was a let down he had sexy lips though, he was terrible and had no really emotion. Elizabeth was great as Nomi she really worked that role good. Her sex scene with Kyle MacLachlan who played Zak was a bit overacted but really funny! worth trying lol Gina was better though she is the only reason i watched it lol. Glad i did she was great her role as Cristal was a bitchy bisexual coke hore, and she played it well. I loved Lin Tucci who played Henrietta 'Mama' Bazoom she rocked and had the best lines. Well basically everyone should watch this if not for the tits and arse but for the funniest lines you'll ever hear in a film! go crazy everyone, peace out x "}{"Title":"show girls!!!!!!!!","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i think this film is good. The dancing is amazing and well organised. The actors ain't 100% but this ain't a TOP Hollywood film is it? Gina Gershon being the best and most SEXIEST person in the film was amazing and extremely lush!!!! i not keen on Elizabeth Berkley she looks and acts too false and i kept imagining her in SAVED by the BELL which is a kiddies programme and her acting weren't all that in that either! I loved all the dancing and costumes were amazing and Gina looking well fit in every single one! The story is good and the directing i think was good too. The only down side is Gina not being in it for half the movie haha! "},{"Title":"the best laugh fest ever made","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Since the very first time i seen Showgirls I thought its was fantastic and artistic and awfully funny. I just bought the V.I.P.edition and watched it on commentary and it was even funnier on the commentary. The guy who does it is funny and makes it into a whole new movie. Out of 10 i give it an 11 with the commentary and a 9 without. And the special features are cool.This movie may have been nominated for the most razzie awards ever but its great to watch this with your friends is even better. And critics just don't know what they are talking about. They think there opinion is the only one to believe. and who cares if it doesn't make the big bucks in the box office. this movie rocks all the way.  "},{"Title":"Here's two hours of your life you'll never get back","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Roger Ebert got it right when he called this film 'a waste of a perfectly good NC-17 rating.' From the folks who brought you Total Recall, Basic Instinct and (especially) Robocop comes this loathsome ordeal about a Las Vegas dancer who is an overnight success when a star quite literally 'breaks a leg' (after being pushed down some stairs by the main character). Elizabeth Berkley is a tall, gangling, somewhat uncoordinated actress who plays Nomi Malone, a tall, gangling, somewhat uncoordinated arrested adolescent who wants to be a Las Vegas dancer but refuses to be exploited, which is sort of like going for a swim but refusing to hold your breath. In 'Showgirls,' Berkley wears extremely high-gloss lipstick and pouts in a way that makes her look a lot like The Creature from the Black Lagoon, which is where this movie should be deep-sixed. She seems to think that a petulant flounce is great acting She uses that move over and over again in this turkey.'Showgirls' has in common with Verhoeven's other work a pervasive misanthropy Self-interest is all; people, or government, or corporations, are venal, corrupt, and self-seeking; trust no one; kill or be killed, either literally or figuratively. The difference is that the main character in Robocop was Murphy, a good man battling a corrupt establishment, ditto for Douglas Quaid in Total Recall; or Nick Curran in Basic Instinct, a deeply flawed but basically responsible guy battling a twisted woman and his own inner demons. In 'Showgirls,' we have Nomi, who has a major personality disorder and about whom we care not at all. There is one character in this travesty who is sympathetic Molly Abrams (Gina Ravera), and you have to conclude that she's nicer than she is smart for taking the drifter Nomi into her home and helping her find work after she blows into Vegas. Molly wins the No Good Deed Goes Unpunished Award by getting raped by a big movie star near the end of the film, in a totally contrived sequence that exists solely for the purpose of setting up a big revenge scene for the protagonist.So many naked breasts and butts are shown so early and so often that the impact of all that bare skin is completely lost at a fairly early stage. Nomi does a lap dance at one point that looks like it could give her two or three herniated discs. A lot of money and resources obviously went into several large, spectacularly vulgar production numbers that are supposed to be Las Vegas floor shows featuring Nomi's main antagonist, Cristal Connors, played by Gina Gershon in a role that has all the potential of keeping her out of the big time for years to come. At the same time as Cristal recognizes an adversary and rival in Nomi, she has a sort of twisted semierotic interest in her that defies all logic and reason. You watch Gershon dancing nearly nude on a Las Vegas 'stage' and wonder, 'How did a nice Jewish Beverly Hills High School graduate let herself get snookered into a career-killer like this dismal dog of a film?'My rating Bomb (lowest). Avoid this stinker at all costs. "},{"Title":"A camp classic","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  People may kill me for this, but I just can't help it, I LOVE THIS MOVIE! The glitter, the glam, THE MAKEUP, the costumes, Gina Gershon, Elizabeth Berkley, Kyle MacLaughlin's butt, I love Showgirls! It is so fun to watch. Its always labeled a bomb-but it had a $10,000,000 opening its opening weekend. What did people expect? ITS ABOUT LAS VEGAS!!!!LAS VEGAS IS TACKY!!! It was never promoted as the next Gone With The Wind and the things that happen in this film REALLY DO happen in shows backstage. Elizabeth got a very poor rap for this--she actually is very good...Maybe it got overly promoted, maybe some of the lines are quirky (c'mon peeps--its Las Vegas!) but whatever the case....NOMI MALONE LIVES ON!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"one bad bad movie, terrible acting,and story","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this movie shoud've went right to blockbuster video, and then you shouldn't take it out, elizabeth berkley's body is great, the only good thing in the movie . a few titilating scenes, of lesbian nature. should have been written as a comedy, if you can stand it..lin tucci is good in the movie for the part she plays.. elizabeth berkley's career took a beating from this one. "},{"Title":"not as bad as one would think!","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  granted the movie was a bit racey for it's time but it had a good plot and the heroin had enough mystery surrounding her that the movie kept you until the end. however, being someone that does NOT expect reality when going to the movies i felt that the end could have been better, perhaps a 'happily ever after' type ending. otherwise the movie was good.  "},{"Title":"This is the greatest movie ever made!","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to watch this movie once a week or I have withdrawals.  A lot of people watch it ironically, for the cheesy dancing, bad acting, dolphin sex scene or what have you, but not me.  I truly love this flick.  I cannot think of another movie in the last several years that was this entertaining.  Since this cinematic masterpiece, I have become completely dedicated to Gina Gershon and support her in whatever she's in, simply out of gratitude for this movie.  Don't listen to the naysayers!  This is seriously one of the greatest movies of all time! "},{"Title":"Are people blind?","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film I consider a test of I.q. for the viewers. I am sorry, but how intelligent must one be to understand that the soap opera plot is an excuse to bring out the dirty laundry of the proper society? And what is it that most people do not like in this film? The direction? The show? The acting? Or is it that, in the minds of most people, any film with more than enough nudity is a priori considered to be of low quality and if it is attacking the society with it´s plot, it is stupid? Sorry, but having a mind of my own to use, I like this one. And not because of the real estate of bare skin employed here. This film IS more than skin deep! "},{"Title":"IT's HERE!","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's here! Showgirls is the camp classic of all time. Movies just don't get much better than this. I'm not sure what they were going for but I'm almost completely sure that this film just wasn't menat to be taken seriously. Elizabeth Berkley is perfect as Nomi a struggling dancer/stripper who comes to Las Vegas to be in the big'topless' show at the stardust. But she meets many opponents and nemises along the way. Over ripe with melodrama, musical numbers, the most dramatic perfromsnces and dialogue you've ever heard and scene. Showgirls is a big, flashy, unerotic stupendous spectacle. It's never dull and you can never tell one scene form the next.  If you haven't seen it yet. Find showgirls, get a six pack and sit back for one of the funnist and funnest films you'll ever see! "},{"Title":"Don't expect Saved By The Bell!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The only thing to say about this film is that Elizabeth Berkley must have been pretty desperate to get into films. The critics slammed her at the time for setting a poor example to young women by revealing ALL in her first big film role. And justifiably so, she didn't stop at anything. In reality, how could she really have thought this calamity would be the start of a blossoming career? Needless to say, her career took a slight downturn after this...OK, it went down the pan never to recover. Indeed she had the ultimate accolade of being nominated for Worst Actress Of The Century at the Razzies in 2000.I can't write a review of this film without referring to the many absurd and sometimes sick sequences in the film. We get a conversation about eating s**t which goes something like this Have you ever ate s**t?;No;I have once;Really. Film writing doesn't get much better! We get the ridiculous, untimely and ultimately pointless gang rape at the end, and who could forget the black guy with the dreadlocks. Elizabeth encourages him to check inside her pants for her period. He does and comes up with a hand full of it. But its OK - I've got towels. Mindblowing stuff!Overall, Elizabeth Berkley is very attractive and we can't help but get used to seeing her stone cold naked. I don't know how people can say she's a bad actress though - she's shown us a very diverse range since Saved By The Bell! But I can't complain, she is very good looking and I would watch it again. "}{"Title":"Post-ironic masterpiece","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You can only understand and appreciate this movie in the entire context of Verhoeven's work. I think his mission is to take the formula of the Hollywood blockbuster, which he understands perfectly (Robocop) and push it (Total recall) and push it some more (Basic instinct) until it explodes (Showgirls). What makes Verhoeven truly admirable is that he keeps pushing (Star troopers) until the movie becomes a pastiche of itself and of the genre. Note I haven't seen Hollow Man and I am quite curious whether it still fits the equation.On this continuum, as I said, all movies fit the blockbuster formula very well very polished cinematography, great production values, ridiculous plot developments, sex&violence, vacuous acting, etc. Up to 'Showgirls' the formula has the expected effect on the movie-watching crowds; after it (i.e. 'Troopers') the very simple-minded movie-goer funnily enough still likes it on that wham-bang level, but most people perceive it as a satire of sorts.This leaves 'Showgirls' the odd movie out. The ingredients are the same as, but the dosage is different it's too much to take but not enough to be truly over the top. The movie hovers in a very precarious region around the top making the viewer very uncomfortable. As most of the reviews will testify, many feel guilty about watching it; many criticize it without giving motives (the worst movie **EVER**!!); many give motives that are absurd (plot holes? you need to take a movie quite seriously to dig for plot holes.) or incorrect (poor cinematography? quite the contrary.) or at best questionable (poor acting? not worse than anything with Tom Cruise in it and, besides, a certain mannerism of acting is part of what I call 'the Hollywood formula'.)The greatness of this movie, or rather of Verhoeven's work as a whole, lies in what it says about the person who watches the film. I wouldn't call Verhoeven an artistic genius, because he might simply work mechanically, increasing the dosage of the ingredients with scientifical precision. He might do it out of curiosity, or maybe he even foolishly thinks the more the better. Alghough I strongly doubt he is a fool. The fact that he accepted the Razzie award for 'Showgirls' in person tells me he's in on the joke.Anyway, kudos to him for keeping this grand experiment going all the way and not being phased by the critics, the public or the studios. If not a genius, at least Verhoeven is a director of great integrity.  "},{"Title":"Fun, fun!! Big fun!","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you never admitted to have seen in your younger teens. It was supposed to be the worst movie ever made according to critics. Totally penned. I ignored it at its theatrical release back in ´95, but when I caught it on TV, by pure coincidense, I soon realized its fun potential. It tells the Girl dreams of becoming a star, struggles, gets s***, wins at the end, story. But in a raunchy, very graphic, sometimes vulgar way. It is one if the most entertaining films I´ve seen. You can have opinions about its un-PC sexual contents, but I tell you, it´s hilarious! It´s Big Fun!!! Pretty much like Girls Just Want To Have Fun, but for grown ups.Strange and comic characters all over, you´ll love them. Great laughs!!! "},{"Title":"Got an Undeserved Bad Wrap","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, so this is not a masterpiece of film making. So what? It wasn't supposed to be and doesn't the deserve the bad wrap it got as the poster child for trash film making. Actually, it functions quite well for what it was intended to be, i.e., a pretty good mainstream erotic film. Unfortunately, because of the bum wrap it (as well as its writer, director, and main actress Elizabeth Berkley) got, it turned out to be one of the last ones ever made. Because this film got such negative reviews, most mainstream film makers began to shy away from doing erotica. Thus, if we wish to view an erotic film that was made in the last five years, we're mostly stuck with porn or those cheesy, plotless, softcore films which play on late-night pay cable and pay-per-view.  "},{"Title":"Forget the t/a - this is a remarkable masterpiece","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie as we all know received bad reviews. Why does it receive bad reviews? Because it contains tits (tehee). Who are all these people around here to discourage others from watching a movie that contains something so silly as t/a. I have talked to perfectly intelligent people who just bluntly state that it can't be good because there's a lot of t/a in it. Who cares, grow up, separate your moral opinions from your appraisal of art.The dialog is wonderful, ironical, satirical and very very cynical on a level where most Americans, most of whom are not used to this type of humor, can not understand exists. In fact, I can not think of any dialog that is snappier and multi-layered, except perhaps Starship Troopers. Berkeley is excellent, though her dancing could be sexier and more sensuous, but I suppose that's the way it is in Vegas. She delivers her lines like a soap actress, yes, and that is not so uncommon for very drama queens. Gina is divine, of course, some people have complained about her schizo personality (on one hand she loves Nomi, on the other she hates her) - well, welcome to drama queen world. This is real life, not some explanatory role-model movie.Take home message This movie was not made to be a heartfelt drama movie. And it is not so bad that it's good, like Plan 9, you know. It's a wonderful movie in the same class ass classics such as Happiness.  "},{"Title":"Nudity does not make a bad script good","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First of all I wonder if this script is based on a 14-year-old's wet dream. No one else could come up with so many bad excuses to show nudity. The logical flaws are all over the script. The main character gets a ride to Vegas, but even after many many miles on the road they don't seem to talk about what she is going to do in Vegas until they reach the city limits. Not very likely.The acting is much worse than each actor's normal performance. Poor Kyle Maclachlan, he probably doesn't even include this on his resume. A poor script usually creates bad acting. Only in The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies have I seen more unnecessary dance numbers. These are more daring (not hard to be) and not as bad, but that does not make them excusable. The plot is not as stupid as porns, but not much brighter.The movie is so bad I actually recommend people to see it for that reason. If MST3K make a TV comeback I am sure this movie will be included on their list. This movie proves just money can't make a movie good. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Erotic Entertainment At Its Best","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To some people Showgirls is just a sick pornographic soap opera. With the fact of using simulated sex with violence give the movie its hole appeal of being an NC-17 erotic thriller that to me is key to the film. That not only makes the film the best erotic film ever but gives a very well made grounding braking NC-17 sexual fantasy film. It gives lesbianism, a scene of sexual violence, and simulated sex acts on the casino stage which are the most arousing acts of sex that I have seen in film.The directer is Paul Verhoeven well known for Basic Instinct. Both films I would say are pornographic in their own ways but Showgirls Is different the screenplay is well thought out and is very intelligent. For the first time a director makes a movie with sex and violence that is not point less and does not fall off its story but its straight to the point.I respect this film alot the characters in the film are very well acted and directing is well done. The story is at its high with being the most intelligent adult film ever. Showgirls promises and delivers for the a very arousing adult film if you want to see the film of 1995 than Showgirls is the film for you.Carlos D. Montemayor "},{"Title":"Great fun if you're not expecting too much","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I see a lot of negative about this film and wonder why. I think a lot of it is that it's been trashed so badly by critics that everyone wants to be on that I hated it too bandwagon.I, for one, enjoyed it. So, a lot of you got tricked into watching a late night Cinemax after hours presentation that had a huge budget. Don't fret over it. Paul Verhoeven has always been known for blowing things up gloriously (aspects of a movie, not necessarily explosions).This is a great movie for those who aren't expecting Academy Award winning performances...it's a fun late night nothing better to do movie. Myself and a few friends have the dialog memorized and follow along with it. We even create some of our own dialog.I guess I also get a kick out of moviegoers who get a trick played on them and then get mad because of it. If you went into a movie that was created by Paul Verhoeven and Joe Eszterhas  and was rated NC-17, expecting an artsy fartsy film, the joke was most definitely on you.I on the otherhand, having seen everything Fred Olen Ray and Jim Wynorski have done, expected a fun, cheesy sex movie...and I got it...9/10 and worth repeated viewings, especially for the great performances by Robert Davi and (yes) Elizabeth Berkley (for taking a chance on such a movie).Trashy and proud of it, can't go wrong with that... "},{"Title":"Abominable! So bad it is *bad*.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't see why anyone could truly like this film. It truly has none of the so bad, it's good factor that a film like Plan 9 from Outer Space has. This is just a tawdry, overlong mess. Any attempt at satire is at best tacit and pointless. The aspects of acting, music, dancing, plot and  dialogue are all downright objectionable. Elizabeth Berkley gives an awful performance as an irritating, vacuous character. Gina Gerhson is the best of the performers here, but that ain't saying too much. Kyle MacLachlan, a good actor in certain Lynch projects, is at sea here, unable to rise above atrocious material. Frankly, it is saddening to see that 5169 IMDB users have seen this film; a figure that dwarfs many great films of the past. I strongly advise that this film be avoided, it really is terrible. Go watch, for example, Angels with Dirty Faces or The Band Wagon instead. Cinema really can't get much worse than Showgirls. Rating- 0/***** "},{"Title":"Isn't this a great film? Well, it doesn't suck!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really do not get all the negative criticism on this movie. At least this is not some high action, low story action flicks, which are moderately enjoyable when you turn off your brains. OK there is a lot of nudity in this one, which to some people might be offending (why o why???). I mean we all are naked under our clothes, so what man, do not be so narrow - minded! Apart from all the nudeness and the erotic scenes, which all had their effect on (me more or less), there is even a story to be detected in this movie. It is about the way Las Vegas or maybe that kind of showbusiness works in general and I think that if it works like that, why hide the truth (or in this case the nudeness)? It also shows how easily you get into doing the wrong things, how people will try and take advantage of you, so you could say it shows us (the viewer) how hard that kind of life is for someone who wants to succeed at something in that kind of world. Well directed and acted film. I liked it. If you didn't you didn't and if you haven't seen it yet, you might as well give it a try.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Terrible.","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Terrible acting, terrible dialogue, terrible storyline.By far and away the worst film I have ever seen. There is absolutely nothing in this film that can save it. Not even the nudity. You might often hear people say a film is so bad it's worth seeing. Not this. This goes way beyond bad. To be honest, my first description of 'terrible' doesn't do it justice. There simply isn't a word in the English language yet that truly describes the total disaster that is this film.Never, ever see it. Even if it's a matter of life and death. It's that bad. "}{"Title":"Cool movie, Andrew Carver (William Shockley) is hot!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I liked this movie very much! The photography is wonderful, the main actress is cool and very sympathic, Gina Gershon plays her role also very cool, and this movie should be homophobic?? Ok, I remember a scene with some dancers behaving effeminate and saying they are same-gender liking, but the rest? I liked Andrew  Carver also very much, he is very cool and the actor William Shockley is really very sexy! When he was lying on that couch! But it was also cool when he got beaten by the main actress! This movie is underrated, go and watch it!  "},{"Title":"In a word, Awesome","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  People who don't like this film are prudes with no sense of humor. How anyone can watch this film and not think it was supposed to be funny is beyond me. Any fan of exploitation films will tell you that the first moving images ever captured were of naked women by Eadward Muybridge. To make a film about strippers set in the decadence capitol of America, that questions all of our animal instincts, on the 100th Anniversary of cinema is a ballsy, brilliant thing to do and I don't care what anyone says. People say the film was unsucessful but that is bull. There are plenty of people who never saw Waterworld, but I've never met anyone over 18 who hasn't seen Showgirls (Except a few senior citizens). Maybe they didn't see it in the theatre, but they saw it. If you are a semi-literate wanna-be film critic hack who prefers Shakespeare in Love, Titanic, The English Patient, Elizabethan dramas, pretentious foreign films or Citizen Kane over the brilliant kineticism and editing of Russ Meyer or the social commentary of John Waters, then this film was definitely NOT made for you. Don't watch it, because you are out of your league. "},{"Title":"How we all wish the world would be!","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Fellow gentleman, how about an Oscar for showgirls! You know what i'm talking about eh.Firstly, lets talk about what really enthralls in this film. The nudity. I've been watching saved by the bell all through my adolescence, so to get the chance to see elizabeth berkely in her birthday suit was an absolute treat.( I would have preferred Tiffany Thiessen, but you can't have it all.) I love nudity in films and, needless to say, this movie delivered again and again and again. Second on the list for a good movie. Sex scenes. Once again showgirls really brought home the bacon. I could literally smell the testosterone of the scriptwriters.Chaps, pretend for a moment that no women are watching or listening or judging you, you head down the local DVD rental store and you have a choice, showgirls or casablanca. Which one will you pick? Thought so.I suggest Gentleman of the Oscar panel, that if men had there own way all films would be made in the model of showgirls and all girls would be made in the model of Tiffany Amber Thiessen.(It really is a shame she wasn't in it because I would LOVE to see her naked.)This review is dedicated to real men! "},{"Title":"Rises above nudity through interesting character development","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't know why some people are so upset about this movie. I saw the DVD around and ignored it. I happened to watch it on cable without knowing what I was watching. It ran several times, and several times I changed channels early on.Then one time I happened to stick with it, largely for the incredible quantity of babe bods. And then a funny thing happened - the movie became interesting. The people in the movie kept changing. The acting was fine, the characterizations were consistent. But as the movie unfolded, you saw different sides of the characters. It's all too rare these days to see character development and depth.What you were essentially seeing was what the lead, Nomi, was seeing. the question for a beautiful woman like that in Vegas was who can you trust? Repeatedly, she had to make a call, despite the best efforts to sweet talk her. Most of the time she got it right.She also had to make decisions about morality and personal values in a place largely devoid of them, or at least according to the movie's premise. That is what life is about for most of us, whether we are a showgirl or an accountant. In the end, her values were higher than the accountant's.Sure some of the characters in this movie are unattractive. But it can take real acting talent to portray a jerk, unless that's the real you. All the characters in the film are strongly and clearly drawn. And Elizabeth Berkley apparently did a pretty convincing job of not being herself, if you read her bio trivia item Once sat next to a man on an international flight who watched Showgirls (1995) on his in-seat video screen and never recognized her.That's something for an actress to be proud of! I don't know how realistic this movie is in its portrayal of Las Vegas. While I have been to Nevada, I have never had any desire to visit there. All the gambling towns I have seen have been remarkably joyless places.What struck me about the stage dance numbers is that they verged on live sex shows, under the guise of art. Indeed, all the dancing, public or private, had a layer of sex. I guess that's the point. If you are looking for dance as abstract art, this ain't it. (Although the main stage number has some of the earthiness of Stravinsky's La Sacre du Printemps, as sort of faux art.)Perhaps that's what Nomi aspired to, but Vegas wasn't the place to find it.There was plenty of nudity and sex in Showgirls. But, unlike some movies of this ilk, it rises above this through the interesting character development. It doesn't have the depth of a truly great film, but it has the depth of a very good film. And it is far more interesting than some big name movies I have seen that have turned out to be flat and too conventional. What's with all the Razzies? Showgirls certainly is nowhere near the league of Titanic, the gold standard for razzies.I think both Elizabeth Berkley and Gina Gershon did fine jobs acting, and both were certainly easy on the eye.The closest movie I would compare it to is Nashville, which was also about clawing your way to fame. The first time I saw Nashville, I didn't get; I was bored. It didn't have the plot structure of a standard film. But once I understood the unique approach of Nashville, I realized how extraordinary it was. While not quite on the same level, I think people should look at Showgirls again with an open mind. "},{"Title":"An inexplicably awful movie all should see once","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My first ever 1 rating because this movie really deserves it. I thought about what I hated most about this flick, and it's got to be Berkley's performance. I still think this movie could've been salvaged to a 5 or maybe 6, had the lead been a different (better) actress. I read that Charlize Theron auditioned for the role, but perhaps she didn't look trashy enough.The dance numbers are really cool, costumes are very interesting, Gina Gershon kicks ass (as usual), and Kyle McLaughlin did his role well. I have to say that I also hated the rape scene. (Perhaps because it was done well? Who knows.) Yeah, Berkley basically ruined the movie. She's such a bad actress, she gives nothing - no chemistry whatsoever - for Kyle or Gina to bounce off from. As a result, intimate/intense scenes are REALLY uncomfortable.But you should watch it anyway. Then you can rate all bad movies to this one and compare them as follows x movie is bad, but it's not quite in the caliber of 'Showgirls,' so it's watchable or x movie parallels in awfulness with 'Showgirls' in such and such way. "},{"Title":"It's funny because it's true","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To the person who wrote My problem with the movie is the way it depicts strippers. Many strippers choose to do what they do because they love it, and not for the money. Most are NOT drug addicts; many are students, single mothers, and regular women who just happen to take their clothes off for a living. I personally know of a couple who actually met their husbands at work.BWAHAHAHAHA! I'm just waiting for you to break into a rendition of It's a small world after all! You have obviously NOT spent much time in Vegas or around strippers for that matter! LOL. "},{"Title":"'Saved By The Pole'(I mean Bell )","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'ShowGirls' What can i say? Winner of the Golden Raspberry, It fall's in to the category of so bad that it's good, In my opinion it's Great! Love it or hate it, ShowGirls deliver's the good's I mean where else are you going to see a former (hot) star from 'Saved By The Bell' Without her clothes on ? Elizabeth Berkely, certainly deserves to be on the 100 Sexiest movie character's ever,A special mention must go also to Gina Gershon,There hasn't been a film since 'ShowGirls' Hey, Mr Mad Dutchman(Paul Verhoven) Give us a Sequel!'i like your nails,maybe you'll do mine sometime' "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, Entertaining & Unitentionally Good","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a bit astonished that people would give this movie a bad rap. One could not make a movie with such skilled ineptness on purpose. Everything from the contrived script, the lackluster choreography, the lifeless dancers, the incompetent direction, and the explosive Elizabeth Berkley create a magnificent experience. The sex scene in the pool, by itself, makes this movie a worth-while attraction. Let's sing its praises! This movie is no turkey, it is a peacock. Let's celebrate this movie along with Foxy Brown, Xanadu, Trasho Mondo, Little Shop of Horrors just to name a few. I generally do not prescribe to the Cult Following tag, but this movie demands it. People, lighten-up. "},{"Title":"sooooo bad","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is the story of Nomi Malone (Elizabeth Berkley), a stripper in Las Vegas who dreams of one day becoming a real dancer. Berkley basically has three main actions in this film taking off her clothes, giving Gina Gershon the evil eye and running away from people with her arms flapping in the air a-la-3rd grade-schoolgirl. The fake nails, the 97 coats of mascara, the brassy hair and the excessive use of eye and lip liner make Berkley look ridiculous, even clownish, and seriously decrease any chance of her being perceived as attractive.The other actors seem to be trying to eek out some feeling, but the writing in this film is, simply put, dreadful. The dialogue is corny, trite and laden with clichés; I've seen better script writing on soap operas. In fact, that's pretty much what Showgirls is a soap opera with lots of nudity and sex. And speaking of the sex, the love scenes in this movie are some of the worst acting I've ever seen. Berkley looks like she's having an epileptic seizure in both the pool scene and the lap-dancing scene; Kyle MacLachlan looks like he enjoyed himself 10 times more in episode Hot Child in the City of Sex and the City than in either of the scenes with Berkley.Overall, I gave this a 2 because it isn't the WORST movie I've ever seen, but it's certainly in the top ten. The only reason I didn't give it a 1 is because I really enjoyed laughing at the ridiculous choreography, the only redeeming quality of this film. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is ridiculous. Really ridiculous. My friends and I used to watch this when it first came out on video and we thought it was the best, mainly because we were young, and there was plenty of t&a. The acting is garbage, and Paul Verhoeven, whose movies I like, is a retard for making this movie. Gina Gershon is probably the best part, though who knows, there are a lot of nice butts. There are some really memorably bad moments though, that had me laughing when I was eating lunch the other day. Really the only way this film gets any kind of a decent score is because of the nudity and sexual content, otherwise, it is a mess of a film with Jesse Spano from Saved by the Bell hissing, cursing, dancing, doing cocaine, and putting ice cubes on her nipples!!! "}{"Title":"What Sleazefest?","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can't imagine why Roger Ebert called this movie a sleazefest. I found it rather artistic, a tiny but exquisitely designed jewel of a film.First of all, any movie with so much bobbing bare flesh has got to be an artistic masterpiece. And some of the flesh is male too, so nobody can accuse the production of being sexually exploitative. We've seen Kyle MacLachlan's buns before in Blue Velvet, in which he was my supporting player, so there's not much new there, but Elizabeth Berkeley was new to me and compared to MacLachan's, her buns just -- well, they shine. And while it's true she's not much of an actress, she can really DANCE. Her onstage performances are especially good when she's not hampered by too many cumbersome outer garments. The choreography is nothing to be ashamed of either, unless you happen to be the choreographer. Enough abdominal contractions and pelvic thrusts to give Martha Graham abdominal cramps in her grave, groaning at the excess. But at least we're spared another Bob Fosse imitation. (You can tell because nobody wears a derby.) The numbers are most ballet-derived mainstream modern dance, and by mainstream I mean nobody takes any chances. This is Las Vegas, folks, and Paul Taylor is safely locked away in some closet somewhere.Elizabeth Berkeley is beautiful too. But then ALL of the showgirls are beautiful. They're glossed up and painted like Playmates of the Hour, so much so that it's hard to tell one from the other at times. No matter. They're all pretty much flawless.The plot shouldn't be neglected either because it's sui generis. Who could have thought of the plot twist in which the lead showgirl's performance is sabotaged by a bitchy subordinate so that she is dropped and injures a knee and an unknown dancer has to go out there a nobody and come back a star? And all the while the poor girl -- her name is Nomi Malone or Anomi Baloney or something like that -- has to put up with hits from rough-talking and treacherous bad guys. And girls too. The director and writer have had the good taste to throw in a couple of lesbian scenes. And an interracial affair too. Not to mention the least convincing illustration of coupling in a pool that I've yet seen on screen. What I want to know is, why didn't they bring in the chauffeur?The flick has one good thing going for it, despite its preposterous qualities. There's a lot of nudity. Dorsal and frontal, anterior and posterior, internal and external, distal and proximal, plantar and palmar, retro and postmodern, empirical and rational, agglutinative and isolating, natural and nurtural, ping and pong, Graham positive and Graham negative. If you want to see what a really beautiful dancer's body looks like, this is as good a movie as any to give you some idea. "},{"Title":"This movie grows on you","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Come on, this isn't that bad of a movie. I've seen bad movies (BioDome is the worst movie I've ever seen.) Elizabeth Berkley does a wonderful job of playing tough but naive Nomi and man, can she dance! I don't believe this film is sexist and I don't believe you have to be a teenage boy or a 40-year-old man to like this film (I'm a 28-year-old female.) Gina Gershon is captivating. The only actor I did not like in this film is Kyle Maclachlan. He's a crummy actor with not-very-good looks.I love the expose part of Showgirls; the behind-the-scenes of the Las Vegas shows. I wish they would have continued with Nomi's saga in a sequel (which according to this site was scrapped after the debut.) Bottom line I love it the first time I saw it and I own the DVD; this movie will grow on you.  "},{"Title":"Mix Dirt, Water, Steam, Heat and All You Have Is a Muddy Mess.","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Totally stupid, ignorant, unwanted and disposable plague of a movie that has to get a shovel to dig to its demented abyss of obscurity. The rumors about this film are 100% accurate as this is a piece of celluloid (very generous term to put it mildly) that should be buried in a vault and delivered to the planet Pluto. The plot? Oh well I guess you could say it is about the hopes and dreams of women who get ahead in the world by taking their clothes off and sleeping with powerful people (men and women) who can help them make their dreams come true. Yawn. Anyway Elizabeth Berkley (of Saved by the Bell fame) comes to Las Vegas with a few bucks in her pocket and stars in her eyes. Naturally she gets suckered by a moronic Elvis Presley-lookalike and ends up having to move in with costume designer Gina Ravera. Her work is glorified stripping as she contends with sadistic boss Robert Davi and does her best to dethrone Gina Gershon in a high-class Vegas sideshow. Opportunities come as Berkley gets tutoring (and other helpful hints) from Glenn Plummer (comic reliever in the Speed series) and gets eyed by superficial executive-styled jerk Kyle MacLachlan (another dud of an actor who is tailor-made for this trite). And throughout the sexual situations are rampant and end up being about as interesting as watching paint dry. Ultimately the performers cannot even reach the level of adult film stars. Director Paul Verhoeven (usually a reputable director) and screenwriter Joe Eszterhas (always an over-rated smut pusher) swear that they thought they had a slice-of-life winner on their hands. Instead they have an unintentionally hilarious mess of epic proportions that very few have gotten anything out of. Outstanding film-maker Quentin Tarantino called Showgirls one of the best productions of the 1990s. I am just glad he is a better screenwriter and director than he is a critic. This is nothing but stylized garbage. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).    "},{"Title":"Why story is important","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, Showgirls remains a 'weird' film because it was a success for obvious reasons. Still, the movie is shunned by the critics and the Hollywood foreign press for its story. Elizabeth Berkley drew a large audience of fans who wanted to see her nude. Her acting talents in a (somewhat) dramatic role did not effect the audiences reaction of the movie. The movie's story makes the movie a joke.The production value and direction are in class A. The actors are also in between A and B. But the story, is so far left it makes everything else fall short of being a decently made movie. Showgirls will be showcased in Showtime ad Cinemax for the next 50 years. It has made its money for obvious reasons, but it is far from being considered one of the best erotic / sexy films ever made because of its sad attempt of a story. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic!","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the campiest movies of the 90's.  If you take this movie as a trashy comedy...it's wonderful.  If you go in thinking its a drama, you'll be completely disappointed. The acting is over-the-top, the dialogue is outrageous, and the plot is down right crazy.  Not a dull moment. It's one of my all time favorite movies.  It's in that category of It's so bad, it's good.  If you like campy movies.  This one is definitely for you! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Ouch!","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If we could rate movies below a one, this would deserve it.  I can only imagine the people who rated it a 10 were into the nudity aspect.  But even then, most of the bodies looked the same.  As far as the acting, there really wasn't any coming from the lead character.  She had two emotions, happy and angry.  And I wasn't convinced with either.  This is a resounding vote of no confidence.  Stay away. "},{"Title":"Worth a few laughs, but that's about all","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is pathetic and lame, and it should be rated lowly despite the unintentional laughs it provides. Like a bad action film with no action -- but plenty of T and A. Too long. Best scene -- Berkeley on the balcony imitating the star's arm fluctuations. Incredible stuff! But VERY stupid. Shows just how bad Verhoeven and Esterhas can be, and that is pretty bad.P.S. had to go back to edit this one, contrary to my general rules, because I don't know why I wrote that stuff. I haven't even rewatched the movie since then, but I think it was obvious to me even when I first saw it that it had some actual intentional humor in it. God knows what I was on, maybe just looking for targets. "},{"Title":"Camp Extravaganza","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  People who don't get the camp joy of this film would make lousy friends for me.  When I lived in New York a few years back you had to pass the test. Either you worshipped SHOWGIRLS and understood or you were SQUARE. Insufferably influenced by movie reviews and negative hype. Gina Gershon Kicks ass big time and is gorgeous to look at.  Elizabeth B. broke out of her t.v. goody goody mold.  Lesbian tongue kissing, exaggerated pool screwing, bitchy lines, ice cubes on nipples, and all set in Vegas, what more could you want from a film?  "},{"Title":"not enough nudity and sex","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although Showgirls offered a great deal of breasts, and a few buttocks, there was actually a comparative dearth of full frontal nudity, and more explicit sex scenes. It did not deserve the panning most North Americans gave it, although admittedly the storyline was a little weak. I just read that Jenny McCarthy auditioned for the lead; as weak an actress as she is, I would have loved to see her in it. But I respect Elizabeth Berkeley for doing the role because in our still-uptight society, it takes courage for a woman to do nude scenes in a movie about nudity. This genre should be celebrated, not vilified. And I, personally, would love to see a sequel, except that the reviews were so awful I don't know that anyone would do it---even WITH Jenny McCarthy! My main criticism of the movie is that it depicts strippers as unwilling participants who have nothing else they can do. Many strippers choose to do what they do because they love it, and not just for the money. Most are NOT drug addicts; many are students, single mothers, and regular women who just happen to take their clothes off for a living. I personally know of a couple who actually met their husbands at work. I wish this other, normal viewpoint was more explored in this film. I have seen Showgirls about six times, and allowing for some weak writing, it is still an entertaining and enjoyable film. We need more of those. Who out there has the courage to produce one now? "},{"Title":"Sublime Genius","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brilliant satire of America's obsession with sex and ambition.  The response the movie received is in perfect collaboration with Verhoven's intention. How could idiot critics who venerate the pathetic attempts of a Helen Hunt or Gwyneth Paltrow ever appreciate a film where blank, blond beauty is a given and the real star is conceptual, not concrete.  It's not about Nomi Malone but about the world that creates her and its culture of greed and violence. The smartest American film in years.  Starship troopers in a much more blatant attack on a more overt scale.  I would recommend seeing that and then viewing (or re-viewing) Showgirls.  You'll never say Versace right again.  "}{"Title":"If you hate this movie, you don't get it!!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's amazing, I can't believe the Academy skipped over this movie. There is nothing wrong with it (except the graphic rape of the only likeable character) and I can't believe people have the nerve to vote lower than a 7 on this cinematic masterpiece! "},{"Title":"I guess I'm not a patriot","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film. The wit and humor were quite obvious to me, though I can see why it would offend Americans, who have no sense of humor about themselves what-so-ever. It is true that this film has been well-received throughout Europe, from what I have seen in any case. Especially in France, where it still plays occasionally. Of course the sex was ludicrous and tacky. I found this to be quite intentional! The writing is bad only in the sense that it seems to be a parody of shows like Baywatch. Joe Ezsterhaus is a bad writer, but only a director with the wit of Verhoeven seems to have been able to make a true success of his tacky, obvious words, by turning them on their collective ear with his over-the-top direction, just as he did in Basic Instinct. I believe the latter film was more successful in America because it was not about people you might meet on the street (or in a movie theatre). Rather, it concerned a privileged class which most Americans regard with suspicion anyway. It's true, films like this don't come along very often--And it's a shame. Mr. Verhoeven is quite a brave man to attack American decadence and stupidity right in its own backyard.  "},{"Title":"Movies this bad come along only once in a lifetime.","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is true that Paul Verhoven has made a career and, indeed, amassed an impressive body of work, by satirizing American culture; but Showgirls - quite possibly THE worst movie I've ever seen (and I've seen Mutant Hunt) - doesn't QUITE live up to the director's respectable past. You want to talk about over-the-top, intelligent, and beautiful parody, then let's just stick to the likes of Robocop, Total Recall, and even Starship Troopers. These were well-directed, well-written (this is an important difference) witty, and perfectly-acted films; they were exactly what they were supposed to be, and I consider Paul Verhoven a fine filmmaker.  But...to defend an atrocity like Showgirls, based souly on Verhoven's past success is ridiculous and compromising.  I mean, come on, I guess if you consider monotonous, blank delivery, painfully dull dialogue, and lots of glaring looks, and breathy lines, satire, then we have the finest satire ever made.  Elizabeth Berkeley wasn't bad, she was HORRIBLE!  And if that was Paul Verhoven's intention then he should go back to Holland (I have a problem with Europeans repeatedly satirizing American culture, any way)! Her entire performance was huffy looks, swatting hands, and turning her head fast to one side or the other.  Gina Gershon wasn't sexy, she was a joke.  She snarled through the whole movie!  Kyle MacLachlan...well he'll take any role, I forgive him. The only decent actor in the thing was the guy who picks Nomi up at the beginning of the film.  There was nothing good about this movie.  I didn't find it well-shot, the pace nearly put me to sleep, and the sex...what sex? It all looked phony and forced!  I wasn't offended by the content (although it was overtly gratuitous, even for Verhoven), I was offended by the context.  It was without rhythm, without chemistry, and, most importantly, without wit.  Joe Esterhaus can write a good script if it has Sharon Stone and Michael Douglas in it, but otherwise....  Verhoven has succeeded in the past with strong, biting humor, and actors who understood the material.  If there was anything salvageable at all in this, then he should have cast Robert DeNiro and Meryl Streep to try to dig it out. I was finally seventeen when this film came out, and I couldn't wait to go to the theatre and see an NC-17 movie.  The only reason I didn't walk out was to see if anything bad would happen to the lead role.  And nothing did!  And, finally, who goes to see showgirls in real life, any way?  Is there such a big deal made by the press about the topless-dancing industry?  This film would have you think that these people were the biggest stars in America. Do me a favor, Paul next time you want to satire American culture, do it about something satireable; do it about something people give a squat about. Nonetheless, everyone should see this film, just to say they did.  Movies this bad come along only once in a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Face up to what it is, and its OK","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is a Sleazy depiction of a Sleazy profession, and it pulls it off, maybe a little too well. I don't deny that this Erotic Thriller is no masterpiece, Verhoeven's own Basic Instinct hold's that title. But don't dismiss this movie outright, just yet.As an Erotic thriller, it has an audience, there is no doubt that the eroticism is present in abundance, and the actresses are sexy and use their nudity to arousing effect. Once again the nudity, as with Basic instinct is justified, and although far more frequent and intense than the nudity in Basic Instinct, it is warranted by the very nature of the movies theme.Where this movie fails, is on the following scores, Elizabeth Berkley is a weak lead, the screenplay is only average, and the story is lacking too much depth.I give 5/10, make no mistake Basic Instinct is a Massively superior film, but this isn't as bad as its reputation suggests.So either see it, and make up your own mind, or don't see it and your not missing anything special, your call. "},{"Title":"nearly unwatchable","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'showgirls' made entertainment weeklys list of top 50 cult movies, so my friends and i decided to make it a 'weekender.' in other words, we expected it to be bad, but watchably bad. (think 'the toxic avenger').we were wrong. the acting, all of it, was wooden. elizabeth berkley has no sex appeal and moves as if she were made entirely of elbows. her ineptitude at the simulated sex scenes led one friend to state she 'must have been a virgin when she made this; theres no other excuse.'even gina gershons performance, which has been touted as the only reason to watch this film, is subpar. her not-at-all passable texas accent is only surpassed in irritation factor by her constant use of the word 'darlin'.'***POSSIBLE PLOT SPOILERS***despite the horrid acting, the movie could have been saved if the story had been better. the 'shady past' card is played too early, with not enough payoff, and the 'i-found-myself' ending is completely unsatisfactory for the way the plot develops. the attempts at humor fail; the attempts at drama are funny. the only points i can give are for a few visually stunning dance/club sequences, but trust me, its more to do with lighting and less with 'dancing.'this ones not even worth it for the kitsch factor. save 2 hours of your life and skip this one. "},{"Title":"Paul Verhoven's Downfall...","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   Director Paul Verhoven (Total Recall, Robocop) was really on a roll, until this razzie award winning flop came around. I am ashamed of Verhoven for even thinking of a film like this. One poster said this film is Teenage boy heaven, and a Bachelor party flick. However, I disagree. I think even teenage boys would have the sense to turn off this garbage. What, oh what was Paul thinking?1/5 stars-JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Get Your Facts Straight","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SHOWGIRLS is a parody only in the most slight sense. Verhoeven uses a cruel sardonic iconography in all of his films except for THE FOURTH MAN. SHOWGIRLS was made with a sincere heart, but you have to understand that when Paul Verhoeven says that, it doesn't mean quite the same thing that you or I mean by it. For what it's worth, this film DOES actually portray a certain kind of people in a realistic light, it's just not behavior that your average person understands. Intent seems to be a very important topic to people when discussing SHOWGIRLS, but then again, there are still idiots who think that STARSHIP TROOPERS was an intentionally fascist film. SHOWGIRLS *does* show America in its worst light, and if you think that wasn't a sincere intention of the filmmakers, you're wrong. Read any interview with Verhoeven on the subject for proof. Or just watch the film without referring to all the reviews you read. More proof John Waters and Quentin Tarantino both called it the best film of 1995. The film was successful in every country in the world except for America. It did not lose any money. They still show it in France. Foreigners love the film for the same reason they love our presidential scandal. The way Americans react to sexual material makes them laugh. Verhoeven, with his sincere outsider's view shows America a part of itself that it doesn't want to admit to. It made $20 million on its first domestic (American) run, making it only half as financially successful as a piece of garbage like TITANIC, percentage-wise. This film is far more intelligent than anyone gives it credit for. It has been my favorite film since its arrival in 1995, and it will continue to be so. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Satire Of American Culture","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like all of director Verhoeven's American films, SHOWGIRLS is an over-the-top vision of American culture and ideals. The loud chorus of negative response to the film when it opened shows just how defensive Americans can be. Every film critic in the land seemed to suddenly develop a If-you-don't-like-it-here-then-go-live-in-Russia attitude, typically reserved for members of the NRA. While some moralists will never be able to come to terms with it, I think the film will be vindicated eventually. Not even Elizabeth Berkley's performance is as bad as everyone claims. While she may sometimes rely too much on sitcom techinques and shortcuts in her method, she has still clearly given exactly the performance that Verhoeven wanted. Those who have trouble swallowing this analysis of the film would do well to check out Verhoeven's early Dutch effort SPETTERS, or even last year's hit STARSHIP TROOPERS. Both films rely on melodramatic, soap-opera qualities as a style and a method of satire. Final note Even people I know who hate the film admit that they can't take their eyes off it, because it is gorgeously shot, well-paced and well-plotted. "},{"Title":"Actually, not all that bad.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After reading some of the scathing reviews here, I'm almost afraid to say I actually liked this film.  It's no dumber than the Austin Powers movies, and, IMHO, a lot more intelligent than the Halloween movies. And, yes, I definitely enjoy gazing upon the unclothed female form, of which there is a gorgeous plentitude here.Demi Moore should have taken classes from Elizabeth Berkley before making Stripper; I've never seen a better, or more comical, on-screen enactment of a private lap dance.  Poor Kyle McL must have needed a boatload of cold showers after shooting that scene a few times.Anyway, after checking Paul Verhoeven's list of movie credits, which tend heavily toward scifi drama, I figure he made this movie as a comic change of pace.  A for effort, C- for execution!This movie gets my ultimate compliment; I might actually rent it again. 7**/10.    "},{"Title":"So bad that it's funny","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls is a soft core, B movie with a successful screenwriter attached. This is the kind of crap that they show on cable at 300 am.I can't believe that this movie was made by a major studio. The only conceivable reason was that screenwriter Joe Esterhas' previous attempt, Basic Instinct, made such a killing at the box office.It is so atrociously bad, that you kind of have to see it to believe it. The sex scene in the pool, between Elizabeth Berkeley and Kyle McLachlan, is laugh-out-loud funny ... and it's not supposed to be. And of course there is the prerequisite lesbian kiss between Ms. Berkeley and Gina Gershon.Does Joe Esterhaz actually believe that he write for women?! This man seriously needs to grow up. His idea of what a woman is, is absolutely demoralizing. "}{"Title":"Jesse Spano's Boobs Can't Save This Fiasco","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" At a touching moment in this pile-of-horse-crap of a movie, Robert Davi attempts to congratulate Elizabeth Berkley's ascent from stripper to showgirl It must be weird, not having anybody cum on you. Granted, that was the most hysterical line in the movie, but it shows you just how trashy and terrible this movie was. I haven't seen this movie in 11 years--not since I was a horny college student trying to get a look at Jesse Spano's boobs--but I did learn my lesson few sets of boobs on a movie screen are worth spending the $3.50 I could have spent on a McDonald's value meal. Isn't that amazing? Just 11 years ago, $3.50 got you into a movie. "},{"Title":"Are you all missing the point?","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SHOWGIRLS is meant to be the ultimate in pumped up sex and violence, it's as if VERHOVEN got sick of everyone else trying to outdo BASIC INSTINCT. What we have here is high camp (unseen since the days of DALLAS/DYNASTY) with great (for their roles) actors, using great dialogue. Apart from being a great rags to riches/rape/vigilante flick, it is as close as a horror movie, without ever using the 'horror' genre...almost EVERY character in this movie is grotesque, in some way or other. I was impressed the way, GLENN PLUMBERs (horny) character tried to seduce the heroine, by claiming he had written a song just FOR her..even though, the song is sang by PRINCE (the song being 'POP GOES THE ZIPPER'!!) (sample dialogue) gee, it must be kinda' funny not having people come on ya' A classic movie from PAUL VERHOVEN (unfortunetly) a classic movie makerA highly camp...yet hugely enjoyable...(isn't that what cinema is all about?) 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"12 That's all Folks !","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" That's it  this is the last production for my 12 leftover and I end the run with the same movie in my « mainstream » profile that i picked there to announce those « adult » reviews. In a way, « Showgirls » really deserves it as its erotic content is unbelievable and not matched since ! It's all the more unexpected that when i watched it 20 years ago, i would have never imagined i would write about it, about movies or my personal fantasies! Anyway, as i can't say things that i have already said, here my original opinion and we will see if the results are the same or not&#x85;.« This movie was so criticized as awful, scandalous that when it was first broadcast years ago an afternoon on Canal +, i was compelled to watch it. At this time, i found it hollow and not really sexy. But, lately, it came back with a fury, as for my eyes, Elisabeth is under a halo effect with a girl I know and those two girls have indeed the same incredible sex appeal. If Elisabeth's courageous choice has killed her career, it's a shameful injustice because this old movie from the 90s is just the sad reality of today ! Thus, it's interesting to recall that it's the same writer that did « Flashdance » in the 80s. The two movies are revealing of the evolution of women in entertainment. With the first, they could reach success by working. With « showgirls », they achieve by getting nude. Beyond this sociology, i find actually the story to be rather interesting  sure, no one can believe the bad temper of Nomi or her extraordinary rise but it really exposes what is life  opportunities ! In addition, the story is built logically and easy to follow so it's a welcome change from the actual movies! At last, for a Vegas movie, this one is more sincere than the hypocritical crap « Ocean Thirteen » that closes its prude eyes on this Sin City.So, this movie is clearly a reference in pushing my fantasies and like Nomi, i will strip of my intimacy so it explains my title of this review and the comments about those sexy movies will be put on my other IMDb profile (a hint to find it Dan Brown also used it as a pseudonym in an earlier novel). See you there! » "},{"Title":"Pure genius if you look below the surface","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have read many of the reviews slating this film, the acting, the choreography, etc, etc but those people clearly just don't get it.Is this a masterpiece of cinematic prowess? No it's not however it is genius direction to subtly make something that should be sexy, very unsexy and almost mechanical and that is the whole point that is being made.Verhoeven was clearly trying to portray the sleazy, almost conveyor belt meat grinder that this sort of industry is like under all the glitz and glamour.As for the acting, yes it was over the top in places but again it fits with the tone that Nomi is clearly unhinged and in serious need of counselling. "},{"Title":"Only For Fans Of Elizabeth Burkley & Gina Gershon","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i have to say i have seen a lot of soft core films i do stay away from hardcore it ruins the taste forever not because its explicit but because they are not made for audience on the cinema its just straight bad one cannot enjoy it now this film tried to ape some soft core films but failed first of all Elizabeth Berkley is not that good actress shes got the looks but i guess she didn't read the script or was desperate for cash either way this film is complete trash with zero story.the plotNaomi Malone is an exotic dancer who comes to las Vegas to become a Vegas showgirl and wants to be on top of the game.the castalmost everyone got wasted here Elizabeth Berkley yes she is looking hot specially in the pool sex scene spinning in water,Gina Gershon is passable & may i ask what was Robert Davi doing here.there is a lot of nudity in this film plus those dance shows were awful the choreography was totally out of place and biggest dumb people are censor board who allowed this film they made too many cuts they should have released uncut version without editors touching it then it might have been a decent c grade flick but it wont do justice even if its get a Re-Release besides there are plenty of DVD versions are there but don't bother buying them its not worth it honestly who were they doing a favor to if they were too afraid for the controversy why did they not give it a direct home release its like the makers made it only for perverts i failed to enjoy this film.overall watch Showgirls 1995 if you are a fan of Elizabeth Berkley & Gina Gershon these sexy ladies will keep you hooked for long until you say its enough my rating is 3/10 Skipp it. "},{"Title":"12 *** 700th review *** showman (web)","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" « This movie was so criticized as awful, scandalous that when it was first broadcast years ago an afternoon on Canal +, i was compelled to watch it. At this time, i found it hollow and not really sexy. But, lately, it came back with a fury, as for my eyes, Elisabeth is under a halo effect with a girl I know and those two girls have indeed the same incredible sex appeal. If Elisabeth's courageous choice has killed her career, it's a shameful injustice because this old movie from the 90s is just the sad reality of today ! Thus, it's interesting to recall that it's the same writer that did « Flashdance » in the 80s. The two movies are revealing of the evolution of women in entertainment. With the first, they could reach success by working. With « showgirls », they achieve by getting nude. Beyond this sociology, i find actually the story to be rather interesting  sure, no one can believe the bad temper of Nomi or her extraordinary rise but it really exposes what is life  opportunities ! In addition, the story is built logically and easy to follow so it's a welcome change from the actual movies! At last, for a Vegas movie, this one is more sincere than the hypocritical crap « Ocean Thirteen » that closes its prude eyes on this Sin City.So, this movie is clearly a reference in pushing my fantasies and like Nomi, i will strip of my intimacy so it explains my title of this review and the comments about those sexy movies will be put on my other IMDb profile (a hint to find it Dan Brown also used it as a pseudonym in an earlier novel). See you there! » "},{"Title":"Let the show begin","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is not as bad as critics have made out. In no way, is it the worst film of 95 (haven't they heard of Barbwire, Judge Dredd). It's actual a guilty pleasure, in no ways a masterpiece. There have been better performances, from a lot of the actors in this, but this 133 minute flick is so entertaining, like a R rated version of Melrose Place. Most of the characters in it are despicable and there is a lot of t and a (one actress went on again to show her assets in Striptease) We follow the story of the mysterious, Nomi Malone (Berkley) an aspiring showgirl dancer, who's just shacked up with a lesbian mate, and does like Lays. We see her rise from the bottom of the ranks, dancing naked and giving lap dances at sleazy clubs, enduring much high humiliation, like wagging tongues, persecuting grins, and crude insults from comments. She soon arrives, where she wants to be, professional showgirl dancing. One of a handful of girls, picked to continue their dream by a heartless director (hey, that's how the world is) we really get see what's expected in this tough business. There are some funny moments in Showgirls, one involving a busty old woman, who you can't hate, and gives it to customers who diss her. She also has an electronically inventive costume, you don't need pull down, to show your goodies. There's some great cheesy dialogue and one revenge driven scene that I loved, plus that notorious sex in the pool scene that has Maclachlan and Berkley thrashing about in the water, making love. It also shows you sometimes, you have to get dirty, if you want to be the real star. Gershon is so great, playing the star bitch in this, you forget when seeing her in other flicks, just what a good actress she really is. I loved Plumber as the less talented dancer who can't keep his d..k in his pants. The chances of Berkley, crossing paths again with that guy who ripped her off, are less, than becoming a millionaire in Vegas. "},{"Title":"There are many Girls, and they do a lot of Showing - but the rest of us are scratching out heads in bemusement at this film making train-wreck.","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls might have been a bit better had been the strip-o-gram equivalent of The Long Good Friday, that is to say a film about someone at the top whose world dramatically falls apart when they thought they'd conquered enough to have it all. As it is, the film is an eerie cocksure mess of a picture; a film embracing the idea of women selling one's body as an appropriate career and a film on the side of women treading the grounds of a Las Vegas stage in order to demean their gender. This is, of course, after providing us with a heartless tract on pro-plastic surgery wherein falsity and such are the answers to life and that you're yet to make it in life should you not be donning the bright, sexy, exotic turf of a Nevada stage. This is one of those awkward projects wherein which the film is rubbish, and we know it's rubbish, but the film in question DOESN'T.The film is about the entry to; the living in, as well as the consequent dominating of, a very specific realm within the American city of Las Vegas perpetrated by a woman named Nomi (Berkley) who's in her twenties. Looking to hitch a ride with just about anyone at the film's outset, the film makes a point to capture just how naïve she is at when the guy with whom she journeys swipes her belongings and drives off again. You have to wonder what he thought was in there for him - maybe he thought the case was worth something. Prior to all this, they cruise into town and lay eyes on Vegas for the first time There she is (!) utters the driver, insinuating a general feeling of awe at the lights and at what Vegas conveys. The city is practically glowing, radiating there in the night as this green-horn rumbles on in for the first time looking to make it in the world of dancing and entertainment. The fact Nomi is too trusting of the gentleman, and that she loses at a game of slots in a casino at this very early time in her tenure here, cements her status as being completely out of her depth.Cut to six weeks later, and Nomi is staying with a friend whom she has met in Molly (Ravera). Backstage at a Vegas show, Nomi falls in love with her surroundings; surroundings of which have already fallen in love with that of Cristal Connors (Gershon), the establishment's star showgirl whose changing room is set away from the general chaos of other's and can muster up very little emotion when offered a bouquet of flowers for a latest performance. Such is, one feels, the quantity of past offerings of this ilk born out of this on-going adulation that this reaction is induced. It is here Nomi truly desires to be, it is here Cristal truly desires to stay there can only be one true showgirl and when they get off on a somewhat negative first foot, battle commences.The film is essentially a string of second unit dance routines wherein very little is on but an awful lot is on show. Ultimately, this does little to raise the film above the level of usual American blockbuster fare - tits and arse are merely standing in for explosions and stunts. There are a number of scenes set at a pole dancing club owned by Al Torres, a slimy character played by Robert Davi &#x96; the very place at which Nomi must work if she is to hone her trade and get anywhere near places such as where Connors resides as queen of the stage. It's no secret the film enjoys these scenes, so much so that instead of actually probing as to why it is women might do this sort of work, or desire to be a superstar within these fields in the first place, we are instead invited to watch on; to join the punters and leer. A measure of how all over the place the film truly is lies in one specific sequence, wherein Davi's character briefly re-enters the heroine's life to stop and say hello for a minute. The guy was always a creep, and she was happy to be rid of him; but the romanticised tone as he once again re-enters the frame would suggest he's not all that bad, and that we should ourselves have missed him. I don't think so. Another odd moment arrives during a selection process sequence, when a male individual has for him a row of potential female dancers lined up for them so that he may cast his eye across and deduce whether they're fit for what the job demands &#x96; a sort of eerie syncing up with, one assumes, how the likes of Berkley and Gershon landed the roles of Nomi and Connors in the first place.The difference is that within the diegetic world of the film, a creep is at the helm of the project. Whereas one can lay little blame at the door of Paul Verhoven - someone whose female characters in Total Recall and Basic Instinct have been fun; feisty and often sexually charged without requiring the presence of rotten exploitation. The fallacy seems to fall with the fact those films depicted men first and foremost, with the dangerous women in their lives causing a chaos and such at the worst of times. Showgirls is, in a sense, constructed as if a 'men's picture'; a tale of two people vying for supremacy within a domain that pours lavish upon the dominant force and shoves the others to the back. Where Aronofsky's 2011 piece Black Swan nailed the case study, Showgirls just ends up being what it is an overly long chore stuck between being a contemplative mediation and a skin flick, a film which depicts women whilst systematically striking us as not knowing the first thing about them. "},{"Title":"Showgirls Is A Skinshow","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sweet little Jesse Spano left the hole-some television series Shaved By The Bell in its last season to shave her snatch and dance around nakey for all to see. 22 yo Elizabeth Berkely has no problem waving her 22 yo box around for all of us in this touching story about strippers, cocaine, and a prostitute crackhead trying to turn over a new leaf in Sin City. HBO made an edited version that cuts out much of the story, and even more of her skin, so make sure to get the nasty NC-17 version that is hotter than a Havana Omelette on a dirty blonde's dirty butt-thole. Does the name Penny ring a bell for some reason? This 10 star slit-flick gets my gyno going' each and every time. The flacid jerk-off from Sex and the City that Charlotte marries gets a piece of 'ole Jesse, butt we don't mind, she's only about 10,000 times hotter and nastier than that ice-box Charlotte, and she'll kick your ass tunnel at the same time...uh oh, don't wanna give away too much of the goods at once - but that never stopped Elizabeth! Take my advice and come over to the girl-side; yes, yes, let the juice flow through you. "},{"Title":"Unfairly maligned","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I found this sleazy exploration of the sex industry to be a better film than BOOGIE NIGHTS. Why? Because I think Verhoeven is the better director; he has a slick way of handling narrative that I like, and I've never seen a film of his that hasn't kept my attention. SHOWGIRLS is no exception, despite the massive (and sometimes deserved) criticism it received upon release, and unlike BOOGIE NIGHTS it doesn't have that worthy/dull/funnier than it thinks it is thing going on.The rags-to-riches story is a familiar one but the cast is populated with interesting characters who combine to make it work. Elizabeth Berkley isn't the world's best actress, but she has a certain dynamism that suits her in the role &#x96; and also reveals a frequently frightening side. Kyle Maclachlan is pretty hilarious as a total sleaze/sex interest, and Gina Gershon is outstanding as the bitchy rival. It's always great to see Robert Davi in a film too.Yes, the so-called sex routines are cheesy beyond the belief and never alluring. Yes, the dialogue is often laughable but I think Verhoeven's having the last laugh &#x96; he intended his film to turn out this way. Whatever problems it has, SHOWGIRLS is an entertaining film &#x96; just like the rest of Verhoeven's canon. "}{"Title":"They can't believe this is happening","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Paul Verhoeven has always been someone who like to shock. And boy, did he by making this movie.Everybody's drawing on about the bad script and acting which is actually over the top here and there but I said it in other commentary's, this is Hollywood.Also mentioned, It's completely and utterly unrealistic. Uuuuhhhhmm.... NO IT'S NOT. This is how it actually works in places like Vegas, I've worked in Nightclubs and Dancings as a DJ myself and did music for Fasionshows and it's almost scary how realistic the backstage scenes are. The raping scene is also not that unrealistic. We don't want to see it but it's happening in real life too. Examples enough.Elizabeth Burkley as Nomi isn't that bad at all. A lot of people thinks her anger-explosions are totally unrealistic but I've seen explosions like that in real live and the Low self esteem but trying to survive by acting like a Alpha-male. Just playing Vegas life Survive and go on!!! It maybe comes as a big shock to you, but places like Vegas aren't really the fairytale everyone believes it is. It's a sewer with a golden layer and nothing more than that and it is shown in a excellent way by Paul Verhoeven. "},{"Title":"Brilliant sleazy cult flick, unpredictable and engaging","Date":"8 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The ultimate boys' movie? I'd say so, but then that'd be denying it to any women who like to see powerful female characters who put every sleazy, heartless male character in the film in their place. If I could sum up Showgirls in one sentence it would be Not what you expect it to be. From the word go, Showgirls surprises you and refuses to play to any of the clichés. There are a number of scenes which will have you beginning to predict an ending which any other movie would have gone for, but this flick rejects the Hollywood templates and tells it's own, surprisingly compelling, story. That's not to say that there aren't some hard to believe moments, most characters in the movie seem to have the mood swings of a person with bipolar disorder - the smallest unfortunate event sends the characters to tears while a little good news sends them into jumping, giggling madness. It's not necessarily a bad thing in the unusual, illogical world the film creates, but a lot of the time you're watching one-liner spouting cartoons rather than people you can believe and relate to. Like many cult classics, though, RoadHouse comes to mind for example, within a few scenes you'll be immersed in the world of offbeat, sassily- scripted wise crackers. Of course, this paragraph is inevitable in this kind of movie, and my apologies to any females reading this who may find it sexist, but the real star of this movie is the large amount of female skin on show, and it most certainly delivers. While I don't believe any actor or actress should be cast for their body, Showgirls never fails to deliver some really stunning female figures. Usually, this isn't of importance to me but Showgirls makes a thing out of it's nudity in powerful and impressive dance routines which will fascinate and excite more than they will titillate; the bodies on show here are treated with an almost feminist level of respect, where the heroine's sexuality is shown as something awesome and powerful, to amaze, not to be whistled at by builders. Indeed, contrary to what may be implied by the film's poster (or even the name), Showgirls portrays some strong, powerful and unpredictable women with deep and interesting histories, particularly the protagonist, whose character development outcome and ending you will not even begin to predict. Nomi (Elizabeth Berkley) takes no prisoners and for once a movie doesn't end in apologies and reunions. Showgirls is incredibly daring. Much like the film's recurring theme, it gambles. Unfortunately not all gambles pay off and I believe this was completely slated by the mainstream critics, but if you're anything like me, this cult classic hits the jackpot. "},{"Title":"Satire or trash either way it's brilliant entertainment.","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Charting the rise to fame of a ruthless and ambitious young dancer, Nomi Malone, (Elizabeth Berkley), Paul Verhoeven's Showgirls receives a lot of flack from critics for its blatant use of excessive nudity and sex in the name of entertainment.What these people fail to understand is that, by condemning Showgirls for its lack of morality, they are playing right into Verhoeven's hands, for his film is a sly attack on the hypocritical moral values of America, a country where success is encouraged at any cost, fame and fortune can be achieved through shameless self promotion (Paris Hilton, come on down), sex is one of the nation's most profitable industries, but where a mainstream movie containing adult content can receive a stricter rating than one displaying extreme violence.And even if you don't subscribe to the idea that Showgirls is a razor-sharp piece of satirical genius, the film can always be enjoyed at face value&#151;as a hugely enjoyable slice of excess, packed with quality T & A sleazy, sexy, hilariously camp, and full of gorgeous naked women shaking and gyrating their bits, I fail to understand how anyone could not find Showgirls entertaining.Berkley's central performance as feisty dancer Nomi is, quite frankly, unforgettable showing viewers exactly what Mr. Belding only used to dream about in Saved by the Bell, she struts her stuff starkers for the majority of the film, indulges in extreme lap dancing, girl-on-girl grinding (whew!), and tidal-wave making sex in a swimming pool (with her extremely lucky, big-chinned, floppy-haired boss, played by a very smug looking Kyle McLachlan). Of course, Berkley isn't alone in getting her kit off she is joined by a whole dance troupe of topless beauties, led by the wonderful Gina Gershon as bisexual (surprise, surprise) primadonna Cristal Connors.Not only that, but we get tons of quotable dialogue, a changing room invasion by chimpanzees, a fat, foul-mouthed comedienne whose dress is cleverly rigged to expose her breasts when she flaps her arms, Robert Davi as a strip-club owner, a brutal rape which results in (as we are informed by the victim's doctor) a broken nose and vaginal tears (ouch!), and Nomi kicking said rapist into the middle of next week.Now try telling me that's not worth a 9/10! "},{"Title":"Ever misunderstood Verhoeven...","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Remember the people who pretended that Starship troopers was a fascist movie, when it was in fact a very ferocious ans immensely ironic pamphlet against all forms of excessive military ans nationalistic pride ? Remember ? It happened not so long ago, and guess what boys and girls, here we go again with Showgirls ! What am'I earring about this movie ? it's excessive, vulgar, caricatural, complaisant, ugly, stupid, etc... when in fact the subtext screams (pretty loud) SATIRE, satire of the world of showbiz in Vegas of course, but in general too. Verhoeven does the same thing here, his characters are somewhat laughable caricatures who serve as tool so he can make his point about sex, greed for power, money or recognition, and peoples tendency to give up there principles and integrity to obtain those.So no, the movie never looks ridiculous, it only offers Verhoeven point of view about the ridicule and ugliness of the world he's describing, it is deliberately over the top and ridiculous looking to give us a sense of what Vegas can be. It's quite ludicrous to believe that a man as talented ans smart as the creator of Robocop and Starship trooper, actually made the movie so vulgar and excessive by mere chance. Verhoeven knows exactly what he's doing, the movie is not vulgar, it's extremely sincere and strait forward about the absolute vulgarity of wanting to sell yourself at any cost, specially for a dream as tasteless and shortsighted as becoming a showgirl. The guy who says that this movie is involuntarily funny, obviously doesn't understand anything about cinema, and even less about the thought provoking and viscerally enjoyable work of Verhoeven. If one makes fun of this film, he or she only reveals there own ignorance and incapacity to perceive the presence of a subtext in any work of art, a shame truly. "},{"Title":"An unforgettable experience.","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" FIERCE!! Everything (seriously, EVERYTHING) is just so over the top that maybe for some people is really difficult to swallow... If you watch the first 10 minutes or even the trailer you are totally into it (or not) I couldn't believe how Verhoeven and Eszterhas were totally conscious of the (trashy) world that they were creating, and yes it's a hilarious ride since the beginning till the end, this one is definitely a movie that you love or you hate.I laughed, I got angry, I wanted to be there having fun with the characters, I was completely amazed of how much I was enjoying this film and how quickly it got into my heart. A total sexual fantasy of the writer, a fantasy that's SO bad, that is GOOD. Few movies can create a world of its own and this one is created in the most delightful way. Just undergo a ride on this pole, and experience the biggest guilty pleasure ever. With the surprising performances of Berkley and Gershon, the dialogues between this two females are simply a DELISH, darling! Verhoeven's greatest! "},{"Title":"Not bad at all although I don't know what the director wanted","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In spite of all the Razzie awards and the general perception that this movie was really, really bad - opinions that want us to believe that the show world is a very HOLY place where you cannot get on top without great talents (no, I mean really great talents), I found this film quite a watch.I am not giving it more than 7 or 8 on 10 because there was an overdose of nakedness and dances that were more or less the same, making the film repetitive in parts. Yet, probably that repetition can make you look for something behind the nakedness and find that THIS is exactly what showbiz has always been. Replace the story with any film industry in the world, or any field for that matter and you know what exploitation one faces, especially a young lass.The dances were OK, nothing great to write home about. Berkeley's acting was OK but she overdid it in the naked dance scenes.Although a few countries (where porn is easily available) have banned this movie and a few others have allowed 15-year-olds to watch it (12 in France), I think this is not going to be appreciated as a movie by such a young lot. They might still watch it for the sleaze effect.There are a few scenes that give us a hint about the emotions of the leaders in the industry, especially LOVE. Yet, it's more of a cat eat dog world that has been portrayed and if you are aware of this, you might like the movie better.Lastly, don't analyse it too much because I don't think the director / writer did either. Just enjoy the little story that it has - the same old thing you watch in many other movies / TV. "},{"Title":"Better than portrayed but not kind to Las Vegas","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When it came out, the most striking feature of this movie was the unanimously devastating reaction of the professional movie critics, which caused most theater owners not to book it and resulted in most people not seeing it. While this film may not have manifested the highest artistic ambitions ever fixed on the proverbial celluloid and certainly did not glitter with the most profound dialogs, the almost hysterical trashing by the reviewers raises some curiosity as to their subconscious - or possibly very conscious - mental processes. As to the former, perhaps it's just the old hang-up about sex that has grown strong again with the aging baby boomers getting religion, after they sowed their wild oats in the 70s. When the NC-17 rating was created for movies with sexual themes this side of porn, what Hollywood may have had in mind was artsy sex, or health-care sex, but not frolicky sex where people actually have fun. In the view of those critics, the latter might still belong into the X-category - at least as far as their public pronouncements go. But there could also be another, more sinister explanation. The film is not good for the image of Las Vegas. Presumably, Las Vegas likes to appear as just one step beyond clean family fun in the direction of risqué. This film places it quite a few steps towards the gutter; and this placement neither looks completely unrealistic nor without a certain allure. The powers that be in Las Vegas probably hated it; and one cannot help wonder how long an arm they have. Does the Las Vegas Visitors' Bureau direct millions of advertising money? No strong-arm tactics required - everyone writing for a publication knew precisely what was called for.However, it must be said that while the sexy ramblings in the first part of the movie were a pleasure to watch, the violence towards the end went a little too far beyond good fun; and one must hope that it was added as a dramatic effect and is not really the custom of Las Vegas.Yet overall, if Showgirls was such a bad movie, how come people still talk about it twelve years later? Except, of course, Blockbuster, who still doesn't carry it. "},{"Title":"To be watched with Tequila and drag queens!","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Anybody who gives this movie anything other than zero stars or ten stars is kidding themselves. There is no in between. This is the worst movie ever made. This is the best movie ever made. The filmmakers were actually serious about this movie. The only person involved who realizes this will be their last Hollywood job is Gina Gershon, and she is a brilliant goddess for giving it her absolute worst. As fate would have it, she is the only one involved who still has a career.The greatness and the awfulness of this film cannot be captured in writing. Nothing can prepare you for the hysterically funny and desolately depraved beast that is Showgirls. It is more than a film. It is a life changing experience.This film must only be watched in the presence of bitter, aging drag queens. If this film is ever presented at midnight in either West Hollywood or the Castro, then wherever in the world you live, book plane tickets and a hotel -- just for the divine gift from God that is seeing Showgirls in the presence of 500 gay men. Bring liquor. Hard liquor.You have been warned. "},{"Title":"Nomi's Exaggerations!","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie or 50 times and it keeps getting funnier every time I view it. I love how exaggerated all of Nomi's movements are. Remember the part at the beginning when Molly takes Nomi under her wing? Why is Nomi so damn violent with the ketchup and her coke? She practially throws her food at Molly. I also love the part at versais, Versace, where Nomi does a tapdance after buying that hideous dress. It never fails to make me laugh! What about the part where Nomi busts into the cheetah's dressing room and violently rips her dresses off of the hanger. There was no reason to leave in such a bad mood. She had just gotten the job of her dreams. I also love the club scene where Nomi dances seductively with the dancer dude and then kicks him in the nuts and has a Sh(t eating smile on her face. What was that all about? "},{"Title":"Her name is Nomi, she lives in a trailer and wants to be a star!....","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After reading several reviews (I liked the one calling it lovable trash) I can only concur, but also add that, if you are going through something in your real life, you may want to tune into this to make yourself feel better. Seriously.Joe Eszterhaus wrote this, and the theme takes one sentence. (It is my above sentence). Basically if you want to see good drama concerning Las Vegas, watch Leaving Las Vegas (Elisabeth Shue, Nicolas Cage). If you need a laugh, watch this.We have Elizabeth Berkley (sadly for her an early attempt at drama, this was not all her fault). Alan Rachins with a few choice lines as a sleazy producer. Kyle MacLachlan, Gina Gershon,(who has recently been in a few episodes of Curb Your Enthusiasm proving she can do comedy).Overall there is a sadistic mob boss, more sleazy producers; I am sure you get the gist of it. Berkley isn't bad, considering the material, and some of the costumes she is expected to wear, and still making her a sympathetic character. Overall, if you are going through a bad break-up, or need to take your mind off things, this may be the ticket.4/10. "}{"Title":"You've got to be a hustler if you want to get on","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is a satirical variation on the old theme of a star is born, the young girl who works her way up from nowhere to showbiz glory. Joe Eszterhas had earlier written the script for a film on the same theme, Flashdance. The two films, however, are very different. Alex, the lead character in Flashdance is a sweet, lovable, deeply religious girl whose dream is to become a ballet dancer. (Jennifer Beals's soft, gentle beauty made her well suited to the role). Nomi Malone in Showgirls, by contrast is a prize bitch, a girl whose motto seems to be (in the words of that eighties pop song) You've got to be a hustler if you want to get on. After hitch-hiking to Las Vegas, she finds work as a pole dancer, but has her eyes on a part in a lavish stage review named Goddess. Of course, she succeeds, and then works her way up to be understudy to the show's star, Crystal Connors. Nomi's main tactic in her rise to fame is to sleep with anyone she thinks can help her, even flirting with the openly bisexual Crystal. That flirtation, however, doesn't prevent her from pushing Crystal down a flight of stairs when she thinks the time is ripe for her to take over the leading role herself.The received opinion is that this is the film which blighted Elizabeth Berkley's career, but I cannot say whether that is a fair assessment, as I have not seen a single one of the thirty-odd films, TV movies and TV series she has made since 1995. However, contrary to received opinion I thought that she did a good job here, putting across Nomi's fierce, aggressive sexuality and her desperate desire for success, however transient and however worthless.One reviewer complains that the show Goddess is so obviously tawdry that he could not imagine why anyone would want to star in it. That is precisely the point. The openly erotic show is, as one character points out, little more than a more expensive, more pretentious version of the sleazy pole dancing which Nomi went in for in the earlier part of her career. There is an exchange in Robert Bolt's A Man for All Seasons when Thomas More asks the treacherous Richard Rich, who has been rewarded for his treachery with a government position in Wales, What shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his soul? But for Wales? To paraphrase More's words, what shall it profit a woman if she lose her soul for a part in Goddess? It is a measure of Nomi's desperation for fame at any price that she is willing to do anything to star in such a tacky show; one of the targets of the film's satire is the way in which the entertainment industry exploits some people's insatiable desire for their fifteen minutes of fame. (If anything, that exploitation has become even greater since 1995 with the irresistible rise of reality TV shows). Of course, when one's fifteen minutes are up, disillusionment sets in. There is another nice performance from Gina Gershon as Crystal, a still-beautiful but jaded and cynical thirty-something, who finds it easy to forgive Nomi for pushing her down the stairs; she needs a rest, and the insurance money will come in handy.There is an obvious trap for those making films satirising the bottom end of the entertainment market, namely that of becoming what one is satirising. The Running Man was a film which fell into this trap, and Showgirls does not entirely avoid it. Those critics who took exception to the scenes of nudity probably had a point; Goddess may be tacky, and the pole-dancing even more so, but did Paul Verhoeven really need to show us so much of them in order to make his point? He might want to show us that Nomi has the morals of an alley-cat, but in doing so he also manages to show us that Elizabeth Berkley looks pretty good with her clothes off.The official verdict on this film seems to be that it is trash. That, at least, seems to be the verdict of the critics, of the public who stayed away in droves (it was not a box-office success), of the IMDb members who have given it an average mark of only 3.8, most of the reviewers on this board and of the organisers of the Razzie Awards who voted it not only the worst film of 1995 but also the worst film of the entire decade. (Did they miss The Blair Witch Project?) Liberal critics who would not normally turn a hair at the most extreme sexual perversions seemed to turn into fully paid-up members of the Moral Majority when confronted with the film's nude scenes; Roger Ebert called it a sleazefest and masturbatory fantasy. That's the same Roger Ebert who in an earlier incarnation was responsible for Beyond the Valley of the Dolls.When confronted with such a chorus of disapproval, my normal contrarian's instinct is to try and find something positive about the film. In the case of Showgirls I felt that many critics treated it as a serious drama and missed the vein of satire that runs through it. If one can avoid taking it too seriously, it can be enjoyed as a sardonic expose of showbiz life. It is in many ways a cynical film, but its saving grace is that it is cynical even about its own cynicism. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Face it, we have all seen this movie and have liked something out of it. Some people like the over the top acting, some like the nudity and others like it because it's a fun movie. The story line is simple, Nomi wants to become a dancer, goes to Vegas, she loses her suitcase. She meets a new friend, moves in with her and gets a job at a strip club, all under 30 minutes! She's fast. She then meets Crystal Conners who becomes her sworn enemy after telling her that dancing at the Cheetah, the strip club where Nomi works, isn't dancing. After getting an audition for Goddess, the show where Crystal is the star, and getting a part, she then wants to become the main attraction. She does what she can to get ahead. She sleeps with a exec at the casino, she gets a person almost fired and ends up pushing Crystal down the stairs. She gets her wish but her past is then caught up with her and she decides to leave Vegas and start a new life by heading towards Los Angeles. Everyone talks about how bad this movie is but if they just view it more than once they will realize that it's not that bad. Like I said, the acting is over the top, but you can't help but enjoy it,even when it comes to being serious. The dance numbers are enjoyable. The nudity isn't exciting midway through the movie but by that time it doesn't really matter. The music is great, don't believe me, read the message boards for this movie and people are always asking about the music. The movie doesn't look dated, the only thing missing from it looking like movie from today would be the use of cell phones but that's it. Repeated viewings of this movie are good choices because not only will you see yourself enjoying it more and more but you can also see things you never saw before. Don't watch the edited version on VH-1 unless you want to see what you are getting into. "},{"Title":"a cautionary tale","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For years it's been referred to as the worst movie ever made and other superlatives in the wrong direction. With the rumors about a Las Vegas show being created based on the movie it seemed like an appropriate time to finally take a complete look at Showgirls beyond the snippets I've seen when VH-1 plays it with all of the faux-underwear concealing nudity and overdubbing covering for adult language.Showgirls is a very bad movie, but not the worst ever made by any stretch of the imagination. In a manner of speaking it's a well-intentioned modernization of some tangled blending of All About Eve and A Star is Born. It's a cautionary tale to filmmakers about doing their job half-assed or dishonestly.Through almost every step of the game it is clear what's going on the screen is a complete lie. Paul Verhoeven's directing is completely uncontrolled, naive, and painful to endure. Joe Eszterhas is at fault as well. Though he has been in the business for many years his screenplay feels two or three good lines of dialogue from amateur. Most of the characters are completely two-dimensional and the least original this side of a Lifetime movie.If that regurgitation of dialogue can be referred to as acting, it was some of the most over the top that has been contained in one film not originally intended as a comedy. Elizabeth Berkley, who got all sorts of press for going from TV's Saved by the Bell to showing her entire naked body and spouting foul language left and right, gave the worst performance of everyone involved. The only consistency with her portrayal was ending up completely naked by the conclusion of most scenes.Surprisingly in a work so weak a couple things stood out. Gina Gershon as the aging dancer with a nasty attitude had some bite, and Robert Davi delivered a comparatively stellar performance as a smarmy but likable strip club owner. Even though they were larger than life, excessively gaudy, and not really worth the price of a rental, a couple of the dance sequences are reasonably engaging and borderline genuinely erotic. "},{"Title":"You want a review of this? One Man Versus Showgirls.","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1 out of 10 for the movie.9 out of 10 for this man's determination to find the hidden soul of the movie in a tormenting 12 hour, five times back to back, viewing of Showgirls.http//www.sam-site.com/ - Exert below...Good morning to you. It is 918am on a bright and sunny morning and today I will be tackling Mr Paul Verhoeven's song to the world, Showgirls.For those curious as to why I'd do this please find out.Since first mentioning my intention to carry out this herculean task I have been asked several times whether there are rules involved, and much in the same way that an unaided expedition to the south pole doesn't count if you pack more than a huskie and a Swiss Army Knife&#153; there are rules involved in an activity such as this.Rule #1  Defining back to back. Each run of the movie must start at the beginning and finish at the end of the closing credits. As soon as the credits finish, the movie must start again.Go read all the rules and the five times over comments and review. I can't rate this enough. "},{"Title":"An underrated camp classic","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is an underrated camp classic &#150; it sets out to be vulgar, lewd and over the top and outdoes itself again and again. Packed with memorable lines, tacky sex and outrageous melodrama, it's highly recommended for your next DVD party. You should never take the films of Dutch director Paul Verhoeven at face value. Starship Troopers was his critique of propaganda, daring us to sympathize with the monstrous aliens because the human characters were no less monstrous, idiotic and violent. Basic Instinct pretends to be a mystery, but it's really about the fear of women, the fear of sex. Showgirls takes Las Vegas and turns and turns it into every middle American's worst nightmare of sleaze and excess, rubbing your face in it till it hurts. It's a masterful satire. "},{"Title":"A young girl goes to Las Vegas to become a show girl and will stop at nothing to get to the top.","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Elizabeth Berkeley's acting in this movie is often ridiculous and almost makes you want to laugh, even in the most serious scenes. The way she throws herself around during the beginning when she first meets Molly is far from believable. What normal person treats a stranger (especially one who helped them) that way? Throughout the movie, she overacts- slamming doors, slamming her heels into the ground while walking, throwing temper tantrums, and getting way too excited over things. Even her dancing and sex scenes are over the top. Her sex scene in the pool with Kyle MacLachlan seems perfectly normal at first, until she starts convulsing like an epileptic fish out of water. It is very awkward to watch. Her dancing skills, however, are pretty impressive (save for the scene at the Crave Club where she looks like a complete idiot flailing her arms around and jerking her body like a lunatic). Whe knew that Jessie from Saved by the Bell could dance like that? I don't necessarily mean the stripping, either, but the mere fact that she is in sync with the choreography and some of the steps in her Stardust performances are pretty complicated. Gina Gershon as Cristal is a stone-faced bitch who takes a liking to Berkeley's character, Nomi Malone. She purposely buys her boyfriend a lap dance from Nomi at the Cheetah Club to humiliate her and show that she can buy and control her, like a slave. Later on in the movie, during a performance at the Stardust, she leads Nomi off of the stage and says, come on, slave girl. Her character is somewhat likable, though. Her southern drawl and constant use of darlin' make her charming, and although her intent is to make a fool out of Nomi, she is very cunning and seems genuinely interested in helping Nomi out. Cristal and Nomi bond at lunch in the Forum over champagne. The movie is obviously gratuitous with it's use of nudity, to the point where it is no longer shocking, and trying to remember what Elizabeth Berkeley looks like with clothes ON is a challenge. It's portrayal of Vegas showgirls, in my opinion, is slightly fictional, but not to say that it isn't entertaining. Sure, it's not the greatest plot, etc, and it is a little slow (the plot starts to thicken around an hour or so) but it's a guilty pleasure of sorts, as cheesy as it may be. "},{"Title":"A Sexy Train Wreck...","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" And just one of the worst films ever.As much fun as it is watching Elisabeth Berkley slinking around half naked, you really start to wish that she also took an acting class as well. Not one character, out of all of them, do you sympathize with. Much less like or even remotely fantasize that you'd actually want to get to know them.In fact, you'd probably want to wash up after shaking any one of their hands.It's pretty obvious that Joe Estherhaus and Paul Verhoven have very little regard for women, what's funnier though, is to hear them or read their ... justification? of making the movie and that this is empowering and... blah, blah, blah. Face it, you want women to be either psychos or in service to you and not have a thought in their pretty little heads.And, to go down on each other. Because we guys like girls who get it on with other girls. We do, I'm not lying. But, that makes for a good porno... not a real Hollywood flick. Unless you are Kevin Smith, who can actually write and direct likable people.This movie, Showgirls is an excuse to not go to the strip club, because you don't have enough money. And, you are going to pay for it... because this is one of the absolute worst films of ALL time.But, you gotta see it. And, not cut up on TV, then you realize what an absolute piece of sh!t this movie really is. And what the hell were these actors thinking when they signed on? No, you gotta rent the DVD... the only saving grace to this dreck is the nudity.You can always fast forward through any of the character development or any signs of the plot. Just like a porno.Shockingly, this was a big budget studio film and not a soft-core porn from Skinemax. Reminds me of Roger Corman, passing on Waterworld, because he would have had to spend far more money than he ever would to make it.Someone suckered Kevin Costner on Waterworld and Joe Estherhaus has Verhoven by the wallet. "},{"Title":"Amazing garbage...and so bitchy!!!","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This giant, glimmering turd-heap re-defines the word Horrible. All but one character is a total piece of crap-and that poor girl,of course, gets gang-raped. This is a bitch of a movie. Retarded DRAMA! Retarded BOOB-flick! Retarded MORALITY TALE! Retarded REVENGE CLIMAX!What an expensive disaster !!!!! I love it!!! Verhoeven and Eszterhas had a massive success with Basic Insinct(thanks in part to the showing of Sharon Stone's Hoo-Hoo), and were apparently drunk on success, or something. Verhoeven is a GOD. ROBOCOP washes away his sins. He was probably getting busy with that useless SAVED BY THE BELL tart. As for Eszterhas...he's a lucky hack. But, there are a lot of naked women-which helps. This film is insane!! I'm a dancer!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Simply atrocious","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For decades, Plan 9 From Outer Space was widely considered to be the worst movie ever made. But, for my taste, that ignominious title has been convincingly trumped by Showgirls, a movie so horribly acted, so amateurishly directed, and so outrageously insipid that it actually boggles the mind. The only reason in the world to even bother with this crap fest for more than a minute is to marvel in sheer amazement at the performance of Elizabeth Berkeley ... which could very well be the WORST acting performance of ALL TIME! It certainly isn't a coincidence that she hasn't been heard from since. If anything good could ever come from this totally wretched waste of celluloid, it's that perhaps we'll never have to hear from Joe Esterhauz again, either. "},{"Title":"Getting so hooked to the strip scenes","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" WOOOOOOOOHHHHH!!! (like WWE wrestler Ric Flair says) The strip scenes by Elizabeth Berkley and Rina Riffel gets men like me, young and old, so hooked and tempted like always in real life strip bars. You can just constantly watch the moves these two actresses make by rewinding the strip scenes. It practically bursts the imagination of guys with sexual thoughts.When you see Nomi's face (Elizabeth Berkley), she looks so confident about stripping. Thinking about too much sex, its difficult to resist the temptation she brings....WOOOOOOOOHHHHH!One more WOOOOOOOOHHHHH! For the part when both Nomi and Hope (Rina Riffel) dance on one pole together topless in red panties, pant-sing themselves one at the time. It's the best strip scene in the hole movie.WOOOOOOOOHHHHH!... for a ten year old movie! "}{"Title":"We Do What We Do In Vegas We Gamble!","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All scores are out of a possible 10 Story 6- Nomi came from a pretty rough background of drugs, sex, and hooking but now she wants to be a top Vegas dancer. There's been lots of movies with the be rich in Vegas shindig and this one isn't too different. you've got your stereotypical Big Shot money guys here and all kinds of sleezebags, but there's also a few warm-hearted people in Vegas who will take you in and help you get on your feet. Shes tossed around from a strip club to the Stardust theater by the lead star who has an almost obsessive attraction to her, regardless that Nomi hates her.Acting 5- James, Nomi's victim of chance bad luck throughout the movie was really fake and unrealistic. Almost everything that came out of his mouth seemed like he was reading a script. Crystal also had a way with words and seemed like she had nothing better to do in the movie but to be evil. Nomi was well.... exactly like her character in SavedByTheBell! Very very stubborn and always got her way. She and the rest of the girls all had amazing dance skills but acted like everything that happened to them threw them into an anger fit.Music 6- Maybe this movie should have been a musical, or at least had some musical numbers in it. There were quite a few showgirl performances but they only show about 2 mins of it at most. Still the Vegas shows in the movie were very powerful and cool.Costumes 8- Nomi goes through over 20 different wardrobe changes in this movie. Gstrings, Leather, glittering bikini, and plenty of other stripper outfits. They're all really nice looking and even when she bares all, her look is very beautiful. Cristal, being the lead star of the performance also has some great outfits, most of which heighten her character's evilness.Camera-work / Lighting 8- Vegas has always been a great place for amazing lighting and camera effects and this movie was no stranger. The sets were nicely lit and the scenes showing the landscaping of Vegas were very nice. There's a shot of her by her car staring at the Flamingo's swirling pink flashing lights and another in front of the Pyramid & Sphinx of the Luxor. Even James' shack of a house had nice camera work for the dances.Editing 7- Kind of a jumble at times but its a pretty straightforward storyline. Some characters don't go into detail as much with who they are and why they're trying to get back at Nomi but the majority of back story is explained. It could have used more side stories of other characters in the movie other than Nomi to explain how they got where they are.Uniqueness 4- Its a Vegas movie, but hell... its also a story of a tough girl working her way to the top. Its been done before yeah, but this movie has made a reputation of itself. While its not anything new to Vegas movies, it has its hokeyness that will bring audiences to see how things end up.Worth 6- a big BIG reason most people watched this (myself included) would to see our favorite bookworm Saved By The Bell girl get down and nasty and yes, you get to see her in full nude. The rape scene in the NC-17 version isn't anything too racy and the sex scene with Zack was all underwater so there wasn't anything to see there anyway. Aside from that its got plenty of T & A for people who just want some stripper action.Overall Score (Not an average) 7- People aren't going to watch this to see a deep involving story of a girl who grows to be a sweetheart after making it to the top. They want to see Jessie Spano, thats what they'll get. Her character is definitely way beyond overacting and everyone around her is scheming and evil but hey, thats what Vegas is like right? Its still worth a watch with friends to laugh at some of the corny lines but its not a BAD movie, it just falls in some obscure adult audience category that few people care to see.Reviewer's Insight (Including bias) So Okay, I got the movie for Elizabeth Berkley, knowing full well that there would be some really dumb plot and characters but what else do people see when they hear about Showgirls? Jessie Spano nude, thats right! I had seen clips of the censored VH-1 version and oh man, it must have taken some major time to not only cut out a LOT of scenes but to censor cussing and, get this, Literally PAINT black bikinis on all of the nudity. Its a lot of work that was regarded as one of the worst films of all time. I can assure you its really not that bad of a film. I, myself even had a chuckle or two at some of the lines, but that doesn't make it a bad film. The women are all pretty hot, and while every character overacts their part, it still keeps a decent story through it. Some amazing shots of Vegas are also in this film , and being to Vegas myself its fun to be able to point out and recognize some of the great places there. The movie is worth a watch, if anything to see plenty of topless dancing and Elizabeth Berkley bare all. "},{"Title":"Tacky, Tasteless, Terrifically Bad","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is hard to believe that 10 years ago, Paul Verhoeven, the director of such classics as Robocop, Total Recall, and Basic Instinct, made the monumentally bad Showgirls. Verhoeven and screenwriter Joe Eszterhas are responsible for this pretty mess. It is so incredibly bad that you can't help but laugh. You ask yourself Were they serious when they made this film? You know they are, which makes you laugh even more.Nomi Malone (Elizabeth Berkley) arrives in Las Vegas with dreams of being a dancer. She hooks up with Molly (Gina Ravera), who is a designer and works behind the scenes at The Stardust Hotel and Casino. It is during a visit that Nomi meets Cristal Connor (Gina Gershon), and things between the two get mean. Nomi at this point works at the Cheetah, run by the incredibly slimy Al (Robert Davi), and is offered a part in the Goddess show at the Stardust. Nomi and Cristal constantly go for each others throats, and Nomi wants Cristal's spot, her man Zach(Kyle MacLachlan), and fame.To be honest, this is pretty much a pornographic version of All About Eve. Don't believe me? Check out the scene when Zach confronts Nomi about who she is (Just like Addison with Eve!). The dialog is incredibly laughable (I bought it at Ver Sayce!), and there is a lot of contradictions Nomi constantly says she is not a whore, yet every single thing she does to get ahead suggests that she is! Plus, James (Glenn Plummer), lectures Nomi about AIDS and doing questionable sexual stuff, yet he gets caught with a fellow stripper AND gets her pregnant! (And that part about Nomi's time of the month? One word GROSS!). Finally, I must gripe about the rape scene. The film's only moral character ends up getting raped by a singer (More like a poor man's Michael Bolton) and his 2 bodyguards. This was just incredibly horrible and pointless. Again, this is a laughably bad film that was supposed to have been taken seriously, and failed miserably. If you enjoy watching cinema train wrecks, then this is the must-have in your collection. The V.I.P. Box Set is a must have not just for the little goodies (shot glass, cards, drinking games), but for the commentary by David Schmader, which makes the film even more fun! "},{"Title":"like a black hole","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This could easily have been one of the worst movies that I was ever unable to turn away from. When I finally watched this movie it was edited on VH1. Still it sucked me in like it was some kind of black hole full of very poor acting and the most predictable storyline the history of film. She ends up being a reformed prostitute (SHOCK!), revenge ensues after she has become that which she hates (DISMAY!) yet somehow they managed to spend $45,000,000 to make this movie! It is hard for me to believe that in future generations Elizabeth Berkley will be remembered for this film as opposed to the sweetheart she played on Saved By the Bell. Not surprisingly she has not had many other roles after this film. ANYWAY. If you find yourself late at night flipping channels, maybe you'll find slight enjoyment in comparing parts of this movie's plot to good movies they have been used in. I give it a 4. "},{"Title":"Showgirls is so bad that its pretty good.","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I gave showgirl a 5 because I can't choose between a 1 or 10. It really is a bad film, with bad actors and the whole concept behind the movie seems to be a marketing trick to get horn dogs to theatres. &#133; But on the other hand, its so bad that I thought it was pretty entertaining to watch how bad this is&#133; the bad stereotypical characters and the worst leading part ever by Elizabeth Berkley. But because she's acting so bad, its great fun to watch.I would recommend this film to anyone who likes to watch B-films with A-film budgets and A-film direction. Or just if you like to see girls topless.I expect this film to become (if it isn't already) a cult hit. It has all the ingredients for it. And I think that this film is memorable for it. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizingly bad","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had heard the rumors that Showgirls was bad. Really really bad. Even the guys who went to see it for the nudity freely admitted that this was a BAD movie. So I never saw it, until a few weeks ago. Now I can confirm that it truly is a horrendous movie.The worst part is the script. Wretched dialog, extremely limited character development, absurd interactions between the characters. Nothing made SENSE. Nomi's countless hissy-fits were horribly ill-conceived- even pre-schoolers don't act like that.Speaking of acting- truly bad. And the worst acting was by the leading lady. The story of Nomi is intended to be the story of a girl who is destined to be a star. This, unfortunately, is NOT Elizabeth Berkley. Poor thing, I almost feel bad for her. She was obviously trying so hard. But she pranced around the screen like a newborn colt, all legs and elbows and ready to fall over. Her moves on stage and at the dance club were not at all attractive- waving her arms around as if to say Look at me! I'm dancing! I'm dancing! And her acting- just ridiculous. There is no better word for it.Now for the direction- I realize that every second of a movie is staged and scripted, but it's not supposed to FEEL like that. Most of the movie felt creepy and awkward. I'm willing to admit that this may be mostly from the TRULY BAD script and the equally bad acting, but I'm not willing to let Verhoeven off that easily. His fault, too.That being said, I did WATCH the whole movie, even though it was obviously bad by the first line. The truth is, I just HAD to watch, I HAD to know what happened next. That's the only reason it earns 2 stars. "},{"Title":"Terrible, but recommended.","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls, as I remember it, was basically a film about Saved by the Bell's Jessie Spano getting naked. This, of course, is my memory from the age of fourteen, so when the movie came up in conversation a few days ago, I thought I'd re-watch it and see how I viewed it now. Turns out that it's basically a film about Saved by the Bell's Jessie Spano getting naked.Screenwriter Joe Eszterhas presents Elizabeth Berkley's nudity through the guise of a tell-all look into strip clubs, Las Vegas, hooking, and greed. It ends up being simply the shallow masturbatory fantasies from a mind that has no knowledge of any of those things. I found the film at the video store under the Erotica section. Eroticism said Roger Ebert in his review of the film, requires a mental connection between two people, while masturbation requires only the other person's image. Too true. Every scene that involved sex of some sort was as emotionless as a bad porno flick, and contained at least three times as much gyration and body-thrashing as a good porno flick.Showgirls begins with a hopeful Nomi Malone (Elizabeth Berkley), hitchhiking out to Las Vegas to make it big. After easily getting a lift with a stranger, she meets and befriends a woman named Molly who gives her a place to stay. Her generosity is strange to me, because within the first five minutes of the film, Nomi proves to be an emotional, violent wreck. So far she's pulled a switchblade, gotten into a fight, thrown french fries all over the place, and generally behaved like a spoiled child with Torret's syndrome.Nomi works as a stripper, and after meeting Cristal Connors (Gina Gershon), the star of a topless expensively-produced dance show at a real Vegas hotel, she reveals to Connors her profession.I'm a dancer, she says.Oh? Where? At the Cheetah. I don't know what it is you do over there, but if it's at the Cheetah, it ain't dancing. Nomi, of course, flies out of control, but piques the interest of the seemingly bisexual Connors, who soon comes to visit her with her boyfriend Zack (Kyle MacLachlan) at the Cheetah. Nomi seems insulted that Connors would objectify her the way she does, but performs an alarmingly violent lap-dance, which she's paid handsomely for. Through her performance at the club, she's invited to the hotel where Connors stars for an audition. She does well, but again feels objectified, so she runs off the stage in frustration. (This running off the scene in frustration comes to become a recognizable trait in Nomi.) To calm herself, she and Molly go dancing where she meets James, a horny but seemingly well-meaning dancer/choreographer who wants her to take dancing seriously.It turns out that she's gotten the job in the chorus, which of course fills her with delight--she's beginning to see her dreams take place. The plot now develops into a glimpse inside the world of showgirls--we see monkeys run around backstage, vindictive and spiteful dancers willing to disable each other to get ahead, and an underworld of greed and malice that is encouraged by managers and producers.The film is exceedingly terrible. I mentioned in my review for Top Gun that the Tom Cruise movie wasn't one of those so bad it's good types that people make it out to be--it was just bad. As a whole, Showgirls is a film that is so awful it's enjoyable to watch. Nomi's overly-aggressive behavior is hilarious and entertaining in itself, but the plot and the rest of the film is the icing on the cake. Here's a couple of examples 1. Cristal (who reveals in this conversation that she's named herself after the champagne) asks Nomi if she likes brown rice and vegetables (the preferred diet for girls in their show). Nomi says that she does. Really? Connors asks. After some persuasion, Nomi admits It's worse than dog food. I've had dog food, Cristal replies. Nomi's face lights up, as if they've got something in common, but Cristal puts on a far-away look A long time ago. Nomi admits to eating the same dog food, and they grow closer. My reaction What? Eating dog food? Who talks about that when they're eating lunch at the Bellagio? 2. The lap-dance scene and the sex scene between Nomi and Zack. There are two parts of your nervous system that control orgasms and arousal in humans, the sympathetic and the parasympathetic. The parasympathetic controls arousal--if there is too much going on in the body, the system will receive the message that it's not worth the energy to be aroused right now, and in the male case, he will lose his erection. This is why, for example, you won't ever find yourself getting a hard-on while going for a jog. My question is how the hell could Zack maintain an erection with Nomi's violent thrashing? She does things with her back that I've only seen performed with a safety net. I would have been scared for my life if I were in his place, forget the orgasm. After doing a bit of research, I found that Elizabeth Berkley was only paid $100,000 for her role in this movie. What did they have to pay the chiropractors that they must have had on call throughout the filming?At 133 minutes, you might expect that the film would get boring after awhile. It never does. It only grows worse as time goes on, but no matter what's happening it's always entertainment.2.40/10.00 for Showgirls, but I recommend that everyone watch this movie at least once. "},{"Title":"A career-crashing performance","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While commenting on this movie is truly a case of flogging the dead horse, i still feel that i have to. This is just so unbelievably bad that i can't understand what happened really. There might not have been premises for a classic here, but at least they should have been able to make it a tolerable movie.This is the touching story of stripper slash prostitute Nomi Malone (Elizabeth Berkley) who comes to Las Vegas seeking fame and fortune. She starts out dancing at a seedy joint, but through luck and some dirty moves she gets the opportunity to become a real showgirl! Soon though it becomes apparent that life as a showgirl is not as glamorous as Nomi had hoped...This movie sets the tone right from the beginning. From the inbred retard that Nomi hitches a ride with to Vegas, to her completely unwarranted emotional outbreaks this is a ride into the mouth of madness. I can only guess what script-writer Joe Eszterhas and director Paul Verhoeven were thinking, but i'm not sure i WANT to guess. Because like someone pointed out, this is most likely a movie based on Joe Eszterhas highly secret list that he keeps under his pillow 100 things i would do if i was a woman for a day. And most of those things involve touching, displaying, fondling, talking about and otherwise handling breasts.Acting here is non-existent. Elizabeth Berkley makes a career-crashing performance in the lead, making her character into an emotional train-wreck lashing out at the most unexpected times. Gina Gershon is suitably sleazy as Cristal Connors, the queen of showgirls. Kyle MacLachlan should receive an award for strangest hairdo, but also deserves notice for his complete inability to act casual. It feels to me that even though director Verhoeven seemed to be completely oblivious as to how deep this movie was plunging, maybe the actors had some idea. Most of them are just plain awful, even actors that are usually at least acceptable. And why should they try? Lifting the paycheck, going home and hope nobody watches the movie was probably all they could do. The truth is that it would be easy to go on for literally days listing all the flaws in this movie. But there is no real point. This is a movie that has to be experienced. One of those marathons of crap that are so bad they turn into instant classics. So while the quality is on zero kelvin levels, the entertainment value is rather high. I would however recommend high levels of alcohol for this to be truly enjoyable. I rate this 1/10 for quality, 8/10 for entertainment and 10/10 for electroshock-inspired sex scenes. "},{"Title":"If you want to make yourself miserable, watch this movie.","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is absolutely absurd. Think, soft-core porn mixed with incredibly bad soap opera. The only reason anybody even knows this movie is because a few modestly well-known people are in it and it's that rare NC-17 movie. Trust me, the excitement is slim, this ain't the place to get your kicks. The erotic scenes are merely vulgar, gentlemen, and I doubt you'll enjoy them, by and large. The dialog is almost laughable more than once, but not quite, so you don't even get any comedic value out of this piece of garbage. There's a revenge scene that is not merely unsatisfying, it's laughably so. Basically, this movie will alternately bore you and mildly disgust you, and you have better things to do with your life than waste a couple of hours watching a really bad movie. "},{"Title":"Gnome-y With A 'G'","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Among the newer entries into the Bad Movie Hall of Fame, *Showgirls* is an instant classic &#150;it wants to be *All About Eve*, but stops short of *Valley of the Dolls*. Trying desperately to be a morality tale with a twist, it fails so completely, that the viewer, short of leaving the theatre, is held prisoner to its lurid charm. With the minimally talented Elizabeth Berkley playing the skanky Nomi Malone (she might be alternately known as Gnome-y Malone, or Know Me Malone), a former juvenile delinquent who has just graduated from jail-bait status and hitchhikes to Las Vegas to be a lapdancer. I mean, showgirl. Things start off badly for her, and it becomes evident immediately that she would benefit from anger-management classes. After losing her luggage and money, she is mysteriously befriended by a young woman &#150; mysterious, because it is unimaginable that a stranger would offer assistance to someone so unstable, unpleasant and so trashy-looking. But we *are * talking about Las Vegas here. Gnomey's new friend is a wardrobe mistress at the casino for the show *Goddess* is playing, and sneaks Gnomey in to watch behind the scenes. It is here that Gnomey meets Cristal Connors (Gershon), a senior showgirl who calls everyone Darlin', and does a lot of cocaine. Originally envisioning Madonna as Cristal and Drew Barrymore as Gnomey, the scriptwriting is cruder than it needs to be, but that is part of its charm. Supporting characters further underscore the bottom-of-the-barrel approach to storytelling &#150; from the owner of the strip club where Gnomey works, to the sleazy choreographer who pursues her, to her fellow dancers, we are treated to a cattle call of unpleasant stereotypes. The scenes are awash in tawdriness that is supposed to represent the underbelly of American life, where everyone's a whore. A dire pronouncement, to be sure, but far more indicative of Verhoeven's state, than America's. As far as being the brilliant satire it was purported to be, that sounds like someone trying to put a good spin on an awful movie. Truly awful. Like a car wreck you can't take your eyes off of. "},{"Title":"If it wasn't for the nudity there would be no reason to watch","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Story sucked, acting sucked! This would possibly be the worst movie ever made if it wasn't for nudity and sexual content. Elizabeth Berkley gives us one of the worst performances of all time. She should conduct a class on how to over-act, especially during sex scenes. The casting in this movie is also terrible, but I understand that actors from the A-list wouldn't even consider making this film, especially if they happened to read that horrible script. Speaking of that, the story might have been alright if they could have found someone who has actually held a normal conversation or lived a normal life to write the screenplay. This is the only movie that I have ever walked out of and demanded my money back! "}{"Title":"Bad acting","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I guess that the only good thing about that movie is that women are beautiful,and Elizabeth Berkley definitely delivers the goods in that department, but the acting is terrible. She and most of her co-stars are overacting in every possible scene. Gina Gershon sometimes actually reaches the ok level,but she's not really up to the beauty of Nomi(Elizabeth). They should have found someone else for that part - maybe another blond - that would work better in my opinion.The movie might have worked if the actors had more talent( at that particular time ),or just a different actors.The overall impression was about the same as the one of Tomb Raider - another wasted two hours of my life.  "},{"Title":"2 Words - CAMP CLASSIC","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yeah, so OK...  in the great history of film, Showgirls will appear WAY down at the bottom of the list....  Worst ever made?  Nah...  But close!However, go back and view the movie again - but with no expectation and no ill harbored thoughts or feelings...  It is f--king hilarious!  I caught it the other night on Showtime (or HBO) and laughed my butt off!!I think that Ezterhuas (?) and VerHoven (?) had nothing more in mind than to create a T&A movie to glorify the jiggly-wiggly bits of flesh on a woman's body....  That's the funniest part about this whole damn thing!  That everybody was expecting some great film, when, in fact, all this is, is just a 2+ hour T&A exploitation flick....The PLUSES - Gina Gershon - she is (was?) an absolutely STUNNING creature in the mid 90s....  and, her character has some of the greatest lines in the film ('You are a whore, darlin')....  And she TRULY delivered these lines in the way that they probably had been planned - in total campy straightness....Great sights and scenes of Vegas - including some rarely seen aspects of the town...  I lived there for 5 years (and was actually at The Forum Shoppes at Caesars the night they filmed the Spago scenes - but my store was cut out of the background images =^(.....)  Sure, there were some continuity errors - like when they're walking out of the Stardust (where 'Godess' was being performed) and they're in the back areas of Caesars Palace & The Forum Shoppes....  Or, when Nomi walks out of the city jail and is miraculously in the neighborhood behind the 'Stratoshpere' Hotel & Tower (formerly known as Vegas World)....  Anyone that lived in Vegas knows this to be one of the highest crime areas in the city.... A host of other 'notable' actors and actresses in character/supporting roles....And a GREAT showing of the back stabbing antics that go on behind the scenes of ANY popular show....  The marbles on the stage were FANTASTIC!...THE MINUSESElizabeth Berkely....  Girl, you should have left off with 'Saved by the Bell'....  This was NOT a good film for you.....  Way too much make up....  and you're just not all that convincing as a back stabbing bitch...  And, well, frankly, your body just ain't that of a stripper....  especially not at Cheetahs, for cryin-out-loud!  Maybe some downtown/east side sleaze joint....  But Cheetahs?  Never!And speaking of shows - 'Godess' was far more revealing than ANY topless showroom production....  the only thing that is even close is the NEW Zoomanity at the New York, New York....A host of other 'notable' actors and actresses in character/supporting roles....  Yeah, I know....  I'm repeating myself...  And there's more!And  showing of the back stabbing antics that go on behind the scenes of ANY popular show....  The marbles on the stage were over the top!  Besides, ANY show would work VERY HARD to clearing the hurt dancers off the stage PRONTO and drawing your attention away from them SUPER QUICK if something like that happened....Again, let me just say that this is a campily funny movie with great lines and is a decent time capsule of the early 90s climbing that was happening ALL over the place....  So, darlin', pop some Wolfgang Puck's food in the oven, open a bottle of Crystal (or Andre, if that's all you can afford) and see the 'Godess' again!  "},{"Title":"SPOILER I thought this movie rocked","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To a certain degree this movie gave me the same feeling as the rocky horror picture show but I think the reason I liked it so much was because I never knew what was going to happen next and it was so jam packed with action. I also thought it is interesting that it showed evil deeds multiplying until confronted. Nomi sees the one girl throw the glass balls on the ground and says nothing. Nomi then repeats the evil deed by pushing Crystal down the stairs because she never says anything about the glass balls. The evil tension doesn't end until she beats up the bad guy and apologizes to Crystal. Nomi is then a hero at the end which surprised me. I don't know if evil deeds are really passed on like this but it was cool to see Showgirls show it so blatantly. and that was just the end - there are many other things to appreciate. thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"Skip the first 1/3 of the movie...","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well no, you can't really. I started this movie expecting a piece of crap, and at the beginning it was meeting my expectations. Hitchhikers are almost nonexistent in these parts, and they weren't any in 1995 either, when this film got made. It just doesn't happen that a female built like a brick s...house has her thumb out, if it ever did. Already I was groaning.It didn't get much better in the first 1/3 of the movie. Very derivative lightweight bull...t populated with paper-thin characters as a backdrop to display some admittedly very fine T&A. I almost gave up, and did skip parts of a couple of chapters.Somehow it got better. Gershon and MacLachan arrived on the scene, that musta been it. They provided some much needed depth. Even when MacLachan is playing a vacuous Vegas type he's got some depth, and Gershon has depths still yet to be plumbed, so far as I know. Let me start with her lips.... no we'll skip that. I don't know that she's a great actress but she chews up the scenery when she's around.Elizabeth Berkley, little Miss Saved By the Bell, seems to grow with the role, and does a little 'Monster' herself at the end, which I liked a lot. Actually she is a bit of the Monster all along. Lots of anger in those pelvic lifts. Seriously, she gets better with the movie.I think this movie got a bad rap from the sexually repressed, rather than from an honest evaluation. There must be a lot of repression, considering its low ratings. I think most people give up on the movie because it does start out pretty lame.  "},{"Title":"Entertainment, No Intellect Required.","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has nothing to do with a higher intellectual being going to frolic on the eastern shores to make a degree in Superior Languages with a doctorate in Linguistics.  This movie is nothing more than a little girl with a great body going to Las Vegas to become a something or somebody.  If you don't like show girls, topless women, or any other of things related to Las Vegas, then watch something else.  The movie was on the level of watchin ANY Charlies Angels episode (and we all know how completely unpopular that series was)  with absolutely little regard to plot, it blows through and has a good ending.  If you want to be entertained without sitting around and discussing if the ending meant she was on hemorrhoid ointment cream or if it meant quazars are killing the earth, then watch this movie.  It is not meant to make you think and discuss which of the lead characters boozums is bigger than the other, then again, maybe that is exactly what this movie and Las Vegas is all about. "},{"Title":"Not brilliant but good","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I agree with Tito-8 it's  hard to have sympathy with the leading lady or any other  character in the movie. Although watching it for the second time it's easier. The  story is good and i can imagine realistic, cinematography and settings are good. I totally agree with everything NIKOS SONIC (1966nm) from MEXICO (seeothercomments on this film) has said.  this movie is more than skin deep.I think this film deserves better. Maybe it's to realistic and Hollywood doesn't like  that. I've seen worse films (like you've got mail and a Chorus Line) So i voted 7. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film, one of the top 10 films of all time.","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  That was a lie.I am thoroughly ashamed to admit that I actually sat through this film right to the end.  I held out incase it had a great ending or a twist in the plot, but no, there was nothing. The storyline was thinner than Calista Flockharts arms and the acting was worse than my daughters school play.This film appears to be nothing more than a crass attempt to get porn into the 'mainstream', but it fails miserably. If I wanted to watch unattractive failed models prance around butt naked, I could get something of far superior quality from my local adult shop out of the bargain bin. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i think this is a film about a female drifter who climbs the social ladder from a stripper to a showgirl only to find that being a showgirl is not as glamorous as she has imagined. during her quest for fame and success, she lost her innocence by doing drugs, tripping her competitor into injury and sleep with her boss to win the upper hand. by doing so she ruined all her effort of going to a new town and start a new life. she tried to maintain innocence by refusing to call herself a whore, refusing to have spontaneous sex. but at the end, she surrendered to the temptation of career success by leaving all her moral inhibitions behind. after a rape of her closest friend which served as a wake up call for her to end this insanity, she quits her job and move on to a new town to pursue her dream with bitter lessons learned! what a sad story this is!   for those who can't appreciate this movie this is not an adult movie serving to entertain you. it is a movie that shows us the importance of morality. it makes you think about what is life all about.as of the cast, elizabeth berkley portrayed her role perfectly, a small-town girl with a big ambition and little knowledge of the real world. she has, to say the least, very beautiful eyes and lips. gina gershon is a symbol of evil in this movie and she is purely disgusting and ugly, good job too. the other male characters are also real-life like, mean and pathetic, the way men bosses should be in las vegas. "},{"Title":"The WORST naked movie ever!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Even the naughty bits are boring, terribly written, terribly acted, terribly directed ...  This is possibly the sleaziest movie ever from a non-porn director.  Where is the Paul Verhoeven of Soldier of Orange?  Did Hollow-wood ruin him, too, like it did Josef von Sternberg?  Not that he's in the same league as von Sternberg, but still ...  "},{"Title":"Vomit-inducing dreck","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For the record, I am not a member of the Moral Majority, nor am I dissing Showgirls because it exploits women (find me a mainstream Hollywood production that doesn't.)  It is, simply, a godawful waste of celluloid. This is not, as some would have it, a brilliant satire.  If it was intended as satire, it completely fails to register as such.  If it was intended as an expose' of the excesses of Las Vegas, it was unnecessary and handled in a rank, amateurish manner.  If it was supposed to be a serious film, then it was an unmitigated disaster.  The acting was universally atrocious, even from the normally reliable Gina Gershon.  The plot was more shamelessly melodramatic than an episode of Melrose Place.  The nudity was so gratuitous and unpleasant that I did not want to look at breasts for weeks afterwards, which was the most groundbreaking achievement of the movie.I could go on and on about the sheer horror of it all, but you get the idea.  Don't touch this one with a thirty-foot pole.        "}{"Title":"Unmitigated Rubbish","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an absurd waste of everyones time, talent and money. I don't know what point Verhoeven was trying to make, but the public didn't get it and neither did the critics. I think Verhoeven has a talent, but this wouldn't even make the grade as cable porn. "},{"Title":"It doesnt suck THAT much","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I´ve seen Showgirls more than once and it was very entertaining every time, not to mention the fact that you get to see great tits while youre at it.I´m not saying its a great movie, in fact its a pretty lame script and the acting isnt very impressive, but its highly entertaining and I think all the negative publicity around it is too much. I mean it just got the Razzie award for worst film of the decade, which obviously means worst film ever made! Have those people seen movies like Karate ghostbuster, or She´s so lovely or Sorority sluts in the slimeball bowl´o´rama, that last one is at least defenetly much worse. anyway.... STOP PICKING ON SHOWGIRLS! "},{"Title":"Nomi Is What Las Vegas Is All About","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is a drama starring Elizabeth Berkley, Kyle MacLachlan, and Gina Gershon. The film centers around a street-smart drifter who ventures to Las Vegas and climbs the seedy hierarchy from stripper to showgirl.Glenn Plummer,Robert Davi,Alan Rachins and Gina Ravera co-star to play supporting roles.It was written by Joe Eszterhas and directed by Paul Verhoeven. In this quasi-update of All About Eve, in Las Vegas. Of course, even Nomi must pay her dues, and she does so at the Cheetah, grinding poles and lap dancing her way to a future. Fortunately, her roommate, Molly, works at the Stardust and invites Nomi to see the show, where she meets Crystal Conners with whom she immediately forms a love/hate relationship. Nomi soon learns what she must do to get ahead, and the rest of the film documents her cat-like crawl up the showgirl ladder of success.Seduction, passion and power struggles unfold when the creators of Basic Instinct, director Paul Verhoeven and screenwriter Joe Eszterhas blow the lid off the seemingly glamorous world of Las Vegas show dancing to create one of the most controversial and shocking films of all time.Despite of what critics have said about this movie,I definitely liked this one considering how intelligently made for it tells the story of Nomi Malone,who is an excellent representation of what Las Vegas is all about. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I do not understand why this movie is panned by so many people. It's a very entertaining movie. So there are 'male fantasies' played out in the movie. Yeah? So what! Come on now! This is a male-dominated society and pretty much has always been so. But men didn't 'invent' sex,and frankly, as far as I am concerned, sex is a key element to happiness (at least in my experience) in life. I wouldn't have enjoyed my life as much as I have if I had had to live without sex, or without sensuality. Sex and sensuality are played out in this movie and I loved that. Elizabeth whathersface is good in this movie. So many people are so darned repressed about their animal selves. Too bad. But for me, this was an entertaining movie, and so, btw, was Zoolander. Neither movie was an 'intellectual exercise' but if I want that, I'll read some heavy tome. Laverne and Shirley, Mork from Ork, Showgirls, Zoolander, the Sunday comics...relaxing, enjoyable even if not thought-provoking. What I cannot understand is how anyone could like Brothers and Sisters or Lost, those are just drivel TV shows pretending to have some kind of redeeming intellectual value. "},{"Title":"the best tacky soap ever!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i can't believe this movie gets panned, but basic instinct (the true verhoeven disaster) is a hit...one of the biggest slaps seems to be the acting of elizabeth b... i've met a few dancers and some of them are pretty childish, and pretty bizarre... i thought she did a pretty good job at capturing the vacuous nature of some people in the entertainment industry... and yes, i know not ALL or even the MAJORITY of dancers are like that, but i think the field does breed some strange puppies... just watch that mainstream documentary about madonna's tour where all the dancers on that were vulgar, immature divas or just really nice but simple kids... don't tell me she's the worst actress you've ever seen...if you would like to go through life thinking wild sex, drug use and despicable behaviour do NOT occur in the lower echelons of the entertainment industry, then you're hopelessly naive... and the pool scene, well it's ridiculous but damn it's funny...it's just a really great soap... i hate soaps, they're so depressing and implausible, like they stuff a lifetime's bad luck and drama into each character's (who usually has a very ordinary life) week... this movie, they set in an environment that could easily generate all the angst you could want... and they make it completely over the top!... could this movie be any more fun?... soaps are coy too, even though lust is so often a topic... this movie dispenses with charades and gives us plenty of flesh... sorry but that's better then watching a couple sit in bed with sheet over them, waiting for the cheesy sax to cue a soft focus kissing scene...it's got HUGE dance numbers, it's a turn on in a sleazy way (yeah i'll admit it) and it's just out and out entertainment... why is it okay to watch nicholas cage mugging in con air or the rock, or wesley snipes killing people in passenger 57, or countless other action movies that at least get an average grade?... this is action movie of erotica, and aside from the assault scene (always difficult to watch no matter what type of movie it's in) i don't understand why it's so wrong to watch fake sex and some nudity... there doesn't seem to be a problem showing lots of death and violence (example sin city, aside from visual style the movie has a terrible script and is far inferior to showgirls, it just rides a wave of boring cartoon violence)... last time i checked, i preferred feeling pleasure to killing people and being shot... i enjoy action movies but i think there's a bit of a double standard going on...so it's not a great movie, but it's fun... i guess some people just can't admit that... too bad for them... "},{"Title":"A bomb of epic proportions.","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's difficult for me to name any film made during my lifetime that was as big a failure as this one. As far as mainstream cinema is concerned, I think only Jaws The Revenge is a worse movie. Showgirls is a waste of every moment, every dollar, and every frame of film that was spent on it. Everyone whose name appears in the credits for this film should be absolutely ashamed of themselves.Showgirls is the story of a young woman who hitchhikes her way to Las Vegas with not a penny to her name, but eventually becomes the lead dancer in a topless show at a casino. The film is supposed to be a sexy insider's look at the business of putting on a dance show, but it is so poorly made that it comes off as being uninteresting camp. I can stand camp at certain levels, but this film really tries to take itself seriously. That is the biggest problem here, but the entire project is filled with problems.Joe Eszterhas has written some amazingly successful scripts in his day. Most of the films are awful, but ultimately profitable. Almost everything he has written has been watchable if nothing else. Showgirls isn't even watchable. Once the nudity has gotten old (and that is within the first half hour) there is nothing left to keep the viewer's interest at anything more than a curiosity level. You're left with nothing to do but see just how much worse the dialog will get, and just how pathetic people can act. The film is not entertaining in any stretch of the word. It just becomes a study in how not to make a movie.The acting is so bad you can only laugh at it. Elizabeth Berkley is every bit as awful as you've heard, but even she isn't as bad a some of the other main characters. Take for example Glenn Plummer. This guy is so terrible in his pointless role that the entire film grinds to a catastrophic halt every moment he's on the screen. Plummer was one of the worst actors to appear in mainstream films in the 1990s, and his lack of talent is really on display in this one. There are some characters who are interesting in a sense that you maybe want to know a little more about them, but there was not one good performance in the entire film. How is a viewer supposed to care about a film when they don't even care about a single character?The screenplay takes one ridiculous turn after the next. The sex scenes are not the least bet sexy, and this is surprising coming from an Eszterhas script. I don't think Basic Instinc or Sliver were great films, but at least there were some sexually charged scenes in those films. Not in this one. Not one. There is also a rape scene so badly choreographed and over the top that Michael Winner (the Death Wish series director) would have been embarrassed to use it. How about some of this dialog? You can f*ck me when you love me! She doesn't suck. She learned it all right. But whatever she learned, they don't teach it! ???????Overall Showgirls must be viewed by everyone at least once in their lives. To see how NOT to make a film, there is no better guide. There's a reason this thing didn't gross half of what it cost to make. And with all of those beautiful nude women it still isn't even watchable. Amazing.2 of 10 stars So sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"A horny college guy walks away.","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The stupidity level of this film is something to behold. Cheesy dialog, forced emotions, and a storyline so moronic it makes you forget that there are naked girls on the screen. Some of the inside jokes require knowledge of dance or fashion; not something the target audience would notice much. I honestly don't know who the good or bad guys were. I cannot tell you why we are supposed to care for the heroine. From what I saw, it was trying to be a struggling coming-of-age movie, and was quickly becoming a high-priced candidate for Cinemax-Friday after Dark. I went to see this movie in theaters as a single, highly-interested-in-naked-girls college guy. I walked out less than midway through it. The T&A was not enough to hold my interest through the rest of the crap. "},{"Title":"A clear-cut T&A film, and nothing else","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is obviously nothing but a T&A flick. To the people who don't know what that means, it's short for tits and ass. And that is what you get in this film, tits and ass, and virtually nothing else. The acting is bad, apart from a few performances which are decent at best. The plot is poorly put together and almost entirely pushed into the background to show the viewer nudity, instead of actual film. I suppose there needs to be some T&A flicks every now and then, but this is too long, pointless, and has too little sex and nudity. I guess Paul Verhoeven set out to make a T&A flick, and either didn't know exactly how to do it and figured he'd inject some plot too, or he felt it would be too empty with only nudity. The result is too boring for fans of T&A flicks, and too simple for anyone else. The problem is, we don't care about any of the characters; we just want one of two things to see them naked, or to have the film move on and be more entertaining. Unfortunately, neither is done to the point of satisfaction. There is too little nudity and sex in the film, and too many badly developed, boring and pointless characters. The film has some decent nudity and sex scenes, but they are too far apart and the film is far too long. It would have been better had it just been 90 minutes, and nothing but T&A, instead of trying to make it watchable to people who want more than just nudity. I liked a few of the scenes that involved nudity and/or sex, and I enjoyed one of the last scenes which has the main character taking the law into her own hands, but apart from that, this is pointless. I recommend this only to fans of T&A flicks, and possibly fans of Verhoeven(even though this is his worst film, he even admitted that himself). 2/10 "},{"Title":"not as bad as you've been led to believe!","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, I know lots of people love to trash this movie, and I have to admit I was a bit leery about watching it due to this fact;  However, I didn't think it was all that bad... in fact, I enjoyed it very much.  Sure, it's not ground breaking or oscar-worthy... but it's entertaining, and that's all that matters sometimes.  I found both Elizabeth Berkley's and Gina Gershon's characters to be both appalling, yet very likeable at the same time. Essentially, we find out that both had to take the same road in order to be successful... that is, knocking down the one ahead of them to make it there. As for the sex factor... this movie is rated R in Canada, but the way our system works, it's the same as an NC-17 in the USA.  Needless to say, there is constant nudity, but it's not quite the soft porn it was made out to be.  In fact, there is really only one visible sex scene, but it takes place in a pool and doesn't look all that realistic anyway.  I guess the suggestive stripper dances were too much for some people or something. Anyway, the bottom line is... if you're looking for soft porn, you'll have to look somewhere else.  If you're looking for a good way to kill two hours, or just some good ol' entertainment, check this one out.  Watch it and enjoy it for the big, dumb fun it was meant to be.   "},{"Title":"Ingenious and Painful","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I took both my mother and grandmother to see this film. I found it to be a painful vision of America  Veerhoeven is revealing an underground world which we do not wish to see. I wish more people were as lucky as I was to have a professor show me the light  because perhaps then they would understand that this movie does not exploit women but is rather ABOUT exploitation!If it did exploit women, it would have been far more popular! For example, the nudity as portrayed in the film becomes a uniform after the first 10 minutes...It loses its sex appeal. I don't know how Veerhoeven accomplishes this, but he does. If it were sexy, there would be a horny teenage cult following of this film - which there is NOT which says something about it!The culmination of the representation of exploitation the rape scene.  It was so brutal, so difficult to watch.Yes, in some ways this film is a satire..The ridiculous sex scenes (which correlate to the dance numbers - if you pay attention) are laughable...but disturbing nonetheless.It is an uncomfortable laugh that this movie evokes if one truly looks at it.And if you disagree with everything I am saying, and think this film is not redeemable, AT LEAST look at the stunning cinematography!!!!After all, you're not reading a book, you're watching a movie. Over half the film is shot with a stedi cam and it's STUNNING.i don't mean to preach, most of these things were pointed out TO me, i simply hate that a brilliant film has been so widely condemned. "}{"Title":"What else would you expect?","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I used to put this film in the so bad it's good category, except I'd say it's so terrible, it's fantastic. With repeated viewings, I came to laugh with Verhoeven rather than at him. It's visually stunning, melodramatic, completely silly, with outrageous acting and gratuitous nudity--just like a Las Vegas show. It's the perfect meta-movie and a pure pleasure to watch. "},{"Title":"you have to understand it........","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Paul Verhoeven definitely is one of the most intelligent directors around.People who like this movie understand that it is a SATIRE of American culture (like other Verhoeven-films....). The story is well thought out and the acting is very good.It's nice to see the average vote given by more than 3000 people  3,5I think that says enough (in my opinion.....).10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"is this the worst file ever?","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Apart from Ed Wood, who was in a league of his own, this may be the worst film ever made. Certainly its' IMDb ratings put in striking distance of the worst ever category. Really bad films are, of course, interesting because they lead you to ask what were they thinking? Not the actresses who are, after all, shameless bimbos, but Paul Verhoeven, who based on his track record prior to this file, was a decent director and Joe Esterhasy who was a top ranked writer. How could their judgments have been so bad? And then there are the producers, the money people who, I guess, just assumed that sex would sell, no matter how bad the movie. For me, all the Tits &Ass in the world could not save this mess. "},{"Title":"Full of fabricated dramatics--and highly enjoyable to boot!","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls has the mark of unadulterated amateurism. If I didn't know that Paul Verhoeven was a director of some considerable skill and that Joe Eszterhas was a writer of occasional merit, I would believe Showgirls was written and directed by kids out of film school (no, make that drop-outs from film school). Pouty young girl from Nowhere hitches to Las Vegas in hopes of being a dancer (right away her luggage is stolen, but we have no idea why). The picture is trash but it does move along at a fast clip. All the dialogue is awful, spoken by the actors as if it were written mostly in italics He SAID you were GOING to CALL him! I did CALL him! Yes, it's bad, but it is never boring, it looks pretty snazzy and has a ton of energy. The characters are cartoony-repulsive, the scenario gives Vegas the cynical jab in the eye it sometimes deserves, and the over-the-top awfulness is nearly mesmerizing. Colorful, laughable, compulsively hissable, and thoroughly enjoyable. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Plot? There Was A Plot?","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So much buzz, so little to be excited about. A bloated Vegas showgirls act comes to the big screen and becomes a legendary Hollywood bomb in the 1995 effort Showgirls. Elizabeth Berkley, only known as Jessie Spano on the Saturday morning NBC show Saved By the Bell, tries to make herself as adult performer as a stripper who wants to become a showgirl star in Las Vegas. But several melodramas break out in her life, including people throwing up, a rivalry with Gina Gershon (well, this movie wasn't allllll bad), and other countless episodes that are dumb and poorly acted. This movie was the first movie to achieve (and it was proud of achieving it) the NC-17 rating and attempt to become a commercial success. Back in the 1960s and 70s, many movies rated X had done well, including winning an Oscar for best picture (Midnight Cowboy), but since the NC-17 rating came out, no movie had attempted to be a success with that rating. Showgirls had a lot of buzz over the fact that it was dirty, racy, sexy, and it was, but also had a weak story and terrible acting and directing. Directed by Paul Verhoeven (Total Recall, Starship Troopers), Showgirls is a mess, maybe because it has too many melodramatic subplots that just did not work. The failing of this film has had a lasting legacy on Hollywood, no other NC-17 movie has been as mass-marketed as Showgirls, and several movies have been re-edited to avoid the rating (Eyes Wide Shut, Kill Bill come to mind). There is a lot of nudity, lots of sex, and more than earns its NC-17 rating. Too bad they didn't put as much effort into the rest of the film as they did in making the girls look good. To be fair, Showgirls has earned a cult following, for reasons that are beyond me, but there are people out there who appreciated something about the film. Maybe they are the same men out there who are always told by their girlfriends that their face is up here. "},{"Title":"Th greatest Bad movie of all time!","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Showgirls is one of the very few films that doesn't have a single positive trait. Seeing Showgirls for the first time was the most amazing movie experiences of my life. There's scenes that stay with you when the movies over, and you don't forget them. Everyone makes the mistake of calling this film a movie about strippers. Its really a movie about family. The dialogue is just unbelievable. I've seen the movie at least 30, 40 times, and I'm still amazed at how horrible it all is, the music, the acting, everything. People think that Gigli is the worst movie ever made...well, there's no way that ANYONE can think that Gigli is more moving, and has a worse storyline than Showgirls. The thing I find so amazing about Showgirls is how Nomi Malone (Elizabeth Berkley) changes throughout the movie(not). Its my opinion that this is the greatest bad movie ever made, and I doubt that anyone can watch this movie, and think I'm crazy. It is a travesty that this movie isn't #1 on the worst 100 of all time...1/10  "},{"Title":"Lives up to its reputation as the worst movie in history","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is well known for being one of the worst movies in history. No surprise this was a box office bomb when first released in 1995. There is not even a single redeemable feature to Showgirls. It's painfully bad. Everything is bad about this movie that deserves its bad reputation and a well deserved winner at the 1995 Razzies. This is the movie that killed many careers and was the beginning of the end for Carolco Pictures, well known for producing blockbuster movies such as Terminator 2 Judgement Day, the first three Rambo movies, Total Recall, Basic Instinct, and Cliffhanger.I won't even bother to give the outline of what it is about as I saw half of this movie on fast forward. I didn't even care for any of the nudity and sex scenes either. The dialogue was atrocious and a lot of the scenes in the movie were total rubbish.Sadly, Paul Verhoeven's career was never the same again. This is the same director at his peak was responsible for hit movies such as Robocop, Total Recall, and Basic Instinct. Although I enjoyed Starship Troopers, unfortunately it was a box office flop upon its release but has since grown into a cult movie. Hollow Man was a disappointment to audiences and from there, Paul Verhoeven's career as a director was not able to be resurrected. Likewise, the majority of the actors involved in Showgirls, particularly Elizabeth Berkley, have had their careers severely harmed by this movie and this will forever be a black mark against their names.Showgirls lives up to its reputation as the worst movie in history as well as a box office bomb. Unlike many horrible movies that I have had the misfortune to see, I can't say that you should avoid this movie at all costs. By all means check it out to see how bad it is, even if you are slightly curious. If you do decide to watch this movie, good luck. 1/10. "},{"Title":"Fun  '90s cheese","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't care if critics hated this movie, I liked it a lot. Sometimes you just gotta let your brain rest and watch something ridiculous and fun. It's one of my guilty pleasures. Most people go into this movie thinking it's supposed to be some really big drama but if you just look at it as a cheesy movie from the '90s that you can laugh at, I think you'll enjoy. Is the acting over the top and overly dramatic? Yes. Is it predictable? Yes. Are there really outdated sets and costumes? You betcha! But that's all part of the fun in my opinion. If you're looking for a drama with a really serious tone, this is not for you. But if you have a good sense of humor and you just wanna laugh at something tacky and overly dramatic, then this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"It Still Hasn't Improved Over Time","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls (1995) ** (out of 4) Nomi Malone (Elizabeth Berkley) heads to Las Vegas broke and hungry but she's willing to fight to try and become a dancer. She eventually lands a small role thanks to the popular Cristal Connors (Gina Gershon) but she soon learns the dark side of the business.SHOWGIRLS will always be considered a disaster no matter how many times director Paul Verhoeven and writer Joe Eszterhas tries to explain the meaning behind it. Heck, even after it flopped on its opening weekend the two started coming out trying to make people see the film in a different way and this has continued for two decades. SHOWGIRLS will always be that notorious failure but I think critics were way too hard on it when it was released and it's certainly not as bad as many have made it out to be. There's some good stuff scattered throughout the picture and if the writer and director weren't using this to stroke their own egos then perhaps something better could have happened with it.I think it's pretty clear that both Verhoeven and Eszterhas was enjoying the controversy surrounding their BASIC INSTINCT so they wanted to take it to the next level and really deliver something smart, sassy, shocking and a look into the evil going-ons in Vegas. This is all fine but the problem is that they delivered a sometimes hilarious movie that misses on so many levels that it's easy to see why some trashed it while others hold it up as a cult item. At the heart of it this is a story about a poor girl from a troubled background who wants to make a name for herself and achieve her dreams. There's nothing wrong with this but the biggest problem with the film and its screenplay is that Nomi is such an annoying, ugly and rather bitchy character that you really don't want her to succeed and you don't care for her at all.To me, the biggest flaw with SHOWGIRLS is the fact that you can't stand the lead character and this here is just a fatal flaw since you're supposed to be rooting for her. Another problem is that Berkley just wasn't the right person for the role. She just comes across as someone who can't act and there's no doubt that the role itself was just too demanding. I mean, physically she can handle the dancing and you can believe she's tough but the dramatic scenes are downright embarrassing and there are some moments throughout that just seem like goof outtakes instead of a real performance. While this film ended Berkley's film career, it's probably not fair to blame her since she's not the one who hired herself. The blame should certainly go to the director.The supporting performances contain some real gems including Gershon who steals the show with her sexy and at times exciting performance as the star who likes to toy with the new girl. Kyle MacLachlan is also very good in his cocky role and Robert Davi is terrific as a low-life strip club owner. The film also offers up a very good soundtrack, some terrific cinematography and there's no question that there's a lot gloss to the movie. On a technical level the film is quite impressive and there's no question that Verhoeven has an eye for style and knows how to get that on the screen.With that said, there's just too much that is wrong with the picture. I'm really not sure what the entire point was or exactly what they were wanting to get across but in the end the film is just one great big mess. SHOWGIRLS isn't the worst movie ever made and it certainly doesn't deserve its reputation but no matter how many times you view it, the film will always be seen as a disaster. "},{"Title":"Breasts Breasts Breasts... (spoilers)...and more breasts!!!","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This one girl shows her breasts. Then this other girl shows her breasts. After that, another girl shows her breasts. So guess what happens next, this other girl shows her breasts. Later she shows her breasts again. But wait the other girl shows her breasts. Then, they all show their breasts. The movie really takes off when the mean girl tells the nice girl to shows her breasts. She does and the mean girl shows her breasts, too...later on though. But now the nice girl goes on the big stage to shows her breasts. But the producer makes a mean comment about her breasts so she leaves. But she comes back to show her breasts because the mean girl gets hurt while she showed her breasts. So now the nice girl is the star and really shows her breasts and is proud of it.THE ENDDid I mention that the girl shows her breasts? Well don't take my word for it!!! "}{"Title":"Sleazy? I supposed if you are repressed.","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you are sexually repressed, I can understand why you think this movie is sleazy. If you accept the fleshy environment as just the way certain people live, and get into that setting, the movie is simply a better than average slightly funny drama.The overacting by the main character, is simply the larger than life aura that has to be there to make her so desireable to all the lower energy people. Here entire personality is high energy, higher energy than everyone else in the picture. "},{"Title":"A plot would have been nice......","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    I like continuity in my movies.  Any continuity.  Just a fraction, I am not a picky man.  Please.    This is a great movie for seeing beautiful women naked.  It is  fantastic!  But I have seen porno movies with deeper plots.  Seriously. Ok, you want an example Tough girl goes to Vegas with a fake Elvis.  Fake Elvis steal a suitcase.  Nice girl helps tough girl, but tough girl tries to kill herself after beating up nice girls' car.  Nice girl saves tough girl, and they start living together.   Huh? Ok, tough girl gets nice girl hooked up with fake Fabio.  Fake Fabio likes to watch his bodyguards rape nice girl.  Then he let's her get away apparently not caring that it is a crime.  Wha....???????? Watch this if you are into seeing Saved By the Bell chicks naked.  "},{"Title":"DRECK !!!!!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very possibly the WORST movie ever made. There is absolutely nothing to recommend this movie unless you're very hard up to see some nudity. It's embarrassing to think that people actually paid to see this, never mind that people were paid to make it. I guess H.L. Mencken was correct about the American public. "},{"Title":"Showgirls","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am going to confess, I used to think this film was okay, story wise, not just for the nudity and sex, but then I forced myself to watch it again. Within the first twenty minutes, I'm glad to say, I completely agreed with the critics about this sexploitation film, from Razzie winning director Paul Verhoeven (RoboCop, Total Recall, Basic Instinct, Starship Troopers). Basically Nomi Malone (twice Razzie winning and debuting Elizabeth Berkley), a mysterious young girl, has come from Los Angeles to Las Vegas to become a dancer. Six weeks pass since meeting new friend, Stardust Hotel dress maker Molly Abrams (Gina Ravera), Nomi finds work as a lap dancer in the seedy Cheetah Club. While working there she meets Cristal Connors (Bound's Razzie nominated Gina Gershon), star of Goddess, the successful topless show at the Stardust Hotel, and her boyfriend, entertainment director Zack Carey (Blue Velvet's Razzie nominated Kyle MacLachlan). There comes an opportunity for Nomi to join the Goddess chorus line of girls, dancing behind Cristal, and she leaps at the chance to audition to become a showgirl. This audition was arranged by Cristal, who is attracted to her, and Nomi finds out that fame comes at a price as her friendships, her morals and attitude are put to the test. Nomi is now a showgirl, but tries to convince herself that she is not a hooker, but she and all the others clearly are, and her spending the night with Zack proves that. It is after being with Zack that the makers of Goddess look for an understudy for Cristal, and Nomi is clearly the favourite, but Cristal makes sure that Nomi won't steal her part. Nomi is frustrated, and shoves Cristal down the stairs, both as revenge for her nastiness and to steal the leading role, to become the star of Goddess. With her newfound stardom, Nomi is invited to glitzy events, including a party where Molly's favourite singer, Andrew Carver (William Shockley), will be, but he turns out to be a bastard when he rapes Molly. Worse is to come when Zack discovers the truth about Nomi and her past, her real name is Polly Ann Costello, she is a runaway prostitute who was caught for taking drugs, prostitution and assault with a deadly weapon, and her father killed her mother and then himself. In the end, Nomi decides that she should return to her life in Los Angeles, but not before avenging Molly by beating up Carver, and saying goodbye to her, and Cristal. Also starring Glenn Plummer as James Smith, Licence to Kill's Razzie nominated Robert Davi as Al Torres, Razzie nominated Alan Rachins as Tony Moss, Razzie nominated Lin Tucci as Henrietta 'Mama' Bazoom and Rena Riffel as Penny / Hope. This film is a big hit with cult audiences and the late night movie circuit, and admittedly the two best scenes are Berkley's striptease to MacLachlan, and the two of them rapidly shagging in the swimming pool. This film was also a big hit at the Anti-Oscars, the Golden Raspberry Awards, or Razzies, where it received the record thirteen nominations to celebrate how bad it is. It does have a plot line that you could follow if you cared, but you don't, especially when the leading character has such an attitude problem, you just know that it is pointless viewing and a rubbish erotic drama, but you could argue, it's so bad it's good. It won the Razzies for Worst Picture, Worst Original Song for Walk Into The Wind, Worst Screen Couple for Any combination of two people (or two body parts!), and Worst Screenplay, and it was nominated for Worst Remake or Sequel (remake of both All About Eve and The Lonely Lady). It was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Poor! "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I grew up watching this movie all the time. I've probably seen this movie more than any other in my whole life. I started watching it when I was just 5 years old, in 1997 when my mom sat me down and had me watch it with her. Everyday coming back from preschool and kindergarten I'd watch this movie, sometimes twice in a row. But then my mom had me stop watching it. As I grew older into my teens, I watched it again, I understood a lot more and I still loved the movie. I love the friendship and just the whole, unrealistic...fantasy feel it gives off. I was honestly shocked when I found out how low this movie was rated and how many bashings it'd taken. In all my life as being a little girl, a teen, a woman, I've never felt offended or exploited really, from watching this movie. I love the characters, the plot, everything. It gives me the same feeling as the story Sundays at Tiffany's. Just that warm...soft feeling. I really do recommend this movie to anyone. It's worth watching. "},{"Title":"You shouldn't pay for sex and you shouldn't pay for sordid.","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Explores the complex psyche of a topless dancer. Ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha haha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha ha ha hah ha ha hah hah ha ha hah ha.OK that's not fair. In fact many of them are quite intelligent, but certainly not these bimbos. Most wooden airhead line 5315 I'm supposed to see Mr Moss. I'm Naomi Malone. Actually that was two lines and they both could have come out of one of those 1980 talking Chrysler K-models. I studied this movie after watching Burn Hollywood Burn, which I rather liked. You can sure see why this bombed. The characters are as tortured as the Eastern European architecture where the writer grew up. And I am not saying complex. I am saying grimy and dirty and crumbling. Not even the low-maintenance reinforced-concrete Eastern European. I am saying failed nation-state lost-to-communism Eastern European architecture. Who wants to watch these people? If I want sordid losers, I will just walk outside. They're all over California.Insert obligatory paragraph here comparing this to Boogie Nights, with insider comment about Ghoulardi.Good gosh you can see Eszterhas just tossing ratings down the drain. Why did the guy dancer love-interest have to be black? Sure kumbaya, diversity, and Hungarians weren't Nazis, but why throw all the box office below the Mason Dixon into the trash? It pisses off the blacks even more than it does the rednecks. After all, its pretty hard to lose money on soft-core porn, but he managed, he sure managed to do that. He says she walked away from it at the end so we should like it. No, she is an amalgam of cardboard and plastic and I wanted to see her punished for wasting 2 hours of my life. I wanted to see DiCaprio club her in the face with a hat rack like he did with those boys from down Providence way*.God this movie is long. Like an hour too long. I am in the suffering-with-interminable-sordidness phase right now. Eeeek, she bangs the big boss. Gimme the hat rack. Awwww, the black guy is a loser. Gimme the hat rack. Ohhhh, she pushes the headliner down the stairs. Gimme the hat rack. Yeeaah, she fixes up her girlfriend with some wrinkle-band singer. Gimme the hat rack. Noooo, the singer accosts the girlfriend. Gimme the hat rack. Ha ha, her sordid sordid past comes to light. Gimme the hat rack. Yuuuck, she betrays her girlfriend and sells out--- no, no, its payback time for the wrinkle-band guy**. Gimme the hat rack. Whoa whoaooo, she commits multiple felonies, leaves her only friend in intensive care, and gets a pithy goodbye from the hospitalized headliner. Gimme the hat rack. Tee heeeeeee, she gets picked up hitchhiking by the exact same guy. Gimme the hat rack.I guess she never managed to save a dime even as a six-figure headliner. How about a movie where a downtrodden gal with no advantages comes to Vegas, plays the system like a violin, and walks out with a $2 million 401k and her true love? I'd pay nine buck for that. The lesson of this movie Raw tits can't substitute for character development, a compelling plot, or sympathetic characters. Maybe America should not be exterminated. I will admit that this movie has a lot of tits. A heap of tits. A whole heap of 'em.Two stars since it was twice as good as Leaving Las Vegas. It was just as depressing, but it did have a heap of tits.*Gratuitous Departed reference.**Third act comes a little late huh? "},{"Title":"hot hot hot hot hot!","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Showgirls is the first big-budget, big-studio film to receive an NC-17 rating. And its release last year came at a time when Senator Bob Dole and other politicians chastised the entertainment industry for promoting sex and violence. But if Showgirls is any indication of Hollywood's future, the folks in Washington should focus their attack on a more dangerous threat to American values--bad movie-making.Showgirls is a relentlessly exploitive look at the Las Vegas strip scene, and the film turns out to be just as trashy as its subject matter. Director Paul Verhoeven and writer Joe Eszterhas, who collaborated on another shock-value project, 1992's Basic Instinct, follow the plight of a young woman (teen TV star Elizabeth Berkley) determined to make a name for herself as a topless dancer. It's a hackneyed premise to begin with, so not surprisingly, all of the stock characters are trucked out. There's the Demanding Producer. The Loyal Friend. The Bitchy Competitor. Lest I forget the Scummy Club Owner.Of course, any attempt at character development or a coherent storyline is just window dressing for the film's main attraction--an endless parade of full-frontal nudity. Unfortunately, Showgirls doesn't satisfy in this department. Verhoeven's slam-bang, in-your-face style of direction proves neither arousing nor erotic. To make matters worse, you'll be forced to sit through the movie's clothed scenes, which don't cover up for laughable acting and some of the most absurd dialogue ever spoken in film history. Verhoeven and Ezsterhas deserve credit for trying to break ground, but if it's adult entertainment you want, stay home and watch the Playboy Channel. You'll be the wiser for it "},{"Title":"Nof funny/bad just BAD","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Dreadful film about a young girl (Elizabeth Berkley) going to Las Vegas to become a showgirl and hit it big. Predictable (and boring) complications ensure.The first film from a major studio, with an NC-17 rating, that got booked at multiplexes and a BIG publicity push. Didn't help--this movie bombed. Why? Let me count them1) Elizabeth Berkley can't act and looks dreadful.2) The pool sequence with her and Kyle MacLachlan is just SO terrible.3) The script is poor with some eye-rolling dialogue.4) Gina Gershon's looks when Berkeley gives MacLachlan a lap dance are hysterically funny. 5) All the women are portrayed as evil b****es who will do ANYTHING to succeed. 6) The one kind woman in the film is gang-raped into a coma! 7) She's still IN a coma by the end of the movie--we never find out what happened to her.8) You don't care about any of the characters or situations.9) It ends with a scene that had me wanting to throw something hard at the screen.I saw this opening night in Boston. The theatre was sold out and I was stuck next to a college kid who was just there to see the nudity. By the end of the film he was cringing away from the screen with a look of disgust on his face. He said he found all the characters so repulsive that he couldn't enjoy the nudity. Remember--this is a COLLEGE kid!The only good thing about this mess is Gina Gershon. She's actually very funny. She also said the movie should have been promoted as a comedy.The top problems with this is the script, indifferent direction by Paul Verhoeven (hard to believe he did this) and the lousy acting by Berkley. Too repulsive to be funny. A must-miss. "}]