[{"Title":"seriously under rated","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"98 out of 131 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie seems to have gotten a bad rep on IMDb. Less than 5/10??? It ain't Shakespeare, but it's better than that.This movie was unpretentious and fun. You could clearly see that everyone involved in this project was having a good time.Tank Girl is a campy comic-book splashed up on your screen. The folks who take it too seriously should lighten up. It was well written (as camp) and I really enjoyed all of the characters. It's the ultimate In your face movie. The feminist subtext was interesting. I didn't notice it right off, I was too busy enjoying the ride. But if you look at all of the characters, it's the women who are strong, and all of the male characters are either villains or are defective in some way (1/2 human Rippers).It was (and is) one of my favourite flicks and I can be very critical of badly done movies. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Cult Classic!","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"70 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A lot of people tend to dismiss this movie because of it's comic book feel and comic-book (really) transitions.I enjoyed this movie a LOT, as it has the same feel as the original comic books I remember reading, and the same style of humor. It's very well done for 1995, the dialogue is well-scripted for the intent of the movie, and the funny stuff is actually funny. Some of the action scenes are a bit campy - but then again, they're *supposed* to be that way in this kind of movie. In addition, I thought the acting was excellent, and that Lori Petty (who played Kit in A League of Our Own) Malcolm McDowell (practically legendary) and Naomi Watts were excellent choices for their characters, as were the rest of the supporting cast. Lori Petty hasn't been in anything huge since this movie, which is truly a pity as she is an excellent and versatile actress. Look for some interesting supporting actors, including Ice-T, Iggy Pop, and James Hong.Listen to the comedic dialogue carefully - most of the punchlines are funny on several levels, which I found most refreshing, and you'll encounter a lot of funny double-entendre.Don't look for a bunch of CGI computer effects in this movie. However, well-designed and imaginative props and sets give a good feeling of authenticity to the scenes, and the visual and special effects are excellent.Don't bother critiquing little details and spurious claptrap like that with this movie - it sets out to be a comic-book-style fun action-adventure and accomplishes that goal magnificently. (The funniest thing is that the plot precept of a mega-corporation in control of the world's water supply is becoming more and more of a plausible idea and leads one to think of a possible metaphoric reference to the world oil situation) This movie might have been rated R at the time for adult situations & violence (and a little nudity), but I didn't notice a whole lot of foul language, and I didn't really see much in the movie that wouldn't be put on broadcast TV today.This movie has everything - good acting, evil villains, cute heroines, mutants, cool vehicles, explosions, big sets, a huge supporting cast, hilarious humor, great stunts, and even a classic musical number with a full chorus line! (Let's Do It by Cole Porter) It even pokes fun at beat poetry. All-in-all, well worth seeing.If you like stuff like The Wizard of Speed and Time, Flash Gordon, Johnny Mnemonic, Space Truckers, Ice Pirates, or Yellowbeard then you'll definitely love this movie. Even if you don't, see this movie anyway - it may change your mind about this genre.From personal experience Chicks dig this flick. Get the popcorn & enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great fun and visually interesting, with some wonderful one-liners and buckets of attitude.","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"60 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of the best films ever based on a comic, Tank Girl should not be taken seriously, but it's enormous fun, and a badly needed send-up of all those testosterone-pumped action movies. Instead of the usual male buddies, you have two sassy young woman, while a genetically modified and not very bright kangaroo plays the part of the Bond girl. All the leads perform well, particularly McDowell as the villain, and the script has some great one-liners, even if the plot is pretty dumb (it's a comic, ok? Get over it.) "},{"Title":"Even comics characters need at least two dimensions","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The main problem I had with this otherwise appealing movie is that Lori Petty's Tank Girl has exactly the same attitude toward virtually every incident in the movie... good, bad, otherwise.  And while it's a really sharp and cool attitude, the movie might have soared if instead of merely being an attitude it had been a personality.  Then, arising from this Tank Girl personality, a whole range of interesting emotions could have been emerged, adding variety and a chance for excitement to build instead of plateauing in the first few minutes.  Because even in a romp of a pic, you still need to care about the characters.  And it's a whole bunch easier to care about a person than it is to care about an attitude.Still, I had good fun watching this movie.  The Feeling a little inadequate? scene is a minor classic.  And by chance I happened to watch this movie the same day I saw Mulholland Dr. and I still have a very difficult time recognizing that Naomi Watts is the same person in both films.  She's excellent in both, but so very different.  Ice-T, Jeff Kober, and Reg E. Cathey do a surprisingly effective job of creating characters from underneath their Ripper make-up... they're so good that one of the best parts of Tank Girl is just watching and listening to them.This isn't a movie to go into with high expectations.  Read all the negative comments, take them to heart, and then watch the movie anyway.  It will make Tank Girl a pleasant surprise. "},{"Title":"One of a kind and I mean that in a good way!","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"31 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movie adaptation of a British comic book. It's 2033--Earth had been hit by a giant comet 11 years before. It wiped out most of civilization and (somehow) caused it never to rain again. Water is in very short supply and evil Kesslee (Malcolm McDowell) is hoarding it all and controlling it. He's attacked by the Rippers--a gang of mutant man-animals (don't ask). He also attacks Rebecca (Lori Petty) and destroys most of her friends. She vows revenge. That's (sort of) the plot.The original comic book was great. Tons of sex, nudity, violence, strong aggressive women and a stubborn refusal to take itself seriously. The movie tries to recreate that--and it succeeds! The nudity is gone and sex and the violence were toned down but the strong female characters remain. It all starts out with a great opening song and cartoon images from the comic book shoved in your face. Then Rebecca orders her boyfriend Richard (Brian Wimmer) to strip at gunpoint! Then it starts to get strange... There is a plot but the story keeps taking detours with STRANGE (but fun) dialogue, a loud aggressive alternative soundtrack, animated sequences and even a show stopping song and dance number! This all somehow fits together and the movie never stops moving. Set designs are incredible--filled to the brim with pop culture. Director Rachel Talalay deserves credit for keeping this all together.The acting is great--McDowell goes over the top (enjoyably), Naomi Watts is fun as Jet Girl and Petty is just beyond belief as Tank Girl. Loud, aggressive, snapping off one-liners left and right and a STRONG female character who never stops fighting. Just great all the way! United Artists had no idea how to market this picture (it IS difficult) so it bombed but it acquired a cult following. This isn't for everybody (a lot of critics hated it) but I loved it. A 10.Best exchange Tank Girl asks the madam of a whorehouse to sing. The madam asks, What song? Tank Girl responds, Let's Do It by Cole Porter, 1929. The madam I HATE that song. "},{"Title":"Gotta love this movie","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"32 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  IF your looking for a movie that is intellectual, smart, sassy and leaves you thinking you have found the wrong movie.  If you're looking for a movie that has its own type of humor, some good laughs, and leaves you thinking that was one silly movie- you've got it.  Although this may not be a movie for the average type of person, if you have a sense of humor and adventure you can admire Tank Girl for the work it is and admire Lori Petty's performance in the role she was born for.   "},{"Title":"great comic fun!!","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay so not all people are comic lovers and neither am I. But this movie is wonderful fun. So maybe being male I find the girl more entertaining than necessary but it is still funny. One should not forget that this movie is based on a comic strip and therefor very simple and (slightly)predictable. There is no deep story here. It is a movie to watch with friends and enjoy the music(Bjork, Portishead,  etc) and glib retorts of tank girl herself. Why the low ratings?? Maybe people just don't appreciate the humour and subtle jokes. Like the buffalo being a water buffalo! Think about it, it is very funny in context. This movie is a must-see cult classic. So maybe not Malcolm Macdowell's best(that is clockwork orange). Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Completely inaccurate to the comics","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" My poor Tank Girl, they ignored everything great about you. Why does it have as little to do with the comics as possible? I would have loved a movie that followed the plot, or at least had the characters right.WHY WAS TANK GIRL American? She's Austrailian, dammit! And she's not living in a post apocalyptic war zone either, she lives in the outback with Booga like a savage. She does it because she wants to live that way, not because she has to because Malcolm Mc Dowell is acting the git. And why's she looking after those kids? The only children in the comics end up violently being choked by her, it's terrible that they made her into a lame mother figure.And my poor Jet Girl and Sub Girl! In the comics, Jet is a sarcastic wisecracker and Sub girl is... another sarcastic wisecracker with a weird sense of humour. In the movie Jet is this mousy little thing and Sub is this ditzy middle aged hag. And Booga doesn't look or act anything like what he's meant to be either. Though maybe hot roo/human love was too much for the USA box office? The humour was so lame too. Whatever happened to all the stuff about the Smiths and that brilliant slang they used all the time? What sort of line is Will this take long? I don't wanna miss Baywatch.? Even programmes for tiny children can come up with better material than that. "},{"Title":"awful... and yet and yet","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" the original comic book version of tank girl is a cheerfully nonsensical riot of sex, violence and awesome fashion. unfortunately, for some inexplicable reason, the filmmakers have decided that the film-version of tank girl has to make more sense and be more deep. so they gave her an environmental motivation, a shy best friend she can empower, and a little girl whos mother figure she can be. none of this works, and it takes away a lot of the charming randomness that made the original tank girl so awesome. add some pretty bad performances, unfunny jokes and a boring plot, and you have a seriously awful movie. and yet and yet... i found myself enjoying it. is it because of my low expectations? or because of my weakness for ass-kicking female leads? the funky costume-designs? the high energy level? or was i just won over by that male strip early in the movie? (every movie should start with a cute dude getting nekkid!) whatever it was, tank girl is fun despite its frustratingly low quality - the way barbarella or xena warrior princess are fun. "},{"Title":"My kingdom for the remote","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"28 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think I might have liked this movie more had I seen it in a different context. Had I been, for example, a twelve-year-old girl, it might have been great. But I'm a thirty-something-year old guy, so I thought it was a worthless piece of trash that made me want to smash nearby inanimate objects without regard for their monetary or spiritual value.Tank Girl is an early exponent of the Charlie's Angels - The Movie school of film-making, a close cousin of the Austin Powers style a series of short, horrible scenes, each of which begins with loud, bad-ass rock music that quickly fades out to some vomit-inducing dialog and ends with a painfully un-funny one-liner. Showing Tank Girl to war prisoners would be an effective means of interrogation, but would likely be a breach of the Geneva Convention. "}{"Title":"7 year wait ends in tragedy","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When this movie first came out there was a lot of hype and I was keen to see it. Unfortunately (at least I believed it was unfortunate at the time), I never got around to it and so it was consigned to the I'll get the video out one day bucket.Recently, it was screened on TV so I recorded it. I was excited. I had waited a 7 years for this. And that is the why I forced myself to sit through the whole thing despite the signs being bad initially, falling to awful, then 'oh my god' and somehow still managing to sink further by the end.This is the first time I've ever written a review of a movie for IMDB but was compelled to do so to try to save others from the suffering I endured as a result of this movie.To name but a few of the very worst elements (and I really am skipping a *lot* of other bad things) i) Continuous cool attitude from the sexy heroine. Note the usage quotes to indicate those terms I believe to be woefully misused. By the end I really *really* wanted the bad guys to kill her. ii) Mutants (including Ice-T!!) dressed up as human kangaroos. Suspension of disbelief became challenging at this point. iii) Humour on a par with that of David Brent in The Office. For those who haven't seen The Office, David Brent is the ultimate exponent of not-funny-but-thinks-he-is and the point of the program is largely how cretinous he really is. Actually, Tank girl's writers were possibly worse. iv) No, sorry, can't really go on as the flashbacks are too painful.Tank Girl has now taken the crown as the worst movie I have ever seen away from Highlander 2. I really didn't believe it possible, but there you go. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horrible, horrible film. Scattered, frantic, with unlikeable characters and an uninteresting plot. The worst movie I've seen in a very long time. I watched about 2/3s of the way through because nothing else was on TV, and then turned the damn thing off and read a book. Nothing anybody does in the whole movie makes sense! None of the characters have coherent motivations, and the lead is especially bad - poorly acted, poorly directed, and poorly written. I'll never get that time back! I will say, though, that the costumes were fun. How bad is that, when the only positive thing you can say about a movie is that the costumes were fun? "},{"Title":"Possibly the most irritating performance ever by a lead actress","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this film thinking it might be in the spirit of Indiana Jones, but frankly it was only the fact that I never leave a cinema before the end of a film that prevented me from heading for the exit. I actually became annoyed with it for not finishing sooner.The main problem was Lori Petty and her grating speaking voice. Didn't it grate on the director and casting director too?Silly I like. Stupid is rather different. This was stupid. The premise, the costumes and the scenery were fine. The dialogue on the other hand...Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece without equal!","Date":"4 November 2010","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I believe that this movie is the Holy Grail of bad films. It has everything one would look for in the worst movie of all time. Most annoying protagonist ever. Check. Terrible acting. Check. Bad storyline. Check. This movie is undoubtedly the worst film I've ever seen which is truly saying something. For years I have scoured late night TV, Wal-Mart bargain bins, and On-Demand looking for a movie to bestow this title upon and I can now say that I have completed this task. This film has no redeeming qualities either. Most movies you can say the acting was bad but at least it had a good premise, but not here this film has nothing going for it. I highly recommend that everyone watch this film because every movie you watch from here on out you can say at least it's better than Tank Girl. "},{"Title":"I don't remember eating this","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Vomit City' would be a better title for this disgusting pollutant of a movie.Lori Petty and Naomi Watts star as futuristic heroes fighting renegade misfits in a battle to procure their dying planet's evaporating water supply. Adapted from the comic strip - hell, I didn't even know there was a 'Tank Girl' comic strip, and NOW!... I REALLY don't give a crap! Extremely tedious film with the visual results of the most recently raided prop department.Quick chick flick that has all the subtlety of a raccoon at a dinner party. "},{"Title":"Not awfully good, just awful","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film doesn't know what it wants to be  is it making fun of action movies in general?  Is it satirical?  Is it supposed to be a black comedy?  This is truly one of the worst films ever made.Lori Petty is annoying.  There, I said what everyone else is thinking.  It's bad enough that she's such a terrible actress (Route 666, Bates Motel), but she doesn't even qualify as a mediocre b-movie actress.  Her screechy voice, strange mannerisms, and poor comic timing dot this film from start to finish, until you just want to put your head in a vise and end the pain.Do yourself a favor and avoid this movie at all costs.  You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"so bad that it hurts...","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Maybe it's because I'm no fan of the comics (but if the comics are of the same quality as the movie, it's hard to believe there are any), but this has to be one of the worst movies ever made. Non-existent plot, laughable acting, dumb dialogue... This movie is so bad that it hurts. A lot. That some people actually gave this one 10/10 is an insult to any good or at least mediocre (or at least bad) movie. If you hate yourself, then watch Tank Girl! On another thought, if you hate yourself THAT much, maybe you should just commit suicide... My rating -34/10 "},{"Title":"Gawd Awful","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Looking for the living definition of a bad movie?  How about a film starring a woman whose  career includes playing a whinny foil to Gina Davis, and Caligula?  Is that not the classic definition of on-screen tension?  The plot?  Weak.  The acting?  Where?  The special effects?  An oxymoron for this film.  In short, this movie is the living definition of you'll never get back those two hours of your life. "},{"Title":"Yes a tank can bomb too","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I made the mistake of buying this since I collect comic book inspired movies. Even at 6$ it was too expensive. I thought there might be some campy fun in it, a so bad it becomes good vibe perhaps, I was wrong. I had watched it once long ago and didn't remember any of it. Now I know why. I was bored out of my mind and was looking for distractions to do something else. I'm all for grrrrl power, punk attitude and absurd humor but Tank Girl does not work on any front. The script is bad, you don't care about the characters and the humor is mostly lame except for a few amusing one-liners. The special effects or locations are poor or often replaced by comic panels or animations that are just too jarring compared to the live-action. It's like they didn't have the money to shoot the cool stuff and so resorted to drawings, however cool they might be (an uncensored animated feature would be way better for Tank Girl now that I think about it). The action scenes were cheesy but not in a fun b-movie way. The tank itself was far from impressive or dynamic although it was interestingly decorated. As a matter of fact, the best action scenes involving the tank were in animation. It does have some interesting songs by known artists such as Bjork, Hole and Portishead but instead of improving the atmosphere, they just don't fit most of the time. Once they even break into a ludicrous song and dance number that was just senseless and horrible. I think that's when I totally tuned out. I suppose Tank Girl, played by Lori Petty, looks the trashy punkette part but beyond her attitude and sometimes barely amusing retorts, is more two-dimensional and superficial than the worst comic book characters. Jet, played by Naomi Watts, is probably the only saving grace of the film and it's amazing how such a good actress was involved in this mess. Malcolm McDowell wasn't too bad playing his usual villain role. It might be a cult movie for some but please consider that it's really different from the original independent comics and the original creators were disappointed with the movie themselves (check out the entry for Tank Girl on Wikipedia). Rating 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Should have been animated","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having enjoyed the comic strip Tank Girl, I was initially pleased when I heard that they were going to give the heavily-armed anti-heroine her own movie.Unfortunately, the movie Tank Girl is a classic example of how Hollywood takes a great and original idea and *&@%s it up royally. Apart from some of the production design (namely TG's tank and Jet Girl's plane) the movie bears hardly any relation at all to its source material. Rather than throw a shedload of cash at making humans up to look like unconvincing kangaroo mutants, the producers should have employed a group of Korean animators and made a feature-length cartoon. No-one would have had a problem with a talking kangaroo if he was animated! Not content with deciding to restrict the imaginative depth of Tank girl with a live-action rendition, the producers cocked things up even more by removing any vestige of what made the eponymous anti-heroine such an attractive character in the first place. The comic book Tank Girl is an almost entirely selfish and amoral being who only ends up doing good by accident. The movie Tank Girl was no more than an Americanised female version of Mad Max, who arrived on the Post-Apocalyptic Movie Scene approximately 10 years too late to cash in. Put simply, Tank Girl is another of Hollywood's missed opportunities. "}{"Title":"For Spice Girls fans","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really don't see what this movie has to offer unless you are a 13 year old Spice Girls fan totally into that girl-power thing.  The whole movie is about the clothes, make-up and weird haircut of the lead actress.  No deadly situation can stop her from delivering yet another cool one-liner and she always look her best (3 inches of fresh make-up and a new wardrobe) even after spending days crawling in a desert. The use of very long samples from hip-back-then rock bands and the very long cartoon intermissions totally kill the little momentum the movie has going. The story and acting are as pathetic as the special effects (you can clearly see the cables in the back of the jumping half-human creatures). Worst than Battlefield Earth. 2/10. "},{"Title":"In 2033, justice rides a tank and wears lip gloss...","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ''Tank Girl'' is a funny movie based on Tank Girl's comics, and I think that the IMDb rating is very unfair with it, since you can have a very good time of fun watching it. Only now,after so many years, I noticed that the Jet Girl is Naomi Watts!She is sooo much better with black hair! Lori Petty is perfect as Tank Girl as well(In my opinion is her best role as actress)! The animation used to keep in touch with the comic book, is another cool thing present in this movie, that the director Rachel Talalay had the creative to imagine.The plotIn the future, year 2033, there are 11 years that the planet doesn't receive a drop of water from the rain. Tank Girl,a punk and crazy girl, and her rebel group, are all attacked by Water & Power, a powerful force that controls the remaining water on Earth. Tank Girl is the only survivor, as long as Sam, her deceased boyfriend's daughter. The story revolves around Tank Girl's quest to save Sam and have her revenge against those who killed her boyfriend and friends, with the help of Jet Girl and the Rippers, creatures with a human DNA mixed with a kangaroo. "},{"Title":"Less Suspense Than an Abandoned Train Crossing","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ten years ago if someone had given you $25 Million dollars and challenged you make the worst flick possible with the money (stipulating that ALL the money had to actually be spent making the movie), it is unlikely that you could have deliberately matched Rachel Talaly's Tank Girl. I blundered into a showing of Tank Girl during its short-lived (and basically disastrous) release and found it memorable for its comic page scene transitions (borrowed from television's Wonder Woman) and its spoof of the action/adventure movie genre. Unfortunately the animation just makes you wish that the whole thing was animation while the moronic nature of all the live action scenes makes you question whether spoofing the genre was by design or by accident.Ten years later it has some retrospective interest relative to the disparate career directions of Lori Petty and Naomi Watts. It is simply impossible to make Petty sexy; no matter how glamed-up, erotically posed, or provocatively scripted. Conversely it is impossible for Watts to not be sexy, no matter how hard they try to detune, grime-up, and disguise her.Tank Girl poses the question, why do so many people dislike it, both now and at the time of its release ten years ago? Lori Petty is the most obvious answer. Petty's basic personality embodies the most irritating qualities of Lucille Ball with none of Lucy's humor and charm. She is irritating even in her low-key roles (A League of Their Own). Apparently she was cast as Tank Girl for exactly that quality and Director Rachel Talaly managed to bring her full irritating potential to the screen. But the producers forgot to connect the dots before they spent $25 Million on production, irritating is sometimes good in supporting roles (insert Stiffer here) but not as the main character.About two thirds of the way into the story Petty and Watts fall into the hands of a group of genetically engineered fellows called The Rippers. At first this appears to be going in the direction of Dark Angel meets Captain Kangaroo. But Talaly switches direction a bit and ends up with a post-apocalyptic version of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. For a few minutes the movie is actually a lot of fun. Then it is time to get back to the basic story, which by this time everyone (viewers, director, cast, and editor) has pretty much forgotten. This does not pose the post-production problems it does in other movies because Talaly seems committed to insuring that no element of suspense is present to distract you from Petty's irritating performance.The Tank Girl comic strip embodied a freewheeling anti-authoritarian anarchism, with some feminist and even lesbian themes. Although Talaly faithfully captures a small amount of this spirit she fumbles big time with the basic storytelling (insert no suspense). Which is hardly a revelation given her other directorial attempts (including Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare and Ghost in the Machine-arguably even worse than Tank Girl). If she actually liked the comic strip she should have yielded control to a competent director or at least someone with a basic talent for directing actors and for making feature films. "},{"Title":"It's bad- but it has some charm to it!","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's the year 2033 and Kesslee, the leader of Water & Power holds the World in his clutches as he controls all H20 after the meteor hit creating vast desert wastelands, though tank girl and Jet girl team up with some scientific kangaroo creations called Rippers who want to bring down Water and Power.What you get is a very colourful over-the-top and in-your-face film on a British cult comic strip. I have never read any of these comic books, so I don't know how true the film is- but from what I mostly heard and read, it's not- but who cares it looked like it would be a fun viewing.After watching this mess I don't know why? As I just couldn't bear to fully bag it out and that's why I gave it 5. I know it was trash- but still I found it visually good and kinda amusing&#133; in a stupid way.The script is awfully bad, the performances were mostly ludicrous and direction was quite tragic, as the scenes just seem to limp along without any panache. Though the film makes up for it with its upbeat soundtrack that was coordinated by Courtney Love and featuring the likes of Bjork, Hole, Iggy Pop, Bush and Veruca Salt, while it's vibrantly rich and bizarre comic backdrop is quite eye-catching, even though the sets do look kind of cheap. The added comic cartoon interludes throughout the film I found to be more satisfying at times than the actual live scenes, making you think it would have probably been better if they stuck to a cartoon version.The performances I had mix feelings about. Lori Petty as Tank Girl was fair and brings a chirpy attitude- but the humour at times was a bit stale, especially some of her cringe-worthy one-liners and from what I grasp about the character she was playing she totally looked the part but was no where near what she acts like in the comic series. Namoi Watts as Jet Girl I thought was the standout, which isn't saying much- but she was far subtle and innocently sweet and that worked for me. Malcolm McDowell wasn't too bad, as he really hams it up as the villain Kesslee and Ice-T as a Ripper is unrecognisable and fairly irritating- but anyway what's new? The direction was really muddled, mainly flashier- but no substance in the scenes to make it stand out from the average Sci-fi film and the pace of the film was a bit patchy in spots, such as the flat musical scene and when Tank and Jet girl were hanging out with the rippers at their base. The Ripper designs were reasonably good by Stan Winston, with each with their own personality and distinguishing features- but that didn't make them likable.While the plot, if there was one was just basically a been there done that feel and lack any sort of detail and urgency. I thought the story started out alright and was quite lively but it kind of lost steam halfway through and especially when the annoying Rippers took centre stage. There are some interesting elements thrown into the mix, like the device that sucks water out of people.For me it's one of those films that it's so bad, it's good entertainment. So it breaks even for me. "},{"Title":"Awful.","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film commits the biggest sin in cinema, that is making the main protagonist completely unlikeable. I hated her voice, I hated her hair and I hated her personality. Where as other films like A Clockwork Orange had an Anti-Hero as a protagonist, I couldn't bring myself to dislike him even when doing these cruel sickening things, I can't even remember Tank Girl's name. Speaking of A Clockwork Orange, Alex (Aka Malcolm Mcdowell is in the film and he needs to escape before it's too late. The film feels so forced and contrived as well. I recall there was a Dance number out of nowhere. Why was it there? What point did it have? It in no way moved the plot forward. That's basically this film, a collection of plot points bridged together by pointless filler. Stay far away. "},{"Title":"here comes Johnny Yin again, he's like a sex-machine, with the liquor and drugs, he's gonna do another strip tease","Date":"17 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hard to understand. Its an R rated movie but its written for children, or maybe the problem is that it was directed and produced for children, whatever the case as an adult watching the movie is awkward. I'm not developmentally delayed so the child-like humor and wit of the movie is like drinking sulfuric acid, I mean Lori Petty's acting and delivery causes real pain. Some cut-scenes show the comics this movie is adapted from and those scenes are intriguing those scenes are vivid glowing things- and when you think that its merely comic book art stills, y'know, motionless movie frames then compare it to the actual motion picture, its clear that the drawings are the best parts. Everything sucks, the lighting the acting the costumes the sets, but raise a glass to Naomi Watts, she can actually act and is gorgeous as a brunette. "},{"Title":"studio ruins a great film!!!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This should have been the best film of the year, but instead the bureaucrats at MGM/UA decided to let focus groups (ever notice how unclear these so called focus groups can make a film!?!) decide what worked and what didn't. That's when the studio stepped in and butchered Ms. Talalay's masterpiece! This film would have made so much more sense had the studio not changed the ending and left in the flashback scenes in their entirety (as it is, only one shot remained, and it makes NO SENSE WHATSOEVER if you're not aware of the BUTCHERING JOB  the studio execs did on this film!!!). Still, this is one of the most original films I've seen to date, and think that it still deserves more credit than it ever got! Ms. Talalay and all did a stupendous job! "},{"Title":"I'll believe Tank Girl would have been better inn all cartoon.","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film is very fast-moving, bizarre and colorful, it's like Mad Max on speed whit tons of colorers and make-up. Also very Cartoonish, as that said; cartoon sequence pops up here and there. The plot is also very saucy, but I'll believe it's meant too be. The thing that really drives me crazy in this movie, is the characters, they are painfully irritating, especially Rebecca played by Lori Petty, she's really annoying (I'll believe she is the most annoying creature I've ever seen). The editing is also annoying, very MTV stylized. Another thing that's missing from Tank Girl is an exciting adventure. The humor isn't much funny either. It has some nice visuals though.However a lot of people love this film, most of them are women, and that's not weird at all, because this movie is all about girl power.. Tank Girl this is a real chick flick, and the best example of an hate/love film. "},{"Title":"Why not just show two hours of the comic books?","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Poor old Malcolm McDowell.  He seems doomed to play villains in sci fi movies that feature such tiresome protagonists that you end up rooting for him.  This is another in the series of big old messes to which he brings a much needed touch of class.Nobody in this film (the weary veteran McDowell apart) seems to know what their character is supposed to be.  There are few actual conversations, mostly confused monologues delivered to empty space; perhaps they're all too embarrased to make eye contact.  There's too much budget to allow the raw charm of Repo Man, but not enough to make the FX anything other than embarrasing.  Is the titular tank a tardis?  Why is it the size of a winnebago inside, and is it a T-72, an M-47 or an M4?  Why do bullets strike sparks when they hit sand?  Everything about this film is desultory and barely adequate, and every opportunity to take a suprising direction or even provide a decent disjoint is missed.  It's the slackness of indie filmmaking blended with the no-risk anodyness of Hollywood.The biggest flaw is Petty.  She switches from concussed to hyperactive more or less at random, and - while she does have a decent big eyed blank look going - she's simply too old to play a part that requires an almost unachievably idealised fantasy pubescent.  Tank Girl needs the insane toothy over-confidence of youth, not the over-cosmetic and over-calculated maturity that Petty displays. She actually does manage to deliver some decently amusing one liners, but most of the time she falls slightly short of being genuinely winning.I would have given this a full 4/10 for the (initial) geek chic of Jet Girl, and for the unapologetic premise that the only thing not in short supply in this post apocalyptic world are cosmetics and ammo.  However, it gets dinged one because of the comic cutscenes.  Not because they're bad, but because they're the BEST thing in this mess that just reminds us there's a fair amount of flair and verve here, being suppressed under the stifling blanket of no-risk filmmaking.  And then there's the matter of the Endearing Child Hostage.  I know it's a genre convention, but it's supremely annoying and utterly, bone chillingly irrelevant and unnecessary.  Then there's the slight problem that towards the end, Jet Girl discovers lipstick and suddenly seems not to need her glasses.  That's so teen movie that it's not even funny.  So a full 1 out of 10, then.  For shame, for shame.  "},{"Title":"Could have been better, but not the worst.....","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, okay, I'll admit it---the ONLY reason I rented this movie at all was because my favorite band sung on the soundtrack (which, by the way, is awesome). I had no idea what the movie was about, although I did know that Lori Petty and Malcolm McDowell were in it. i also knew that it wasn't exactly a masterpiece of a film, either, so I went home, started watching, and just tried to have a little fun and enjoy myself.And, for a while, I did. The introduction was cool, the characters were funny, and it was actually interesting to watch. Lori Petty totally rocked as Tank Girl---although I heard that Tank Girl's character in the comic book was a lot more intense. Her sidekick, Jet Girl, was just as awesome. They should have had a lot more scenes with Malcolm McDowell, though, especially between him and Tank Girl. Those were some of the best parts. You can't help but love all the campy humor. But sometime after Tank and Jet hook up with the Rippers, or whatever theyr'e called, the movie just seems to go downhill. Take out the Raiders-of-the-Lost-Ark-style truck sequence with Tank, and the entire middle is pretty boring. The Rippers--I mean, okay, they're half men, half kangaroos. Why not at least get mutated into something useful, like, half man, half shark or bear or cheetah or something? Ice-T was just plain annoying, as was Tank Girl's kangaroo man boyfriend, Booga. The beatnik poetry thing was cool, but the dancing thing and everything else were so stupid they weren't even funny. The ending makes up for it a bit. Even the Rippers had some funny moments (Count Chocula--he's the guy on the laundry detergent box, right?). Tank Girl eventually saves the world in the end, Jet Girl gets revenge on her boyfriend from Water and Power, and the world has water again. Yay! Like I said, though, they should have had more scenes of McDowell and the bad guys. It's great to watch him ham it up as the evil villain (as always).So, if you're looking for senseless fun and recklessness with no point or reason, watch Tank Girl. It may not be Lawrence of Arabia or Gone With the Wind, but it's a lot better than SOME of the movies I've seen. Oh, yeah, and don't pay over $1.50 to rent it.  "}{"Title":"This movie should be horrible but manages to be amazing","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has every opportunity in the world to be horrible and manages to be amazing. I don't know how the director, cast, and crew took something so absolutely ridiculous and make it into something so fun. It is a movie full of serious undertones and suffering, but manages not to take itself seriously at all and find the fun in all the pain. It is sassy and full of personality. If you want to watch something fun and full of attitude, something campy and endearing, this is for you. Though there are many sociological parallels to times of unrest and change, and a lot of interesting social and political undertones (like feminism, corporate greed, etc), if you're looking for something serious or something without plot holes, inconsistencies, and makes sense, give this a pass. This movie doesn't care to maintain the 4th wall and it doesn't care to follow logic, science, or even to make sense in all its details, but it is full of humor, great campy acting, and an I don't give a damn attitude that tugs at my rebellious heart strings. If I could give it 6 stars, I would.And for the Tank Girl Comic Book Purists out there. This movie isn't the comic book on screen. Like any good comic movie, it uses the comic book for inspiration and finds it's own way. If it took itself seriously enough to hold hard to comic book canon, the movie would have been absolutely horrible. This is Tank Girl for Christ's sake! A girl with a pet tank and a hippie kangaroo-man lover. Don't take it so seriously. "},{"Title":"Underrated and ahead of its time","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A comic book with a female hero in a post-apocalyptic world with mutant kangaroos. I can see why this didn't go over big in 1995. But these days, with comic books being regularly made into films, it's worth taking another look at this little gem. I can remember enjoying this film back then, but having viewed it fresh, there's a lot to admire It's got energy. It's got a killer soundtrack. It's chock full of feminist grrrl power. The casting is interesting, from Malcolm McDowell and Naomi Watts to Ice-T and Iggy Pop. There's a seamless flow between the comic book and the live-action. The old-school, in-camera effects are pretty flawless&#x97;they dropped some serious coin. And Lori Petty really nails it, bringing a comic book character to life. Look, there's no deep moral message or hero's journey here&#x97;it's based on a comic book, after all. It's just fun, escapist entertainment. I'm generally a fan of world cinema, and Tank Girl is by no means a classic. But if you appreciate films that take chances, break the mould and don't take themselves too seriously, it's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"I should have known better....","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes a movie cannot easily be classified. Such a film is Tank Girl, part cartoon, part comedy, and part action flick. I'm sure somewhere there is an audience for Tank Girl', but it is extremely small, perhaps punk comic book readers. Most viewers will be looking for an early exit or living with the fast forward button. The only redeeming quality are short bursts of humor find me a microscope and a pair of tweezers, but these tiny moments of comic relief are far outweighed by the sophomoric action sequences. There is no character development, which is not surprising, since the source is a comic book. Do yourself a favor and avoid, avoid, avoid. - MERK "},{"Title":"Correction for Anders Asland","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"      I'm sorry to break it to you Mr. Asland, but if you had been paying attention to the movie you would know ICE-T was not the boyfriend of Tank Girl. He was the Ripper who had no confidence or trust for Jet Girl or Tank Girl throughout the movie; until the end. The boyfriend Ripper was Booga played by Jeff Kober. So, next time before you discredit a movie you should pay attention to it first.    -Lauren "},{"Title":"Practically Unwatchable","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why Lori Petty was cast as tank girl, I'll never know. Her acting performance is lack-luster. Her voice is grating. It's almost impossible for me to put into words how bad this movie is.There are several modern-pop references in the film, which I found to be very strange, given that the movie was supposed to take place far in the future. It wouldn't have been hard to make this premise interesting either. Some better writing would have helped loads.Naomi Watts makes an appearance in it as a mild mannered techno-geek. I think they should have probably switched roles.I'll never know why anyone would like this movie, unless they were a Petty fan.Try not to see this movie. Total waste of time. "},{"Title":"Open your mind and have fun","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie, loosely based on the comic, is just plain fun. This is not a SERIOUS commentary on anything. Lori Petty plays the comic moments up well and the sound track is awesome. This is enough to have me sit through the movie but add Malcom Mcdowell and a Young Brunetted Namomi Watts and the interest factor just increases. Lori Petty is definitely an underrated actress and take this movie for what it is FUN, Lori Petty definitely did/does and it shows with the fun she has/had with her role.Any one know of a DVD for this movie and if there are any extras with it? And does any one know the one word that defines suspension of disbelief? "},{"Title":"A Fun, Underrated Action Comedy","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this movie when it first came out years ago, and loved it. But it seemed like I was the only one who did; the reviews in the paper trashed it, my friends hated it, and it was out of the theater before most folks ever got a chance to see it. Now it seems to be having something of a renaissance on video. Its reputation is growing, but there is still an awful lot of silly hatred for this film out there, and I think folks are really being unreasonable about it. Okay, so this is a silly movie. So what? It was supposed to be. It's just an action flick. Check out the page for Die Hard, for example. That film rates an 8.0, while this poor movie is stuck at 4.6. Why? Sure, Die Hard had better effects; it had a slightly larger budget, too. But Tank Girl is funnier, smarter (no, really, I mean it) and has far more interesting characters. Lori Petty is sexy and mad-funny. Neither film is high art but this one is simply more enjoyable (and I like both), so why the huge difference in ratings? It seems like the expectations for this film were higher than they should have been, maybe because the feminist theme (good women kicking evil men's butts) misled people into expecting a work of serious political or social intent. But if anyone thought that, they obviously knew nothing about the film or the story coming into it. In the first place, the movie was based on a COMIC BOOK, for goodness' sake. For that matter, the comic in question was basically a feminized and humorized version of The Road Warrior, not all that serious a motion picture in itself. Also, the casting of Malcolm McDowell as the villain should have provided a clue; he's the most reliable bad guy in Hollywood, because you always know exactly the character you're going to get out of him. The trailer, with all the crazy outfits, ridiculous kangaroo costumes, and zany one-liners shouldn't have misled anyone. Plus, why on Earth would expect Citizen Kane from a film called Tank Girl in the first place? This movie is exactly what you want for kicking back and enjoying an evening a fast-paced, engaging bit of semi-sci-fi which, surprisingly, really does achieve a few genuinely beautiful moments, especially the dust-shower scene (to Portishead's Roads). Ignore all the cynics. This film is a blast. It's pure entertainment with a good cast and zany, silly story&#133;it's the closest you'll ever get to a live-action Bugs Bunny cartoon. Just lay back and dig it. P.S. The soundtrack is fun, too. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one is destined to be a cult classic, if it already isn't. I have not seen the comic book but if you like your movies a little off kilter then, this one is great! Lori Petty was so perfect for the roll of Tank Girl it hurts. Not only does she look the part but she also manages to spout the one-liners in a way that has to make you laugh. I love the way they combine images from the comic strip with the live action. A kick-butt soundtrack, along with a great cast, and an awesome script makes this movie a must-see for any odd comedy fan. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Fun For Fun.... Fluffs!","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Fabulous Film! Loved every moment! Girls the world over should see this and take note. Girls don't wanna have fun, they wanna TANK! Gimme more PLEASE!!!! I loved this popcorn munching evening getting lost in all the plot holes etc, what a scream!  Everything is there, poor cgi, poor lines, poor screen play, but a fantastic story and idiots acting between all. This is a must see for all!Dimm the lights. Switch on the surround, and make sure you have all the popcorn you need.....then ENJOY! If you can't do that then you are brain dead or a critic without a brain.nuff said "},{"Title":"One trick pony","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Interesting concept, creative art style, cute characters and a goofy tone throughout but that's about it. It's like the generic romantic comedy of light cyberpunk(ish?) movies, lacks real depth, has one gear and sticks to it and last but not least can't build on the universe. This is unforgivable in any movie which asks that little bit more from the audience to suspend disbelief, like one set in a post apocalyptic Australia ruled by the iron fist of a mega corporation in a fascistic regime. The creators probably thought the silly tone would make the audience overlook this lack of story building but as a result the movie ultimately falls short of the premise and fails to capitalize on the aforementioned positive aspects.As a final note, this movie is not cyberpunk. It has some influences (just like the comic series) of cyberpunk but that is as far as it goes. "}{"Title":"Humanity's greatest hope in a future without water","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" With water a scarcity, a smart-mouthed young woman fights against the evil corporation in charge of the entire world's water supply in this dire dystopia comedy set in the not-too-distant future. The film is based on a popular comic book series with comic book illustrations incorporated well into the action; the sets and costumes are also delightfully imaginative and same goes for a water bottle weapon that sucks all liquid out of a person. The dialogue is surprisingly witty too with our heroine frequently giving lip in the face of adversity. Energetic as Lori Petty is in the lead role though and memorable though her lines may be, she nevertheless comes off as rather obnoxious overall. She does not have much respect for anyone, regardless of whether they are her adversities or not, and she comes off especially abrasive by contrast to her sidekick, played in an unusually dowdy manner by a young Naomi Watts. As a narrative, the film only really ever half-succeeds too. It all starts off rather promising with the water shortage concept and the offbeat notion that a hardly muscular girl could be humanity's greatest hope, but everything turns into chaotic action towards the end and interesting as the mutant kangaroo characters are, they come off as deserving of a film of their own rather than being written off as merely genetic engineering gone awry. It is easy to see why such a haphazard film as this drew negative reviews upon initial release. No, it is not nearly that bad, but whether the film's scattered virtues amount to a positive experience is likely to vary per viewer. "},{"Title":"Sassy classic","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rachel Talalay 's Tank Girl is a supremely underrated piece of punk-ish post apocalyptic sass that I love to revisit again and again. It soars on the same hyperactive plane as Saturday morning cartoons, but with a delicious R-rated bite, and a spunky, out of this world lead performance from Lori Petty. It captures the breakneck pace of the comic it's based on, and indeed moves along at the speed of a hummingbird on Ritalin, rarely pausing for air. The manic colours pop off the screen, the performances leap out at you like delirious mascots on a cereal box, and the vibe is go, go go for 90 glorious minutes straight, with a thumping soundtrack to keep the energy up. Lori Petty is a sexy, ADD addled wonder as the titular heroine, a desert dwelling, adorable wiseass who finds her compound and safe haven overrun with goons of the monstrous 'Water & Power' corporation, run by the sadistic megalomaniac Kesslee (Malcolm McDowell). McDowell is no stranger to playing evil bigwig sons of bitches, and this one is the goddamn prototype. He leers, recites poetry, walks barefoot on broken glass with an sweetly angelic grin, and terrorizes basically everything that moves in a perfect performance of untold, ghoulish madness. Tank Girl finds herself at odds with the corporation, and swept up in a revolt against them, aided by shy, bi curious Jet Girl (Naomi Watts, who reportedly has bad mouthed this flick in interviews these days, now that she has a high horse to sit on. Don't listen to a word). She also finds allies in mysterious desert dwellin creatures who, get this, turn out to be genetic hybrids between humans and kangaroos, bred for war. The practical effects are wondrous, letting the actors shine through the masks. Jeff Kober is a sheepish joy as the dumb one, Booga. Ice T dials up the crankiness, and third who is the reincarnation of Jack Kerouac. There's a rollicking Cole Porter musical number, no end of incredible visuals, an Iggy Pop cameo, and a constant vibe of silly fun keeping this one alive. It's like a shot of adrenaline in a technicolor juice box, and is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"A charmless, chaotic mess.","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In Rebecca Buck (aka Tank Girl), as played by Lori Petty, we have what is probably the single most irritating live-action comic-book character ever to make it to the silver screen. The intention was clearly to make Rebecca a lovable, quirky, anarchic, spunky, funny, sexy, alternative anti-heroine with attitude, someone with whom everyone, regardless of their sex, could fall for. Petty's grating grrl-power performance ensures that the opposite rings true she is shrill, obnoxious and tiresome in the extreme.Unfortunately, Petty's painful performance isn't the only problem with Tank Girl. Director Rachel Talalay's attempts at capturing the rebellious spirit of the comic fall flat on their face. With seemingly no understanding of what does and does not work, Talalay chucks everything onto the screen no matter how cringe-worthy, including what could qualify as the most awkward song and dance number in the history of cinema. Meanwhile, Malcolm MacDowell and Ice-T chalk up another bomb on their respective filmographies and make-up legend Stan Winston tries but fails to make human kangaroos not look as stupid as they sound.A cool alternative soundtrack adds some much needed oomph to proceedings, there are some surprisingly slick scenes of animation (that suggest that the whole thing would have worked far better as a feature length animated movie) and Naomi Watts is likable as Rebecca's nerdy side-kick Jet Girl (the actress looking great with dark hair), but it's nowhere near enough to prevent this film from being a tedious, virtually unwatchable mess. "},{"Title":"An Underdog In Fearless Kinetic Energy","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I shouldn't hate-watch movies. I know I shouldn't. You should walk into the theater with zero expectations, leaving with an unbiased impression instead of a smirk. But yesterday, I did something most movie critics should not do I went to hate-watch Insurgent with my bubbly teenage sister who was most definitely not hate-watching the film. I won't go into details (to be fair, I just posted my review of Insurgent only yesterday), but what I will admit is that I left the cinema with a strong feeling of meh, if that's even a feeling (the youths act like it is these days). It's a blockbuster for the teen crowd, a B-version of The Hunger Games. Its biggest crime is not being meh; its biggest crime is being so devoid of any kind of personality.In 2015, well-crafted action scenes and statuesque leads are not enough &#x97; they might have been in 1999, but we can no longer party like its 1999, because 1999 was, well, 16 years ago. Nowadays, all we can depend on is &#x85; spunk. It's a shame that a blockbuster as lame-brained as Insurgent is going to make so much money; what does it really have to offer? Which finally brings me to Tank Girl, the 1995 would-be blockbuster that is better known today as being the film that lost $21 million dollars at the box-office, the film that should have made a Lori Petty a star but didn't, the film that Naomi Watts co-starred in before she became the it girl from Mulholland Dr., the film that now resides in the throes of two golden words cult classic. I was reminded of the film during, yes, Insurgent, where Watts makes an appearance as the blandly handsome male lead's mother. In the theater, surrounded by giggling teenage girls, I found myself pondering about that money-losing cult classic I had known about but never watched for years.But enough for backstories; mine, most likely, isn't as interesting as I'd like it to be. I guess the point I'm trying to make is that it's so unfair that Tank Girl, which is exploding with spunk and personality, is confined to the sad remarkability of a cult film, whereas Insurgent, which is about as interesting as your sad Uncle Alvarez, is going to make millions upon millions of dollars. (Cut to me going outside during this dark, rainy night, falling onto my knees, and yelling NOOOOOOOO! into the air like no one's watching.) It comes down to this please, please don't see Insurgent. See the breakneck speeded, freakish, abstract, one-liner infused saunter of Tank Girl. It won't make you smarter, and it certainly won't change your life, but I'll be damned if it doesn't enliven your spirits with its out- and-proud weirdness.The year is 2033. 11 years earlier, a comet hit the Earth with devastating results, causing an endless drought that has turned most of the world into a parched desert. Little of the population remains; most work for, or head, the scheming Water & Power corporation, who use their massive authority to act as a sort of new, evil government. Their latest advancement? They now have the capability to purify blood into water, which is totally reasonable and not at all disgusting. A few people have escaped the clutches of the nefarious executives, however. Among them are Rebecca Buck, aka Tank Girl (Petty). She prides herself in her unwavering wildness she's overtly sexual, loud, gross, and fearless, deadly with a gun and tough-talking in her words. Unlike the Trises and Katnisses of today, she is blatantly ballsy. She doesn't regret her actions, and she doesn't care what people think of her. When her commune is destroyed by W & P, though, she is kidnapped by their hilariously ghoulish leader (Malcolm McDowell), who sees promise in Tank Girl's defiant attitude but is threatened by it, throwing her into slave work. But of course, she escapes, with a new friend in tow (Naomi Watts). Of course, she embarks on a crazy adventure. Of course, she ends up winning the mini-battle against the company. But who cares about predictability when it's all wrapped up in a tie-dyed package of kookiness?Assembling itself in a sphere of scale-models, campy set-pieces, outlandish prosthetic makeup, animated interludes, and a soundtrack and tone that suggests it all was funded by classic era MTV, Tank Girl swirls in a blender of batshit energy, sometimes successfully and sometimes not. I guess it wants to be too many things at once funny, sexy, cute, action-packed, and most clearly, fun, for lack of a better term. It isn't great at everything it attempts, but what Tank Girl never fails at is being downright amusing. Petty's tough broad faade is consistently charming; her presence is so essential that her hit-or-miss (but mostly miss) career can be blamed for this career-defining portrayal. Personally, I think she's absolutely fantastic, but others might not be so sure (she's so delightfully manic).What makes the film work is how well it recognizes the bombastic insanity of its source. The comics, from what I've seen, are eye-popping creations of exaggerated punkiness, having all the swagger of a 15-year- old brat's daydreams. That tonal emphasis is brought into Tank Girl without any misgivings, and that's why it's so much better than (here we go again) Insurgent. Insurgent is so afraid to fail that it doesn't even try to be anything other than a fill-in-the-blank dystopian-set action- romance. Tank Girl can fall flat on its face once in a while, but at least it has the nerve to do so. It's not perfect, but Netflix streaming is much cheaper than a wasted ten dollars. "},{"Title":"If you don't like this movie, you probably don't like fun.","Date":"9 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Loud, obnoxious, ridiculous - we laughed all the way through it. Full of visual invention and just plain silliness. I honestly think people don't like movies where all the heroes are female - like that happens so often in film - and that's why this gets such poor scores!Ah, IMDb doesn't like my short, sweet review. Well, there's lots of good music, a quick cameo by Iggy Pop, a strong supporting role by Ice-T (as always, an asset), and a splendid villain in Malcolm McDowell. Really, IMDb, I have nothing else to say - please let me post. Must every review be an epic? I've been trained to be clear and to the point. If I don't have ten lines' worth of material, why must I pad? "},{"Title":"Whatever Happened to Lori Petty?","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Based on the British cult comic-strip, our tank-riding anti-heroine (Lori Petty) fights a mega-corporation, which controls the world's water supply.This film is a very unusual adaptation, comparable to Super Mario Bros in how bizarre it turned out to be. Perhaps luckily, the Tank Girl comic never had the level of followers as the Mario Brothers, so there were fewer people to complain.The film has an interesting parallel with Waterworld, coming out around the same time and both concerned with water one film has too much and the other not enough. This one, however, has the great soundtrack. Not to mention Malcolm McDowell, Iggy Pop and a pre-stardom Naomi Watts. With all due respect to Dennis Hopper, this is the better lineup. "},{"Title":"Worst of the Worst","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lame. Contrived. Pretentious. Awful. One thing (among many) destroy this film. The lead is one of the most unlikable, terrible actors I have ever seen. She fails miserably over and over.There are a million other things to say, but I will stick with this. Naomi Watts = Excellent actress. Malcolm McDowell = nothing more needs to be said other than his talent was wasted.Oh, I see. IMDb wants me to write more lines. THIS MOVIE SUCKED! There is one more. WORST LEAD ACTRESS OVER! Another one. MOST IRRITATING LEAD OF ALL TIME! One more. DO NOT BOTHER TO WATCH THIS INANE ATTEMPT AT KITSCH! And finally. actually watch this trash and judge for yourself how horrible it is, than watch something decent, and have some popcorn.Uh, thank you, thank you very much. "},{"Title":"Lori Petty has a BIG....gun","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I hadn't seen Tank Girl since its theatrical release, then it showed up on Netflix and gave me a chance to remember what a fun ride it is.The movie isn't and doesn't try to be a great film. Instead it is as campy as a great Thrift Store, and reminds me that for almost a decade it stood in my mind as the most comic-book like movie actually derived from a comic book.There's also a great soundtrack, wonderful animated sequences from the comic and most importantly Lori Petty giving every actor ever a lesson in owning a role.Lori Petty is the best of many reasons to see Tank Girl. She is a delight as the brazen, brassy, ballsy and bratty heroine who accomplishes the anarchist's wet dream of taking down the power. That voice, that grin, that swagger; Lori Petty/Becky (aka Tank Girl) is enjoying a good-time death wish. I could watch and listen to Lori Petty pi$$ off Malcolm McDowell all day.As a special treat, keep your eyes on the t-shirts. Among the many costume changes Ms. Petty sports is a....oh, that might constitute a spoiler. "},{"Title":"Tank Girl","Date":"10 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fun cult film is primarily a treat due to Lori Petty's lively, spirited defiant punk-dressed heroine who will not bow or cater to Malcolm McDowell's power-drunk water overlord and his army of suits (Water and Power is the name of McDowell's company) desiring all of the worlds' liquid for himself. Well Petty's heroine loses her sister-like gal, 10 year old Sam, to, and her friends are killed by, McDowell's men when they raid their compound (basically a two story dump with a working greenhouse and water supply siphoned from the ground they currently live). Taken in as a slave for manual labor, McDowell fancies her fighting spirit and wants to break her like some mustang, but Petty proves to be a task he can't seemingly succeed in vanquishing. Soon another mistreated plane mechanic played by a young pre-star Naomi Watts joins forces with Petty, becoming Jet Girl (after she commandeers a jet plane) and Tank Girl (after she commandeers a tank) once they are able to be free thanks to an attack by a group of rebellious rippers, known for explosively and unpredictably raiding W&P plants across the desert. Each time a plant is attacked, McDowell's losing more men and resources to attain all the water he so desires to remain in such power. What McDowell doesn't realize is that these rippers are genetically engineered men-rabbits, an example of military attempts at creating a type of supersoldier. Fun actors in the bunny makeup include Ice-T, Reg E Cathey, Jeff Kober (accustomed to villain scumbag parts, his turn as a dog moved up to human status, an innocuous, child-like member of the rippers, is a nice surprise!), and Scott Coffey. Petty and Watts (who is a nervy, timid sort, awoken to action and eventually gains guts and courage thanks to her time with Petty) make for a neat team, with a lot of girl power mojo working in this film's favor. The comic vignettes really kind of annoyed me because they sort of take me right out of the movie and situations that progress the plot (they are at times inaccurate to what is truly happening or embellishes elaborately something that certainly isn't happening) but with the tone and middle finger approach to conventional storytelling and characterization it seems to fall in line. Petty's throw-caution-to-the-wind performance and character keeps the film quite energetic and off-the-cuff. McDowell's corrupt, megalomaniacal slime is the perfect opposition for the kind of character Petty portrays. The alt rock music, the punk look and attitude, and the emphasis on kaboom is the way to set things right all play a hand in the cult appeal of Tank Girl. The action scenes and the editing are a bit all over the place so the direction isn't exactly a knockout, but Petty is indeed a firecracker that sparkles up the proceedings excitedly. That said, the dialogue isn't exactly peachy keen and there's even a song and dance number to Cole Porter located at a dustbowl brothel (that looks as if it was designed by someone inspired by Gilliam's Brazil) as Petty orchestrates and conducts even though McDowell's W&P army is out to get her. If you are looking for something out of control and bonkers, then this could be right what you need to waste a little time. "},{"Title":"A very special disaster","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Very much a product of the 90s that encapsulates an aggressive hip style, this ridiculous comic book adaptation has no discipline, is mostly incoherent and ends with a quick animation instead of an actual ending. All its stupidity aside, there's nothing quite like Tank Girl. It's a mostly terrible film that I inexplicably enjoy and I couldn't in good faith recommend it. Director Rachel Talalay seems to be as disappointed with the film as most viewers are and I could only imagine how nightmarish the shoot was, that full scenes were 'forgotten' to be filmed and in two cases, animation was added to clear that up. Tank Girl does have a go for broke attitude that never relents. Lori Petty plays the role with boundless energy and she's fine, even though a stronger editor would trim her manic behavior into a more shaped performance. It's a bizarre film that really never works, but it's plenty of fun. "}{"Title":"I didn't really like this movie but I am giving it credit","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If I told you this movie was about a punk girl who primarily uses a tank trying to take down an evil corporation that owns all water in a post apocalyptic world along with saving a little girl with the help of a nerdy girl who flies a jet and mutant kangaroos, you'd say That sounds like crap and... you'd be right. But as somebody who never read the comics I decided to take a look and... Although it is crap, for a movie of it's kind it actually isn't that bad.Well the one question you might ask is Why am I giving something like this credit? Well there are a number of reasons. The directing style of using animated interludes and drawings (although I have heard that's accurate to the comics... somehow I don't know) actually adds a nice touch even if there isn't that much point to them. To do this while comic book movies were only just starting to flourish I can imagine was a risk so again I'm giving it credit.I'm also giving it credit because it's a female superhero movie that actually is entertaining from beginning to end. I mean... Yeah it's still the cinematic equivalent of junk food but... Hey! So are most other comic book movies.So I am giving this credit but even with the premise it had I can still see it working a little better. The wise cracks of this movie... aren't wise (Hey that was lame but it's still better than most of the jokes in this movie) and for half the movie you sometimes forget that Tank Girl is going to save Samantha, but then again when you shove MUTANT JAZZ KANGAROOS in this movie it's a little hard to remember it for anything else.So did I like this movie? No. I thought that it could have been a lot better than what it was but then again I am giving it credit for being something fresh and new in the world of comic book movies (I'm not just talking about for the time you REALLY have never seen a comic book movie like this). If this movie was given a better director and writer but still kept the story, this could have been on par with the comic book movies made today. "},{"Title":"Tank Girl review","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" First thing's first the film's opening credits montage is pretty darn cool. With the rock music and the flashing comic-book images, I was lured in with the promise of a truly punk-spirited post-apocalypse adventure.Well, the film delivers, in the sense that it's set in a post-apocalyptic world, and there's adventure. This is also a very wacky film, with cartoony comic relief, cheesy action, and a very cheap production value. The good thing about this film is that the main character's attitude is so wild and fun that accentuates the goofy nature of the film, and delivers the punkish vibe I was expecting. Everything else, however, tends to be rather ridiculous. It makes for a weirdly mixed experience overall.This story is pretty basic stuff, lacking in depth or emotion. The plot wanders all over the place, lacking in specific direction. Chances are that you've seen better structure and deeper meaning in other great sci-fi films that bear all the same plot elements and characters. Tank Girl squanders its storytelling potential in favor of just being kooky.This film uses pretty standard photography and editing. Comic book images are cut in at various places. A couple of scenes are animated, and those are probably the coolest parts. Acting is extremely cheesy and over-the-top; Lori Petty uses such cheese to craft an deliciously fun and hip performance, while a very young Naomi Watts plays a perfect square, and Malcolm McDowell does his usual schtick. Writing is pretty simple-minded. This production has sets, props, and costumes that are so cheap-looking, colorful, and clean; the film almost looks like what you'd get if Pee Wee Herman's playhouse survived the apocalypse and went just slightly feral. Music is alright; the score is okay, and a number of good songs are used to give the film a little more oomph to the punk factor.Much like the actual tank in the film, Tank Girl is a cheap-looking, colorful, gaudy, haphazard assortment of random parts and cute decor. It's definitely cheesy, but it is pretty fun that way regardless. I'd say it's perfectly fitting next to other weird, cheap, and cheesy flicks like the Super Mario Bros movie, or Howard the Duck. If those appeal to you, then Tank Girl might be up your alley. Otherwise, move along, nothing to see here.3/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Poor | Film Poor) "},{"Title":"I'm not even sure if the sound track can resurrect this film","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not sure why I even purchased this particular film. Maybe it had something to do with the belief that it may have been a cult classic, but seriously, it is not. I remember some friends watching it and raving about it, but then again those friends have long gone, and I rarely, if ever, see them around. Maybe another group of friends liked this movie, but who they were I really have no memory of because the group of friends that I hung around in later years of my university life really did not seem to watch many movies.Basically this is a post-apocalyptic film set after a comet destroys the Earth and the planet is ruled by a megacorporation known as Water and Power. Basically they control all of the water and have all of the power (as Tank Girl explains at the beginning) but in reality, all this corporation seems to be is one executives and a bunch of soldiers with slaves and prisoners doing all of the other work. Then there are the reavers, some creatures that come out at night, live underground, and cause havoc to the corporation, and finally, there is everybody else, namely those who live out in the desert and attempt to escape the clutches of Water & Power.To me this seems to reflect the nineties struggle between Generation X and the baby boomers, with Generation X wanting to have fun, and not to pay for it, and the Baby Boomers seeking to stifle the limits of that fun. Basically the baby boomers control the means by which Generation X can enjoy themselves, though we should be mindful of the fact that it was the Baby Boomers that led the sexual revolution of the late 60s. However, as one friend pointed out, the protesters of the 60s are the corporate bosses of the 90s. However, even now we see this idea of giving the young much more power than they really know how to use (not that the baby boomers know how to use it either).I guess this film catches the essence of the 90s (not only with the grunge rock sound track). We had come out victorious from the Cold War, and it was still years away from the modern era of the Islamic terrorist and the new McCarthyism that arose under the Bush administration. We see the younger generation, as defined by Tank Girl, moving further away from the traditional roots that many of the baby boomers grew up with, and also rejecting the baby boomer's morality. However we are also seeing the beginning of the rise of the megacorporations, and the tight hold that they have on our lives.This era was also an era dominated by consolidation, as the small businesses disappear to be replaced by the big box outlets outside of town, as is represented by Walmart in America. The multitude of various companies are replaced by one single overarching company, as is seen in Australia where once we had three airline carriers, and now only have one. The same is the case with the supermarkets, which have all come under two major companies, with a collection of independent stores a distant third. Take a look on Google Maps of the various towns in the United States, where main street has all but disappeared to be replaced by shopping malls, big box outlets, and chains upon chains of fast food restaurants. This is the new world that we have entered and are struggling to survive in, in the same way that Tank Girl struggles to survive in a world dominated by Water and Power.As for the film itself, well, it is silly. In fact, it is not amusing or enjoyable silly, it is just silly. For instance, the scene where she is chasing the truck is just simply pathetic, especially where they have one shot of her cooking a barbecue on the top of her tank. To me that was not only a WOF moment, it was a roll my eyes, I can't believe this film, type of moment. As for me, I'm off to see This is the End. "},{"Title":"Dumb fun....","Date":"29 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie probably would have worked a lot better as an animated film, and a lot of the actors did do some voice work for the DC Animated Universe. The inadequacies of the live action are hit on when they intersplice panels or animation from the actual comic.So the world ends and all the water vanishes, except that controlled by Water and Power, led by Generic Evil Guy, Malcolm McDowell.Petty is actually pretty good in the film, but this film probably killed her career. Ice-T was in this film, and sadly didn't suffer career adversity. The action scenes are okay. The comedy kind of works. I give them credit for making it, because frankly, given the awfulness that often comes out of the Hollywood assembly line is so banal. "},{"Title":"She'll be fun to break....","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tank Girl and her friends are the only remaining citizens living in the wasteland that is Earth.All the remaining water is controlled by Water and Power, the mega corporation/government that runs the territory.While incarcerated at W + P, Tank Girl and her new friend Jet Girl break out and steal... a tank and a jet.After meeting some mutant kangaroo/humans, and rescuing her little girl (adopted by her friends), the kangaroos and the girls turn on Water and Power.....It seemed like a good idea at the time, i'm sure someone said soon after the figures came in. I was all for this movie, I thought the comic was far out, and the inclusion of Petty and Macdowell were good choices.The overall product, feels a lot like the Van Damme movie Cyborg, with a little bit of Howard the Duck thrown in for good measure.To some people this is very bad, to others, it;s a sign of something quirky, something that draws you back, no matter how many times you have seen the film.I saw it at the cinema, thought it was awful, brought the VHS and thought it was awful. I've just seen it again, knowing that the film was awful, and I've enjoyed it a lot more.The story is poor, and the inclusion of the comic being shown every couple of minutes grates rather than endears, but there is value to it.The rippers look good, and Macdowell is hamming it up more than he ever did in Star Trek Generations. And Petty really puts in a good performance as the titular character.There's no doubt i'll see this again in about seven years. "},{"Title":"I Expected to Like this More","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had heard this was a cult classic & I usually enjoy those type of movies. From the description it sounded like my type of movie. Though there were some elements that I really liked, for the most part I was let down. I love the animated comic book sequences. Those alone were almost enough to rescue the movie. However, the visuals were not as stunning as I expected. Maybe its because it's an old 90's movie, but the the ships looked they were made of cardboard, the Rippers were incredibly cheesy costumes, etc. The plot felt like something I've seen before. Goofy & overly mean villain is holding the poor masses hostage & one of the peons rises to take him down. I felt like Rebecca was a really fun character for Lori Petty, but I thought she was kind of stupid, mumbling weird things all throughout the movie. There seemed to me a lot of disjointed imagery and side events that confused the main focus of the movie. Lastly...Tank Girl rarely ever even drove her tank! "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"21 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tank Girl is based in the year 2033 when all water and power are run by an evil dictator Kesslee, played by Malcom Mcdowell. Living on the edge and stealing water Tank Girl and her home is attacked taking her prisoner and the little girl, Sam, as well. Tank Girl, played by Lori Petti, mets the unrecognizable, Naomi Watts, who plays Jet. The two team up to rescue the young Sam and defeat Kesslee. Along the way she finds a tank that follows her like a puppy, and a gang known as the Rippers who are part Kangaroo DNA part human who also want to defeat Mcdowell. The movie is amazing, I used to watch it with my grandfather when I was younger, and just recently watched it again when I found it on Netflix. The film has everything you want. A love story (between the Ripper name Booga and Tank Girl), action, and a musical number. The plot of the movie is different which makes me like the movie so much more. It was not a remake, it has its own twist and turns on good vs. evil. I recommend this movie to everyone. It is a lot of fun to watch. "},{"Title":"I love this the way I love....","Date":"12 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this the way I love Wayne's World, the Beastie Boys, and the concept of Catwoman. It's goofy/lovable, quick-witted/smart, and it's some sort of honest exploration of women as ruthless survivors (though it sounds like the comic books did a better job than the movie). Comic book adaptations today seem to be all about the special effects and having enormous balls. The female characters are sometimes more than one dimensional, but are probably not much fun to hang out with, especially during an apocalypse. Yes, I would want to hang out with Lara Croft during an apocalypse, but there you have it, the two leading roles played by women in action movies, the badass/serious/sexy and the damsel/maybe-smart-but-defenseless/sexy, so at least this movie has value in the fact that there are very few action movies with female leads in this sort of role.And the music, unhhh.....throwback whiplash. The Portishead and Bjork scenes especially. Yes. I should emphasize how campy this movie is in case anyone is expecting anything else. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, for What it Claims to Be","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" First of all, let me be clear that not everyone will like this movie. I know a number of people who just do not like fantasy or silliness in movies. If you are one of those serious people, this movie is not for you. But if you are open minded and say - hey just show me something fun and silly that may not have any reality, then this could be your movie. It also however, does have some R rated sections for both violence and sexiness.I also believe that movies should be rated on what they claim to be. This movie certainly is not Gone with the Wind, but then again, it does not claim to be. It claims to be a silly movie about a comic book heroine that is merely trying to be entertaining - assuming one likes that genre in the first place. To a certain extent, this movie reminded me a bit of a more modern version of Jane Fonda's Barbarella - a movie also made with a sexy most odd female in an odd sci-fi world. If you liked Barbarella or the silly movie Mars Attacks, you might like this one as well.As for me, I rated this movie somewhat high based on that I think it did what it promised to do - be a silly, entertaining comedy. I also find it has an odd attraction. Again, this movie is not for everyone. But for some of us, was entertaining for 90 minutes or so. "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but not good either","Date":"18 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" That is my opinion of course. I noticed before sitting down to watch Tank Girl that it has got a bad reputation for being a Hollywoodised bastardisation of the cult comic. As someone who has a lot of fondness for the comic and as an admirer of Malcolm McDowell, I found Tank Girl neither a good or terrible movie. More the disappointing but sort of watchable neck of the woods.I do give it plaudits for the colourful visuals, the upbeat soundtrack and decent performances from most of the cast. Lori Petty does have some cringe-worthy one-liners but I did find her surprisingly credible, and while Ice-T has some irritating moments he has moments where he is also fun. The best performances however come from Naomi Watts and especially Malcolm McDowell who is over-the-top but in an enjoyable way.However, the script is pretty awful. The one-liners are enough to make you cringe, the humour is stale and it also lacked the sassy black-humoured feel of the comic. The story has a great concept but for me suffered from being too unevenly paced(mostly rushed) and predictable with many moments of dumbness, a couple of limply paced scenes such as the musical scene at the Rippers' base and a few too many moments where it steers off track.Characters are a mixed bag. Tank Girl and Kesslee are fun enough, but Jet and Sub Girls are not as interesting personality-wise as they were in the comics and the Rippers more often than not are annoying. Another big disappointment is the direction, which is flashy but also too muddled, never knowing whether it is trying to handle a satire, comedy or futuristic action. Consequently the black, sassy humour could have benefited the satire and the comedy, but seeing as they were missing the humour to me seemed flat, and the more action-like parts looked clunky.Overall, I was willing to judge it on its own terms and to form my own opinion, but while I don't think Tank Girl is as bad as people say and I have seen far worse movies there wasn't really anything especially outstanding about it. 4/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Pure, unadulterated fun","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Some films just come at the wrong time and suffer for it. However, many of them eventually found an audience and have been deemed cult classics. The 1990s was full of movies that endured this fate, including such big budget flops as 'Waterworld' and this film. Based on the comic books of the same name, 'Tank Girl' is one of those films the studio just didn't know how to market. Though it has some things mainstream viewers enjoy, like high octane action, it's also quirky in many ways. It took some years, but it finally achieved the cult status it so deserves.Pros Great work by the cast, especially the scene stealing Lori Petty and Malcolm McDowell. Cool score and soundtrack. Excellent production and costume designs. Great quirky tone. Pace just zips right along. Plenty hilarious situations and dialogue. Impressive special effects, especially on The Rippers. Some exciting, well-staged set pieces.Cons Somewhat dated. Not much in the plot department.Final thoughts Whether you were a fan of the comics or not, 'Tank Girl' is a film that can be enjoyed regardless. It may be too out there for some, but if that's what you like then look no further. It proves that just because some films perform badly at the Box Office, it doesn't mean they're bad or unwatchable.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Not an accurate portrayal of Tank Girl.","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Something went obviously wrong when they were making this movie -if you've ever read the comic books before viewing the movie you know this- and I don't mean just Lori Petty. yes, she was dreadful to say the least. but was it all her fault? I usually just want to believe that they do what they can.Poor Lori does physically resemble TG (in her 40's), and that could be very useful if you plan to enter a Tank Girl look alike competition (for middle aged women) but looks could hardly be the be all and end all of acting, so -to be completely blunt about this point- if you're just not talented enough to re-create TG. a.k.a one of the most violent characters in the history of comic books, just don't go on with the damn thing. Lori did it and made a good fool of herself, presenting the Muppet's version of Tank Girl. or something like that. Point is that she was just way too goofy to pull off a proper tankgirl-ish performance. In the end she just comes across as an annoying lame-o Gwen Stefani. When really what they needed is someone who could pull off a fckn Mallory Knox. Gimmie Juliette Lewis. or Fairuza Balk. Anything but Pity.Something was definitely lost in the movie. and that is the feeling of real. The original comic strip was basically the comic version of the Sex Pistols. It's in-your-face tits and blood. and anarchy. and bombs. so you do the math.They stripped Tank Girl of her favorite weapons the black humor, hardcore lines and blatant nudity and turned her into a Disney princess or something. The whole things looks like a Disney movie. The damn script. everything.They should have hired Quentin Tarantino. and I'm not even his fan. but Kill Bill is closer to being a cinematic version of Tank Girl than this poor bastard of a TG movie.Now, having said ALL that. I'm gonna go and say that the soundtrack is actually very listenable. Especially the song in the end which is Joan Jett's cover of 'Let's do it, let's fall in love' and another good thing about it is. well, Malcolm McDowell.So it's not really the worst movie in the planet, you see. and it was actually a tad fun. Tad being the key word here. but you should always keep in mind that 'Rebecca' IS NOT Tank Girl. so if this movie got on your nerves and made your teeth grind. Don't take it out on Tank Girl. Hate the people that made this film. and Lory Petty "},{"Title":"comic book chick kicks butt","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  okay this MAY have some spoilers (if you wanna call them that) so if you havent seen it and are going too then dont read it! duh!yeah so maybe casting ice-t wasnt so great but its not like he was in it the whole movie. I think it was cool thought. It was based on a comic and I liked the use of comic shots and animations...it was different, and i have seen 2 versions of it edited, and not, the unedited was by far funnier. I mean come on a fearless comic book chick kicks butt with her shy genius friend Jet and a bunch of horny kangaroo men. And i have to give Ice-T this much, he looks good with the makeup. "},{"Title":"Tacky and Brilliant","Date":"16 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tank Girl is one of my all time favorite movies, it's tacky and kinda silly. But for some reason both I and everyone I show it too falls in love with her in-your face attitude and power.Tank Girl is one of those movies you have to watch with an open mind, because the characters, plots and well almost everything else is very unbelievable and if you criticize it too much you'll hate every second of it.It's an upbeat movie, that at the end with make you want to be just like her ) (I'm starting to read the comics and they're good too!) A cult classic, will a kick ass attitude "},{"Title":"Tank Girl Jet Girl Rock!","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lori Petty and Naomi Watts team up as kickass action heroines in Rachel Talalay's adaptation of the comic book 'Tank Girl'. Talalay's execution is fantastic. There's enough action, enough energy and enough humour for entertainment. Don't dig too deep for this movie is not without its share of flaws such as plothole, character depth etc but enjoy it like you would enjoy any action movie. The sharp editing and use of comic book drawings and animation is highly effective. The film was made before the CGI boom yet the special effects look genuine and the sets look real. Lori Petty is one bubble of energy. She looks the part and acts the part and totally rocks. Naomi Watts is superb as her geeky counterpart/sidekick/friends. Malcolm McDowell seems to enjoy playing the villain and Ice T is hardly recognizable if it weren't for his voice. 'Tank Girl' in a way may have been trashed as a guy's wet dream but the film itself is pretty feminist. Yet, I believe that it deserves more credit than it received for it's great action and there is not one boring moment here. To sum it up 'Tank Girl' kicks ass! "},{"Title":"a joyous find to find after so many years... Lori Petty's finest couple of hours","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tank Girl was a movie I had heard about for some years, but had never sought it out; not something I thought would make for quality viewing, some silly mid 90s comedy about some weird girl hero or other. Boy, was I wrong! This is a definition of guilty pleasure, or close to it for a mid 90s comic book movie, and it's one I would be more than happy to pop in on a sick day from work. It's a movie you have to smile at, feel like both the kid in you and the dirty bastard or girly girl loves to chomp on like some stupid comic book that has all the meat and gravy of a full-throttle action story mixed in with lots of irreverent humor. It pops and crackles like a comic book (hell, it even throws in animated segways, maybe as a way to save money, but it looks as cool as anything from the period), and it's got a weird ensemble ranging from Malcom McDowell to Iggy Pop and Ice-T... as a Kangaroo.Lori Petty stars in what could be considered a real career high point. Before seeing her in this I only remembered her as Geena Davis's sister in A League of Her Own, and wondered if she could pull it off. At first her image is like a junkyard Gwen Stefani (and Stefani of No Doubt period), but she's got the attitude of a real bad-ass, which is important as her role in this often pitts her into the likes of Snake Plissken and some other cowboy types, but always with the spunk of a punk rock chick with style and wit to spare. She's in a post apocalyptic world where water is a precious commodity (though, unlike Waterworld, it doesn't flaunt the irony of 'all this water and not a drop to drink', albeit there's a hot 'dust' shower scene). A mad commander of a corporation (McDowell, subtle ham-bone if there could be an oxymoron as such) who controls water and, thus, power. He captures her for hard slave labor, but she teams up with a young Naomi Watts and escapes to a renegade gang of kangaroos as they plot to destroy the evil corporation and...Yeah, kangaroos, and that's not all- one of them is really half kangaroo and half dog! It's all very silly, but it revels in its silliness, and makes a note of every other second or so reminding you how buoyant it is with its reckless energy and humor and design. It's a lot like if a Sci-fi channel of the week movie actually worked well; the production design isn't too tacky and eye-catching on a fairly low budget, the actors are all having a ball playing odds and ends of good guys or kangaroos or villainous water mongers. And at the middle is Petty, who is sweet and charming and dangerous and puts on an outfit and hair style like a reject from the latest Hot Topic catalog (and damn proud of it). You kind of have to dig what she's about in the part to dig a lot of the picture, but once plugged in- on top of stuff like McDowell's reconstruction surgery, Watts with black hair and glasses, and Ice-T and that guy from Buffy as kangaroo manimals- it's hard not to have a total gas with it. If you were a kid in the 90s, its hard not to have a go at it. "},{"Title":"A Guilty Pleasure","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is not a serious film but it is a lot of fun. It is clear that all those involved know it is silly but they are clearly having a good time as will any viewer who wants to watch some mindless fun. There is plenty of cool dialogue and the characters are great.Some time after a huge meteorite hit the Earth there is little water left and almost all of what there is is controlled by Water and Power an evil corporation led by Kesslee, played by Malcolm McDowell in a fantastically OTT manner.He is determined to crush the small number of people who are accessing water illegally though their own well. After a raid on these people most are killed but one, a feisty girl played by Lori Petty is captured. In captivity she befriends another girl who is played by Naomi Watts. Soon they escape in a tank and a plane respectively, hence their Tank Girl and Jet Girl nicknames.Amongst their adventures they rescue a young girl from The Madam, who the force to sing Let's Do It by Cole Porter. They meet the Rippers, a race of mutant kangaroos who are thwarting Water & Powers operations and battle Kesslee who is now more machine than man after radical surgery given to him following a ripper attack.This might sound silly and it is, very... but I'd recommend this film to anybody who wants to watch a comic book movie that is funny and well acted. "},{"Title":"VERY ENTERTAINING!!!","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is a very fun and very entertaining movie.  of course it has it cheesy lines, but come on, you know you laughed.  the visual effects aren't great, but if they were, they would actually bring the movie down a notch. i definetly give this movie two very large thumbs up!!!  8 out of 10 stars!! "},{"Title":"This Movie Rocks!","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie *does* rock.  The score is terrific -- totally cutting edge. From Lori Petty's deliciously kick-ass heroine to the goofy comic book scene cuts to the partying kangaroo dudes -- this is one hip and entertaining movie.  Whoever selected the music, though, deserves the highest recommendation.  Buy the Tank Girl soundtrack if you can.  "},{"Title":"Full of Flavor","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love this movie, but I realize that it's not for everybody. Tank Girl is a kick-butt, sharp-tongued, scantily dressed, femenist punk. She is an action anti-hero with serious flair. When she first came out she really appealed to the *alternative* crowd-- lots of people tried to dress like her, or just fantasized of having such a liberated life. A great stupid movie- but I think you'd have to be a fan of the comic to appreciate it-- which I am. I love the animated sequence in the middle, and I love the whole cast.  Lori Petty was great for the role.  It's filled with crazy costumes, great sets, a fun soundtrack, and awesome one-liners (great for quoting). "}{"Title":"Becky's my grrl","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ok, first of all, the girl from sweden was WAY off. Ice-T does NOT play the boyfriend. Jeff Kober (Masquarade) is the actor who played Booga. Second, this movie i sooooo cool. I followed the comic for years. On screen they played all the great inside jokes, including the biggest one where Becky somehow changes clothes from one room to the next. This is a great film, especially for little girls. My friend's four year old daughter can't get enough of it. I could go into this whole girl_power trip right here, but that would be silly and stupid. In the end, this is a movie about self-enpowerment. Oh yea, responding to the post about the original ending and the edited footage....sadly, I feel that indeed that footage is probably lost forever. I got the dvd and none of it is on there. In theaters there was a great love scene between Becky and Booga that was removed. It was the funniest thing ever seen EVER. I geuss, though, it was too offensive.Maybe someday this footage will turn up. We can only hope. "},{"Title":"Let's Do It! *tiny spoilers*","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a highly entertaining and highly underrated film.  I hadn't even heard of it until this past year.  I was able to obtain a copy to watch and I am glad I did.  Petty is hilarious in this film and Watts does an excellent job as a nerdy mechanic girl.  And the villian...when he walked on broken glass chills went up my spine.  It is a film worth watching at least once, if you can find a copy.  Only one Blockbuster in my state actually has the movie.Overall, I wouldn't say this is a life changing film, but it is entertaining.  I'd give it a ***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"What a great comic!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you like comic books, you'll love Tank Girl the movie.  Lori Petty is hilarious and the perfect fit.  I couldn't imagine anyone better.  The style and direction of the film make it a cult classic!  I have been a fan of British humor for quite a while and this is just one form of it.  If you come in to this film ready for a fun ride it will take you on one.  If you haven't seen the unedited version there are deleted scenes that add a certain twist to the film.  Life is too short...you have to laugh once in a while! "},{"Title":"It's Fun","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A silly movie about a tough girl and her tank taking on the world in a post apocalyptic future.  It's all very campy and fun.  The effects are not too bad.  The music is great. Malcolm McDowell is the bad guy. Lori Petty is well cast as tank girl bringing the kind of nuttiness that the role requires. "},{"Title":"You have to have a warped sense of humor to REALLY get it.","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It feels like years since I saw Tank Girl for the first time.  I have seen it about 7 or 8 times since and I think after each viewing I start to like it more and more.First off this is not a movie for everyone.  In fact i'd say that the majority of the human race just would not get it at all.  Ok yes it is not realistic at all and yes it is even lame if you look at the plot.  But look beyond the storyline and you'll find a great cast and some funny one-liners that will last you a lifetime!  I have never read the comic book but I did hear the creator really liked the way it was made.  I don't understand why it got all the negative backlash.  Obviously it's not a movie that you take seriously!  Suspend your mind a bit and you may even get a laugh.The humor ranges from subtle to bold.  There are lots of little details that went into this film.  I think some parts could of been left out I.E. Lori's hair changing every single scene, there's no water but enough hair dye and hair spray to go around!Please before viewing this do not try to take it seriously, it's not a serious movie.  It's quite crazy and fun if you will just let it be!8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"powerful chick movie","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There's plenty of macho movies to boost male egos...now it's our turn!This isn't a sappy chick movie that makes you feel warm and gushy.  This is a powerful, in-you-face, media sensation that makes you laugh and say, Chicks RULE!I loved how the movie's soundtrack was very prominent (great songs!) and how they mixed other media into the film.I didn't read any of the Tank Girl comics, so I don't know if this is on track with it's origins, but I still loved it. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!!!","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"    Tank Girl is an extremely enjoyable movie.  Just the heroine rocks.  Her one-liners and attitude make her a great character, and although the plot is a bit of a cliche (big evil corp. vs. rebel fighters) it delivers it in a unique (and often comical) way. The Rippers were another great source for comic relief, and setting Tank Girl up with Booga (Jeff Kober plays the part wonderfuly well) was just an adorable pairing.  The movie doesn't let any fans of the classic 'Tank Girl' comic down!  Watch it!!! "},{"Title":"Stupid but loads of fun","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This really is a stupid film. Starring Lori Petty as the WEIRD Tank Girl and ICE-T as her human-kangaroo hybrid boyfriend (I particularly appreciated that one), this movie is one of the most weird and stupid movies I have ever seen. Actually, ICE-Ts character says it all. Just met me add don't rent this movie when you want to watch something serious. It sure isn't. "},{"Title":"Fun, but not fun enough","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, this was about what I expected.  It was certainly offbeat, and it had a few funny moments, but all-in-all, it didn't really add up to much.  All of the main actors definitely gave it their best shot, but the material just wasn't there.  The good moments were separated by prolonged stretches of predictability and mediocrity, and these are problems that are just too great to be offset by the scenes that are quirky fun.  "},{"Title":"Come on, give it a 5!!!","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Granted it's not a piece of art, but hey!!! it's an adaptation of a comic!! Come on guys how many shitty adaptation got way better than this lousy 4.6?? Are you just mad or plain stupid? The first HULK, 5.8!!! Fantastic 4, 5.8!!! Even Spawn & Judge Dredd got it better with 4.7!!! So what if it doesn't have loads of special effect to compensate for the lame storyboard you people put it down?So let me just tell you, that movie respected the spirit of the book, the wackiness of the characters and therefore it deserve more than just a lousy 4.6, I don't ask for the moon, give a 5 or a 6 if you want, I just think it's a better than average movie, it's worth watching and enjoying it, and if you are not sure, check the comic first.There is one down side in that movie, the rippers which are much more beardy in the comics, they are looking a wee bit too goofy...Anyway this post is just a cry for injustice "}{"Title":"Funny, Cute, Sparky Punk Girl Saves The World Wacky Comic Sci-Fi Action Caper","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the year 2033 Earth is a post-apocalyptic wreck with a chronic water shortage, ruled by the evil Water & Power Corporation. Rebecca, aka Tank Girl, is a wacky kid who teams up with her friend Jet Girl and the half-human, half-kangaroo Rippers to defeat the party-pooping bad guys and restore both justice and fun to the planet.This is a wild and wonderful science-fiction action flick, based on a great Dark Horse comic-book by Alan Martin and Jamie Hewlett, and is crammed full of so many nutty sequences and ideas that it's impossible to resist. It's sort of like Mad Max 2 with water instead of petrol, but it's so full of fun and the acting is so goofy that your eyes are always bugging out at what's on-screen, and it's fearless in its willingness to try anything. There are dozens of montages, thousands of superfast comic stills, several beautiful animated scenes (by Mike Smith), an epic musical number in a sex club, wild action sequences, a tribe of hippy kangaroo eco-warriors and a villain whose face gets chopped off halfway through. Central to it all is Petty, who nails Tank Girl's cheerful free-spirited mall-girl superwoman perfectly and is simply irresistible, and is ably supported by an admirably straight-faced Watts and a hilariously maniacal McDowell, plus a couple of very funny cameos by Hong and Pop. Extremely well directed, with an amazing sense of fun and visual dynamics, and great special effects by Stan Winston and Peter Crosman. Like most post-seventies youth-oriented films, this features a lot of very loud music cuts as a score; I normally dislike this practice, but here, because the film is so anarchic and the fast-paced editing style really does suit the story, the songs actually contribute a lot, and the featured artists are fun (notably Devo, L7 and Bjork). This is a great silly movie, with oodles to enjoy, and I think its unique quality as a sci-fi flick is probably down to the fact that the star, production designer and director were all women, who together have brought a very different sensibility to this kind of picture. A punk-rocking, tank-driving, thug-slapping, ass-shaking, good time movie. "},{"Title":"Review of an excellent comic book movie","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Tank Girl for the first time when it was somewhat new, and enjoyed it very much, I have now seen it many times, and it is just as great. If you are looking for a movie with big name A-list stars, and huge F/X budgets, this is not that movie, but it's a safe bet you would enjoy it anyway! This movie is just good old fashioned outlandish, campy fun. Based on the British comic strip of the same name, it follows our heroine, Tank Girl, and her band of ragtag friends as they battle the evil Water & Power in a post-apocalyptic world with no rain. It has a great soundtrack that fits the film very well, lots of action, and a great sci-fi/fantasy plot with a little comedy thrown in, not to mention Lori Petty as Tank Girl makes the movie what it is, very enjoyable. Alongside her is Naomi Watts who plays Jet Girl in excellent fashion, as well as Ice-T and Malcolm McDowell as the sinister villain. The movie feels a lot like a low budget indie film that was picked up by a major studio, and there is reportedly some lost footage out there, but all in all, if you like movies like The Running Man or The Wraith or any other unconventional action/sci-fi movie, at very least, you will surely enjoy Tank Girl! "},{"Title":"You love it or you hate it","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of those films where you either love it or you hate it. Well, I love it. It is one of my all-time favourites. It's fun, funny, light-hearted, brightly-coloured comic book action/comedy at its finest. I really enjoyed that all the female characters were strong, colourful and well-defined. Lori Petty is fantastic in the title role, and her one-liners still get a giggle from me on the dozenth or so viewing. Malcolm MacDowell is exceedingly memorable as the main bad guy, and you can't help cheering for him a little bit, too. If you're looking for intellectual depth, look elsewhere. If you just want to unwind and have a few laughs with some smart, sexy heroines, I cannot recommend this movie highly enough. "},{"Title":"Tank Girl a bad movie?!","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" In my opinion, this movie is not as bad as everybody says... comedy isn't usually my favorite genre, but I have to say this movie is real fun-)! Maybe not a masterpiece or something like that, but I thought it had quite clever humor and that it was not as silly as much more praised rubbish-movies... it was original and funny instead, and the after catastrophe thing was interesting... It deserved a little more success (partly thanks to Lory Petti and Naomi Watts)... and the soundtrack is so cool! Finally, (anti-)heroine Lory Petti was a really unusual and interesting character, and she played it really good I think "},{"Title":"Not for most... perfect for some.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" For those unfamiliar with the cult British comic strip, which first began in 1988, Tank Girl will come as a bit of a shock. Directed by Rachel Talalay, the film is, visually, a little jarring, and the story is bizarre and really very silly. The jokes are mostly pretty crude, the premise for the plot is needlessly complex and the acting is nothing sensational. All in all, it's hard for me personally to come up with one valid reason for why I enjoyed it so much.The year is 2033, and the earth is now rather barren; since a meteor hit the planet 11 years ago, it has ceased to rain. Water and power have been monopolized by a big, heartless company, aptly named Water & Power, and run by evil super-villain Kesslee (Malcolm McDowell). In the desert, however, lies a hippie rebellion commune who are secretly stealing water, whilst attempting to stay safe from the infamous race of monsters that live under the earth, known as Rippers. Amongst this community lives Rebecca (Lori Petty), a boisterous, fun-loving, thrill seeker with no respect for authority. But when Water & Power soldiers find out that their water is being stolen, the hideout is raided, and Rebecca is taken captive to work for the evil Kesslee. But wait; there's more.Refusing to co-operate, Rebecca is kept with countless other prisoners until she accepts the offer. Whilst here she meets a shy, submissive mechanic girl known only as Jet (a young and dark-haired Naomi Watts, sporting her natural Australian accent). Convincing Jet to rebel against the oppressive institution and break free with her to claim their lives back, they steal a plane and a tank to escape, the latter of which Rebecca takes a liking to, and thus the title.And the film carries on in this manner. Really, the plot is just an accessory to the outrageous absurdity that is the film and that some will find funny and others will not. Though playing a rather irritating character, Lori Petty doesn't give a terrible performance as Rebecca, aka Tank Girl. Malcolm McDowell, Naomi Watts and music performer Ice-T also do the best that can be expected, and they are all clearly having fun with this big goof of a movie.One thing that the picture could be praised for, in terms of filmic value, is that it turns so many tired genres on their heads. The gratuitous violence and gaping plot holes akin to action movies (where the bad guys can never aim), the underlying voyeurism that seems to always come with Hollywood films that have any female characters, these things are all brought right out to the front and put in your face, a long overdue wake up call to film-makers who rely on such transparent cinema devices.Apart from this, Tank Girl is really just a big silly joke. One that I, for some reason, actually found pretty entertaining and funny. What does that say about me, I wonder? "},{"Title":"Despite hating Lori Petty as an actress..this film is good!","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw Lori Petty on an episode of Miami Vice and hated her whiney little voice and avoided everything she had since been in like the plague, but accidentally picked up Tank Girl and loved her performance in this movie. She delivers fun, yet authoritative in a quirky way and it comes off surprisingly effective.I also loved the young Naomi Watts (The Ring & Ring 2) playing Jet Girl. If you didn't see the credits, you might not possibly recognize her. She looks great as a brunette!I also loved Ice-T in his role as one of the Slashers...another one, if you did not see the credits, you might not know it is him. Very convincing.And who can forget the Cole Porter 1920 number Let's Do It? A video worth a look-see if there ever was one! "},{"Title":"rock'em sock'em grrl fun","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  funny, smart goodlookin and fast. and im just talking about the lead character...unique blend of action and comic cuscenes, good sets and costumes and a very good soundtrack.TG is a departure from the comic but a good one. dont expect to see the xrated antics of TG from the book, but do expect an in your face tongue planted firmly in cheek spoof full of wise cracks and light action.a good time will be had by all! (especially tank girl)thumbs way up!  "},{"Title":"So Bad It's Funny? Nope. So Bad It's Bad.","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Where to begin? I've never really gotten into the comic, so I don't know if it's something a fan would prefer more than the average Joe would, but to be really fair, and taking all the merits of the film into account...it's really horrible. I'm trying my best to keep language clean here, so we'll just replace FOOLISH for another infamous word of the same beginning letter and STUFF for another almost as infamous word that also shares the same first letter as it's cleaner counterpart. That being said, who in the heck greenlit such a FOOLISHed up movie? This type of STUFF drives a FOOLISHing stake through my female parent FOOLISHing heart, as this gets made and some well deserving clever little film, probably deemed too clever by a STUFF filled studio exec, ends up sitting unmade on some script reader's desk. And LORI PETTY (who's name should in itself should be a profanity, after all of the atrocity we refer to as her film career)? LORI PETTY HEADLINING A MOVIE? LORI PETTY? Well, all I have to say is, she's no Carrot Top. Maybe if she clicks her heels three times and wishes the Aliens that left her here will beam her back up to the whacked planet she originates from. The entire movie can be summed up in one word obnoxious. I will just pretend Malcolm McDowall wasn't in this and I will say Tank Girl's side kick as cute and likable. Here's to hoping Rachel Talay gets lost on the way to the set to whatever film she plans on directing next, and stumbles into a job that better suits her strengths. What that would be, I do not know, but I feel confident it has nothing to do with film making.   "},{"Title":"Unbelievably bad","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Saw this on cable. Unwatchable. Makes Manos, The Hands of Fate seem like Citizen Kane. Did anyone actually pay to see this? "},{"Title":"Totally My Scene!","Date":"19 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved this movie as it revolves around the idea of a CyberPunk (Punk of the Future). They have so much colour, confidence, have guts and are so much fun! I couldn't believe this movie comes from the Australian Comic Book series Tank Girl. WOW!!! I just love the future as real Cyberpunks, Cybergoths and Steam punks exist! They are usually seen in the Goth clubs and love industrial, EBM, IDM, experimental, drum 'n bass (although you don't get that in goth clubs though, same as IDM. Although, we wouldn't want to live in such a serious dystopia as this is the symbolism but it's great fun to get dressed and go listen and dance to some EBM!!! Really, they are like anime characters which have sprung out of a anime comic book! It makes life so colourful and interesting! "}{"Title":"Pretty good flik","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Being a comic book brought to the screen can sometimes be a big letdown, but this was just pure entertainment through the whole movie. It's great for laughs with a little (very little) suspense.The creature effects are a little lame ,but who cares? They pass well enough to not look like some of the put a mask on them and send them out crap we've seen before. By their looks though,it's kind of hard to imagine them as vicious killers LOLThe underlying pot shots at big corporations gives it that message and face it, who doesn't hate the big corporate machine? Just substitute the one you hate the most for the one in the movie.There are good looking women, if you can see under the way most dress since some outfits make a Goth chic look standard issue, the acting is pretty good, the action is right on par with the standard blow 'em up,shoot 'em up fliks we all love, and the flow never breaks into boring.I even have this in my DVD collection.So if you are into the post apocalypse, freaky dressed chicks,evil bad guy heading the corporate machine,comedy/quasi-scary type fliks then you have to crack open that cold one or whatever your mind altering choice may be and sit down to watch this. "},{"Title":"tank girl","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" i thought this was a great movie. it had just enough action to compliment the comedy . . . plus a tough chick like her is something that should b shown more now days. she is some one i think young lady's should see. better her than petty women that cooks in the kitchen and cleans the bathroom a women that can do what needs to be done. without the need of a higher authority such as a man or any other restrictions a women has to face.i truly loved this movie. and i also agree with the person who commented before me, i think pink would have been the perfect actress for this role. a out spoken and tough as nails, but still beautiful and talented, everything a girl should be. "},{"Title":"It is what it is...","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a comic strip, on film, in live action. If you're expecting On Golden Pond, you'll be disappointed. Tank Girl is meant to be over the top, in your face, garish, campy and fun, and succeeds admirably. Criticizing the movie for it's lack of character development is like dinging Forrest Gump for not having enough car chases. Unhook the analytical portions of your brain, get some popcorn and beer, enjoy the movie for what it is. Lori Petty makes a great cartoon character, Naomi Watts is a quiet geeky babe, Malcolm McDowell plays his standard evil crazy character. Haven't read the comics myself, I'm guessing they're a little darker than the movie (and I was really unhappy that Spawn got the Disney touch). There's a fair amount of violence, but no blood anywhere (even when someone gets sprayed with bullets at point blank range, or body parts litter the ground), and the sex is merely hinted at. "},{"Title":"Skewed and screwy, but fine!","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Having not read the comics, I had no idea what was coming. The surprise was worthwhile. Despite a few bumps in the editing, and the low budget props, it was a great hoot. Definitely a female oriented action flick, lacking in testosterone. But redeems itself by being unique and totally crazy.*** spoiler alertAvert your eyes, if you don't want to know more. Worst parts - Animation sequences tended to draw attention to the low budget props by shifting one's level of disbelief. It would have been better to use cheesy animation to lessen the impact.My favorite parts - The exploration of Ripper culture and their dance was compelling. Inexplicable events that spark curiosity are lacking in many movies today.Lori Petty's MINE! when she snagged booty from dead troopers was great.The attack on the Madame was a hoot, especially the sing along. How can you argue with a musical number in the middle of an action comedy sequence? "},{"Title":"Brash energy and enthusiasm, but it's a near-miss...","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" From the cult comic-strip by Alan Martin and Jamie Hewlett about a post-apocalyptic smart-ass (Lori Petty) who is in a battle against the bad guys at the Department of Water and Power in the year 2033. Structured and designed just like a comic book, with jagged editing techniques, animated fragments, lots of rock music and over-scaled acting. But the film is mainly a failure due to the half-baked screenplay--which never follows through on its ideas--and Rachel Taladay's energetic but hectic direction. Petty is well-cast as Tank Girl, showing lots of full-throttle enthusiasm, but she's obnoxious instead of hearty (she's constantly in the audience's face); had Taladay been more refined, we might have been charmed by Tank Girl's sass instead of constantly being put-off. Many proper ingredients are here for a live-action cartoon, yet the film is best described as a misfire. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Tanks a lot","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a fan of the the comic book tank girl,i thought the movie was very good and true to the comic,although not well received by critics and many moviegoers.the blending of live action and some animation was a great touch.the title credits were good showing all the different tank girl graphics.Lori petty(point break)does an awesome job as tank girl. and Naomi watts(yes king Kong's Naomi watts)plays her friend jet.and of course there's the villain played by Malcolm McDowell.who plays the villain so well.and would you believe old school rapper ice t as a mutant dog man?there's an awesome soundtrack that varies from Joan jet to devo.forget what the critics said about this movie,rent the DVD or tape or watch it on cable.its campy fun.as comic book movies go its brilliant.i give tank girl 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A poor affair that has enough rough charm to appeal to a small audience but is mostly a bit all over the place","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is the year 2033 and it has been a difficult 10 or so years since a comet hit Earth, wiping out most of the population and changing the eco-system to the point that it hasn't rained since. With such little water to go around, powerful men seek to control it all and that is exactly what the evil Kesslee and his Water & Power Company seek to do. Having themselves lost territory and groundwater to an attack from the fearsome mutations the rippers, Kesslee orders an attack on a human settlement that has been stealing water. They kill pretty much everyone but capture Rebecca, who catches Kesslee's eye for fighting back so well. Condemned to work in the mines till she dies, Rebecca vows to escape and take revenge.There is much to like in this film and I can see why it has acquired a bit of a cult following it is different from the normal comic book movies mainly because the original material was so different. Although it throws up some cool moments and nice touches here and there, sadly the overall impression it made on me was one of messiness and uncertainty in the delivery. The plot is all over the place (for what it is) and the film seems to lack the courage to go the whole hog and genuinely just after fans of the comic book. Now, making a film more accessible than a comic is not a bad thing but making the whole project a mess in the attempt certainly is. The film tries to be crazy and irreverent but it forgets to do it consistently and within a good frame.The result is we get some cool moments of genuine invention but mainly what we get are lots of scenes where Petty and the others are set adrift in a sea of mania in the vague hope that somehow it will all work out. Giving her her dues, at least Petty tries hard to make it work but she lacks good material and is left looking a bit silly. If she had managed to be a strong female as opposed to just a pain in the ass then things might have been a bit better but as it is she gives a wildly one note performance. Watts is better just because she has a less grating character, has a stronger sexual presence and varies her delivery at times. Ice-T looks pretty embarrassed by the whole thing but he is the least irritating of the Rippers (Kober takes that award). McDowell scowls his way across the film with no real effort or originality but at least his OTT performance is sort of distracting.Director Talalay can moan about studio interference but there isn't much here to suggest that she was doing much good either. The use of music is as all over the place as everything else and generally she fails to make it much more than a curio piece (although the animated sections are a nice idea). Overall it is rather cheeky and crazy and in this way it may have enough rough charm about it to appeal to a small audience who buy into that sense of humour. However for me (and the majority I suspect) this is a poor affair that had some potential but mostly does very, very little with it. "},{"Title":"Good but flawed.","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I got to admit that I am not a fan of the British Comic Strip, not being British, I never heard of it before. But the movie has a certain style about it. The characters are well written and likable, the villain has a likable quality. The cast was great and did a great acting job. The creature effects were unique. Now that all the good parts are out of the way, time for the bad parts. The parts that really bugged me about TANK GIRL. One, the little cartoon sequences, this was a rated R movie, what's with the cartoons? Making a realistic science fiction turn childish, I didn't like Lori Petty's hair in this. Not at all. I think the R rating was alittle unjust the sexuality in this movie is the same as a PG-13 romantic drama, nothing was shown and no one had sex. So I don't think it deserved an R rating. I give TANK GIRL....7 STARS "},{"Title":"Not AS Horrible as you think.....","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay,  I'm a HUGE fan of the comic which means, logically, I should HATE the movie.  It has NOTHING to do with the comic, the plot's lame, the effects are average, the characters completely different than the way they're written in the books....and yet, I can't help liking it.  It's almost like they wrote an adventure and put Tank Girl in it.  Come to think of it, I don't believe they even refer to her as Tank Girl, but Rebecca Buck. Which is also odd because in the comics her real name was Marcy Brown. But I digress.  This movie can be VERY funny, very goofy and a great movie to watch at 420.  The musical number is cool and some of the lines could make you blow milk from your nose.  In the end though, I find the people that love this movie the most are girls between 11 and 16.  Which, as a 25 year old gay punker puts me in the same mindset.  Besides, other than Buffy and Xena who else do girls have to learn butt kicking skills from? "},{"Title":"So remorselessly, consistently silly, cheap, and cheesy, it's rather brilliant","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay. This is one of those 'so bad it's good' movies. Really.Yes, I know you've heard this one before. Probably, you saw *Attack of the Killer Tomatoes*, and agreed to say you liked it for just such a recommendation, though you were really only remotely amused through much of it. You're thinking, okay, someone gets a nominal budget for a sci-fi flick remarketing a very tongue-in-cheek comic book; I can watch it a bit drunk and pretend to be hip/ironic by doing so, probably not a total waste of an evening, right?And yeah, that's pretty much what you get, and yeah, the people involved in making it obviously aimed for this. So my bet is if you watch it with this expectation, you'll be more than merely satisfied; it knows what it is, and is accordingly quite well crafted, if the word is appropriate. In fact, it's actually enjoyably funny/ridiculous throughout. Not just in the odd place. Pretty much steadily.I'm a guy. I watched it 'cos it's got Lori Petty and Naomi Watts, with weapons, in revealing attire; that's really all I was asking. In addition, it offered up a soundtrack that mixes Ice T, Bjork, Devo, Bush, and Joan Jett doing Cole Porter, and some rather inspired silliness throughout. All in all, a good deal.Okay, so it isn't *Airplane*. What is? It's *Tank Girl*. I have no regrets. "}{"Title":"Leave your brain at the door for this one.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have been a fan of Jamie Hewlett and Alan Martin's original Tank Girl comic since my middle school years when Dark Horse released it 'stateside. Then, in my junior year of high school, I saw a preview on Entertainment Tonight and nearly had a joygasm at the fact that there'll be a Tank Girl movie. Then the following summer, I saw it in the theatre on opening day. I was a little disappointed by the fact that they added all that Water & Power crap (The comic took place in modern day Australia), made Tanky a little too cutesy-poo, made Jet Girl a little too submissive and mousy, and took away Sub Girl's submarine. But I still like the movie. Hell, I own it on DVD and watch it occasionally. It's one of those movies you gotta leave your brain at the door to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"If you like Flash Gordon and Big Trouble In Little China...","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was very entertaining.  It is obviously not an academy award winning movie.  It was filled with witty one-liners.  Some people may consider these a detriment from the overall quality of the movie, while others will find them enjoyable and fun.  If you only like the movies that critics recommend you watch, avoid this at all costs.  If, however, you like to sit back and be entertained for two hours with unique comedy, a comical storyline and interestingly unbelievable characters, then watch this.  It has the same feel as Flash Gordon or Big Trouble In Little China, so if you liked them, you'll like this. "},{"Title":"An amazing piece of subculture","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is cheap, dumb and ugly, and if you're looking for cinema, forget about it. But what an amazing piece of subculture ! It goes weird as a 60s teenage psychedelic pulp flick, it embraces girl power style and attitude (Gwen Stefani, how many times have you seen this one ???), it mixes Mad Max and Mel Brooks, Punky Brewster and Spawn... Totally Z and yet unmissable. "},{"Title":"hmm......","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  even though the script was packed full of smelly one-liners this film rocks...though im not completely sure why..? there is of course the really cool manga-esque cartoony bits that spice the whole thing up and a wicked soundtrack (including bush, hole and L7) now i think on it, who wouldnt want to watch a hot blonde chick in tight clothes, her fairly hot yet understated side-kick, along with a few mutant kangaroos(!!??) attack and beat the bad guys? despite the negative reviews this film is still worth checkin out for yourself! "},{"Title":"Interesting movie...","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is indeed weird but its actually pretty fun to watch and the  soundtrack I love. This movie reminds me a lot of the Fifth Element and the opposite of Water World... I'd put this movie in that what if category ... if you watch it, do just that... watch it and so be it... I wouldn't try to form a scholastic opinion about it  "},{"Title":"leaves a bit to be desired.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was once a religious reader of the Tank Girl comics and found this movie didn't live up to the comics.Maybe it was just that John Waters had to put his mark on it.  Don't get me wrong, I love John Waters movies.  I just think that maybe he didn't know the Tank Girl comics had such a following.  Maybe for Tank Girl, he could've just left it be?I waited and waited for Tank Girl to be more bad ass, but she was so oddly girly!  So much so that I honestly thought she was trying to throw off the bad guys.I guess this movie is good for people who've never read the comics, but it was not true to the comics.My Rating B-  "},{"Title":"Oh, this is a riot!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I rented Tank Girl for the first time, I had pretty low expectations. Movie adaptations of comic books can be pretty bad (like Spawn, for example) or well done (like Blade).  Tank Girl falls into the latter category.  It is very funny, even though it sometimes tries just a little too hard.  The acting is right on, and stays on throughout the whole film.  There is an action scene near the end that almost ruins the atmosphere of the movie in that it makes it seem like just another unfunny action movie but luckily its short.  I'd give it an 8 out of 10 because its really fun to watch but its not a master work of genius or anything.  Soundtrack is good too. "},{"Title":"Even Ed Wood would hate it.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film(I use the term lightly)is the most painful 2 hours I've ever spent.I hope that  comic book it was based on survived intact. it has everything;Bad acting,bad writing,and bad direction.A triple threat. "},{"Title":"Wha????","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This HAD to be the most DUMBEST thing I have ever seen! I have given good reviews about everything I have ever commented on, but....b-b-but I just cant do it with this one! This movie was complete and total waist of time and battery power for my remote. I was told to watch....C'mon Shawn, you'll like it! The main girl is hot!... And no! SHE WASN'T! AH! Maybe it was her hair, maybe it was her voice....or was it the fact she kissed a mutant human Kangaroo called a Ripper? OH! I dunno! This movie just sucked. The animation inbetween scenes helped save on special effects I guess, but was it worth that Tank they used for the movie? NO! The movie just.... AHHH! It makes me mad even thinking about it. I just can't STAND how someone would let this movie even be considered to be made. YOU CAN SEE THE STRINGS IN SOME PARTS! Maybe this movie was never made, cause there is times where it looks like it wasn't.However! Can I say something good about this movie? Oh, of course... I was extremely happy when I saw something good about this movie, that being the closing credits. It dunno why I watched it, maybe I was high? That would be a good lie if I smoked. I can't tell you why I watched, but that is 2hrs of my life I want back that I could have used to devote time to looking for the never ending search for a girlfriend. But enough about my love life....or lack there of..... the rating I give this movie is..... .3/10 (The smart chic was pretty hot at times.) "},{"Title":"Mixed bag","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If a film was held together solely by the charisma of a single figure, Tank Girl would be the one.  Lorri Petty is the show.  She plays a witty, punkish, character that embodies a lot of the traits definitive of being a quote independent woman.  If there was one fictional character I would want, it would be Tank Girl.  In real life though, probably not.  Tank girl could probably save the world, but lets see her try to get a job.  Still, not too shabby of a film.2 1/2 stars or 6.5 on the movie meter.  Tank Girl is worth checking out. "}{"Title":"Sure The Movie Is Stupid, But Who Cares","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I laughed myself silly watching this. Alright, so no one really believes the story, but who cares, this is entertainment. Grab a sixer, or more, sit back and enjoy! The movie is not brilliantly acted, but it does not pretend to be anything more than it is escapist movie going. Come on, one of the stars is a talking mutant kangaroo! If only some of Hollywood's real major productions were as unpretentious they too would be fun to watch.The action is wonderful, the cinematography is better than some high budget bombs, the acting is spoofy, the dialog is laughable and the big song and dance number is terrific. What's not to like? "},{"Title":"Not so bad...","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, well, well. They had to do it sooner or later didn't they? They just couldn't leave this brilliant comic book masterpiece alone. No, they grabbed it, turned it inside out, stripped it down and slopped it together on film. The amazing thing is- the film isn't that bad. Lets face it, it was never going to live up to the blood soaked comics but it has a lot going for it. Lori Petty stepped in at the last minute after Emily Watson dropped out. Pettys no TANK GIRL! but simply a tank-girl. As the film progresses, you can't help but warm to her as she parades her way through endless costumes and one liners. Alongside Petty is the pretty wonderful Naomi Watts as Jet girl. Watts shines through out the movie. The ripper effects are excellent although, in the comic Tank girl's beau is more like Ice-T's mean T-saint than cute-but-dim Booga. And of course we have the lovely Malcolm McDowell unashameadly hamming it up as villian Keslee. McDowell is clearly enjoying himself and you can't help but do the same. Well they've got the performances but what about the plot? The biggest let down really. The real tank-girl would never had put her butt on the line for a little girl no matter how cute; and how Keslee engineered the final battle it a bit unrealistic. But however between the plot holes is some great fun.Keslee's torture of Tank-girl, the Cole Porter sing-along and the calender shoot are all often inspired film making. And just the sight of the most faithful comic book image rolling through the desert on cattapillar treads made me buy the video. "},{"Title":"Switch your brain off and enjoy!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not quite the film it could have been. Being a long term fan of the comic strip the prospect of a Tank Girl movie was a little bit daunting but it didn't turn out too bad.  The performances were sound (in the case of Malcy McDowell, just OTT and hammy enough) and the plot almost non-existent.  The same as the comic.  However the characterisation was not the same.  Still, if you have an hour an' half or so to spare, sit back with a beer and your mates and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Makes the boys stand at attention","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  OK Listen Up.  Tank Girl.  It's a comic.  Punk rock squatters defy the evil empire that sells water at extortionist prices. Genetic mutant warriors recite beat poetry. Malcom MacDowell gives his best Alec (Clockwork Orange) leer.  If you expect to follow a  plot here, you miss the movie.  It's about babes, dancing, defiance and motorized vehicles - The basic elements of Rock and Roll.  Pedofiles,  Dancers, Orgies, Decadence, Greed are all foiled by irreverent punks in stolen hardware while the heros enjoy their own.  And the hero claims that pain makes her wet. For a follow up, I would suggest either a Checkered Demon or Horney Biker Sluts movie, but those might be just a little to strong.  But then again somebody made a Crumb movie, and Fritz the Cat ... and Tank Girl. "},{"Title":"Why did they saddle this thing with a plot????","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're familiar with the Tank Girl comics, you're going to have some issues with this film.For some reason, the filmakers decided to give Tank Girl a backstory, a name, a motivation, and all the other things she really doesn't need. Tank's a snog first, ask questions who couldn't care less if she uses her tankly powers for good or evil, so long as there's a beer and a laugh at the end of it all.Lori Petty really does capture the spirit of Tank Girl pretty well, but the movie really is a mess.  She stumbles through it gamely, but except for her, they couldn't have missed the spirit of Tank Girl further if they'd tried. "},{"Title":"I can't help falling for Lori Petty","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yes, the movie is loud, preposterous and overblown, but Lori Petty is so cool you've gotta love the film regardless of these facts. Even covered in oil and sweat and screaming her lungs out, she's entertaining enough to carry the day. This movie is not Blade Runner, but it's worth the cost of the rental if you can accept it for what it is. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite sci-fi girl power movies ever!!!","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First there was Barbarella, second there was Lt.Ellen Ripley, third there was Barb Wire and the last there was Tank Girl, TA-DAH!!! I'm talking about the go-to-war punk girl who wants to have fun and kick some butt! THIS MOVIE ROCKS!!! when I first seen Tank Girl which was based on a popular British comic book series,it changed my life! it made me believe that I have girl power and don't take no bull. This movie has everythingit shows scenes from the comic book,real action,and the best part is Tank Girl blowing up stuff and kicking other guys butts! THAT'S COOL!!! Unfortunately, Tank Girl wasn't a box-office hit but it was REALLY FUN TO WATCH if girls like me want to see how real girls in sci-fi flicks like this one go to war, get revenge and rock and roll.  Lori Petty was so wonderful as the funky title role and Malcolm McDowell (from A Clockwork Orange and Time After Time and such cool flicks) as the supervillain who steals a whole bunch of the world's water supply is a highlight! The best part of the movie is when Tank Girl and Jet Girl does a musical number of the song Let's Do It I wish there was a sci-fi musical in the near future, WOULD YOU LIKE THAT?     This movie should be recommended to everybody who likes comic books made into movie adaptations...........AND GIRLS WHO LIKE TO SEE GIRL POWER!!!! "},{"Title":"Insanely offbeat film might be fun.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  TANK GIRL may very well be the BUCKAROO BANZAI of the 90s as it could someday attain cult-wide status. For being in the femme fatale category (the most controversial subject I've complained about before), it reeks. Call it a comedy and your life will be so much better. It's really your satire of post-Apocalypse movies, and another one from the alternative generation that shows off strong feminist superiority. Lori Petty, resembling the face of singer Gwen Stefani this time around, offers quite a lot of comical charms as a tank girl warrior. The cartoon breaks compliment the story in a touchy way. Everything else leaves much to be desired, though. Only if you like unclassifiables. "},{"Title":"Love, LOVE, this movie!!!","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever since I've seen this movie a year ago, I've fallen in love at first sight. The movie was so great, I've been watching it over and over again. A month later, I've ordered the soundtrack and added some of my favorite songs on my MP3 player from it. Then just a month ago, I've spotted the Tank Girl DVD at Wal-Mart and I had to purchase it. Oh, I've got to find the comic next. Tank Girl is one of the greatest movies ever made and it saddens me that they never even got a award for it. Oh, they've got to do a sequel pretty soon. That would be awesome. Anyways, Tank Girl is one of the greatest movies of all time and should win an Oscar or an Emmy for best picture. "},{"Title":"Yeah OK right.","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Tank girl would have better been brought to PG13 to target a teen audience. Intergalactic werewolf lookin' guys playing saxophone really wasn't anywhere near enough to get my attention. The girl changes outfits between camera alternations. She talks like she's six, and she giggles while shooting people. Now, generally, the psychotic militant part is what makes the movie, but believe me, if you're expecting something special you will be LET DOWN. There is absolutely nothing great about this movie, it's all bells and whistles and smoke and special effects makeup, and I wish I didn't love it... "}{"Title":"Lori Petty... Where Did You Go?  Come Back!","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" TANK GIRL (4 outta 5 stars)A great role for actress Lori Petty (even though she was practically never heard from again after this film came out). The movie may have a few problems but none of them stem from her fantastic, funny performance. She plays a punk rebel chick in the future who runs afoul of the rich, white people (led by Malcolm McDowell) who own all the water (and hence, the power). After her desert-dwelling comrades are slain and/or kidnapped to become slaves, Rebecca aka Tank Girl comes to the rescue. She teams up with Jet Girl (a dark-haired Naomi Watts) and some terrorist kangaroos (Ice-T among them) to put end to the oppressive power-mongers. Lots of great ideas in this movie and lots of great one-liners. The action scenes work for the most part but sometimes they just don't have the panache that they need for an action picture. I also could have done without the comic strip inserts and animation scenes that pop up every now and then. The look of the movie is cartoony enough without having to remind the audience that it was based on a comic book. And then there is the Cole Porter dance sequence which (though I admire the idea behind the scene) is filmed with such a lack of visual flair that it just stops the movie dead. I mean, if you are going to put a gratuitous musical number into a movie that isn't a musical... it better kick butt! (Takeshi Kitano's recent Zatoichi, for instance.) But, really, the flaws in this movie matter less to me every time I see it. Fans of really strange, weird, science fiction comedies should get a big kick out of this movie! "},{"Title":"This movie is crazy and i love it","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well this movie was so funny to me, i really liked it. I thought it was well acted and everything but maybe ppl thought it was just too crazy. I also like Lori Petty...i've liked her since A League Of Our Own. She's a good actress that just doesn't get enough credit. She doesn't pick the really big blockbusters and i admire that. I would like to do independent films but want a big movie in between. Well i'm getting off subject. I just wanted to say i like this movie no matter what anyone or critic has to say about it. OMG! When I saw The Ring i knew i saw that chick somewhere before and then it hit me. She's Jet Girl!!! Crazy! It's funny where you see how some of the big stars got their starts!!  "},{"Title":"Appalling.","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was a fan of the Tank Girl comic in Deadline magazine for many years, and got very excited when they announced they were making it into a film. I don't think I've ever been so disappointed with anything in my life.Even taken as a separate film, it's a complete chore to watch - the plot is minimal, the story jumps around and the characters are so badly developed that you find yourself not really giving a hoot what happens to any of them. Most of them are irritating, especially Tank Girl herself who is thoroughly punchable (and as many people have already pointed out, she spends the whole film making uncomfortably unfunny wisecracks).As an adaptation, it stinks. Tank Girl should be a nihilistic loudmouth Australian, burping and farting and starting fights, not a yappy perky American who likes little kids. Sub Girl and Jet Girl are nothing like their comic counterparts and neither are the kangaroos. I imagine if they'd tried to portray all the characters as they were in the comics, they'd have never got the script past the studio execs.I foolishly paid to see this in the cinema and came close to walking out - I only stayed to see if there was anything good about it at all. The only things of note were the sand showers, the little machine that sucks water out of people as it kills them and the Bjork song on the soundtrack.A few years later I tried to watch it again, hoping that maybe I was wrong first time round. I turned it off after 20 minutes, I couldn't stand any more than that.If you are one of the tiny number of people that used to buy Deadline in the early 90s and somehow missed this film, save yourself and don't bother. It'll only spoil your memories of Tanky.If you're a passing filmgoer, watch something else. Anything else.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!!  Amazing!!!  Classic!!!","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The greatest movie ever!!!!!!!  What else can you say!?!?!?!?!?  Lori Petti you are a goddess!!!!!  So original, so unique, so funny!  THE BEST MOVIE EVER!!!!!  So out there!  It's like someone finally made a movie with all the people in my head!   "},{"Title":"You go, girl!","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  On second viewing, Tank Girl is a remarkably intelligent amalgam of cultural detritus encompassing allusions that range from Cole Porter to Busby Berkely to Shaft to the Beat generation -- and more.  It's also a great in-your-face female flick, triangulated somewhere between GI Jane, Thelma and Louise, and Romy and Michelle's High School Reunion. While technically so-so (e.g., editing, camera work, etc.), this film is intellectually over the top. Oh, did I mention Malcolm McDowell as a grown-up Clockwork Orange punk? Great fun...You go, girl! "},{"Title":"Not for everyone, but a definite YES for me.","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are a die hard Tank Girl fan you will probably find this movie a very watered down version of Tanky and Co. If you are a cinematography buff or fancy yourself a film critic, you will probably not enjoy this film. I, however, loved it! It's campy, it's silly, ... it's just out there in an absolutely fun kind of way. Lori Petty was a great choice for this role. She's got the right body type to pull of some of Tanky's outfits and she gives off that tough girl vibe that you just love about the character. Did it do the comic justice? No, but then movies rarely do in the eyes of a fan. Was it an enjoyable experience? YES.  "},{"Title":"Give me an ass and I'll kick it!!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know what it is about this movie that so thoroughly kicks ass, but it undoubtedly does.  the storyline is not the most amazing, but then the point of a movie is to entertain and it certainly does that!!  the rippers are absolutely hysterical, and both tank and jet girl show us gals the kinda people we want to be.... The rather random musical number is beyond words, its what every comedy needs!! MacDowel once again makes a great baddy, made better by the bad poetry.... and as for the tank itself... i gotta get me one of those!! show me a girl that hates this film and i'll show you the next applicant to the sisterhood of uptight prudes!!! and guys... if you're living and breathing then you must love this... that is unless your one of those strange comic-book store owners..... "},{"Title":"In-SANE!  But I have to admit, I admire any movie where they have somehow convinced Ice-T to play an anthropomorphic wallaby.","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Tank Girl was, I suppose, meant to be the Buckaroo Banzai of the 90's and was marketed as such.  The comparison is, admittedly, appropriate; both movies have so many things going on in any given frame of film that, as impossible as the story is to sort out, it certainly isn't boring.Tank Girl is a fun enough ride if you turn your brain off before the movie starts.  Otherwise you'll end up with a skull-cracking headache like me. "},{"Title":"One of the best of goofy/bizarre!","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay people, it's a film based on a comic strip- expecting a serious film that will make you think means you've taken the wrong turn in the multi-plex... If you didn't get the over the top humor in Buckaroo Banzai, or failed to see past it in Raising Arizona, you probably won't like Tank Girl. (you're probably wound a little tight as well and could stand a night out with your hair down...)  But movies don't have to be all things to all people, right?This is a fast, cheap, out of control romp through a tattered eared 'zine that's been passed around from kid to kid- one dimensional, goofy fun playing on all the base emotions, set in a perfectly imperfect future. The cast, Lori Petty, Ice-T (Ain't gone be no crumpets and tea!), Malcolm McDowell, Naomi Watts, Iggy Pop are ideal for this frenetically driven Buzzed-by Berkely style piece, which by the way, has an excellent hard edged soundtrack.Expect to know exactly who are the good and bad guys are. Expect post-apocalyptic glee, expect mutant ninja kangaroos, expect low-IQ stormtroopers, expect grrrlll power, good bad one-liners, and a bad-ass heroine that rides a tank!  (but don't expect any pretension.) For it's sub-genre, a near perfect film!  "},{"Title":"Girl Power","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great film-- even where it deviates from the original comic. Lori Petty is quirky, the sets & costumes are true to the punk style of the comic.  It's not a glossy pretty girl gets saved by action hero movie-- the GIRL is the action hero, and she uses everything in her power to save the day.  Yes, the film is campy, yes the interspersed comicbook shots are a little different.I love Ice T as the grumpy ripper.  I like it that Tank Girl helps teach Jet Girl how to stand up for herself.  I love it that while at Liquid Silver, Tank Girl shows, through her playful rejection of the vapid hologram perfect woman image that those standards of beauty are pure junk.This is one of my all-time favorite movies; sci fi that explores possibilities beyond using the force and boldly go-ing to get chicks. "}{"Title":"Comic Book Style Craziness","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I disagree with what was written about this before. This movie is based on a comic book, it was written as a comic book, and the style of the movie itself was based on the COMIC BOOK. The movie was obviously made for fans of the comic, and it was a wonderful adaption. "},{"Title":"it was the best it could be","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  as everyone who has seen this movie knows, the story of 'tank girl' was based on the comics. i think that to enjoy this movie you would have to enjoy comics and their surreal adventurous nature. and lori petty was best for the character of tank girl. i think the movie was excellently put together and i give it a ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"Girls Kick A**!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not surprisingly a breakdown of IMDB votes shows that women liked this film far more than the guys did. Lori Petty, at her very best, plays the ultimate riot grrrl on a mission to save her sister. Aided by a rocking soundtrack that runs the gamut from Beck to Stomp, Ice-T to Courtney Love, Bjork to Joan Jett, this fun flick should have adrenaline coursing through your system by them time the credits role. Afterwards - go out and conquer the world on your own! An excellent choice for a girls' night video rental. "},{"Title":"Lori Petty's a genius!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cool movie that stays pretty true to the comic book.  I always thought that Emily Lloyd would have been perfect for the role of Tank Girl- and was sort of disappointed when it was announced that Lori Petty would play her- but she was actually GREAT in the movie.  Very creative and clever- I knew it would be lost on American audiences who really don't seem to have a lot of imagination when it comes to going to the movies.... and yes, I am an American so I can say that. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, but not for norms","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is hilarious, but is not for straights.  Basically, as long as you don't mind your comedy a little surreal, you'll like it.  On the other hand, if you don't understand Monty Python, Douglas Adams, or Kevin Smith, you might want to give this a miss.   The humor is a combination of high brow with a vary large sprinkling of idiocy, even managing to throw in a floor show half way through the film. It captures the feel of the British Comic quite well, while still working as a 94 minute movie.  The Ripper make up is quite good, and with the exception of a couple wires that can be seen (the budget wasn't that high...) the FX are actually quite good.  The flash of comic pages at key points also works quite well.  McDowell is an excellent villain, and both Lori Petty and Naomi Watts do great jobs as the heroes.  All in all, a great movie. "},{"Title":"Great B-Grade Fun!","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you hate campy, B-Grade science fiction movies based on comic books then stay away from Tank Girl.  On the other hand, if you are a fan of the Tank Girl comics, or just love fun, irreverent movies with strong, sarcastic, ass-kicking female protaganists, give this movie a try.  It is absolutely one of the best-produced and directed films in this genre. "},{"Title":"o)","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  well, I'm a HUGE tankgirl fan so this is probably biased.. but still.  I've got all the comics and all the merchandise possible.. as for the movie.. well, ok so it was pretty far off the comic and the storyline is a wee bit dodgy if u dont know anything about Rebecca Buck and her friends, but it's a good laugh. Lori Petty was perfect for the role, and Ice T was class!  I love this film and I will love it til the day I die. The soundtrack is amazing and the tank... well what can I say, part cadalack and part soviet MK1 tank.. excellent D Bring on the sequel.. tho make it a bit more like the comic version! Cheers D "},{"Title":"Tank Girl sez men are suckers, which is true!","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It seems most of the male characters except keslee are powerless against a woman's charm )Ah so true to life!I really like Tank Girl, although I understand it was heavily cut. The Tank Girl comics are a lot more taboo.The story was good, it was not a flowing one, but it did the job. Tank Girl and the rippers vs Water and Power.I really liked Jet Girl, she reminded me of myself. I liked the way she developed from a shy greasy haired coward into a more confident and attractive character.Tank Girl herself has some really cool outfits and hairdos. Lori Petty played her very well. I would have liked to have seen Sub Girl in a bigger role, but I guess there was no room, or maybe they cut a whole lot of her scenes out. I also love the pictures from the comic books that are shown throughout the movie. It would be great to have a first issue of Tank Girl.All in all a very enjoyable movie "},{"Title":"This movie is hilarious and deserves at least one look over by all.","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Where do I begin?  First of all Lori Petty and Malcolm McDowell, how can we go wrong?  Sexy Lori Petty takes on the most powerful force left in the world, Water and Power led by Malcolm McDowell.  She seeks help from a mutant army of kangaroo men (the Rippers) including Ice-T clad in Ripper gear, to help her get back her friend from WP.  The movie is filled with beautiful comic animation interwoven with witty one liners and cyber punk clothing.  This movie is totally pro-feminism and the girl kicks butt! All i gots to say is Pa-pa-pa-Pow!  Give it a look over! "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen this film several times now and I still really like it. It's great fun and refreshingly different. The casting is inspired - I can't imagine anyone playing Tank Girl any better and the whole idea of Ice-T as a mutant kangaroo is hilarious. The comic-book style works so much better than it does in other more 'serious' films, like Dick Tracy or Batman. "}{"Title":"My top movie. Totally off the wall!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My top movie. Totally off the wall! Then again I loved Howard the Duck. If your looking for a movie where you can't predict what's going to happen next, try this one. It's also one of those instances where the cast must of had fun making the movie & it showed in the acting. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to say that not, this is not the world greatest movie.  HOWEVER, it is one of  the most fun things I have seen in ages.  A welcome release from testosterone ridden action films, it is great to see a girl kick some serious booty.  Malcolm McDowell has lost none of his creepy Clockwork Orange devilishness.  I have to admit, my best friend and I rented this on a whim, and it is one of my favorite good bad flicks.  Besides, too few action movies have musical numbers.  It is nice to see someone trying to tip that balance. "},{"Title":"A true girl-power flick","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lori Petty was born to play tank girl! Not that Niaomi Whatts is half bad, either.This is a movie for the nineties... full of spunk, great hair, and bad-ass chicks with attitude.  I have friends who would kill to be Rebecca.This movie not only embodies the girl-power feel of the nineties, it brings it's own sort of reality to the screen.  No one wants to see some pretty damsel swept up in the arms of some perfect, gorgeous guy.  Life's not like that.  Life is sweat, tears, and work.  Oh yah, and reality also includes the girl PICKING the guy... We don't want some guy, full of his own self importance, picking us up and taking us to Laa-Laa land.  We're people too!This is an awesome movie, for many reasons, most of which give away the plot.  So I won't spoil it for anyone... But I will tell you,  I've got 7 scenes memorized straight from the movie.That's how good it is. Oh yah, and it's not just for girls.  I know a bunch of guys who think it kicks... But that might just be the generous use of Lori's flesh. ;) "},{"Title":"OK if you like the main star!!B grade sci-fi !!!","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie stars Lori Petty as Tank Girl, in a world without water. The movie deals with a mad max like world. Then there are the bad guys Water and Power lead by Malcolm Mcdonnell(villain from Star Trek Generations). It has some OK action parts, but at times feels like a slow B grade science ficton movie. If you look carefully , you can star Richard Schiff(Forces of Nature,The West Wing,The Arrival) in the beginning of this movie!!I often wonder what the comic book was like as the director sometimes used comics to move the movie along!!If you like bad science fiction or Lori Petty , then you might just like this movie!BTW, the movie has a lot of alternative songs to the film's soundtrack!!!this is a movie I soon rather forget that i paid money to see this when it came out in the theater!!maybe if was on DVD, it would be better!!? "},{"Title":"Funny, weird and down right enjoyable to watch","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I loved it so much I bought it. the plot was intense ,the story line easy to follow and the characters were some of the  funniest that I have ever seen . All in all I would recommend it for anyone's vewing pleasure "},{"Title":"The best film ever made about Girl Power!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have seen the movie at least 20 times and I think it is a cool movie. Don't take it so hard, it's a fun move to entertain. A little bit of this and a little bit of that. Boys, go and hide someplace! Girls rule! Tank Girl Ladies, lock up your sons! "},{"Title":"killer movie with a strong female character","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I adore this movie. It's in my top 10 favorite movies of all time.I really like movies that portray strong, perhaps rebellious, female characters. Tank Girl (Rebecca) definitely fits the bill, a witty, take-no-crap chick who leads the way with an almost nonchalant air. And I love Tank Girl's hair and outfits.  She doesn't care what other people think about her.The writing is excellent, I think it's a great adaptation from the comics (one of the few comics I have ever read).  The witty word play is fun, the story is amusing and interesting (well done as a post-apocolypse movie, if not scientifically correct) and the characters are great, especially how Tank Girl holds everything together, and Jet Girl develops through the movie.      "},{"Title":"will be a cult movie classic","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm surprised with such a high rating that no-one else has bothered to comment.  Every moment was a chance for Lori Petty to charm us with her insanity and it was beautiful to see that Jetta's mind learned to enjoy situations with more ease as well.  Good character development for Jetta (but her only).  The rest was filled with slapstick and one-liners that keeps me on the floor even after seeing it 10 times.  The best part was Let's Do It - Cole Porter - 196(5?).  I was also glad to see the movie gave credit to it's 2D origin. "},{"Title":"A New Cult Classic, A Zany Sci-Fi Masterpiece","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To begin I personally am a fan of both Sci-Fi and of Action movies. I harkened back to the days of Mad Max and Solarbabies, Tank Girl's Genra Rivals.So I may exibit a bias in favor of movies of this particular Genre. I thought Tank Girl was a fantastic attempt to bring the spirit of an Irreverent Comic Book Charicter to the Big Screen. I understand that in order to make a movie such as Tank Girl marketable a Studio in this case United Artists must attempt to appeal to as many people as possable. Therefor some but clearly not all of the spirit of the origional Comic Book Charicter is lost.I have heard several reports about this film and let's just say that not all of them were favorable. However many people do not read comic books and therefore don't have the background to truly judge the attempt. If they had perhaps other comic to movie projects would have been reviewed more favorabley I.E. Judge Dredd, The Mask, Barb Wire.I must state that I don't think a movie could have been cast with more accuracy. Lori Petty is the perfect Rebecca a.k.a. Tank Girl. As her charicter Tank Girl She exuded irreverence, sarcasm, and spunk. Naomi Watts renderd a perfect Jet Girl A woman struggling to become herself. Ice-T was the perfect Ney-sayer, and Malcolm McDowell was evil incarnate.Personally I realy liked the movie. I attended the original screening at a local theater and I am an owner of the Home Video version of the film.I was terribly sad to hear that there was a lot of original footage cut from the final product. Perhaps this footage would have brought the full character development that many of the films critics thought was missing.I was Outraged that the Studio will not allow a Directors Cut. I sincerely hope they will someday. Perhaps a DVD special edition with all the missing footage... A videofile like me can only dream.  "},{"Title":"15 Times!!","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to say that this film definitely helps me through PMT!!!. All that pent up energy disappears while watching. Those who have seen it and are female will understand what I mean (I hope!). I have yet to find anyone who has seen this film more than me?. There isn't another film I have watched as much. Or maybe, then again, there is, but I am not going to tell you. It is sad really that while watching Tank Girl I am mouthing the words. I am a little envious due to the fact that the main character gets to play with big boys toys. Not only that she has a good old sing song too!! This panders to my theatrical needs. Watch it, now, I defy anyone not too!!! Great Acting from all the cast, you will definitely find a character to attach yourself to. "}{"Title":"one kick ass movie!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i absolutely love this movie. every time one of my friends come over, if they haven't seen it, i make em watch it! and so far every one of them has loved it! i really wish there was some where that i could get my hands on the comics! i also wish they would come out with a directors cut or something cuz if you haven't read up on any of the trivia stuff and what not that tell you what was cut from the original and such, its a little hard to follow the movie. i have found some goofs in the movie that aren't listed on the goofs page. one of them is when keslee asks tank girl how many of his men she killed. when he is told 8, it should really be nine. i found some others as well but i cant think of them off the top of my head right now.  "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie was FANTASTIC! It is funny, and she has a tank. What's not to like? It really is just a silly little movie, not to be taken very seriously, or at all for that matter. It's got the whole girl power thing going on too, which usually is kinda annoying, but works in this movie. and Tank Girl is so punky and cute(like, in an adorable kinda way)! the music is awesome too. It has Veruca Salt, which in and in it's self is fabulous. bush and hole too? wow! it's like a trip down musical memory lane for me. I would recommend everyone watch this movie, although it's the type of movie that most people would hate and think was stupid. i loved it....and I've always wanted a tank.   "},{"Title":"Kicks Ass","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you didn't like it, it is probably cause your some middle class khaki wearing square.  Well, that's most of the world I guess.  But this movie rocks.  It's stupid, it's funny, it has attitude.  Girls kick ass. "},{"Title":"Tank Girl, will you marry me?","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If A better hero/ine ever existed, i haven't seen them.  Tank Girl is perfect.  She can sing, dance, has a sense of humour, kicks some awesome ass, and is F***ING HOT!!! I don't see the big deal about jet girl, she isn't half the woman Tank Girl is.  This movie was awesome, too.  One of my faves.  It's not for everybody, though.  If you want a perfectly produced, oscar-worthy (even though the oscars are a joke), deeper meaninged film, skip this one.  If you want pure, raw, fun, go for it.  "},{"Title":"Avoid this film at all costs","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cannot understand how anyone could subject themselves to this awful awful film. It's just not a good movie. There is only one part of the plot that is acceptable (corporation controlling the worlds water), but thats the only part of the plot/rest of the movie that isnt revolting. Oh, and there's this 10 minute comic sequence of the girls customizing the tank. It's so long and boring, it'll really make you wonder who the green-lighted this junk1/10If you ever see this movie on the shelves of a video store, it is your civic duty to try to harm it in any way possible. The store owners might get mad at you at first, but that's only because they havn't seen the movie. "},{"Title":"And now, for something completely different... Tank Girl!!","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (Slight digression.) This movie reminds me of a bottle of French Bordeaux wine that I stumbled across several years ago in a wine shop in Seattle. At first glance, the wine was not particularly remarkable - it was from an average winery, was marked with a ridiculously low price, and nothing on the label indicated that it was quality goods. In other words, it was just a bottle of red. But I bought it anyway, figuring, just for a goof, I'd give it a try. To my immense surprise, it turned out to be an excellent wine - every bit as good as some of the better (and much higher priced) vintage French wines from the Bordeaux region. It had depth, character, complexity, hints and shades of this and that, and (oh heck, pick your own wine-snob jargon here!) - in short, it was a *really* good bottle of red wine.And so it turned out to be with this movie, Tank Girl. I tuned in to this movie the other day on the Comedy Channel. Having nothing better to do I figured it would be fun to watch what appeared to be your average CC comedy. But it turned out to be WAY better than my original anticipations.It's basically a very zany screwball sort of sci-fi comedy (I'm not sure what genre would neatly describe it - hence, sci-fi comedy). It's also a sort of psychedelic freak-out trip - a trip into a vast, dark/light futuristic wasteland populated by survivors of (what?) a giant comet splashing down on good old Mother Earth, which apparently causes the instant evaporation of nearly all surface water on the planet. And it hasn't rained in 11 years. As a result, all over the planet, water is in short supply (REAL short supply... like, Fancy a pint? Fuhgetaboutit!!). The movie basically revolves around the various schemes of various scheming people (headed by a delightfully diabolical madman named Kesslee, played by Malcolm McDowell - who, by the way, could easily have played Dr. Hannibal Lecter in Silence of the Lambs) to control the world's remaining artesian water.The good guys in this movie are, by and large, not guys, but girls (though if you are at all like me, you may be hard pressed to call Lori Petty a girl... oh yeah, and also there are the Rippers - interesting creatures who are good-guy kangaroo-men). Come to think of it, in many respects this is essentially a guy movie... it's just that it has butt-kickin' chicks playing some of the roles customarily occupied by guys.The movie on one level is a non-stop high-energy riot of laughs, spoofs, gags, smart-alecky oneliners, impossibly heroic stunts, corndog costumes (WAY corndog), wacky high-tech devices, goofball dialogue, and ham acting. But at the same time on yet another level, there are many segments of extremely provocative and eyebrow-raising harshness and seriousness. (I don't want to spoil anything for those who haven't seen it, but as an example, there is one scene that has the evil Kesslee taking a kidnapped little girl and sliding her down a long tube, where she becomes firmly jammed, and then the tube begins very slowly to fill with water, threatening her with certain drowning... It was disturbing, and positively creepy!).Thankfully I taped the movie and was able to watch it several more times - which is recommended, because, the movie moves along at a disarmingly fast pace (like a comet through a cat kennel) and you need to see several scenes more than once just to take in all the rich wacky variety that has been worked into them. Just looking at Tank Girl's costume in some scenes alone is an eye-popping experience she appears decked out in a charming, New Wave sort of Nuclear Chic - like, maybe to accessorize she stood down range from Crud Factory No. 1, which then got blown to bits by a nuclear bomb, and then all the crud (glowing radioactive, too) gently wafted down on her and stuck to her body. Yeah, that's how she really looks at times! And talk about a bad hair day - sheeesh! The hot winds from the aforementioned nuclear blast must have been used to blow-dry her hair. See the movie, you won't disagree.The soundtrack should appeal to many it is loaded with lots of edgy Punk/New Wave/Power Guitar riffs (and heck, Iggy Pop himself has a brief but funny appearance in the movie). I really liked the soundtrack, and plan on going out to purchase it.Granted, not everybody will like this sort of zany sci-fi comedy stuff... it IS sort of a brain freaker. But in more than a few ways it will remind you of another well-received movie from the same genre Earth Girls are Easy. It has that same irreverent chick-power charm, with lots of zany costuming, smart-alecky lines, strange looking creatures, etc. I quickly discovered that I liked this movie just as much as Earth Girls are Easy - I'm just a bit surprised that Tank Girl wasn't as well received.Yes, some of you, upon finishing the movie, will say Tank Girl? - Tank God it's over! Others, like me, will say, Tanks for the Memories! and will want to watch it again and again. And if you like it, go tell your friends to watch it. It really deserves more credit than it's been given, IMHO. It should also make for a good party film. Well, that's all I've got to say about Tank Girl. Tanks for listening, good night everybody!  "},{"Title":"Do you like mental gymnastics?","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I went to see this I knew of it through a friend who avidly collects this sort of graphic novel. I took a girlfriend who obviously hated the movie and I could understand why. It tended to be overloud with comic book graphics inserted throughout. For those not familiar with the original graphic novels these tended to confuse the viewer though they were intended to inform the audience about events. Along the line of a picture paints a thousand words and saves about a half hour of filming and 500,000. As a movie though it worked, but only if you were able to survive the mental anguish of following the action and then interpreting the meaning of the graphic that popped up for 5 seconds, and back to action but one week later after whatever the graphic meant. I could do it, but for most of the audience that day the movie was too much work to follow. If you are familiar with the Tank Girl books or like movies you can watch and learn more from on each showing then yes this one it is worth it. If you are renting a movie for a night then generally forget it. "},{"Title":"absolute fun!","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"15 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" i saw this film three times and i love it! it's so much fun to watch it. it's bright and funny. the main character is though she's quite childish, very sexy and a strong woman! and to everybody who says this film is stupidcome on!it's a comic! you can't make a comic serious! batman and robin is also not really serious,i meanlook at the penguin! it has to be weird and strange!bright and loud! it's fun,it's a party!when you watch it you also want to be as self confident and cool like the tank girl!..........i love it!the kangaroos are also quite cool!they got something that reminds to a motorcycle rider!if they were real men they would be quite sexy.....;-)WATCH IT!YOU'LL HAVE FUN!SURE! "},{"Title":"tanks a lot","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Mostly an excuse to be silly, Tank Girl is pretty fun. I'd never heard of the comic book when the movie came out, so the flick is my only exposure to the story of the tank-driving woman (Lori Petty) in a post-apocalyptic society battling a pernicious corporation that controls the entire water supply.I would say that the Rippers were probably the coolest characters in the movie. Naturally, it was a surprise all these years later to learn that the flick also starred a young Naomi Watts. But no matter what the case, this is one neat - if trivial - movie! Also starring Malcolm McDowell as the CEO; his role is like an evil version of Alex the Droog. "},{"Title":"Brush Your Teeth","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Warning The viewing of Tank Girl may cause cavities. This movie is so bad-for-you sweet, it's like a Gotta-Have-It sized Cold Stone Creamery creation with every topping. This is one of those movies where they threw everything on the wall to see what stuck. Imagine Natural Born Killers meets Mad Max meets Tomb Raider and throw some puppets in there and ya got this little gem. Lori Petty was born to play Tank Girl. Now, the plot may be crap, but the fact that they even tried to give it a plot is amazing, considering the sporadic epitome that is the comic. The Rippers are awesome, especially Ice-T. Malcom McDowell was always meant to play deliciously evil guys, even his villain here is a baby compared to Alex. The FX are fun to look at, the soundtrack is aggravatingly cool, and Tank Girl is everything you want from a heroin - tough and funny without being a huge slut (I'm talking to you, Megan Fox.) Leave your disbelief and your seriousness at the door and come enjoy the punk rock party that is TANK GIRL! "}{"Title":"Only For Hardcore Fans","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I REALLY tried to like this movie but it's just an hour or so of having your life wasted. I'm not saying it's the worst movie ever but it's not gonna be remembered at all. The jokes are lame; the acting is worse and it has Ice-T in it...I like Ice-T but come on! As the headline insists, this is for only HARDCORE fans of either the comic or kangaroos (lol)at the very least. I never read the comic but after seeing this waste, I'm guessing and hoping it's A lot better in non-real form. I have no idea what genius said, Hey, this will be an entertaining movie! but I hope they fired, tormented and made fun of his/her weight problem! Because the day Tank Girl got green lighted, it was destined to get a 3 out of 10! "},{"Title":"No wonder it tanked!","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm almost through watching this drivel.  I usually wait until the end of the movie before I even think of writing a review at IMDB.  But this film is so awful, I might as well do it now. What can I say?  There's so much wrong with it.  Like Lori Petty for instance, who looks anorexic. Another poster mentioned Gwen Stefani as a better choice.  That sounded like more inspired casting to me.  Even Cyndi Lauper, though a tad past it, would've been good.  If there's much of a story, besides the quest for water, I can't see one.  The only really good bits of the film, are when the cartoon sequences appear.  And you think to yourself Why didn't they just make the whole darn thing as a feature length comic strip. "},{"Title":"Whoa..","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Saw this today.  I have a few things to say about it.. first of all, I kept imaginging Tank Girl would have been much betterplayed by Gwen Stefani, since she already had that punk kind of look.  Second.. now I've found out what discovered all the punk-poseurs of today.  My school is filled with them, and the vast majority are just wannabes with nothing intelligent or witty to say.  They just try to dress different, but theres so many of them its not even different anymore. This movie was ok I guess.  To quote someone who posted before, yeah, her voice was really grating.  That was probably the worst part.  The idea of it being in the future and holding the water was pretty cool, but they didnt go into that enough, taking a lot away from the film.  I give this erm.. i dunno, a 6/10 I suppose.  Between 6 and 7.  I'd recommend seeing it, just because you can learn where all the punk-poseurs have come from too. "},{"Title":"Naomi Saved it.","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie basically sucked, but Naomi Watts completely saved the movie. If she wasn't in it, I would have turned it off. She lights up any screen. I am surprised that she didn't get popular sooner. Now back to the movie, the makeup was good, with the Kangaroo men things (The Rippers) and I suppose it followed the comic book well, but it's too twisted to be a movie. "},{"Title":"Kinda annoying","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, Lori Petty is not a pretty (get it?) woman. Second, it get's REALLY annoying hearing her every 30 seconds go Pa-Pow or BOOM! or whatever else she must say to try and make the movie funny. Her outfits and hair styles are ugly and her singing voice sucks.  Pretty good idea for a story though In the future, a comet crashes on earth destroying just about everything. (hmmm...Mel Gibson...Mad Max...)There is a limited supply of water left. (hmmm...Mel Gibson..Mad Max...limited supply of gas...) and the survivors of earth will do anything to get it. (hmmm...Mel Gibson..Mad Max...fighting for the gas...) ok I'll stop.There is a facility where the Water and Power operate. One of the best villians ever created wants every drop of water for himself.Good idea for a movie...if Mel Gibson hadn't done a similar movie already!!! What were they thinking casting a nearly bald and hideous woman like Lori?!Oh and the Rippers...pretty good...not the type of people I would've casted for the parts...but whatever... If they had casted someone else to play Tank Girl and the Rippers this could've been pretty good.  8/10 on the story 6/10 for the movie overall  "},{"Title":"I tried by best to like this movie.....","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"     But in the end I regreted ever seeing it.  It's just another one of those post-apocolypic sci-fi movies.  Tank Girl actually had me rooting for Malcolm McDowell's character.  Lori Petty didn't even act like a super heroine, she kept making these lame wise-cracks every five minutes.  Instead she had the personality of Misty Williams (from Pokemon) on crack cocaine!   Also, the pathetic choice of cast members like Ice-T playing a kangaroo?  And the soundtrack that had one of Courtney Love's songs on there!  Yuck!  And this was one of her favorite movies so to speak! Quadruple yuck!  What a waste of time this was when I saw it.  The only good thing about this movie was that they played a Nirvana song in it.  And the way the little girl who was a friend of hers got kidnapped really offended me because I thought that was child exploitation.  If I had known someone like Tank Girl at that age, I would've been scared of her!  I never liked rap music, either.  This movie was a total travesty in every way, shape, and form.   Tank Girl is a negative example of girl power.  If you want to see some real girl power in action, then go rent Charlie's Angels or Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, or watch an episode of Martial Law instead.  In the meantime, avoid this movie at all costs!  Listen to a Nirvana album instead!  )  I give Tank Girl zero stars! "},{"Title":"Comics on Screen","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Tank Girl' is the kind of film you expect it to be very bad, but somehow ends being better than the worst that you expected. Inspired by a comics series, it mixes actual comics titles with film. The characters are no more complex than comics characters, and the action-filled story ends by repeating itself. However, if you get in the mood, and if you ever liked reading comics stories, you may survive the film. Some of the effects are good, though most of them smell cheap budget. Punk and hard rock dominate the soundtrack, as you may expect. 5/10 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"what were they thinking???","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not sure where to start.  The script was putrid backwash from some writer's subconscious.  I could have made a better movie using action figues in my back yard with a super-8 camera and a box of cheetos.  That chester cheetah, what a guy.  Malcolm Macdowell must have been eating out of dumpsters to accept this obviously half-dimensional role.  Where did all these moronic one-liners that poured from Tank Girl's mouth come from?  She would act ten times more skillfully if she got a lobotomy.  There's only thing i can say about casting Ice-T in this movie  Why?   I hope the madness will end someday.  There was only one redeeming characteristic about this movie, and that was jet-girl. She was a babe.  Too bad she was covered in grease for most of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Trash comically bad the worst movie of all time 0/10","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" this movie is the worst movie of all time without a doubt.trash.there's no substance.Please, don't waste your money.crazy director.boring. unwatchable trash,garbage,rubbish,dumps,horrible,terrible,clueless, pointless,boring,meaningless,purposeless,senseless,nonsensical,and inane.Malcolm Macdowell worst role.Ice-T's worst role.Lori Petty's worst role of all time.Lori Petty is very sexy, but Tank Girl is pointless.if i can do anything,then i banned this movie for the whole world.actually i'm Ice-T's biggest fan,but this role is brainless and pointless.director made very bad work. i don't recommend it to watch even to my biggest enemy.Police Academy's and Tank Girl are the worst movies of all time,but Tank Girl is worst. "},{"Title":"Great fun and brainless","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you want 90 minutes of mindless fun, this is the film for you. Pretty silly stuff with a standard post-apocalyptic storyline. I liked the overall imagination and intermixing of the original comic book text and real life, with some great tunes thrown in. The problem is the characters never really made it credible-as either cartoon stand-ins or real life. Ice-T plays his standard cardboard character that he plays in every movie and you'll either like Lori Petty's girl with attitude role (especially if you are 14 year old male or younger) or you won't. Personally it started to grate on my nerves about half way thru. The brainy sidekick was not only completely unbelievable (single handedly creating a tank and jet fighter that responds to voice commands) but not terribly well acted either(first role perhaps?)-OK I know it was supposed to be fantasy.In the end the comic strip was probably better. "}{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lori Petty is beyond obnoxious in the movie Tank Girl which casts her as a tank girl who with her kangaroo boyfriend(!) (Ice-T) take on a corporation who control the water supply in this irritating cyberpunk thriller which just doesn't have the right stuff to truly entertain, Tank Girl also boasts the most irritating protagonist since Pauly Shore joined the army. Pretty rotten stuff. "}]