[{"Title":"Thank you, Chris Farley, wherever you are...","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As it turns out, Chris Farley and David Spade only made three movies together (Coneheads, Tommy Boy and Black Sheep), but this was truly the Citizen Kane of their pairings. Farley plays Thomas Callahan III, the dimwitted heir to an auto parts company. His father Big Tom (Brian Dennehy) hires mild-mannered Richard Hayden (David Spade) to look after him. Big Tom is getting married to a ten (Bo Derek), so everything has to be in order. After Big Tom suddenly dies, Tommy and Richard have to try to sell half a million auto parts to save the company from bankruptcy. From then on, the movie is pretty much an excuse for Chris Farley to do what he does best make a mess of everything.When this movie first came out in the theaters, I saw it with my grandfather. He figured out early on that the Bo Derek and Rob Lowe characters were hiding something. But you can completely ignore that and simply luxuriate in Chris Farley's antics. Nothing is safe around his stomach, and hell hath no fury like his happy-go-lucky attitude. The scene where he sets the cars on fire, and later the deer scene, make for a pure laugh riot. Chris Farley and David Spade were truly the John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd of their era. It's a pleasure to always be able to think about Fat guy in a little coat time and again. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of the '90's","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film knowing absolutely nothing about both it and its stars, Chris Farley and David Spade, and I have to say that this film is a comic classic. It is so stupid at times that it can only be hilarious. Farley is brilliant as the bumbling idiot who takes to the road with his dad's right hand man (the equally excellent Spade) to find the funding to save the families 'auto parts' business. Relax, put your brain on auto-pilot and soak up the fun. A great supporting cast features film favourites such as Brian Dennehy (Cocoon), Rob Lowe (Wayne's World) and Bo Derek (10). Highly recommended for a good laugh.  "},{"Title":"Still funny after all these years...","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I know, it's not THAT old of a movie, it only dates to 1995. However, so much has happened in our world since then, it just *seems* like it's been around for years.I think the movie is very good and very funny, and certainly much better than critics gave it credit for (every time I see it in the TV listings it has only one star by it. Why?!). I watch it routinely (it's on TV a lot, especially USA network). Two things I like about it are the pacing, and the deeper story that plays in the background.First, the pacing this movie hits the deck running and never stops moving, it just keeps rolling right along, from one nutty event to the next, but it is all carefully intertwined and everything works in   symmetry to bring the viewer to the (admittedly schmaltzy) happy ending. Anyway, I like it when a movie maintains a good pace or a rhythm, never letting itself get too bogged down. Tommy Boy is one of those.Second, the deeper story in the background all the times I've watched this movie, I've never lost sight of the fact that the story didn't just revolve around some big dumb guy who couldn't seem to find his way out of a wet paper bag. No, there was always in the background the sad issue of Tommy Boy's beloved father dying. Plus, another sobering issue, that of how all this will lead to rather dire economic consequences for a business (Callahan Autoparts) that's been around for a long time and has employed lots of people in the town of Sandusky. Those two grim facts of life - death in the family and impending economic consequences - make this movie more compelling watching than one may realize, and I think this movie will hold up well over the years to come just for those reasons.But enough with the gloom already. This movie is just plain FUNNY, thanks not just to Chris Farley, but to an entire cast that seems to work really well together. I couldn't envision the cast members being changed or replaced in any form. And Chris Farley did such a seamless depiction of this funny guy named Tommy Boy, that I still, in my heart of hearts, just know that there really IS a big dumb funny guy named Tommy Callahan, somewhere in Sandusky, Ohio, who is running an autoparts factory. No, there really IS a Tommy Callahan, believe me... It's kinda' like Pee-Wee Herman that wasn't really an actor named Paul Reubens playing him, no! - there really IS a Pee-Wee Herman, who is totally in love with his bicycle, and has a dog named Speck...Funny, but I look at waitresses in restaurants just a little differently now (thanks to that wonderful scene where Tommy Boy explains to Helen why he sucks as a salesman). And any time I'm feeling down, I just remember Fat guy in a little coat. Hey, Prehistoric Forest! Holy Schnikees! Hey, quit playin' with yer dinghy! plus many other lines, LOL LOL Those will always cheers me up!  "},{"Title":"Great Comedy Everyone Needs to See","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"32 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a comedy in which Thomas 'Tommy' Callahan III (Chris Farley) who is a slow-witted, clumsy guy who recently graduated college after attending for seven years. His father, Thomas 'Big Tom' Callahan II (Brian Dennehy), owns an auto parts factory in Ohio. When Tommy arrives back home, he finds he has a position at the factory waiting for him. His dad also introduces Tommy to the new brake pad division of the factory and to Tommy's soon-to-be stepmother, Beverly Barish-Burns (Bo Derek), and her supposed son Paul Barish (Rob Lowe). But when Big Tom dies, the factory threatens to go under unless the new brake pads are to be sold. Therefore, Tommy must go on the road to sell them, along with the assistance of Richard Hayden (David Spade), Big Tom's right-hand man.  Beverly and Paul who are con artists and also husband and wife who try to con Tommy and his family out of the company's money.  Tommy and Richard travel all over the Midwestern United States trying to sell a half a million brake pads.  If they don't sell the half a million brake pads, the company will be sold to Ray Zalinsky (Dan Aykroyd).  This movie is full of great laughs and everybody will enjoy it. If Chris Farley was alive today, I bet there would be many more great and funny movies like this one.  There are plenty of great passages that I hear everyday from this movie.  I have seen it so many times I have lost count. I pretty much know it by heart.  It is that great of a movie.  Everybody needs to see it. "},{"Title":"Top movie","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film should go down as a slapstick comedy classic. Farley's untimely death should be lamented, he was a comic god. This movie is unashamedly stupid, but if you'll just relax it's also one of the funniest films you'll ever see.Ok, it has a paper-thin plot, but it does contain some cinematic firsts a moose breaking its way out of a classic car; Rob Lowe being electrocuted through his pecker; a fat man in a little coat.See this film. Twice "},{"Title":"Chris Farley at his best","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can you say about Tommy Boy, well its without a doubt stupid, over the top, and not a film with any real message to make you think about life in general. But its also a very, very funny film and most likely my favorite Chris Farley film (Black Sheep coming a close second).I should point out that i am English so i haven't seen any Saturday Night Live shows and only know Farley and Spade from their films and Spades stand up comedy. I think that if you want a film to watch that kills an hour and a half and keeps you laughing from start to finish then this is for you.It does have moments of slushy i love you in it but they are very few and far between and the slapstick comedy is well worth the wait. The story line is very basic, Farley must sell his late fathers brake pads to keep his business alive. But its the amount of situations that both Farley and Spade encounter along the way that make the film so funny and watchable.I can't say enough about this film to really sell it to anyone but it simply is a very, very funny film and ironicly if it has a message to leave the viewer with its how sad the loss of Farley is and how much great comedy was lost once he died.Watch this filmRotten Addict! "},{"Title":"Farley's Best Movie By Far!","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has everything! It has a good storyline, good acting, great scenery, adventure and some brilliant gags! Chris Farley plays Tommy Callaghanhe mega successful company 'Callaghan Auto Parts' has to go on the road to stop the company going under after Big Tom dies. The trouble is that Tommy knows nothing about break pads and needs the help of Callaghan Auto Parts worker Richard (David Spade). From the moment the two dorks hit the road, the movie is just so much fun. If you love slapstick with a great storyline you'll love this because the gags keep coming thick and fast and the movie will just make you laugh out loud! It was so sad about Farley's untimely death in 1997, but a credit to his genius is 'Tommy Boy'. Get it, chill out and enjoy this brilliant slapstick! "},{"Title":"If you didn't find this funny, then you need to find a sense of humor","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I watch this film (or portions of it) every time it comes on television. I don't buy many DVDs, but this is one I will definitely make an exception for eventually. Chris Farley and David Spade's antics have been well documented in the other reviews, but in addition to the comedy, you might also find yourself shedding a bit of a sentimental tear. There is one particular scene that had me going from tears of sentiment to tears of laughter in a matter of seconds (the sing-a-long in the car - you know the one if you've seen the movie). Even Rob Lowe had some very funny moments. Frankly, I don't know how they ever managed to finish this movie, as I wouldn't have been able to keep a straight face had I been one of the actors. I imagine there were a lot of re-takes.If nothing else, this certainly has to feature the funniest cow-tipping scene ever filmed, though I'd be hard pressed to cite other such scenes. Unlike many of the recent comedies, this one is funny throughout. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The second hardest I ever laughed at a theater.","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I won't go into great details about this film, basically because there aren't many worth mentioning. It's just a funny little romp with Farley and Spade annoying each other and trying to sell some brake pads in their spare time. I must however say that one scene almost had me on the sticky floor of the theater because I was laughing so hard. In the scene, the duo are driving down a highway in Spade's recently trashed GTX. An old Carpenters song is playing on the radio and the two are emotionally singing along with it. That alone is funny enough, then the hood of the car pops up and they skid wildly out of control. This produces a hilarious argument culminating in Spade smacking Farley in the head with a 2x4.The only time I have ever laughed harder in public was during the snowman scene in Dumb and Dumber.That's really all I have to say about this film. Farley was an adorable slug of a guy. I miss him, even though some of his films were real stinkers.I'd give it 8 of 10 stars.So sayeth the Hound.  "},{"Title":"Greatest Comedy Of The 90's","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is by far my favorite movie of all time. There is just no comparison to this film.The title may seem stupid, and it may look like another American Pie, but no. This movie actually is quite good and well written. The jokes are hilarious and you will be laughing every minute of this movie.There is not one moment of this film that I didn't like. It even has a great plot to it. Tommy, a hopeless 20 something who just graduated college returns to his hometown of Sandusky, Ohio. He is given a job at this father's auto part company, even though he isn't very smart. Tragedy strikes though, when Tommy's father dies and the company is in danger. In order to save the company Tommy must sell at least a half a million of the company's break pads in order to pay off the bank.To do this Tommy (Christ Farley), goes on an insane road trip with Richard (David Spade). Richard, a smart and sarcastic man, is reluctant to help Tommy. He thinks the entire trip will just be a failure.I won't give away the ending, but the end result of this film is great. Its a good comedy. Chris Farley was hilarious in this film, him and Spade are magic together. "}{"Title":"Take my word for it.","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy finally graduates from college after 7 years. Then he works in his fathers factory. But after some sad events Tommy goes on the road with Richard to sell brake pads. What's funny about that is they are two opposites and they get on each others nerves. David Spades sarcasm fits perfectly into this movie. I love all of his little comments about Tommy.I especially loved the part where they run over that deer and shove it in the back seat of the car. That was awesome! So was the part where Tommy took his new brother to the cow farm. He was a maniac! Take my word for it that you won't stop laughing! "},{"Title":"Great Comedy","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Boy is one of those rare movies that will make you laugh out loud even if you're sitting alone in your home watching it on video. It is a genuine tragedy that Chris Farley died so young, given his comic potential. When Tommy Boy first came out, I thought SNL alums Farley and Spade had the potential to be a modern-day Hope/Crosby comedy team- doing a series of movies together, playing more or less the same type of characters and entertaining us with their adventures. Though their subsequent buddy flick, Black Sheep, was a much weaker film, it showed that the duo had the potential to continue churning out comedies while sticking to the basic formula. Had Chris Farley still been alive, he most certainly would have starred alongside Spade in Lost & Found (the buddy part was written with him in mind), and continued the trend. Tommy Boy is one of the most entertaining, quotable, genuinely funny comedies of its generation! "},{"Title":"Greatest Comedy","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you haven't seen Tommy Boy, I just feel sorry for you. Where I live, it's been everyones favorite comedy for ten straight years. Also, Black Sheep is another great one with Chris Farley and David Spade. This movie is pure, clean comedy unlike some of todays films. You'll laugh the hardest you've ever had, and you'll wonder why you hadn't seen it earlier. When Farley and Spade are on the same screen, it's beautiful. They contrast each other perfectly. I don't understand the low rating on this site. It's a shame people rated it so poorly. Spade really has some good one liner sarcasms that are gut splitting, and Farley has idiotic one liners the are hilarious. Even if you don'y like this movie, it gives you social status because its the talk of parties everywhere. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Brand of Humor with Subtle Message","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was right on! Been my favorite since a long time. Its all funny and all but if you watch the movie more carefully a third or fourth time, there are subtle messages that would help many people get thru hard parts in his/her life. This, at least in my opinion.If you ain't seen this movie....RENT IT and WATCH IT NOW! Its on the lines of movies like dumb & dumber, the water boy, just in case the 'intelligent' humor types are wanting to know what kind of humor, Tommy Boy is about! Well I have nothing else much to say, but if anyone liked Tommy Boy, mail me, I'll suggest more killer movies. Right now Will Ferrell is the rib tickling funny man of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Favorite Movie Of All Time","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is my favorite movie ever, and I know most of the movie by heart now. This is one of the few movies to have ever made me laugh until I cry. I first saw tommy boy at the age of about 10, and thought that Chris Farley was the funniest man alive. Years after his death, I still hold that to be true. Farley as a child-like college graduate and David Spade as his Wise-cracking, impatient partner are the perfect roles for each. Who can watch the deer/car scene or Farleys other guy's brake pads speech without laughing? I recommend this movie to Farley/Spade fans, Saturday Night Live Alumni fans, Silly comedy fans, and those who liked Black Sheep. "},{"Title":"!!!Great One!!!","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think Tommy Boy was one of Chris Farley & David Spades funniest movies. It showed they're acting ability and the true friendship of the two great actors.  The on-screen chemistry between these two were legendary. Nobody will ever be able to fill Mr. Farley's shoes...ever!  RIP- Chris Farley "},{"Title":"A personal favourite.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favourite comedy films.  Chris Farley is hilarious as the accident prone moron and David Spade is perfect playing the straight-man to Farley.The dialogue between the two of them is brilliant. The scene where the two of them are in the car singing along to Superstar by The Carpenters is a classic.Chris Farley was a great comic actor who had amazing potential - he will be sadly missed. "},{"Title":"Housekeeping!","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Farley and Spade's best work ever.  It's one of the all-around funniest movies I've ever seen.  Watch it once and you'll be hooked and soon have all the lines memorized.  No sleepy for Tommy Boy!  "},{"Title":"Hilarious hilarious film.  Chris Farley is missed","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, on the day that Rob Schneider plunges himself further into the black hole of notoriously bad movies by starring in the absolutely not-at-all-wanted Deuce Bigalow European Gigolo (hmmmm....wasn't there a film called Roadtrip which was followed by a sequel called Eurotrip? And now there's Deuce Bigalow Male Gigolo followed by sequel Deuce Bigalow European Gigolo.......I smell a pattern. Perhaps soon there will be Spiderman European webs are Hotter.....or not) I am writing about this much maligned (at time of release) film. I was one of those maligners, I must admit. I turned my nose up at it even while Chris Farley shoved cocaine up his nose and the SNL cast struggled through one of the worst seasons in their history in '94-'95, the Norm McDonald anchorship notwithstanding. Films like Happy Gilmore, Tommy Boy, and Black Sheep came out in the couple years after this period and we realized there was a dark future for the caliber of Spade-Farley-Schneider-Sandler films. However I watched this film the other day, ten years after and 8 years after Chris died and could not stop laughing. Yes it's not particularly sophisticated. Farley does what Farley does (not unlike Manny being Manny) but his Van Down By the River motivational speaker shtick in which he laments that while he may not wash enough or wear well-fitting clothes or use deodorant more than twice a week translates well here as the ever self-effacing character who realizes he's not the brightest, not the best-looking, and could stand to lose a few pounds. All the same, he's trying his best to do what he's supposed to. And David Spade just tosses off his snide one-liners as he did for Spade's Hollywood Minute and basically stings Farley's self-esteem. There's really not a whole lot more to say than that. I love the one scene when Farley catches Spade spanking his monkey and then makes a couple quips about it. Can't remember what the first one is but the second one, they're lying in their hotel beds and Farley says to Spade, Do you like baseball?. Spade mutters something inaudible in response and Farleys says, the New York YANK-ees? Anyway Farley does his awkward, painfully sensitive, frat-boy shtick. If you like, you like it. I couldn't stop laughing. "},{"Title":"dynamic duo Farley and Spade","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Callahan III (Chris Farley) is a dumb good-natured klutz who finally graduates college after seven years. His father Big Tom Callahan (Brian Dennehy) owns a family auto parts empire in Sandusky, Ohio but it's not going well. Nevertheless, Big Tom is taking out new loans to start up a new brake pad factory and marrying Beverly (Bo Derek). Beverly's son Paul (Rob Lowe) is a jerk. Big Tom puts resentful Richard Hayden (David Spade) in charge of looking after Tommy. Tommy reconnects with former schoolmate and shipping manager Michelle Brock (Julie Warner). When Big Tom dies, the bank reneges on the promise loan until Tommy puts everything he owns on the line. Tommy goes on the road to sell brake pads with a reluctant Richard Hayden.Chris Farley is naturally adorable and a great physical comic. He exudes charm. David Spade is his perfect partner with his sarcastic superior manner. The movie excels when the duo is on the screen together. It doesn't work quite as well without both guys together. They are simply a hilarious team. "}{"Title":"Tommy Boy Review A 9er out of 10","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Comedy is one of the most popular genres in the movie business. Many comedies are only good for a few half-hearted laughs. Others are good for a hearty chuckle, but lack a decent plot to make the movie memorable. A select few can connect to the audience with an engaging plot paired with hilarious jokes and lines that everyone will be saying for years to come. Tommy Boy is definitely in the latter of these categories.If an interesting plot is what you're looking for, Tommy Boy delivers. Tommy Callahan (Chris Farley), a fresh college grad, but also a dimwitted goof off, inherits his father's auto part business after his sudden death. His father was a smooth talking, legendary car parts salesman, and the business is in trouble after his death. Tommy must take over the business and is faced with something he's never had in his entire life, responsibility. He embarks on a trip to sell a new line of brake pads in order to save his business, and the jobs of all his workers. He experiences many obstacles and challenges along the way. This plot, paired with a mystery, a love story, and downright hilarious scenes, makes this movie one to remember.Backing up the plot, there is a cast of great actors, including the dynamic duo of Chris Farley and David Spade. These two actors make the movie what it is. The always loud and obnoxious Chris Farley is perfect for the part of Tommy, a loud-mouthed dimwitted fool. David spade is as sarcastic as ever in his portrayal of Richard, the sarcastic know-it-all who accompanies Tommy on the brake pad selling journey. These two very different characters' bickering and disagreements, paired with the ridiculous situations they find themselves, are the main source of humor in this movie.With Tommy and Richard's crazy situations, along with other hilarious moments involving the rest of the supporting cast, Tommy Boy has everything a movie needs to be considered a great comedy. Between the slapstick humor, the crazy situations, the foolish actions and statements of Tommy, the sarcastic retorts of Richard, and the memorable lines that will be repeated by everyone for years, there is hardly any room to stop laughing.Behind every great movie is a great director, and Tommy Boy has Peter Segal to back it up. Peter Segal has made many great comedies including The Longest Yard, 50 First Dates, and Anger Management. He by no means mars his reputation with this movie, but rather bolsters it. The movie is very well done and organized, and keeps the interest of the audience. Tommy Boy is perhaps the best and most memorable of his impressive list of comedies.Even with a great plot, and endless laughs, no movie can be perfect. Tommy Boy, like all comedies has jokes that are a bit over the top and some that fail to be funny. But all in all Tommy Boy is hilarious and a movie worth watching. It is most definitely deserving of a 9er out of 10. "},{"Title":"So So Funny","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are only so many iconic funny films out there and this is one of them. People may think the film is stupid and has no message but I think as long as you can watch it over and over again and still think it's funny then it should be in the history books and worthy of my gratitude.How many films do you watch once and never watch again!!!! This is a tribute to Chris Farley and even Black sheep was brilliant but not as good, but I can still watch it over and over and be in stitches. David spade is absolutely brilliant also as is a very funny actor and comedian.My hat off to them both.RIP Chris Farley. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Granted, I'm an avid Spade and Farley fan...but I cherish this movie. Light-hearted, slapstick humor, and the 90's Belushi and Ackroyd...how can you lose? It's not meant to be taken seriously, but it's unexpectedly heartwarming and hilarious to witness Spade and Farley as they were in real life...best friends and comrades. The chemistry is undeniable, and in addition to the wonderful duo are Rob Lowe, Brian Dennehy, Bo Derek, and Dan Ackroyd himself. If you love the Spade and Farley you've seen on Saturday Night Live, you'll appreciate this movie. I've seen it a million and one times, and it never gets old. It remains a classic in my house. "},{"Title":"A film that knows its audience, its goal, and its standards","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The humor in Tommy Boy is nothing of high quality, and people shouldn't look at it as the funniest film ever made. It's a mindless, joyous, rowdy ride through non-offensive material with two lead actors giving their all and forming simple and sincere chemistry. Now how can you hate a movie like that? The hate that this film has gotten is undeserving, really. It's nothing more than comedic fluff. Slapstick is a hard thing to achieve, and usually dumb laughs are the only thing a movie in this genre does achieve. Tommy Boy achieves great chemistry between two actors, good laughs, and sincere characters all in its short runtime. To begin with, when dealing with slapstick you need a likable, unoffensive star who is capable of being sweet and goofy. Farley just works. And he shows it explicitly here.Plot-wise, the film focuses on goofball Tommy Callahan III (Farley) who has just graduated College and is on to take over his father's company, Callahan Autos. His father (Dennehy) is about to get married again, but collapses and dies while dancing on his big night. Callahan Autos is trying to sell half a million brake pads, and now their time is shortened even more seeing as the death of their boss has left them very vulnerable.Tommy teams up with Richard (Spade), a goody two-shoes employee of his fathers who is jealous of Tommy's nice treatment and ability to be lackadaisical and be rewarded for it, to try and sell as many break pads to different companies across the US so they can make one last attempt to save the company.As you can imagine, the trip is where the duo are going to encounter the most antics. Some are funny, some are tone-deaf and go on for way too long. Tommy Boy does rip off some more successful films like the pool scene from National Lampoon's Vacation, but after a while, it begins to fade into the background and it's something that isn't obtrusive before long.This is a different kind of buddy comedy, because the buddies aren't really buddies, but rather, acquaintances. They're not two best friends hanging out, having fun on a road trip. One's antics leave the other one in a state of overwhelming disgust. Richard becomes Tommy's critic, smart-Alec self-conscious, and verbal abuser. In fact, Spade gets the most laughs out of everyone in the film. Farley is usually the but of every joke, as you'd expect. So maybe Farley isn't a good actor as much as he is a good punchline? Director Peter Segal also worked the camera when it was time to shoot Naked Gun 33⅓ The Final Insult, so it's possible that a year later he'd like to spoof the buddy comedy genre by ultimately incorporating two characters who just simply tolerate each other for much of the film. Of course that is as far-fetched of an explanation I think I ever went for. Tommy Boy is funny and that's all there is to it. It's charming, creative, and works on the level it wants to.Starring Chris Farley, David Spade, Bo Derek, Julie Warner, Dan Aykroyd, Brian Dennehy, and Rob Lowe (uncredited). Directed by Peter Segal. "},{"Title":"Entertaining!","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a funny film - genuinely. It produces a few giggles and one or two howls of laughter.Chris Farley is great, as usual. Totally unique and talented. But he plays a really talentless young man in this film, who screws up everything. Skinny David Spade is the perfect choice as the exact opposite of the over-weight Farley. Things he says, especially some of his side remarks, are really quite amusing.The funniest scene is at the petrol station. I find that just hilarious.If you're looking for a 90 minute piece of half decent entertainment that is really simple to follow, then here is a film for you. It'll be cheap wherever you get it from. "},{"Title":"Tommy Boy (1995) - Holy Schnikes!","Date":"2 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Chris Farley and David Spade star in the ultimate buddy picture that contains all the funny moments, and the heartwarming material. Tommy Boy takes place on Chris Farley going on an important business trip, taking the place of his deceased father, that can mean the jobs of everybody in Sandusky, with David Spade along for the ride. With a new family that could mean trouble that tries to bring down Callahan auto, Tommy must sell about half a million brake pads, before the factory goes under. Now, Chris Farley may bring too much energy, and turn into a maniac, but it's just way too funny, and the dynamic duo of Farley and Spade end up creating a hilarious chemistry between the two buddies, after working with each other on Saturday Night Live. SNL creator Lorne Michaels has helped make the movie become an SNL sketch, or a long SNL sketch. So the movie was funny in every way, and the well-written wacky script felt so comedic and way deserving. From running over a dead deer, dancing in the gas station with cow crap all over, to Dan Aykroyd's incredible cameo role, Tommy Boy is a well-deserving laugh, and it's fun to never forget it. Tommy Boy, in my review, a well-deserved comedy from the minds of SNL. "},{"Title":"A movie that will always hold a special place in my heart","Date":"5 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've watched this movie on a fairly regular basis for most of my life, and it never gets old. For all the snide remarks and insults (mostly from David Spade), Tommy Boy has a giant heart. And that's what keeps this movie funny after all these years.Tommy Callahan (Chris Farley) is the son of Big Tom Callahan (Brian Dennehy), master car parts salesman, and has ridden on that all his life. But after his dad dies on his wedding day, Tommy learns that the company is in debt, and about to be bought by Ray Zalinsky (Dan Akroyd), the owner of a huge car parts company. So in order to save the company, Tommy has to go on the road to sell the company's new brake pads. Along for the ride, though not by choice, is Richard Hayden (David Spade) a former classmate of Tommy's who was Big Tom's right-hand man.The movie rides on the chemistry between the two SNL stars (and real-life best friends) Chris Farley and David Spade. The duo has enough comic energy going between them to power the world. It's the big, dumb guy versus the smart little guy. It works, and some of their scenes are unforgettably funny. Farley and Spade are actually decent dramatic actors as well. Although the film is primarily a comedy, it has its fair share of drama, but Spade and especially Farley are just as good there as when they're making the audience laugh.Forgive me, but I have to talk about Chris Farley a little more. I read his biography (The Chris Farley Show A Biography in Three Acts, for anyone who cares), and understanding who Chris was in real life made this movie more special to me. Chris Farley was a genuinely good person who struggled, and ultimately failed to conquer his addictions. Although this was the first movie he had a major role in, it is his best film. It really showed who he was, and just how much talent he had. Knowing Chris's story adds another layer to this movie, although it doesn't make it any less funny.Farley and Spade are matched with a good on screen cast. Rob Lowe is suitably slimy as Tommy's new brother, and Bo Derek is solid as his step-mother. Brian Dennehy is great as Big Tom. Dennehy makes it easy to believe that they're father in son. Big Tom is just as crazy as his son, although he's smarter and more mature. Dan Akroyd gives one of his best performances as Zalinsky, giving Tommy the hard truth behind advertising. Julie Warner is also good as Tommy's love interest, Michelle.For me, Peter Segal is one of the great comedy directors. He keeps the pace quick and energetic, but most importantly, he knows how to make comedy funny. He doesn't belabor the jokes, and he understands that funny actors know what they're doing and he allows them to do it. But Segal goes a step further. He gives Tommy Boy a friendly, almost nostalgic tone that both tugs the heartstrings (genuinely) and tickles the funnybone.Critics didn't like Tommy Boy. Shame on them. A movie doesn't have to be super sophisticated or subversively intellectual to be funny (God forbid Farley and Spade were forced to do muted comedy a la The Office). This is a great movie and one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"A film that captured Farley at his best","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There were very few truly classic Chris Farley movies. He died before being able to develop fully into a great comedic actor. The movies we have though, give us a glimpse of what could have been. Tommy Boy was the best of Farley's cinematic efforts. His pacing was great, his innocence and excitement are overwhelming and infectious throughout the film. The dialogue between Farley and Spade is so well delivered, that one can listen to it over and over (and thank you sir for choosing me).The scenes that i think capture Farley's genius (and Spade's perfection in delivery) are the sales scenes (especially when Farley sets the man's models on fire. His escape into his imagination is wonderful, and it is something that leaves me breathless every time (as i am laughing so hard). Also, don't forget the wonderful line, And that's when the whores come. Wait for it. Wait for it. its worth it. "},{"Title":"Very good movie!","Date":"8 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is hilarious and clever. The jokes were awesome, the cast is great, especially Tommy (Chris), and the movie in general is great!Tommy Callahan III (aka Tommy Boy) is a man who doesn't do so well in college but finally graduates with a mediocre D+. He was at the college for seven years. He has a friend named Richard (David Spade), who is extremely sarcastic, and a real smart-ass who sometimes goes a little far. Well not necessarily a friend. Sort of rude to Tommy. Tommy is the son of a very wealthy business man, Tommy Callahan II. After Tommy Boy graduates, he has a party with his pals, and gets wasted. After that, he travels back home to Ohio. Then his father gives him a job at his company, Callahan Autos, which specializes in brake-pads. The dad then meets this very pretty woman named Beverly, which he thinks about marrying. Tom and his son meet Beverly's 'son', Paul. Paul is a very nasty, rude, and cynical bastard. He despises Tommy Boy because he's fat and immature. Beverly and Paul aren't exactly good people. They're both con artists! They plan to suck the company dry eventually, especially Paul. Eventually Big Tom falls in love with Beverly and they marry, but things go horribly wrong at the wedding. Tom has a horrible heart attack out of nowhere and dies! After the funeral there is a meeting about the future of the company. At this meeting Tommy agrees to keep the company rolling by selling the most brake-pads possible. And he calls his friend Richard to the stand, who is reluctant to help. I don't think anyone could help Baby Huey out there on the road. he says at the meeting. He does NOT want to help at all. Eventually they're stuck on the road together, and have to help each other. They don't sell so well due to Tommy always irritating the buyers. Tommy and Richard don't necessarily get along out on the road.The movie is funny all the time and hardly takes a break. The acting is wonderful. So if you're looking to watch a GOOD movie, buy Tommy Boy on DVD, and sit down with a friend. You'll be laughing so hard, you might pee your pants! This film is not perfect, but it's still pretty great. "},{"Title":"You look like a Helen...","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't tell you how many times I've seen Tommy Boy, and I never get tired of it. I am not a fan of high art cinema, but I also don't like slapstick silliness like Dumb and Dumber etc.I saw Tommy Boy a year or two after its release on Starz. I expected very little from it, and to be honest, that may have helped. I often try to go in expecting little and am often pleasantly surprised. Did the same thing with Bubba Ho-Tep, and was still terribly disappointed.Tommy Boy has all the elements of a great story. It's character development is established very well and quickly. And it's not just a mindless comedy romp. It's a heartfelt story of love, family, and friendship as well.Give it a try. "}{"Title":"Oww, Son of a! That's gonna leave A Mark","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. It is a very very funny movie If you like Chris Farley and David Spade. I like both of Them. Chris Farley even more. David Spade is still good, though. This movie so funny. If your A Chris Farley Fan or David Spade Fan, then you will love this. If not, then you won't like this. I'm 11 years old, you might not even expect me to know who Chris Farley was, but I do. Rest in piece big guy. We miss ya. Please come back from the dead. I am not going to tell you the plot to this. See it for yourself. You will be laughing your head off. It is a gut busting comedy. A must see movie. Go rent it or buy it Tonight. I give it 8 out of 10 stars. Check it out. 5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Containing Much Humor","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is meant to be a comedy and it succeeds on every comedic level. The physical comedy with Chris Farley, humorous cut-downs between Farley and David Spade, and the funny interactions between the other characters, Farley and Spade make all this possible. This movie takes elements from another great film Planes Trains and Automobiles as two dissimilar people from different backgrounds and who have very different lifestyles are stuck together and forced to travel together. There are also some touching scenes in the film such as when Chris Farley is out on the lake in a small sail boat talking to his deceased father. And through out the movie its clear that Farley's character may be a bit of a screw-up but he has a good heart and tries the best he can to succeed. There are also what seemed to be true life dialog between Farley and Spade, lines that don't seem so scripted but rather how 2 friends talk to each other, I appreciated this as not every joke in life makes you go hahaha some just make you go ha and that's what their dialog did at some points in between the hahaha moments, they didn't always go for the big laugh all the time. "},{"Title":"Need to get happy? Watch this funny film tonight!","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Boy (Chris Farley) has finally graduated from college after 7 years, even though he still thinks Herbie Hancock signed the Declaration of Independence, not John. He heads home to Sandusky, Ohio, where his father, Big Tom (Brian Dennehy) has operated a successful auto parts business for years. Tommy is to join the firm and he is thrilled to get his own office. Big Tom has other news as well. He is getting married to the luscious Beverly (Bo Derek) and Tommy Boy will have a new stepbrother, Paul (Rob Lowe). However, at the wedding reception, Big Tom keels over from a heart attack. This leaves Tommy in charge of the business and Beverly with half of the company's stock. She is receptive to the overtures from a businessman, Zalinski (Dan Ackroyd) who wants to buy the Sandusky plant for the reputable name only. He plans to shut the place down in reality. This leaves Tommy Boy and his father's right hand man, Richard (David Spade) to go on the road and convince folks to buy their auto parts, putting the firm in a better financial position and avoiding a takeover. But, since Tommy Boy is a half-wit and a business novice, can he really be the savior of the company? This is a funny film, guaranteed to put the viewer in a good mood. The cast is great, with Farley a comic genius and Spade not far behind. Lowe, too, is a stitch as the conniving brother, while Dennehy, Ackroyd, the beautiful Derek, and Julie Warner support the principals nicely. The sets and costumes are fine and the script and direction are snappy and fun, albeit of the more lowbrow variety. If you want to wash away your troubles and get happy for a spell, this film is the one for you. Boy, will you laugh it up! "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK this movie is really a classic!Thomas Callahan(Chris Farley) is a not very smart guy who's dad is the head honcho of a major company. When his dad dies and Ray Zalinsky(Dan Akroyd) is trying to put Callahan auto out of business. So Tommy and his dad's best worker, Richard(David Spade), have to go out and sell some break pads that will help keep Callahan Auto at the top. When they go out and try to sell the break pads hilarious things happen like the Fat Guy In Little Coat scene, the Hot Wings scene, and the brake pad demonstration scene. Go out, Rent this movie, watch this movie, enjoy this movie, and then go out and buy this movie!You will not be sorry at all!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Classic movie one of the best David spade movies.","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" You would think that a movie with Chris Farley and David Spade in it the movie would have to be silly stupid pointless and crap. Well this and one other movie of spades is actually good entertainment. The movie is all about Farley who went to college and took 7 years to graduate and comes home to work at his dads spare parts business in which is going broke in the meantime Farley makes a friend of coarse is spade and they go on a road trip to save the company. Well the movie has a storyline to it and is great and can be realistic depending on how you look at it but most of all they made a point in which everybody should follow through life and that is accept people just the way they are and don't change anything be yourself. So i also say it was funny right the way through. "},{"Title":"What could be funnier?","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Once in a while a movie comes around that really makes you laugh; not just an occasional giggle, but a wet-your-pants, remember-the-lines-forever kind of laughing.Tommy Boy is one of those movies.This is Chris Farley as many people see him now. His memorable performance as Tommy, a son losing his father and trying to keep his company alive, may sound tragic, but the hilariousness that he puts into it makes you forget that.David Spade also ties the story together. Playing Tommy's traveling companion throughout the US to help sell brake pads, his constant sarcasm and criticizing of Tommy keeps you laughing even during some serious times.Just as he has done many times, Chris Farley makes this movie all the more funny by poking fun at himself. For instance, nearer toward the end of the movie, he's sitting on a bench in the city just thinking about how much he messed up. It's a very somber moment. Suddenly, the legs on the side of the bench he's sitting on give way, and the half he's sitting on falls to the ground while the other half remains standing. His response? Could've done without that.I think it's hard to find a movie that makes you crack up without an R rating lately, making Tommy Boy a movie for most audiences.Chris Farley's death, no matter how long ago it was or how many people brush it off, was saddening to everyone, but this movie helps keep his memory alive and using laughter to ease the pain. "},{"Title":"Tommy Boy","Date":"5 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A totally awesome flick and a masterpiece. Farley and Spade at their best. One of those movies that keeps getting better over the years. The movie is also one of my all time favorites. The movie deals with Farley and Spade trying to save the towns auto break factory after Farley's dad's death. There's warmth,heart and pure fun with this film. Highly recommended to all. Nice Scenery to boot and the gags will have you on the floor rolling in laughter. Did I mention excellent acting? Chris Farley shines in a few touching moments as well as hilarious. You'll laugh til you cry. Bo Derek and Rob Lowe make an excellent team as the villains.A must see flick. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies!","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Callihan III ( Chris Farley) has always been like a loser even though his father is a successful car parts company owner, he has recently got his business degree and his father Big Tom Callihan( Brian Dennehy) teaches him how to run a business. Suddenly Big Tom dies leaving the company business to Tommy with his dad's assistant Richard ( David Spade) to be his guide and Big Tom's new wife (Bo Derek) has only married him for his money as her real lover ( Rob Lowe) are waiting for Tommy to run the company to the ground so they can have it for themselves. Richard and Tommy begin a road trip in selling the company's product in order to become a major success even though Tommy isn't too bright about anything as long as Richard is there to help him out.Very entertaining and hilarious hit comedy has become a cable comedy favorite and a sort-of cult flick! this has became Chris Farley's big breakthrough film after doing appearances in movies like Coneheads,  Airheads and Billy Madison and David Spade is hilarious as the weaselly business worker who becomes sometimes either a friend or foe to Farley's character. Thus a likable and funny duo is made on the screen like Lurel and Hardy or Cheech and Chong, one of the more funnier moments in the movie was when after they run after a deer then have it in the back seat of their car it wakes up at night and tears apart almost the car, if you like a good comedy then i highly recommend this movie.P.S. Look for appearances by Dan Ackroyd as well. "},{"Title":"in this moment they were perfect","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie was so damn good it was unpredictable. there's no way the people involved with its production had an idea of just how spot-on they were being in the decisions they made. the reason i say this is because so much of what made me laugh in this movie was not the dialog necessarily, but the chemistry between chris farley and David spade. their ability to bounce of one another and give each other the necessary room for their dialog was so amazing to watch. unfortunately both of these men are limited now in the roles they are offered. David spade is forever the snide little _______ and chris farley is, well, he's eternal. "},{"Title":"The Best Sales/Motivation Movie Ever Made...Period","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Forget Glengary GlenRoss. Never Mind Tin Men. If you're an intellect, Mensa (or MLM - Mensa Like Me), or High-Brow Humor (1000 bucks if you can forever once and only provide the single correct spelling for 'High-Brow') type of person -- you will get this. You will laugh your butt off. Literally. I've lost 12.5 pounds from watching this move repeatedly, dancing to the music, and jumping up and down with laughter. The acting is as believable and natural as it gets. Yes, from the whole cast. Savvy watchers will notice how Rob Lowe cannot keep himself from laughing during the 'hose-down' seen. Having lived just a couple doors down from Chris on 19th just off of Wells, I remember the 'Beverly Hillbilles' ride on the station wagon around the Mission. I remember how Chris was too shy to talk to people in social situations unless he could have a sip of Courage. I remember the funniest, biggest-hearted comedian of a guy that loved life and entertaining, despite that he was always nervous doing it. Probably nervous because he didn't just want to do things right -- he wanted to do the right things. "}{"Title":"Farley, Spade? You decide.","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Not once did I see Academy Award nominee labeled on this film, but I was nevertheless amused at the SNL actors' performance as traveling salesmen.After Tommy Callahan III (Farley) father (Brian Dennehy) checks out, he is the now the heir to the old man's nearly bankrupt auto-parts business, much to the chagrin of the more deserving and heir-apparent Richard Hayden (David Spade, in another sidekick role). But the elder Callahan's new bride/widow attempts to steal the company from her stepson which forces Spade and Farley to team up, sell the parts needed to save the business, and well, two SNL actors, what do you expect? They make for a brilliant combination, and although many of the scenes were silly at times, I found them funny which made for an enjoyable picture. "},{"Title":"Funny movie","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Boy is about two guys trying to save a company from going out of business or something like that. It's really funny. It's not Chris Farley's best movie, though. Black Sheep is Chris Farley's best movie. But this is really good. It rips off the 1987 classic Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. But it's still very good. There's a lot of things similar about this movie and Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. Chris Farley and David Spade are the same as Steve Martin and John Candy basically. Steve Martin and David Spade are skinny. John Candy and Chris Farley are both fat. In this, their car gets beat to crap. That's just like what happens in Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. But, there are a lot of things different between the two. In Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, there's no real villain. In Tommy Boy, there is a villain. The villain is Rob Lowe, and he's trying to sabotage the business or whatever. Tommy Boy has a lot of funny parts. Chris Farley is funny in a lot of the scenes, but man, sometimes he's just too stupid. Overall, this is a pretty good movie and you should rent it. It's very funny, and it's got one of the best teams of the 90's in it. I'm talking about Chris Farley and David Spade. I give Tommy Boy a 7/10. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Holy Schnicke!  This was funny!","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Okay, okay, okay. For a minute, forget that Tommy Boy stars Saturday Night Live regulars (the late) Chris Farley and David Spade as the underachiever and his reluctant best pal. Forget that director Peter Segal is behind it and writers Bonnie and Terry Turner (I was about to write Bonnie and Clyde, but how dare me) supply an abundance of immature humor that Farley & Spade fans will surely love for years to come. But don't forget that it's pretty damn funny and is a good way to spend 97 minutes of your life.Tommy Boy Callahan (Farley) is a world-class underachiever he's finally graduated after he spent seven years in college. When insulted by Spade's numbers-cruncher Richard, Tommy says, Lots of people go to college for seven years, to which Richard cynically replies, Yeah. They're called doctors. Oh, that must be you. Tommy's no doctor and in fact, I don't think it's ever stated what he majored in but you can infer it was most likely business but this is dubious (on his history final - his key to graduating - he answered Herbie Hancock on a question about this nation's founding fathers) since once he returns to his home town of Sandusky, Ohio, he takes a job at his dad's auto parts plant.His dad, Big Tom Callahan (Brian Dennehy), runs Callahan Auto Parts, which has been in business for over 70 years and he looks to leave everything to Tommy. Upon his return home, Big Tom announces his plans to marry Beverly (10 Bo Derek) and her son Paul (Rob Lowe) is on his way in time for the wedding. But when Big Tom drops dead on the big day, the company, which is already on shaky grounds with the bank because of Big Tom's investment in launching a revolutionary line of brake pads, Tommy Boy steps up, with a reluctant Richard in tow, to try and save the company.From there on, plot goes out the window and for the rest of the film it's the Farley & Spade Show - on the road - as they try to save Callahan and prevent stiff-haired auto parts mogul Ray Zalinsky (Dan Aykroyd) from buying it up in a corporate takeover. (Road Rules never had anything on these two guys.) They crack insults, fail miserably at sales meetings (Tommy even lights a prospective buyer's model cars on fire), run over a deer (which miraculously springs to life in the back seat of Richard's car, completely destroying it in the process), and the two eventually learn to put aside intellectual differences and focus on saving their jobs at Callahan.The problem is, Tommy lacks the book smarts required for the job of salesman and little-guy Richard is hardly able to do better himself, but once big-guy Tommy Boy has some chicken wings (don't ask; just watch), they start making the sales and come up with the loot needed to repay the loan to the bank, Tommy will get high school friend Michelle (Julie Warner), and then call it a day.Idiotic plotting in the film's script doesn't even fit in here, since you're having a ball (or splitting a side) watching the dynamic interaction between leads Farley and Spade. It's been a long time since I've seen a funnier on-screen duo that works so amazingly well. The big story is of course, the late Chris Farley, enjoying one of his last and most memorable roles as the college-graduate-idiot who learns to grow up and take some responsibility after his dad's passing.I guess, in the end, every Tommy Boy has his day.7/10 "},{"Title":"Best Chris Farley Movie","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is without a doubt the best Chris Farley movie. Ever. His other films pale by comparison. The combination of Chris' physical antics and David Spade's deadpan straight-man act are perfect. (I mean, like, do you remember the puppet show scene with the toy cars? ... yeah, that was cool.) Anyway, the supporting performances of Brian Dennehy, Rob Lowe, and Bo Derek are strong without taking over the show. And the appearance of Dan Ackroyd as Mr. Zalinski is priceless; he has some of the best lines in the film. The screenplay is strong and never loses pace. Unlike most of Farley's other films, there are no pregnant pauses in the momentum and the movie never stops to be preachy. The tempo of the film has motion without being manic like Black Sheep (an awful film by comparison) and it doesn't get bogged down with needless story points like Beverly Hills Ninja. There's a touching scene at the end with Farley on his boat talking to his deceased father. But even that's okay since it fits nicely as an epilogue.If you don't see another movie on DVD this summer, then you should get out more. In any case, pick up TOMMY BOY, it's more than worth the price of a rental and, in my opinion, well worth buying. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Farley's best movie!!","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is without a doubt Chris Farley's best movie. Movies he made after this one like Black Sheep & Almost Heroes didn't quite hit the mark like this one. Beverly Hills Ninja was not too bad, except it was missing one thing- David Spade. The chemistry between Farley and David Spade in this movie is pricless. It a great shame they couldn't have made more movies together before Farley died.Great cast all round includes Brian Dennehy as Tommys dad, Bo Derek, Dan Aykroyd, Julie Warner & Rob Lowe.It doesn't matter how many times I watch Tommy Boy, it cracks me up every time.If you are in the mood for laughing your head off I highly recommend Tommy Boy.10/10 "},{"Title":"Chris Farley's Best!","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is living proof that Chris Farley and David Spade are like bread and butter. If you have seen Beverly Hills Ninja, Chris Farley's last movie before he died, you can tell there was something missing in that movie. David Spade. This is the first movie they made together. Before, they had acted together in Saturday Night Live, and Lorne Michaels, the creator of the show, encouraged them to make a movie together. Directed by Peter Segal, who went on to direct such films as Anger Management, and 50 First Dates, this is what I call a comedy. Chris Farley is Thomas Callahan III, and dreams to work at the same place his father does - an auto parts factory. The thing is, he's dim-witted, clumsy, and just graduated with... a D?! But when his father tragically dies, he's the only one willing to go on the road, and try to sell car auto parts to save the company. Thats where David Spade comes in as the serious one who is sent to help him sell. But I've said too much already - go rent it yourself. Your sure to have a laughing time.  "},{"Title":"Chris Farley's Best!","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is living proof that Chris Farley and David Spade are like butter and bread. If you have seen Beverly Hills Ninja, Chris Farley's last movie before he died, you can tell there was something missing in that movie. David Spade. This is the first movie they made together. Before, they had acted together in Saturday Night Live, and Lorne Michaels, the creator of the show, encouraged them to make a movie together. Directed by Peter Segal, who went on to direct such films as Anger Management, and 50 First Dates, this is what I call a comedy. Chris Farley is Thomas Callahan III, and dreams to work at the same place his father does - an auto parts factory. The thing is, he's dim-witted, clumsy, and just graduated with... a D?! But when his father tragically dies, he's the only one willing to go on the road, and try to sell car auto parts to save the company. Thats where David Spade comes in as the serious one who is sent to help him sell. But I've said too much already - go rent it yourself. Your sure to have a laughing time.  "},{"Title":"A new user comment is needed!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why don't people just appreciate a movie for what it is?  Why do I constantly have to listen to film snobs complain about good movies?  This movie doesn't offer much.  Where is the metaphor, the art, etc.  Tommy Boy isn't the best film in the world, but it sure does amuse me.  Stupid humor or not, this movie has a laugh waiting around every corner.  The acting is good and the timing is better.  There is even a heart felt sweet story going on.  It's a great buddy movie, and a great comedy.  I won't say Chris Farley was a fantastic comic genius, but he was a fantastic comic that would do anything within his power for a laugh (or so I have heard) and it is apparent from watching this film.  This movie never gets old for me, it is like a buddy who comes for a visit to crack jokes, and even though you have heard them before, you still cannot help but laugh.  So I give this movie a high rating for heart, humor, and for not resorting to pie sex as its only gag.  Just have fun with it.  It is a brilliant film for doing what it set out to do, making laughs. Next thing you know, there's money missing off the dresser and your daughter's knocked up, I seen it a hundred times.-Tommypeace and love "},{"Title":"Farley & Spade score big laughs","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" TOMMY BOY (1995) *** Chris Farley, David Spade, Brian Dennehy, Bo Derek, Rob Lowe, Julie Warner, Dan Aykroyd. Very funny no-brainer with idiot son Farley (in manic Belushi mode) out to save his father's business with the help from snide remarking buddy Spade. Best bits Farley and Spade singing to a Carpenters' song and Farley showing a perspective client how their brake pads could help prevent disaster with a model car going down in flames! Best dialogue Lowe to Farley Did you ever eat paint chips when you were a kid? Farley (laughing) Why? "},{"Title":"One of the best dumb comedies I've ever seen.","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb comedies... you know you love them. Dumb and Dumber, for example. You might say it's a stupid movie, but guess what? You laugh at it. It might not require intellectual interpretations of the source material (ala Marx Brothers, with their countless broken logic jokes), but it gets the job done.Tommy Boy, in this regard, has to be one of the best dumb comedies ever. Better yet, it's not that dumb.The basic premise of the movie is, a man in search of his own identity via a series of comedic mishaps. The real premise of the movie is laughter. It's all about Chris Farley and David Spade's over the top performances. Think the destruction of famous hotels in Las Vegas. Everything is all quiet, then there's a sudden build-up leading to a blow-up of gigantic proportions. That's Chris Farley throughout the film. *minor spoilers ahead* I like this movie a lot for what it is and what it portrays - the main character (Tommy) is not a reckless man - he's a sweet, loving person who suddenly discovers he's a grown up who has to act like one, and as such, he lovingly follows his father's footsteps. The side story finds David Spade realizing he has wasted his life as an ironic, sarcastic man and finds comfort in the friendship of the guy he hated the most at school. It's strange to find at least a bit of meaning in what really is a very good comedy.I like it. I really do.  "}{"Title":"Chris Farley, David Spade, great laughs","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Chris Farley and David Spade alone are funny, but together their....really funny. They fit so well together, from David Spades kind annoying sarcasm to Chris Farley's Chris Farleyness. The movie is very entertaining and funny and, to me, just a classic comedy, not necessarily the SMARTEST humor, but definitely funny. The acting is average and the story is alright, but with comedies like this, you dont remember that kind of stuff, you remember the jokes and the funny stuff. Very funny and great for just watching with a bunch of friends "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy is a hilarious comedy, starring two of the funniest people at this time, Chris Farley, and David Spade. How can you get a bad movie with those two? I think that some of these people might have read the back of the movie, and didnt realize that it was in the comedy section of the store, and were probably looking for something a little more serious! If I were you, I would rent this, and if you like it (which I think you will) you should rent Black Sheep, also starring the duo. See you at the movies! "},{"Title":"Wet your pants funny!","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The late Chris Farley was excellent for this role. He was the John Belushi of the 90's and he pretty much went out the exact same way. Not really into any of David Spades work but I really enjoyed him in this movie.  Richard, who is your favorite Little Rascal? Alfalfa, or Spanky? "},{"Title":"The best comedy movie of the 90s.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a classic of the 90s.  This movie is hilarious and definitely is going to be a classic.  I laugh so hard everytime I see this movie.  This is Chris Farley's defining movie.  He is awesome in this movie.  So is David Spade.  Just thinking about this movie makes me think of something funny in it.  It is great. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I've ever seen","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you have not seen Tommy Boy then you have never lived it's a must see comedy. Chris Farley and David Spade are perfect. 95 % of the scenes in this movie are funny scenes. The next time you go out to rent a movie make sure you get Tommy Boy. "},{"Title":"YOU DON'T NEED FRIENDS TO ENJOY THIS MOVIE","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie of all time. I can't think of anything else to say about this because nothing can compare to the ultimate hilarity that begins with the opening credits and ends with the Tommy's boat sailing off into the proverbial sunset. The one-liners can't be topped...This is a little awkward--I wish we had known each other better. "},{"Title":"A great little comedy!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy is the tale of an idiot(Farley) who is forced to go on the road to save his family's business after the death of his father.  Aided in his journey is an old friend and employee of his father (David Spade).  The film follows the shananigans the duo get themselves into.  Oh and there's this whole thing about con artists and stuff, but that's secondary to the comic genius of the late great Chris Farley.  Forget the critics who hated this gem and check out Tommy Boy!!! "},{"Title":"As good of a Chris Farley movie you will ever see him in","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  (Possible Spoilers)Tommy Boy is a classic comedy, and despite some flaws (one being that a tragic turn is made in the film when they could've made a different plot change), this is something good to watch.  Chris Farley turns in a performance as Tommy that is only matched by his Matt Foley on Saturday Night Live as a klutz who suddenly has to save his father's factory when he can't (catch my drift on the tragic), so he brings along reluctant and sarcastic Richard, played by David Spade in one of his best roles.  On they're odyssey to save they're factory, we see the utterly ridiculous and utterly hilarious antics that made them famous on Saturday Night Live.  Favorite scene (among many) is the scene with the popped hood.  One of the better films of 1995.  Dan Aykroyd appears as Zalinsky.  A "},{"Title":"THE BEST!","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was the best movie I have ever seen! Chris Farley was hilarious and David Spade played off of him perfectly. They both are the funniest people I have ever seen. They made a great comedy team and Chris Farley will be forever missed. I could watch this movie over and over (I know every line) and still laugh!!!  "},{"Title":"Comic genius at work here.","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A very smart slap-stick comedy featuring comic genius Chris Farley. I think the key to enjoying this film is realizing that Farley's character is in fact very intelligent and creative, just supremely careless and completely out of touch with his surroundings. And Farley's character is not alone in his hubris- remember the workman who did not hesitate to let Tommy buff that cylinder because he's the boss' son? It's a real shame that critics did not laud this film more, because it definitely deserves to be seen. It is perhaps also unfortunate that no one was there to help Farley deal with his disease of fat accumulation. Thanks now to Gary Taubes' recent book Good Calories Bad Calories Challenging the Conventional Wisdom on Diet, Weight Control and Disease, anyone who has a desire to understand science can possibly gain permanent control over their eating habits. "}{"Title":"One of the Funniest Films I've Ever Seen!","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" During my trip in a youth leadership forum, I was channel surfing until I found Tommy Boy on TBS. Since I have never seen this film before, I wanted to check it out. My roommate, who have already seen this, told me, This movie is a classic. After seeing the whole movie, I came to the conclusion that he was right.Tommy Boy is constantly funny from beginning to end, thanks to the comedic duo of Chris Farley and David Spade. Farley is a riot as the title character, a spastic doofus who just sails through life as if it wasn't important. His slacker-esqe ways soon come to a halt when his father (Brian Dennehy), a wealthy Break Pads King, dies of a heart attack on his wedding day. This leads Tommy, with the help of his sarcastic childhood friend Richard (David Spade), to hit the road to sell enough break pads to save the company.The main reason Tommy Boy works are the funny performances from the lead cast. Farley is the funniest person in this movie, the second funniest person being Spade and the third being Rob Lowe as the film's villain who has bad luck. Another funny guy is Dan Aykroyd as Ray Zalinsky, a well-known auto parts extraordinare.Another reason the movie works is the large amount of jokes. Chris Farley has hilarious slapstick moments, and David Spade has funny snide comments and one-liners. The gags in the movie (some which involves a deer and a airplane bathroom) are laugh-out-loud funny, thanks to director Peter Segal (Naked Gun 33 1/3), writers Bonnie & Terry Turner(3rd Rock From the Sun, That 70s Show), and the cast.Tommy Boy is a really funny movie, although for some unknown reason most film critics (including Roger Ebert) find it horrible and unfunny. (I wonder when their sense of humor died.) I recommend Tommy Boy for those who are great fans of comedy. Thank you very much, roommate. "},{"Title":"That's gonna leave a mark !","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Excellent ! I have to think back a *very* long time to find a film that's made me laugh quite so much. The writing is top-notch, the story is satisfying, and the entire cast is excellent - Chris Farley has never been better. One of the very best comedies of the 90s. "},{"Title":"Simply not very funny at all and rips off loads of other movies","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most Lorne Michaels films seem to fail because they're essentially just extended versions of skits that barely managed to make people laugh in five-minute segments. Tommy Boy is a character right from SNL - a big fat lovable (in their opinion) goof who doesn't know anything.David Spade gets the Thankless Overwhelmed Everyman role. He's paired with the Annoying Overweight Slob and they endure Miserable Misfortunes as they travel cross country to Save Daddy's Business.The plot, for starters, is really faulty. The whole premise - daddy dies and rich stupid son has to save the family biz - can be traced back to just about any movie you want. Like any SNL style film it is reduced to a simple motivation - empty, shallow; just a reason to see a fat guy and a thin guy be funny together.The movie's biggest influence is the 1987 comedy classic Planes, Trains & Automobiles. That movie is great because the plot isn't stale and recycled. It's basic, yeah - a guy traveling home for Thanksgiving gets stuck with a slob. But it's real, dammit. It makes all the difference. The characters are real, the situations are far more real. Tommy Boy is pure slapstick and its ridiculous situations undermine the characters - we feel nothing for them, and we don't care about what's happening on-screen. PTA walked the careful line between outrageous and utterly believable and relate-able - Tommy Boy is simply absurd, with jokes like a simple deer-in-the-headlights turning into a crash turning into a struggle with a dead deer that really isn't dead, then awakens and wrecks their car.The whole wrecked car thing is stolen completely from PTA and it's eerie how much stuff in this film actually does resemble the Steve Martin/John Candy movie.Farley is simply way too obnoxious to find likable - I've never enjoyed watching him in any movies and this hasn't changed my mind. Spade's given very little to do, serving as the movie's most thankless character.Dan Aykroyd is wasted as the Evil Baddie who plans to destroy Daddy's Business. The ending is a joke, and not in a har-har funny way. More like a oh god are they serious?! way.Some people dig it, that's cool. But I just can't get into it, nor do I appreciate all the stuff it borrows from - not just counting PT&A - without any credit whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Not Just Another Comedy","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" **may contain spoiler alerts**Peter Segal's Tommy Boy is a film of brilliance. It captures you from it's very first second till it's very last, facilitating a high range of emotions throughout the film, yet keeping you equally entertained and comically satisfied from start to finish. The film evokes a meaningful message that enables viewers to more deeply commiserate with the characters alongside their stellar efforts of acting. If you're looking for a comedy to make you fall off the chair, then you are in the right place. In almost every comedy film there is an over- the- top character who over exaggerates normal societal expectations. In this film, this character happens to be Tommy (played by actor and well known comedian, Chris Farley), who we first meet as a young boy. Farley does a remarkable job fulfilling the role of Tommy by going over the top to sell his character. From the first moment you meet Tommy, your attention is drawn to him. When he passes his final exam in the first few minutes of the film, he absentmindedly runs around campus exclaiming with confidence that he got D+ on his final, allowing him to graduate from college after seven long years, respectively. This is just one example where Farley goes out of his way to make Tommy appear as goofy, but also in a credible manner.Tommy isn't aware of the outside world, which evident in his over-the-top attitude that thwarts his ability to properly perceive reality. When his life takes an unexpected turn for the worse, the pressure is on him to save his father's auto part business, leaving both him and his long-time friend, Richard (otherwise known as David Spade), to go on a road trip. Spade expresses the role of Richard as a boring, grumpy businessman who isn't satisfied with himself or his job. His character is presented mostly in the first few minutes of the film when Tommy's father gives Tommy his own office and Richard tells Tommy that he doesn't know the first thing about auto parts in a very demeaning, unequivocal manner. Peter Segal did an outstanding job casting roles and unlike a lot of older movies, the acting is like the story line&#x97; impressive. The plot manifests abrupt changes in the direction it follows, allowing many unpredictable instances to occur along the way. Without giving away the movie, there are characters who switch roles and end up transforming the plot dramatically. This comedy is more than just a series of laughs, it's a compelling series of events that keeps you intrigued throughout the entirety of the film. The movie is unmistakably hilarious, with the exception of softer moments that tie in nicely to the overall film. Tommy's father, otherwise known as Big Tom (Brian Dennehy) announces that he is getting re-married, which is hard for Tommy because of his mother's passing when he was young. Still, he overlooks his father's act of moving on because all Tommy wants is for his father to be happy. When his father dies, respect is gained for Tommy as an acute desire is ignited to save his father's business. Yes, this film isn't one of sadness, but at the same time a message of confidence, self love, and love for others is learned, making the film a lighthearted masterpiece.Tommy Boy is the classic portrayal of a comedy, and should be watched by all who enjoy a good laugh and a phenomenal movie. The acting is exceptional, especially by the one of the world's greatest comedians, Chris Farley, while the story line is structured in an ensuing style to keep you constantly on the edge of your seat. It is one of the greatest, most heartfelt comedies of all time and I highly recommend this movie to anyone and everyone. "},{"Title":"Not super funny, but a good watch nonetheless","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I had never watched a movie with Chris Farley before. That I can remember, at least. This was the first. Makes me sad that he died so incredibly young, from something that could very easily have been avoided.I thought Tommy Boy started out a little weak, it took some time before I got into the mood of the movie. But as it went on, I liked it better and better. It has some genuine emotional moments, and a little more depth than I would assume. Now, this is no drama, but it has more heart than I thought it would. And when it is emotional, it's not overdone.Not especially funny, but I did chuckle in a couple scenes. (Let me add that I don't laugh that much from comedies, although I get the humor)Oh, and could the music BE more 90's family comedy?! Very typical, but gets the job done, and makes for a nice light atmosphere. "},{"Title":"You have to laugh at this film, it's bloody classic man!","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved how Chris Farley (rip) played a clumsy fool to fall in love with. He even sang well with his on-screen father Brian Dennehy. Man, they should've had a band back then cause they pretty darn good singers! David Spade was also awesome in this. He's like this guy who pretends to be the serious guy at the beginning. However as you get use to him throughout the film, you would definitely think he's a natural comedian. He's never straight the way he talks. When he was drunk, it was hilarious that it peed my pants. Bravo Richard!I was so thrilled that they added in Dan Akroyd into this film. He has a perfect salesman voice. I wish he did ads like the ones he does on this. It would be better seeing him on TV adverts then seeing the same stupid ones nowadays. Plus he would be more famous then being an underrated actor.If you think this film wasn't funny, it wouldn't be normal.... "},{"Title":"Fat guy in a little coat","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It was 1996, I was 8, I put Tommy Boy in the VCR. Little did I know I just made a life changing decision. The character of Tommy Callahan is one of Chris Farley's best efforts. It was written for him, and he did it better than anyone else every could have. The movie itself could have just faded into the monotony of other 90's comedies. Tommy and Richard are childhood frenemies, after a major issue at the plant, they have no choice but to get into Richard's cherry 1967 Plymouth Belvedere GTX and drive across the country on the biggest sales run of their lives. Will they do it? Who knows... but Bo Derek is a babe, and maybe the first MILF any 90's kid every truly crushed on. "},{"Title":"Nothing special, but worth a shot","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This isn't a comedy that's going to top any lists. There is nothing superlative about it in any regard. That said, it is by no means poorly done or unenjoyable. In some ways it's designed in a Lowest Common Denominator style (or one size fits all if that makes more sense), but essentially it hovers a little bit above mediocrity. You have good actors that have a fairly good script to work with and the product comes out as a general crowd pleaser. The comedy, though undeniably slapstick throughout, has some variety to it. This is mostly because the majority of the gags and screen time in general are split between David Spade and Chris Farley. Even in the situations where both of their characters are involved, we get different styles of comedy. The humor definitely deserves it's PG-13 certification, but there's plenty of clean humor mixed in as well. There's a fair amount of recurring gags with Tommy (Chris Farley) being klutzy and overweight, but there is also enough verbal comedy to entertain those who don't enjoy the former style, again showing that this movie was likely made with an LCD mentality. Also, there are a fair amount of laughs that come from small, nameless characters that Tommy and Richard (David Spade) meet along the way.The story, like most of the movie, is satisfactory, but unremarkable for the most part. From what I've heard, the business comedy idea is not a new one, so the storyline doesn't score any points for originality. Still, it progresses naturally and isn't hard to follow, though there are a couple of twists along the way. There are no hidden morals or deep concepts like in John Hughes movies. It ends in a sort of happily ever after, but this is presented in a sort of mocking way. The villains are, again, satisfactory, though unremarkable and get relatively little screen time. Besides, it's a comedy so most viewers probably care more about the journey rather than the outcome.The execution is alright, though it doesn't need much attention considering that it's a comedy. The acting is pretty good, and, as stated before, they are given a pretty good script and characters.If you like road trip comedies like Planes, Trains, and Automobiles, or The Great Outdoors, this is worth a shot. I wouldn't recommend going out to spend money on it, but if you can't find anything else worth watching, give it twenty minutes and enjoy if you can. Overall Rating 8.3/10. "},{"Title":"1","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Boy Tommy boy is one of my all time favorite movies. Chris Farley and David Spade as a pair make laughter the norm. As is other big movies Peter Segal was the director of this movie. This 1995 movie has carved future movies into the dumb but funny category. Tommy being the clumsy guy as he is has finally graduated college after 7 years. His father big Tom owns an auto parts store in which Tommy has a job waiting for him on his arrival home. Big Tom introduces his new brake pad factory to Tommy and others. Big Tom at the time is about to get married which turns out to be a fraud. After the Marriage Big Toms die on stage of his reception. After loosing big Tom the factory is hurting. Tommy has now teamed up with Richard (David Spade) on a long journey to sell brake pads and keep the business afloat. All the actors in the movie played there act on spot. Tommy as the big dumb guy who can't ever be serious makes the whole movie funny. Richard, the book geek who is small and fearful. The movie was well rounded and not only kept you laughing but the story line also kept you interested. Some key video techniques can be found when the deer wakes up and destroys Richard's car. This deer completely destroys It which doesn't seem possible. After its done and the deer runs off Tommy pauses and says  I swear I've seen a lot of stuff in my day but that was&#x85;.Awesome, but sorry about your car man, that sucks. A part in which the movie was made better is when Richard and Tommy are arguing what to listen to in the car, Tommy turns it to some old romantic song. They both say you can change it if you want, no one changes it and the next scene there both crying it and singing it to were Tommy almost wrecks the car. Overall the movie is a funny movie to watch and has many quote worthy lines in it. I think it was put together nicely and If only Farley was still here to keep the laughter going. "},{"Title":"Great comedy with awesome dialogues.","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first watched this movie when it came on network television. I remember recording it. For a mid nineties feature I found it to be very entertaining. Chris Farly was a very hilarious actor. In my opinion Jack Black may have been inspired from him. However comedy movies have come along way since then. Many movies which cater for todays generation tend to rely on heavy comic situations and slapstick to make audiences laugh. With this movie it is not the case. As well as a plot there are funny dialogues mixed with comic acting. David Spade and Chris Farley have been part of many movies. Their pairing is very reminiscent of Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor from the past years. They make a great on screen comedy couple. In this movie their acting ability is progressed to a higher level. They spend more screen time together for most of the movie. This leads to many interesting and hilarious situations arising. This is not your average Farrelly Brothers comedy. It has incorporated some heart warming moments and characters that have feelings. At certain times one will feel that they are watching a made for TV sitcom. However the direction averts our attention away from this thought. The pace of the movie is moderate and with a short running time of 90 minutes, the viewer will not feel that they have wasted their time. I was surprised when I noticed that the movie was almost completely shot in Canada. Why could they not make this obvious to us, I wonder. "}{"Title":"Well, Roger Ebert Forgot One Thing !","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's Chris Farley's classic. Intensive, various, hot are what you can call this comedy. Aside from little crude jokes, thank god that they were little, I loved the whole thing. There are many funny details that keep the viewer on his seat, interested, and most of all entertained.Just remember things like  the running gag of the pull and the butcher (which summarizes the lead's journey from idiocy to success), the 2 leads singing a gorgeous oldie soundtrack in the car together, or the way their car was repairing while the development of the journey and the main character. Let alone the sharp dialog, the cartoonish sense (the sequence of Rob Lowe and the dog, the car's problems), the non-stop visual and verbal gags, and Farley's unmixed buffoonery (mimicking Flash Dance's stuff, spoofing Star Wars, performing a car accident to a possible client, ..). Actually it satisfies even the forever growler. Damn! Even the swimming pool's bikini girl was marvelous ! The plot is smart and thrilling. And the direction didn't wrong the material since the pace was so solid (no boring, hyped, or crowded moments). It's only the ending that was kind of weak. I believe there was no room for a satire about the dishonest media or how to return fire by it. This line, if it was originally intentioned, wasn't planted well.Brian Dennehy is the best of anyone you might ever have for a 10 minutes cameo that can be memorably touching. Although Julie Warner didn't have much of a role but was cute and I loved the lake scene so much. The evil team wasn't as half good; Bo Derek and Rob Lowe both of them can't act, and Derek looked really like Lowe's mom ! But they were the bad guys anyhow, namely the persons that must only sound mean in the short intermissions between the droll sequences in comedies like this !Back then, in the famous TV show (At The Movies), while reviewing the movie harshly Gene Siskel said that David Spade is occasionally funny (which's true) and that Chris Farley isn't funny ! OK, THAT'S HIS OWN OPINION! since I prefer the mess that Farley does more than for instance Jim Carry's *heavy* silliness anytime ! He was a big noisy, sometimes filthy, good-hearted child. And he was having his own genuine taste, not being a new forced copy of John Candy or John Belushi as Siskel referred! By the way, at the same episode Roger Ebert claimed, in great disdain, that the movie got all the clichés (a kid that wants to be a man, a company has to be saved by its men, and a girl who loves the lead for what he is, being a road movie, a buddy comedy&#x85;) well, he forgot one thing  That this time all of that WORKED ! Simply what's more successful than watching one comedy 3 times and be surprised with a new funny thing every time ?! "},{"Title":"Some of the gags are a bit too silly, but the film has its moments, enough to make it reasonable","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw this comedy several years ago, when I was around seventeen. From what I remember, I liked it a lot at the time. I'm not sure exactly how many times I've seen it since then, but I watched it again about three months ago, for the first time in a while, and I still enjoyed most of it, but probably not quite as much as before. I just watched the movie once again, and this time, I still laughed, but I was definitely less impressed than I was during any of my previous viewings.Tommy Callahan Jr. is not a very bright individual, but after seven years in college, he just barely manages to pass. After graduating, he returns to Ohio, where his dad, Big Tom Callahan, owns an auto parts factory. When Tommy Jr. returns, he soon finds that he has a new job at this factory. He also learns that his dad, a widower, is about to marry a woman named Beverly Barish, and apparently, Tommy is about to have a stepbrother named Paul. Sadly, Big Tom suddenly dies during the wedding, and after this, the factory is looking at going under! In order to save the business, Tommy Jr. must go on a road trip with Richard Hayden, Big Tom's assistant, to try and sell brake pads. Tommy's stupidity will make this mission more challenging, and to make matters worse, he doesn't know that Beverly and Paul are not who they claim to be! Tommy Boy, starring Saturday Night Live comedians Chris Farely as Tommy Callahan Jr. and David Spade as Richard Hayden, has quite a bit of very funny slapstick (a kind of humour which I usually like a lot), but also has some lame gags and cheesy quotes, which brings it down a bit. It's pretty shaky around the beginning, showing the shortcomings of the film a lot. It eventually improves, becoming funnier and looking more promising, but unfortunately, it doesn't stay that way for the rest of the movie. There are times after that when the movie goes back to those shortcomings, and the gags involving Tommy's clumsiness may wear a bit thin after a while. Fortunately, however, all this doesn't TOTALLY ruin it.Some consider the late Chris Farley a great comedian, while others don't think he was any good at all. (Personally, I don't think he was the greatest comedian of all time, but he could be hilarious. R.I.P.) If you strongly dislike Farley and his antics, Tommy Boy is not for you, as throughout the film, his presence on the screen would likely just annoy you. However, if you're a fan of Chris Farley, and you don't mind seeing a lot of silliness and filth in a comedy, this movie could be fun. It may not be as good as some of the SNL sketches featuring Chris Farley, but you should probably still give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Your brain has a shell on it!","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Do you find fat people amusing?? Do you find jokes about fat people amusing? Do you find skinny people making jokes about fat people amusing?? Then this is a movie for you!! Chris Farley was a great comedian, and he managed to make David Spade funny as well (we all know how truly unfunny he is on his own).This is a movie about a fat retarded college-grad who has to take on the world when his dad dies. And his pot-smoking college-years are not gonna help him.Being the son of the towns biggest industry-owner can be a paradise. But what happens when your dad dies and you must save the business? And how are you gonna be able to do that when your whole life has consisted of drinking beer and smoking (and I'm not talking about Marlboro here). You get some help from your friends! Or in this case your former friend who hates your guts because you're a fat retard who smoked away your brain (if you ever had one), while he has been working his ass of for your fathers company.And what's up with your fathers new wife and her son? How the HELL could your father land Bo freaking Derek?!? OK, he was rich, but he sure wasn't good looking.And isn't your friend's hair a bit strange?!?!? Well, Farley manages to pull this movie through, despite all the fat-jokes. And I actually laughed at Spade as well (fancy that). It might not make it into the top-100 list of all times, but if you want a cozy evening with your girl/boyfriend this might be the movie for you. "},{"Title":"That was AWESOME","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie, if for no other reason, than to hear Chris Farley utter the above phrase after seeing a dead deer thoroughly trash David Spade's GTX convertible.Other memorable moments include Fat guy in a little coat, fat guy in a little coat..... The lifting of David Spade's rug by an engine's fan.Well, the next thing you know, money's missing from the dresser and your daughter's knocked up. Farley and Spade were a terrific duo. Truly a shame that fate intervened. "},{"Title":"Great fun, Farley and Spade at their best!","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film unfortunately comes on USA Network way too often. Unfortunate because this film is a very funny movie seen uncut and unedited. Chris Farley was a very funny man, but especially funny paired with straight man David Spade. Brian Dennehy lends a short lived but great character as Tommy's father. The scene where Big Tom cashes in his chips during the wedding reception is classic. Anyone over 50 (like me) who dances at a wedding to Motown can identify with that scene. There are so many funny scenes in this movie, I can't count them! This and Black Sheep are two movies that I can watch with my teenage sons and fall off the chair laughing - the Meat Wagon scene, the boat in the lake scene, are all side splitters. This film has no Oscar quality of course, who cares? I want to laugh after a tough week at work, and this movie fits the bill. I put this in the same class as the Rodney Dangerfield movies, but not quite up with Peter Sellers' Pink Panther series. Nonethless, it is a cathartic experience at the end of a week.We can only assume what might have been if Farley had kept his nose clean, it just didn't happen, any more than it did with Belushi. Such a loss in both cases. One thing, don't watch this on TV. Rent it, or buy it. The TV version is so poorly edited for commercials, and the dialogue is edited to make it totally different, and unfunny, kind of like Smokey and the Bandit, not much fun to watch on TV, so buy it or rent it.Where are the next Chris Farley's ? There don't seem to be many funny men these days. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  if you're over 40 or just not a kid at heart, this is a terrible movie, as it lacks a decent plot. otherwise, it's the funniest movie of all time, and an outright riot. i own it and have seen it dozens of times and still die laughing every time i see it. it was one of only two movies i took to college (the other was shawshank, but who can deny shawshank, the greatest flick of all time?). "},{"Title":"Everlasting Fun","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As ever there is a good cross section of people commenting on this film. Comedy is such a subjective thing but I love this film and I do believe if Farley hadnt of died so young then he would have gone onto be one of the greats. His great physical comedy and unique individualy style which cant be imitated. When the garage attendant tells spade hes pick up some sacasm, and spade replies good cos im laying it on pretty thick very funny. I think it has a good mixture of physical comedy, and clever dialougue along with some nice sentimental touches. It is a good film to own and put on when youve had a stressful day. in fact the four films which farley did make in lead roles are all hilarious try beverly hills ninja and almost heroes along with black sheep the bit with the bat is hilaious. "},{"Title":"Chargerboy","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Awesome, hillarious movie.  All you movie Bashers out there, if you don't like a movie, don't review it.  Generaly only people who actually want to see reviews will be people who like the movie so you'll only get them upset. Long live Farley! I give Tommy Boy -D-D-D-D-D/-D-D-D-D-D "},{"Title":"Boyish comedy is genius from start to finish.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  In one of Chris Farley's earliest movie appearances he succeeds in what is quite possibly his funniest movie. Starring along side him is David Spade who isn't only a straightman to Farley's physical antics but also contributes his wit. When Farley's father dies he must go out on the road to cover for the payments and keep his town alive. It is then that the fun begins. At first he has no talent for the business but a shot to the head and some chicken wings turn everything around. With cameos from Dan Akroyd and Rob Lowe every minute of this movie is side-splittingly hilarious. I'd recommend it to anyone who wants to have a good time. Even though this movie wasn't nominated for any awards it gets the award for funniest movie of the 90's to be sure and quite possibly the funniest movie ever in my book. People might see Farley as a man of physical comedy but Tommy Boy succeeds in more verbal comedy than you might expect. Cinematography is spectacular. ***/****  "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How does anyone not love this movie? It's hilareous, delivering such funny lines that we still say them and we still laugh hysterically. Chris Farley is hilareous as always. He does this lovable idiot thing perfectly.  David Spade is also great. Spade and Farley are a perfect team. "}{"Title":"A half to see movie (Spoiler alert)","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Brian Denehy Chris Farley and Dave Spade is awesome in this movie.Big Tom Callahan jr dies and it's up to Tom Jr to save the company. If anyone knows Chris Farley you know its nothing but slapstick humor with Dave Spade.Tom Jr starts out slow and learns how to be like his dad with the help of his buddy and together they save Callahan auto by tricking the scumbag who tries to buy them out and sells him an amount of 500 million break pads.Tom Callahan Jr saves the companyand gets his girl (played by Julie Warner).(side note) It sad to see how Dave Spade got lost after the sad and stupid death of Chris Farley.Dave and Chris was awesome duo that was hard to beat.Like Lone Ranger and Tonto.Dave has tried and failed with duds such as Joe Dirt.I liked Joe Dirt but it didn't do anything like Tommy Boy. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films of the '90's","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy is one of my favorites comedies of all time. It is Chris Farley's best movie. The chemistry between Chris Farley and David Spade is excellent, more so than in Black Sheep. Chris Farley's physical comedy and David Spade's sarcasm gives their characters great depth. Their characters are very believable and consistent with the type of roles they play on tv's Saturday Night Live. The supporting roles were very believable as well. Rob Lowe does a good job as the bad guy. I saw Tommy Boy before Black Sheep- I didn't care for Black Sheep. I think Black Sheep fails in comparison because the characters in tommy Boy are much stronger. It was hard for me to believe their characters in Black Sheep- I was expecting more of their characters from Tommy Boy because what they exhibited in Tommy Boy is in fact much like themselves. I recommend viewers watch Black Sheep first and then watch Tommy Boy. Overall I think that the movie is one of the best comedies of the '90s. The jokes in this movie are very funny- the I'm a maniac... scene is classic Farley. This movie has high replay value so it worth having a copy of. Whenever you're in the mood to laugh- you can count on this film for comic relief. "},{"Title":"comedic duo bring laughs every scene of the movie","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  maybe it's because i grew up in the 90's that farley and spade appeal to me more than say SNL'ers of the 70's and 80's, but something about them just makes anything funny. farley has a great screen presence, and spade works so well in the snobby, sarcastic friend. just great comedy through the whole film. sure you can say the script wasn't tremendous and the plot was pretty bad, but if thats what you look for going into anything with farley and spade together, then your going to the movie for the wrong reason. **** "},{"Title":"A Fun Bit of Fluff","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Critics panned Tommy Boy because so much of it was reworked gags from other flics and from Saturday Night Live. But hey, stick with what works, right?Farley is Tommy Callihan Jr., a lovable fat lunk with a brain clogged with malt hops and bong resin. Spade is a bitter geek who worked hard all his life only to end up as an assistant to the boss's dimwit son who gets to be a corporate bigwig after scraping by seven years of college to earn his bachelors degree with a final D-. The two play well off each other, and the relationships come across as genuine, even if most of the gags are dumb. "},{"Title":"i'm laughing right now...","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  yeah, that's right, i'm laughing right now just thinking about this movie.no, the plot is not original, nor is the artistic merit of the movie very high, but it doesn't matter because the movie is riotously funny from beginning to end.between the super-sarcastic david spade endlessly playing off the moronic farley, farley's endless physical hijinks, and the hilariously conniving but hapless villains, this movie had me in stitches all the way through.bees!...they're ripping my flesh off!!  your firearms are useless against them!  - outstanding!  "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The critics need to watch this one again. It's extremely funny. My family and I quote random parts of it every now and then for no reason at all. David Spade and Chris Farley are hilarious; they are just perfect in their roles. Ebert needs to realize that there are two different types of comedies stupid comedies and intelligent comedies. Stupid comedies, just like comedies that try to be intelligent, can be bad or good. I love movies like Annie Hall, Love & Death, and The Royal Tenenbaums, but stupid comedies can entertaining as well, just like Tommy Boy is. It's true that most stupid comedies are bad; in fact, nearly every single one this year has been, but Tommy Boy has too many great lines to blast it. Sure, it took a few things from movies like Trains, Planes, and Automobiles, but it's funny nonetheless. If you want to be pretentious, go ahead and make fun of this film, but the rest of us can laugh at hilarious lines like, Did I hear a 'niner' in there? Were you calling from a walkie-talkie? "},{"Title":"Funny Movie, but I wonder why.....","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Can someone please explain why Rob Lowe has a relatively significant part, yet is uncredited?  When I first saw this movie I said Hey!  That's Rob Lowe!  But because he isn't in the credits, I never knew for sure.Anyway...regarding the flick...This movie epitomizes exactly why people distrust movie critics as much as lawyers and used car salesmen.I distinctly recall either Siskel or Ebert saying This is one of the worst movies ever made.  Why does Hollywood feel a need to spend money on this stuff.  Chris Farley couldn't hold John Belushi's jock.  I even think Siskel said he walked out of this movie early.OK!!!!!!!  It's a dopey movie and it's Chris Farley and not John Belushi.  But I laughed!  Is that OK?  I mean, I work a stressful job and deal with trauma every day in real life.  So why can't I enjoy Chris Farley lighting a toy car on fire and driving it around a desk making 'rum rum' noises?The movie makes me laugh.  So, for $9.99 I bought a copy at Blockbuster and I watch it from time to time.Geesh!  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow. This is one of the better comedies I've seen in a while. Being a fan of Chris Farley (especially the Matt Foley skits) when he was on SNL a few years back, I just had to see this film. Good, hard laughs were sure to follow. How about the I can't feel my legs! scene, or the pray to the god of skinny punks scene? Rich. And David Spade actually contributes some awesome comebacks and one-liners against the clumsy Farley, who plays the lead (Tommy). Great chemistry going on here. It didn't work with Black Sheep, but it sure does here! Pick up Tommy Boy today, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Oh my God!!!!!!!  Farley classis slapstick humor!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The typical film that you would expect from Chris Farley.  Loaded with slapstick humor and guttural screams, this movie will make you laugh all the way until the end.  This movie is a definite rental.  If you enjoyed this movie check-out Black Sheep.  "},{"Title":"it's not the odd couple","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a perfect film to watch if it's late at night, and you have nothing better to do.  Or if it's the middle of the day and you have nothing better to do and you just want to watch something funnier than your dad fiddling with the lawn mower.  Tommy Boy is, without a doubt, the best Lorne Michaels produced film ever made.  Okay, so it's not that great, but, then again, or any of them?  Anyway, they're perfect films for when you really don't care. It plays on Niel Simon's classic Odd Couple routine, and the two actors handle it quite well.  The jokes may not be as subtle or as intellectually gratifying as the odd couple's, but they work just fine at making you feel not so bored.  A wonderful tribute film to the comic genius of Chris Farley, as it shows how he can take otherwise conventional material and add a genuine spark to it.   "}{"Title":"You can get a good look at a steak...","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  by looking up a bull's *$$, but why not take the butcher's word for it?That is a great line that big Tom uses, and Tommy finally masters.This comedy with Farley and Spade is by far Farley's best big-screen attempt in his sadly short career.There have been others who commented about this movie who have outlined the plot more or less, but where this one really hit is the interplay between Spade and Farley as another odd couple and the loads of one-liners, Farley-esque schtick, and the wonderful self-deprecating comedic lines and excellent physical comedy that Farley could throw out.  His rotund boyish physical appearance just adds to the mix. By all means, if you like to laugh, please see Tommy Boy.  It is one to own IMHO, and I think you'll enjoy it.  If you don't enjoy comedy, then why are you here anyway?  No deep message, no morality play, no Oscar, just funny stuff, and some belly laughs!dlc 7/01 "},{"Title":"More Than Funny","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you watch this film and never laugh then you might want to check your pulse. It was one of the funniest films of the 90s and still makes me laugh uncontrollably. Spade and Farley were a comedic match made in heaven. There are a number of scenes in the movie which are simply classic. Describing them does not do them justice. Farley is gone but his slam-bang, slapstick form of humor lives on! "},{"Title":"Hehehehe","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a huge fan of David Spade. I think he's funny sometimes but I wouldn't kick myself if I missed an episode of Just Shoot Me. I felt the same about Chris Farley. But the two of them together in this movie (as well as in Black Sheep) were very funny. Farley is very convincing as a dumb guy, and Spade's wit goes well with it. To put it simply, the actors played themselves in the movie. Farley plays a man who has to take over his father's company after his death. And when was the last movie you saw where the main plot of the movie was to sell brake pads? This movie held the now classic Farley You're drivin' down the road speech, and hearing it never gets old. Neither do the entire car scenes (The singing, the deer and the gas station). The love interest, played by Julie Warner, interested me as well. Wink wink. However, every movie has the part that was a little too much, and this was probably the 10 reference to actress Bo Derek.  But the movie had great dialogue, and that's what it comes down to when making a great comedy. "},{"Title":"This is the best movie!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has to be one of the best movies i have ever seen! who can sit there and not laugh your butt off when tommy puts on richard's coat and sings fat guy in a little coat? or when the deer wakes up and destroys the car? if u like to laugh, watch this movie, you'll love it. write me if u like it! "},{"Title":"Gut-busting, Side-splitting, laugh-out-loud FUNNY!","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is Hilarious! i knew i was going to laugh when i saw this movie, but i never thought I'd be rolling on the floor! David spade and Criss Farley did quite well in this movie. Watch this movie and you will laugh. trust me.  "},{"Title":"Lukey Likey-Lukey Watch Morey!","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is AWESOME! OK, so I happen to be a fan of the late, great, dangerously overweight Chris Farley-but there's nothing wrong with it... and a lot of stuff right. Tommy is an adorable child stuck in the body of an a fat, clumsy jerk. Although his brain may have little to offer the Callaghan brake pad company, his heart is big, and it is that which sees him through. There are loads of good lines-with great delivery and plenty of visual gags. Keep a constant eye on Farley, who's on his best form ever as Tommy Boy, the kid whose brain has a thick candy shell. Even the terrible David Spade fails to let the film down-thanks to the large doses of Farleyism that spare us the torture of his irritating voice and appearance. Chris Farley is brilliant and this is his greatest film. Enough said. "},{"Title":"Great Funny Great again","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is Spade and Farleys best movie together! I loved it! A neat freak and a fat lazy guy on a road trip together. There has to be some laughs. And there is! If you like this movie then check out black sheep! Its also a great one! "},{"Title":"one of chris farley's greatest","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is, in my opinion, a memorial of chris farley. this movie reminds us of what a great guy farley was. it also reminds us of his excellece in comedic acting. it also reminded us of how crazy he was. this movie has everything we've come to expect from farley stupidity, clumsiness, comedy. it's a movie about how tommy callahan (farley) and a co-worker/friend richard (david spade) try to save his father's company by going on the road, selling brake pads. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND VIEWING IT. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of the most fun, and funniest movies of all time.  You are not going to get any complex emotions, but then again, comedies are great! Farley and Spade were great together, and their chemistry is absolutely magical in this movie.  If you have never seen this film, then you are missing out on one of the all-time comedy classics. "},{"Title":"Liked it.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Black Sheep sucked, and I saw it before this, and considering that I was forced into watching this, by a bunch of moron friends (not like they are ever going to read this), I liked it a lot better, it's really sweet.  All the actors did great with the script, which you can tell was mostly adlibbed.  Well worth the $0.49 (heh heh) cents I paid for it at the rental place. "}{"Title":"GREAT FILM","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a great blend of physical comedy, and serious story line.  If you liked the late great Chris Farley, you will love this movie.  If you are looking for some serious film about life, love, and the pursuit of happiness, you should look somewhere else.  But, if you like a good, old fashioned funny movie, this is it.  "},{"Title":"Classic Farley & Spade comedy about saving a brake pad business","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy is the classic Chris Farley and David Spade movie.  The business is going under, and the two set out on an eventful road trip to try and sell hundreds of thousands of brake pads to save the business from a conniving ex-wife, stepson, and brake pad rival.  The movie is rather predictable, but funny in many parts and really shows the comedy pair at the height of their careers together. "},{"Title":"Perspectives","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is an amazingly funny film.  Even if you are not a Chris Farley fan, this movie is packed with laughter.  It is one of the greatest comedies ever made, and without a doubt the greatest Farley movie every made.  Along side Something About Mary and Austin Powers, this movie ranks with the best of them. "},{"Title":"Comedy Genious...","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy is the first movie to literally have me rolling on the floor, doubled over in pain from laughing so hard.  Chris Farley and David Spade obviously are absolutely brilliant together.  It is a shame that we lost Chris so early in his career.  The whole movie just cracks me up every time I see it, which doesn't happen with most every movie.  I could never be sick of this picture.  Comedy truly at it's best! "},{"Title":"Too damn FUNNY!","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw Tommy Boy was after the HBO PREMIERE of Black Sheep, which was mediocre.  Tommy Boy, however, had me in such stitches that I had to turn-on the closed-caption option on my hotel's TV, simply because I was laughing too-hard to hear the jokes! GREAT FILM!!! Screw the critics!! "},{"Title":"Lookout red dragons.....here comes Tommy Boy!","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why has it taken so long for a movie of this magnitude to hit the big screen? Chris Farley plays an +3vsDemon-BattleAx wielding Minotaur in search of adventure,treasure and heffers. The special effects are outstanding and never has fire-breathing dragons been captured on motion picture like this one. The sword fight scenes were choreographed by world famous martial artist Dave Hussell. All dice throwing geeks must see this film. 2 thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"FINALLY! A big screen movie set in the D&D universe.","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've been waiting for a movie about dungeons and dragons for a long time and Tommy Boy delivered.  Follow the telltale adventured of Chris Farley (who plays Acidblade McBane, a powerful yet dimwitted minotaur) and his friend and partner in crime David Spade (who plays Dingbat, a simpleminded kender with a Girlde of Stone Giant's Strength).  The two are sent amongst the evils of the world in search of the Vial of Grog, a legendary magical artifact that is said to cure tobacco withdrawal.  The climax of the film comes when an evil wizard (played by the evil wizard himself, Bruce Campbell) casts a love spell on our boys and the laughs ensue.  Complete mayhem, 2 thumbs up! "},{"Title":"The Good Old Days","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The Good Old Days when SNL alums Chris Farley and David Spade were on. Their chemistry as the 90's Laurel and Hardy is intact her in Tommy Boy about goofy Tommy Callahan just graduating from college after seven years. Tragedy strikes when his father (Brian Dennehy) passes away and his company is in jeopardy. Tommy goes on a road sales trip with the aid of the reluctantly, sarcastic Richard (David Spade). The two fight, scream, and sing along with each other on their trip. Probably one of the best comedies made for our generation. Farley is in full gear in his spastic mode with Spade cracking wise.  "},{"Title":"Chris Farley's in it-'nuff said","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is hilarious. The laughs never stop. Every scene is packed to the limit with hilarious comedy. Chris Farley is a comic genius, and Spade plays his character to a tee. Farley was one of the best slap stick comics ever, and in this movie(as with all his movies) we see how much time and energy he devoted to portraying his character the way he saw fit. Tommy Boy is an excellent example of a comedy, it always makes me laugh, no matter how many times I have seen it before. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of funniest movies ever made.  But you have to like the comedy of Chris Farley and David Spade.  The timing and dialogue are brilliant.  This is one of those movies that you could watch over and over again and still be rolling on the floor laughing! "}{"Title":"ROFL","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie literally had me rolling on the floor (well at least on the couch) laughing.  I didn't think I would like it, but it came on cable TV one afternoon, and I watched the whole thing and thoroughly enjoyed myself. Since then, I've also seen Black Sheep, which was pretty good, but not as non-stop-funny as Tommy Boy. "},{"Title":"Comedic genius","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The primary plus for this movie is the combination of Chris Farley and David Spade.  This was the first film in which this comedy duo displayed their Laurel-and-Hardy-esque brand of humor.  Farley's obvious physical comedy skill is perfectly augmented by Spade's sarcastic take on every situation they find themselves in.This movie stands apart from other comedy movies.  Tommy Boy ranks in with Blues Brothers as a comedic work whose individual scenes and bits stem from the plot, rather than serve to break up the storyline and give the film a disjointed feel as so many other comedic films do.  Thanks to excellent direction by Sagal, every scene is tight and immediately foreshadows or acts out the story being told. He is as much to credit for the film's hilariousness as Farley and Spade are.   The acting of Dennehy, Lowe, Ackroyd, and many others (see the gas station attendant 22 miles from Davenport) strengthen the film.The film warrants multiple viewings because there are many fine nuaces to the film that may be overshadowed by Farley/Spade.I believe this film is very well-made and is THE funniest movie I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Guaranteed Laughs!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy is the one movie that I can watch countless times and will always laugh!  In fact, I'm probably going to get myself a back-up copy just to be sure I will always have it available.  I love that movie and was so saddened by the death of Chris Farley.  A waste of a great comic.I love that Tommy Boy can bond people instantly.  The lines start flowing and then the laughter is soon to follow.  There is no better movie than Tommy Boy.  It isn't the most thought provoking movie out there, but there is something about a movie that can make you laugh out-loud for a solid hour in a half. Thank you Chris Farley & David Spade for the many laughs.  "},{"Title":"one of my favorite snl-character movies!(that's gonna leave a mark)","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie! I have it and i watch it all the time. Watch it if you love fall down, side splitting comedy.  I love David Spades sarcasm and insults.  I wish I could make up insults and sarcasm like the writers of this movie.  they did a great job.  (and that thing with the bees in the car-wonderful!)   "},{"Title":"Must-See Movie","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Out of the many films I've seen, Tommy Boy is a rare film where I can watch it over and over and it's still funny. David Spade and the late Chris Farley do their best in this film and is a must-see by anyone who's a fan of the Spade-Farley duo. "},{"Title":"Better than you'd think","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, of course the critics hated it.  This isn't a movie that's going for the big-time critical acclaim.  But the fact is that it's really very good.Sure, if you don't like that Chris Farley brand of physical comedy, or the exceedingly dry wit of David Spade, you're not going to like it.  But for the rest of us, the movie has many hilarious, and for that matter quotable, sequences, and the plot isn't half as dumb as that of Black Sheep.  The parts that aren't meant to be humorous are actually done well, not what you'd expect from a movie of this ilk, and the acting is really pretty good.Tommy Boy is without question Chris Farley's best movie.  I give it an A and suggest you give it a view. "},{"Title":"This movie rocked!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love Tommy Boy! This movie gave me wings that made me fly. It touched my hand so I touched the sky. I am everything I am because of Tommy Boy. Did I mention that I love this movie?Rest in eternal peace, Chris. Our thoughts are forever with you.  There's only one Chris Farley! And Spade rocks too! "},{"Title":"Hilarious and Touching","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I can watch Tommy Boy over and over again.  Farley and Spade are fantastic together.  They both have a different kind of humour which they have perfected and gives the film variety.  Spade is great at being sarcastic and insulting and Farley is a slapstick wonder who plays a terrific moron.I laughed from start to finish.  The movie has a great musical score.  And all joking aside, the father/son relationship, although short lived, is very touching.  A lot of the supporting performances are subpar like Rob Lowe, Bo Derek and Julie Warner but Farley and Spade keep the film in good spirits.Tommy Boy is the best movie from any of the SNL crowd.  Sandler's Billy Madison and Happy Gilmore are the only other contenders in the onslaughter of SNL spin-offs and stars. Tommy Boy is like a 10.   "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love Tommy Boy and still cannot believe that Chris Farley has died.  He was an excellent actor and I have enjoyed all of his movies.  Tommy Boy is the best of all, not only funny but also with a beautiful and profound message of love and understanding.  No doubt, this is one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Far from brilliant, yet charming in it's own way","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie probably isn't the funniest I've ever seen, and it CERTAINLY doesn't have much redeeming value.  In fact, it is really nothing more than a collection of vignettes tied together by a loose plot. However, this make-it-up-as-I-go-along attitude actually works to the film's advantage. Tommy Boy  succeeds as a comedy for the same reasons that the SNL skits Farley and Spade starred in succeeded their well-timed extemporaneous silliness and mayhem makes them humorous despite their immaturity.  "}{"Title":"Farley's Brilliance","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For fans of Chris Farley, this is probably his best film.  David Spade plays the perfect cynical, sarcastic yin to Farley's Baby Huey yang.  Farley achieves strokes of comic genius in his monologues, like the Let's say you're driving along the road with your family... bit, the  Jo-Jo the Idiot Circus Boy with a pretty new pet, (his possible sale) speech, or the Glue-sniffing Guarantee fairy brake pad sale.  The sappy moments in the film contrast sharply with Farley and Spade's shenanigans.  Even after many viewings, it's still fun to see Farley pour everything he had into the role. Richard, what's HAPPENING to me?!?!  "},{"Title":"road movies like they oughta be","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  an extremely funny movie! one of the funniest i've seen. definitely a classic. david spade & chris farley are perfect foils for each other with impeccable timing. farley's physical comedy combined with spade's obnoxious wit make one of the most unique comedy teams ever. funny from beginning to end! a road/buddy movie for the ages! it was also nice to see that rob lowe can still get work...   "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies ever.  See it again and again and again.  Lots of memorable scenes and quotes.  Soooo good! "},{"Title":"Dad, she's like a 10.","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was like a 10.  When I first saw it over 3 years ago, doesn't seem like that long, I couldn't stop laughing.  Today I still watch and have to laugh.  It was just a great movie with a lot of laughs.  I wish Chris didn't kill himself, but David is still a laugh in Just Shoot Me on NBC. "},{"Title":"Farley's Finest","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The one-liners fly so fast in this movie that you can watch it over and over and still catch new ones. By far one of the best of this genre.  "},{"Title":"A classic in the mold of Martin & Lewis","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies made in recent years.  Good characterization, plot and exceptional chemistry make this one a classic "},{"Title":"Only Chris Farly can do it","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Fantastic movie, Chris Farlys humor made it one of my favorite comdedies ever!. David Spade is the complete opposite of Chris which is why the movie is so funny! "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my most favorite movies of all time. Pretty pathetic you say? Well, yeah it is. But Chris is incredibly,  incredibly funny. His innocent brilliance comes out in this film more than in any of his other films. Look at both motel scenes, when Spade gets caught with his zipper down, and the other JUST GO AWAY FOR THE LOVE OF GOD!!! "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of my all-time fav's. Whenever there's nothing new at the videorental, I rent this. Physical comedy, thy name is Chris Farley. Definitively one to watch.  "},{"Title":"A Hilarious Comedy About A Stupid Kid Trying To Save A Business","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why all of the critics say this was a bad movie, this is one of  my all-time favorite movies. Tommy (Chris Farley) and Richard (David Spade)  are a great match. Tommy is the stupid one who spent seven years in college,  finally passing with a D+. Richard is the smart kid who was hated by  everyone in school. How can you not laugh when the two of them are singing  Superstar by The Carpenters passionatly and all of a sudden the hood pops  up? In all this is a great movie, I recommend it. "}{"Title":"Overrated Crap!","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Boy (1995) Dir Peter Segal / Cast Chris Farley, David Spade, Bo Derek, Brian Dennehy, Rob Lowe Pathetic juvenile comedy starring Chris Farley as Tommy boy and he has just arrived home from college celebrating an array of straight D minuses. That pretty much sums up the effort that went into this film. Brian Dennehy plays his proud father who hires him on as part of his business, which specializes in brake shields. He introduces Tommy to his fiancé and son, which thrills him to the point of inviting his new brother out cow tipping. On the wedding day his father has a heart attack and business is in trouble until Farley and right hand man David Spade on a road trip to save it. They are unaware that the new fiancé is really out to sell the company. Dreary plot reduced to road movie formula. Director Peter Segal shows potential here but with The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult he had a better script and broader laughs. Farley and Spade go through one embarrassing situation after another unable to avoid mugging or overplaying. Bo Derek and Rob Lowe should have known better. It might have helped if Derek's seductress met with consequences. Certainly Lowe is met with greater consequence than just a bad career move. Purposed to capitalize on Farley's success on Saturday Night Live but it should be tossed into a busy interstate. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Comb your hair......","Date":"9 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy is a slow-witted, clumsy guy who recently graduated college after attending for seven years.His father, Big Tom Callahan, owns an auto parts factory.When Tommy arrives home, he finds he has a position at the factory waiting for him. His dad also introduces Tommy to his soon-to-be stepmother, Beverly, and her son Paul.But when Big Tom dies, the factory threatens to go under unless new brake pads are sold.Tommy must go on the road to sell them, along with the assistance of Richard, Big Tom's right-hand man.....Here in England, this was the only Farley film that made it to the big screen, partly because at the time this sort of humour was deemed to immature for wide release.Now cinemas are rife with this stuff, thanks to the dumbing down of civilisation. It's throwaway stuff, and while the film lasts, it's okay.It would have been good to see if Farley would have become something, because his films were on a par with Sandlers at the time.Narrative is straight forward, and the whole point of the film is Farley falling over, being silly, and having crazy hair, while David Spade stands there and rolls his eyes.It's all predictable stuff, there is a point in the film, like every film like this, where they think all is lost, and then they redeem themselves.Forgettable, but slightly endearing. "},{"Title":"Chris Farley rules!","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Peter Segal's 1995 commercial hit & now cult-classic 'Tommy Boy' is a hilarious film, an evergreen entertainer. Chris Farley is a talent which we'll never ever forget!!! 'Tommy Boy' is a simple story, told in the funniest & zany way possible. Farley & Spade take a journey which is filled with unstoppable laughter, even the Rob Lowe portion is damn funny. As a kid, I remember watching 'Tommy Boy' again and again and again. It's been of my childhood favorites, and it will always remain to be. Even today when it comes on T.V. I stick to it as a die-hard fan. I am quite possessive about this film. Segal's direction is super. Chris Farley might have died in 1997, but remains alive for me, at least. What an actor! Watch his work in 'Tommy Boy', he's so much at ease. He delivered fantastic performances later on in films like 'Berverly Hills Ninja' & 'Almost Heroes', but his work in here remains as his best to date! Love you, Farley! Spade, on the other hand, is as good as ever. He's an excellent actor in all respects! 'Tommy Boy' rules.... 100 thumbs up from this writer! "},{"Title":"Simple Average Comedy","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Boy is the well known comedy from the 90's. I remember seeing this and it was a riot. Now over 10 years later, it is just average. Don't get me wrong, there are some very funny scenes here.Tommy has just graduated and gets a job at his father's company. He is entitled to sell a product or the company goes belly up. As you can see, Tommy is not the sharpest knife in the drawer. He and co-star David Spade go cross country to sell the product.The chemistry between Spade and Farley is good. They do share some very funny moments together.(The scene at the gas station still has me in stitches) Other times, the movie fails and delivers some juvenile humor. Tommy Boy also suffers from a little boredom too. However, Tommy boy does have enough humor to win me over. Listen to some excellent quotes from David Spade.(What he says during the plane scene are priceless) Although not great, Tommy Boy is an average comedy that delivers just enough humor to succeed.The Last Word Enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Chris Farley's Best Movie Ever!!!!!!!","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For only doing a few movies with his life the Late Great Chris Farley. Farley died at the end of 1997 and will be missed mostly by his co actor in Tommy Boy, David Spade. From the lame Police Academy 4 Spade really has done good with his career in films. Tommy Boy is a classic and we will always remember Chris Farley when we watch it. From appearing on Saturday NIGHT LIVE to doing Tommy Boy, Black Sheep, Beverley Hills Ninja, Almost Heroes, Billy Madison, and Dirty Work. I think Chris Farley had a short and successful career. Tommy Boy was his best in my case and I would watch over and over again and laugh at the same part each time. Thank you Chris Farley. "},{"Title":"remake of.....(there can be spoilers i'm not sure))","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A kinda remake of PLANES TRAINS AND AUTOMOBILES in a lot of ways.i think,i think it's such a bad and sad coincidence that both John Candy and Chris Farley left us When they still had a lot of stuff to do.God bless them both,i think the plots of 2 movies are really similar,Road Trips of two different poles of characters,and a lot of unlucky consequences because of the Chubbies, This movie can not be Planes trains and Automobiles but its a really entertaining movie especially with the great performance of Chris Farley, The missing part in this movie is the touchy stuff if we compare it with Candy&Martin Classic,but i think its better this way "},{"Title":"It has moments that are funny, but sometimes a little too stupid","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Boy is a pretty decent comedy that can make almost every person laugh at least once. I have to admit that even I laughed a few times. But it seemed at some moments it got to be a little too silly at times. Chris Farley and David Spade are a great comedy duo, I will never deny that. The supporting cast adds a lot to the movie as well. But the main problem I had was that sometimes it seemed to get a little off hand. Also, they showed all the funny parts in the trailer. Unfortunately, that happens a lot, especially now. It ruins the film and you know what to expect.I would say to give the movie a shot though. I was kind of in a bad mood while watching it, so maybe I should give it another shot. Otherwise, until then...6/10 "},{"Title":"Chris Farley Over and Out","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this is just another run-of-the-mill Saturday Night Live starring film which is as far as SNL films goes, okay!Let's be honest SNL have the dendency to let the main players make some lousy films, mainly in the 1990's era... I think only Adam Sandler and Mike Myers really broke the mold in the 90's where as in the 70's and 80's Aykroyd, Murray, Chase, Martin (Regular player), Short, Murray all made hugely popular and okay films!I'm almost ashamed to say that I felt quite emmotionally sad when the main things happens to Tommy Boy. Does that make me a bad person?I think Spheeris is a good enough director to help this film get better reviews than it would have if a lesser known director helmed it.5/10 "},{"Title":"simply the best","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is by far the funniest movie I've seen! Just see it! No other movie has made me drop movie quotes in every possible situation like Tommy boy. In my opinion, the plot doesn't really matter, I just laugh my ass off at pretty much everything Farley and Spade say and do in this movie. "},{"Title":"Wow..... That was close!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"      THIS WAS REALLY FUNNY! By far one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. All of the little amusing adventures Tommy and Richard get into just tickle your funny bone. This was Chris Farley's best movie. The others weren't bad (except Dirty Work), but they didn't live up to Tommy Boy! I recommend this to any one who doesn't mind low brow humor, 'cause I sure don't! 9/10 "}{"Title":"A Comedy that should of had less Comedy in it","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I somewhat sort of liked this movie, but not quite. These two Saturday Night Live Goons surprisingly and unexpectedly made it off the tv screen to the big screen. Well, they might not become box office stars, but you can still enjoy them in the movies. I found Farley to be a little bit obnoxious, and Spade barely funny. Please, if you, out there, are going to see this movie, be of caution! "},{"Title":"Farley No John Belushi but still way better than Jack Black","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is by far the best Chris Farley movie ever made and not to step on his grave but he was not in the same league as his idol, John Belushi - may they both rest in peace.I didn't have high hopes when I first decided to give it a watch but I actually thought it was quite hilarious in several scenes. My favorite has to be when Farley and David Spade go into a sales pitch and Farley makes his presentation using two toy cars with disastrous results. I won't reveal anymore because it can never be fully appreciated if described. Look for a similar scene, where Farley is negotiating with a waitress for some fried food.I also think that although David Spade has limited screen appeal, he and Farley actually make a fairly good team. Farley's character, Tommy Callahan, is no master at the snappy comeback and that is made an ongoing theme all through the movie (This is a part of the movie that's not so great). Since it is a Chris Farley, you can bet that you will also see a lot of physical comedy and here it is actually not so mind numbingly stupid as it later became in the Farley/Spade followup Black Sheep. Yes, we know that Farley's character is required to get him into jams that would kill a real person but it is kind of refreshing to see such a scene that pays tribute to old time comedians like Laurel and Hardy and in some ways Chaplin too. You can be sure that your intellect will not be tested when watching Tommy Boy and that's fine.But ultimately the stupid plot kicks in Farley's administrator or whatever you call her (played by the lovely Julie Warner) likes him but of course there has to be some mix-up to split them apart for a while. In comes Farley's step-brother and nemesis played by Rob Lowe (he must hold some kind of record for appearing in the movies of Saturday Night Live players). He sabotages an important element of the scheme to keep Farley's company running and wouldn't you know it it all solves itself in the last half hour. See the ridiculous cameo by Dan Aykroyd to find out for yourself.So to sum up The first 45 minutes are a blast to watch and the last are somewhat bland but the fact is Farley would sink a lot deeper in his last movies and that's that. See ya "},{"Title":"Hilarious, but what a shame","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is hilarious. Brilliant comedy, but only because of one actor. Chris Farley. The best 'comedy-actor' I have ever seen. It's something special about him. He is just so funny.What a shame he is not with us anymore. He will sorely be missed. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad, but Farley is hilarious.","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Here we have a lame script that rips off Planes, Trains and Automobiles with a vengeance, as well as dozens of other movies (the deer scene, shamelessly stolen from The Great Race, actually makes me mad), a weak story, and shallow characters, that is gloriously saved by Chris Farley. This guy is just too damn funny, and I laugh every time I watch this movie. The relentless energy and physical comedy displayed by a man of his size seems to defy the laws of physics. It's a shame he died so soon, because I don't think it would have been too long before someone cast him in a good movie.Needless to say, anyone who labels this a comedy classic hasn't watched enough movies, but as a showcase for a gifted comedian who died way too early, it's fantastic. "},{"Title":"Dumb but watchable","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A fun (but only occasionally funny), dumb comedy. The plot is rather simple and unspectacular and the acting is serviceable. Chris Farley is really the only reason to see this movie, due to various comedic episodes peppered throughout the run time. He's able to elevate the material somewhat on his charm and charisma, even bringing a little heart/pathos to the role. You can't really say that for the rest of the movie, though, because it's filled with clichés, plot holes, lapses in logic and implausibilities. Still, the strong central performance by Farley, who proves himself quite adept at physical comedy, is reason enough to see it at least once. "},{"Title":"Not excellent, but definitely worth revisiting once every few years.","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Classic '90s comedy about immature Farley and snarky Spade on a road trip, attempting to save the former's late-father Dennehy's company from going under. The minor doses of emotion give this funny flick about unlikely friendship and search for self-worth some replay value. Rob Lowe and Bo Derek, both in supporting roles, help add some flavor to this outing. Not excellent, but definitely worth revisiting once every few years. The film's two leads were actually really close friends in real life before Farley's untimely death in 1997, but apparently the two got into a physical altercation on the set of this film.*** (out of four) "},{"Title":"I Could so easily Hate this movie....","Date":"11 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb comedies and gross-outs don't do anything for me , usually doing the opposite and make me want to flick my eyeballs out with a sharp pencil.This mad, fast paced craze-fest is so infectiously delirious that it'd be inhuman not to warm to it and ultimately, rather like it. Or love it, though I'm not sure I want to go that far....Chris Farley is a comic actor unknown to me, apart from his parts in Waynes World, which I saw so long ago, I cannot remember him. I understand that he was one of a kind and much loved. Comparisons with the Farrelly brothers cannot be dismissed, but Tommy Boy just seems less lame and crude and has more zest and genuine enthusiasm, by all in it. And I'm not sure that the Farrelly's could extend a script about brake pads over 90 minutes, either!It's good to see Dan Ackroyd and Bo Derek, Ackroyd himself being another great comic actor. David Spade I really don't know but he makes a great Laurel to Farley's modern day Hardy. Big on size, heart and character, was Mr Farley.Not one I'll be buying on DVD but did enjoy my seeing it on Sky Movies. "},{"Title":"Chris Farley plays a son of a . . . . . . . . . . . . .","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Chris Farley had a lot of fans. Well, despite his premature death he still has quite a lot of fans. With all due respect to the man, I'm not one of them. His best performance remains, for me, his fantastic turn as the man with no nose in the hilarious Dirty Work.Tommy Boy is, believe it or not, a kind of comedy riff on Hamlet. However, Shakespeare lovers may want to stay away from this one. The comedy begins as Tommy (Chris Farley) finally graduates after a ridiculously long time. He heads home to be with his father, big Tom (Brian Dennehy), and also meets his father's new bride (Bo Derek) and a troublemaker introduced as her son (Rob Lowe). All seems good for Tommy, not so good for Richard (David Spade), who has to act as an assistant to the buffoon when big Tom gives him an office and tries to get him learning the ropes of the family business. Richard has his work cut out for him when tragedy strikes and it's up to young Tommy to make sure the business stays solvent.Directed by Peter Segal, and with a decent script full of great barbs from Bonnie and Terry Turner, Tommy Boy could have been something very funny indeed. Instead, it relies too much on Farley's schtick, which can quickly become grating to those of us who aren't fans. His constant cries of son of a . . . and holy schnike! are extremely irritating and it's hard to see how the manic, stupid, childish character that he plays could ever win anyone over, let alone get to spend some quality time with Julie Warner (who plays Michelle, a co-worker and potential love interest). David Spade - now THAT guy is funny. His delivery of insulting one-liners is practically perfect and you understand his growing frustration as things get worse and worse for him. Dennehy is good enough, Bo Derek lends her beauty and Rob Lowe gets some laughs as his character goes through a number of mishaps. There's also an amusing small turn from Dan Aykroyd as Zalinsky, a big competitor who has offered to buy the business.It rattles along at a decent pace, keeps things relatively light and breezy and throws some good songs on the soundtrack (the moments with Farley and Spade singing together as they drive across the country are, I must say, actually pretty damn funny) but the central character just isn't likable enough to carry the whole thing. Dumb can be funny but the sweetness or innocence at the centre has to be played just right or it doesn't work. In Dumb & Dumber, for example, we had the two leads who never once considered how they appeared to others with their childish exuberance and juvenile antics. Here in Tommy Boy we get the occasional moment clumsily shoe-horned in there to show that Tommy has feelings too. It just doesn't work, somehow, but there are still plenty of laughs to be had throughout the film and fans of Farley can easily add a point or two. "},{"Title":"Some drama in there","Date":"17 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's not a pure comedy. Yet well mixed with drama and romance. Even for it's old age it's defiantly a good movie. I didn't only laugh but enjoyed the movie. It has the right amount of romance and violent scenes. I would've given it 9/10 if I'd watched it in 1995.It starts lame but brings up the game as the movie goes on. It's important to point out that at some points while watching, you feel left-out with some unlinked scenes and phrases. Sometimes actions happen dramatically and doesn't make sense. But we can forgive it as the story is long enough and it would have been a 3 hours movie otherwise.I do recommend it to anyone feeling frustrated or just wants a relief. But it's not a movie to have fun and laugh watching. It's a one to enjoy "},{"Title":"Blame it on the orchestration!!!","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I guess I do not have too much to add. I found the comedy to still be funny after more than ten years since it came out.The one thing that I did notice was the music during the dialogue to be distracting and often made the movie very hook than it should have been. The use of songs is fine during the movie but the orchestral background is too busy, too contrived and if the movie was ever to be edited for DVD, I would seriously recommend that the background music be toned down to an almost inaudible level. It has cheapened the overall feel for the whole film and I can see subconsciously why a lot of people have passed it up.The film had a lot of levels working for it on the script, plot and comedy level. It is too bad that the producer and director felt they needed the musical schlock to enhance the mood. Now knowing this, I find it hard to watch and I quietly curse whoever was involved with the musical editing in the film. It had all the subtlety of a jackhammer. "}{"Title":"Farley was no Belushi or Candy but this is hilarious","Date":"5 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think every critic who panned Tommy Boy when it was released in 1995 ought to go back and watch it and learn it is not a bad film at all. Every critic panned Chris Farley and David Spade's movies. Yes Coneheads was funny but kind of had a one joke premise and Black Sheep I agreed with the critics is one of the worst movies ever made. But Tommy Boy does not fall in the category of Coneheads which could have been a little funnier and Black Sheep which is a piece of tripe. It is very funny and entertaining. I do agree with the critics that Chris Farley was no John Belushi or John Candy as he claimed to have idolized those guys and those guys had a genius for comedy but Chris Farley was very funny and I wish he were around longer to prove to critics that yes he was no John Belushi, or John Candy but he was very funny. The scenes between Farley and Spade as nemesis are side-splitting hilarious and the premise is also laugh out loud hilarious. It is very sad that Chris Farley is no longer here to make us laugh but we have movies like Tommy Boy to remember how truly funny he was. Tommy Boy is one of the 1990's best comedies. "},{"Title":"Hilarious !","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hilarious ! That was what I think about this movie. It is about Farley and his dad's assistant, Spade trying to sell Gallahan brake pumps.The story goes that Tommy (played by Farley) was appointed as the seller for Gallahan, a company selling brake pumps. Things should be very hard, shouldn't it? What's with the fact that Tommy is a fresh graduate and he is helped by his dad's assistant, which is played by David Spade.No, things got pretty awry, to say the least. Even though Tommy was a graduate, he wasn't very good in his studies. He got a C+ for his paper and instead of feeling sorry for himself, he celebrated his 'feat' by going to a party! And he graduated only after spending many years in the college.And he couldn't get help and guidance from his dad because his dad died on his wedding day. Pity, huh? Well that was what made the movie appealing and funny! Not about the death of Tommy's dad, but about the 'adventures' that they had! Imagine putting a deer in the back seat, thinking that the deer was dead, but accidentally woke up from the 'deep slumber' and wreck havoc in the car? And wasn't it hilarious when they tried becoming a flight attendants? I laughed out loud during these funny moments and many more scenes in this movie.So a score of 9 out 10 for this movie. "},{"Title":"Great gags, weak film","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Chris Farley plays his role to perfection in this film, that being said, the story line is that of a children's movie at best. I must admit that some of the gags were quite hilarious, reminding us why Farley has already become an SNL legend, and full marks go to David Spade who successfully played his smart-ass persona, but between some of these classic slapstick gags are some very cheesy story lines which are overly predictable and could only please a grade-school crowd. Now I am aware that this film is not intended to show any signs of sophistication, however the gross-out jokes are obviously intended for a crowd of teens and young adults while the story line is much like a Disney film. Any Chris Farley fan should see this film just for some of his classic gags, but if he's never been your cup of tea there is no way you should get anywhere near this film. "},{"Title":"The best comedy of the 90's...and probably the best i have seen.","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie may not have seemed like much to some people but it had everything i look for in a comedy. fall down funny moments accompanied by a moment or two of seriously moving scenes, great actors, and pretty much everything a good movie is supposed to be like. despite David spade playing his usual snobby character he made this role into an unusual performance which i don't think he had ever exceeded until he hit the screen with Joe dirt. regardless of whether or not some people were not Chris Farley fans i saw this film when it came out and my friends and i still talk about it... 11 years later. this movie was what finally told me that Chris Farley was the real deal. he is the best comedian i have seen in my life. in the words of some he could be clumsy, clever, funny, serious, crazy, sober, and moving or depressing at the same time. not the same words but the message is all that counts. one of the true great actors of our time, and one of the true great comedy's of all time. along with good acting, good story, hilarious moments, serious scenes that at times brought me to tears. this movie stands atop the hordes as a movie that marked the beginning of a brief reign at the top of the comedy world by the late great Chris Farley. no actor before or since has captured my interests in a movie since. because no actor before or since has put so much into his movies. this movie is worth the time, if you haven't taken the time to see it do so the next time you rent a movie. "},{"Title":"Movie Schitzo's Review of Tommy Boy","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Chris Farley has made a career out of playing underachievers and with David Spade at his side they can make funny movies. Here is their first one Tommy Boy. It was a very good movie that has become a favorite teen movie over the generations. The first outing between Farley and Spade (their second being Black Sheep, which wasn't as good as this). The story on this one follows Tommy Callahan the Third, who has just graduated college after 7 years and is going back to his hometown to take control of his father's company (a break pad factory) and gets a surprise his father Big Tom Callahan (Brian Dennehey) has met and is engaged to a perfect 10 (Bo Derek) and he is getting a new brother (Rob Lowe). When Big Tom dies of a stroke it's up to Tommy to sell just enough break pads to keep the factory all while his new in laws are conspiring against him. This was a very funny and entertaining movie that should be viewed by everyone who enjoys a good laugh and Chris Farley and David Spade. All and all a very fun and funny movie everyone will like it.3 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"greatest comedy movie of all time!! )","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Ahh... Tommy Boy. My favorite comedy movie ever. I remember seeing it on TV for the first time when I was mmmm.....about 13. I had no idea what it was about and there was nothing else good on TV that day so I just decided to stick with it. I turned it on when I got to the part where they're at the gas station and Tommy bends the door on the car when backing up. When Richard comes out and pulls off the car door,Tommy just says, What'd you do!?. I have no idea but the way he said it made me crack up so bad. I thought it was so funny. Then a long while after that, I wanted to get it on DVD or video. I walked into the music store in the mall, and I saw the last DVD sitting there for only $10. It was like a sign from God! lol I picked it up right away and bought it. Every time I watch it, to this day, I laugh. It's so great. I recommend anyone getting this movie. I can't even say which part is my favorite because there are too many! It's a shame Chris Farley passed away because he was a wonderful actor/comedian. But him and David Spade made a great team and no one else could have fit the characters better. If your in the mood for a good comedy, I recommend buying or renting Tommy Boy. "},{"Title":"Simply One Of The Best!","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the movie that introduced me into the amazing comedy world of the late Chris Farley. Every time I watch this movie I still laugh just as hard as I did the first time. This is the movie that also started the partnership of Spade and Farley. Also, this movies legacy lives on today. Dan Akroyd, who owns the rival auto parts store appears in the recent movie 50 First Dates, In this movie he runs a mental hospital and in it he mentions that the hospital is funded by Callahan Auto in Sandusky, Ohio, which is the auto parts manufacturer that Chris Farley owns in this movie. So no matter what we will never forget Chris. R.I.P. buddy 1964-1997. "},{"Title":"Literally, one of the funniest comedies I have ever seen!","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Good God, Tommy Boy is one of the funniest comedies I have ever seen! Tommy Boy (Chris Farrely) is about a not-so-smart, funny-fat-guy and he just passed college and he is going to take over his dad's family auto company. After he comes home he finds out that his dad is marrying a very beautiful woman, but when the wedding starts, Tommy Boy's dad dies. Now he has to save his family's company with the help of his dad's assistant (David Spade). This is really one of the top ten funniest comedies ever. There is a laugh out loud joke every minute. I would recommend this to ANYONE! This goes next to the funny comedies with Happy Gilmore, Billy Madison, My Cousin Vinny, and many others. It is so sad that one of the greatest comedy legends, Chris Farrely, committed suicide. He always makes me laugh in ANY movie he is in. Wherever he is, rest in peace, Tommy Boy. "},{"Title":"The Blues Brothers for the 90's","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Chris Farley and David Spade were the Aykroyd and Belushi of the 90's. After Tommy Boy became a huge hit, the duo returned again to make another film and with hopes of many more. The SNL (Not Ready for Prime Time Performers)of Farley and Spade were real life friends. The on screen chemistry the two had is part of why Tommy Boy did so well. An interesting coming of age drama / comedy, Tommy Boy is about Tommy, a young man who has not, yet, grown up. After the sudden death of his father, Tommy is faced with the problem of having to save his families business from being sold. Proving to himself and to his small town that he can save the day, Tommy, with help from Richard (played by David Spade) the two beat the odds and save the company from being sold. A great road trip movie, Tommy Boy is a surprise hit for a wide audience. A soon to be classic. "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a good movie, funny story, ok cast. I really enjoy watching it. Everytime i watch it i wonder what Chris Farley would be doing today if he was still alive, would he be making good movies, or what. Who knows Tommy Boy is a good comedy, i think Chris's best movie (since he didn't do too many good ones)  "}{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a good movie, funny story, ok cast. I really enjoy watching it. Everytime i watch it i wonder what Chris Farley would be doing today if he was still alive, would he be making good movies, or what. Who knows Tommy Boy is a good comedy, i think Chris's best movie (since he didn't do too many good ones)  "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a good movie, funny story, ok cast. I really enjoy watching it. Everytime i watch it i wonder what Chris Farley would be doing today if he was still alive, would he be making good movies, or what. Who knows Tommy Boy is a good comedy, i think Chris's best movie (since he didn't do too many good ones)  "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a good movie, funny story, ok cast. I really enjoy watching it. Everytime i watch it i wonder what Chris Farley would be doing today if he was still alive, would he be making good movies, or what. Who knows Tommy Boy is a good comedy, i think Chris's best movie (since he didn't do too many good ones)  "},{"Title":"Very Funny","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a good movie, funny story, ok cast. I really enjoy watching it. Everytime i watch it i wonder what Chris Farley would be doing today if he was still alive, would he be making good movies, or what. Who knows Tommy Boy is a good comedy, i think Chris's best movie (since he didn't do too many good ones)  "},{"Title":"Another great Chris Farley movie!","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy is insanely funny!There is just way to much to talk about that;s in this film!Chris Farley is (as always) extremely funny and I love it when you yells,screams, and shouts!David Spade,Julie Warner,Brian Dennehy,and Dan Aykroyd were really good!If you love the unbelievably talented Chris Farley and the above mentioned cast see Tommy Boy soon for a great funny time! "},{"Title":"No one is better than Chris Farley!!!","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time!!!It's sad Chris Farley is'nt alive right now,but hes mad alot of the movies I still love and watch today!I think he's one of the best actors ever and nobody will ever forget what he's accomplished!Final VerdictA  (96%) "},{"Title":"great","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really didn't care for the story, but Spade and Farley were cut short of a great team, lots of great lines and stuff in this film that will live on especially after Farley's death. Spade as the smartass and Farley as the brainless wonder, I also thought Dan Akroyd's character was excellent. Tommy Boy is worth owning just for a good laugh every so often, too bad Farley isn't around to make more films like this. "},{"Title":"over 40 viewings and it's still damn funny","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  all of you who think that this movie is weak or silly are retarded. this is one of (if not THE) funniest movies that i have ever seen.  i consider myself somewhat of a movie connosieur and this is one of the movies that i give an emphatic thumbs up to.  relax a little bit and enjoy the comedy people.  it WILL win you over. "},{"Title":"funny in spots","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Juvenile, but occasionally laugh-out loud funny comedy stars Farley as a lifelong screwup and seven-year college graduate who returns to his rural Ohio hometown to work in his father's auto parts factory. When his father unexpectedly passes away, he vows to maintain the tradition of making the factory a family-owned business and recruits reluctant co-worker Spade to accompany him on a cross-country business trip to save the factory from foreclosure. Some genuine moments of laughter thanks to the likable comic duo of Farley and Spade, but there are just as many hits as there are misses. Well-intended, but too often resorts to lame jokes in order to get cheap laughs. ** "},{"Title":"Chris Farley and David Spade at their finest!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so funny! Every scene seems to have a funny moment every which way it goes. Chris Farley, and David Spade did a great job in their roles, and they are indeed a true comedy team. It really sucks that Chris Farley's dead because he was the funniest comedian I've ever seen, and he could've done more funny movies. One thing that annoys me is how the movie critics thought this movie was so bad. Well TAKE A HIKE GUYS! You wouldn't know a comedy if it bit you on the heiny. This is without a doubt, the funniest movie of 1995!This movies is hilarious, so don't miss out! "}{"Title":"Chris Farley and David Spade in Lorne Michaels' Funniest Project Since Saturday Night Live!!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         Saturday Night Live veterans Chris Farley and David Spade team up in this funny movie! Farley is Thomas Callahan III, son of Big Tom Callahan who owns Callahan Brake Pads division on Sandusky,Ohio. Tommy just graduated community college with a D+. On the exam, he put Herbie Hancock instead of Jon Hancock. He meets Richard Hayden (Spade). On the drive to the factory, Tommy accidentally feeds the carburator M&M's. Tommy's dad shows him his big new office with a refrigerator.           At home Big Tom introduces his fianceé Beverly (Bo Derek) and later, Tommy meets his new brother Paul. Tommy and Paul go cow tipping that night. Soon it's the day of the wedding. It was also a sad day because Big Tom drops dead. It get's worse because the factory is in debt and is about to be bought by Zalinski's Auto Parts. Tommy offers to go on his dad's sale trip and takes Richard along. The first couple agencies they try to sell to decline. One guy seemed interested but changed his mind when Tommy demonstrated why Callahan's is better than the other guy. It resulted in model cars catching fire.        Tommy and Richard hit a deer and it later comes to life and wrecks Richard's car. The next day they nearly get killed and have a fight. Richard whacks Tommy with a board, that apparently didsomething to Tommy's brain (if it was ever there) because he entised a surly waitress to cook him some chicken wings. Tommy's used this new technique and got lot's of sales, putting them over the mark! But while they were gone, Paul messed with the data in the computers and when Richard and Tommy return, they get the bad news. Tommy is still determined, so he and Richard fly to Chicago to try and convince Zalinsky not to buy the factory. They pose as flight attendants and when they reach their destination, Tommy succeeds in selling half a million brake pads to Zalinski and Paul is exposed as a phony. It gives him a real kick in the balls. Literally. So Tommy saved the day. His dad would be proud.        This is a really funny movie! Farley and Spade are greattogether! I like the part where they stop alongside the road to Tommy can take a whiz, Richard takes off and Tommy chases him. And the scene in the model car guy's office where Tommy gives his demonstration. Funny! It's terrible that Chris Farley has died. He was a funny guy. He would've been a better Shrek than Mike Myers.- "},{"Title":"typical Farley","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy delivers exactly what you would expect lots of stupid comedy. Casting Spade as the smug, sarcastic guy, and Farley as the brainless idiot is a nice touch, but the script still offers very little. Occasionally funny when Farley's bumbling around. 2/4 "},{"Title":"One of the greatest comedies ever!","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   I don't see why some people give this movie a bad review, this was like the funniest movie I have ever seen! Well, I guess it helps that I'm a huge Farley/Spade fan, but still! They were the best comedy duo ever, they were perfect. This movie will keep you laughing from beginning to end.Everything about it is great, the plot was excellent and all the actors totally fit their parts. This was the best film David Spade and Chris Farley ever made. If you're a fan of comedy, you got to buy this. Note that I say buy, you can't watch it just once! Spade and Farley must go on a roadtrip together, in order for his late dad's factory to stay open, they got to sell a half million break pads.Chris Farley was a very unique comedian.  "},{"Title":"One of the BEST comedies of all time!!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When my sister made me watch Dumb and Dumber I nearly gagged. So you can imagine what I was thinking when she sat me down to watch Tommy Boy.It was THE BEST!! I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!! Everything about it is great. Not only do you get a hilarious film but you get a sweet tender story as well. It's about a big dumb but caring guy named Tommy(Farley) who wants to do well, he just doesn't know how. His father knows his son is...well..um...not all there but wants him to join the business away. The Dad makes one of his workers, Richard(Spade), watch over Tommy and keep him in line. This is where the fun begins. The pairing of Chris Farley and David Spade is a comic delight. Like Lucy and Ethel, they get into trouble without even trying. From the rolling M&M's to the deer kill/resurrection, it is all laugh out loud funny.(**WARNINGSPOILER**)When Tommy's father dies, they need to make alot of money to save the company. So both of them hit the road trying hard to sell the company's auto parts, save the business and the town. During this time Tommy falls for the spunky shipping girl named Michelle and they hit it off. Evil steps in by the name of Bo Derek and bad boy Rob Lowe and hope seems to fade. By the end Tommy has learned how to be a business man, Richard has learned to work well with others, and Michelle has fallen for the big lug. (**END OF SPOILER**)A nice story, hilarious situations and a perfect comedy team(haven't seen Black Sheep yet) make this a MUST SEE for anyone with a good sense of humour.  "},{"Title":"This is a must-see classic","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy, although not necessarily the funniest of films, is definitely up there. Chris Farley and David Spade compliment each other perfectly as they often do (did). There are MANY classic lines that are a must-see for any teenager or college-aged person. Many quotes can be used over and over at parties, and if I were you I'd go look at the memorable quotes page and go watch the movie. I give it at least a 9. "},{"Title":"Pretty good...","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought Tommy Boy was good, definitely David Spade's best movie, Chris Farley's too actually.  I really had no desire to see it until everyone online would mention the movie and asked me if I'd every been cow tipping when I said I live in Sandusky, Ohio.  Nothing in the movie was even from Sandusky, and I don't see too many cows around my house... all of the harassment and misinformation aside, I did enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"The Critics are Jealous of Chris Farly","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I'm sick of middle aged people making fun of this movie. This movie is great and they secretly know it inside. The plot is great! The casting is Grrrreat. This movie is a classic! David and Chris are the best on screen duo ever! If you didnt see this movie you ought to see it by now! "},{"Title":"Stupid but hysterical","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It was the second to last day of school in my sophomore year of high school. Our health teacher decided to show us a movie. In a boring tone of voice he said, OK, we're going to watch a movie about a college student who graduates and what he does and decisions he makes. We all thought we were in for a boring film. And the film we got was Tommy Boy!I don't usually go for movies like this, but this one's a riot. The whole road trip story is funny, and David Spade gets off some of the best one-liners you'll ever hear. Rob Lowe is very funny in a small role as Tommy Boy's stepbrother.The best part of the film by far is when the film takes such a cheap shot at the Carpenters (playing Superstar on the radio on the road trip), but it's still HYSTERICAL! And I'm a HUGE Carpenters fan! And then the car hood pops up out of the blue!Another favorite part is when the deer breaks the car, and Tommy Boy goes, That...was...AWESOME!!! "},{"Title":"One of the Great ones, Forget the Movie Scholars","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  IS this not just one of those movies when you first watch it that you are dying laughing and crying and you can't control yourself, I don't understand why people totally dismiss this movie, It has classic lines, classic moments, classic scenes of Comedy. Sure its no Godfather, On the waterfront, or Casablanca, but I dont think thats what they had in mind, I think they wanted a movie that will turn people into laughing convulsions and that is what it accomplished, for those who didn't like it. Loosen up, take off your tie, take off your shoes, have a seat on the couch, kick back and prepare to laugh. "},{"Title":"Two words","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is quite possibly the greatest comedy ever filmed. Anyone who thinks otherwise should seek serious help. The same goes for anyone who thinks Black Sheep is better... for anyone with an inkling of grey matter know that to be false. "}{"Title":"Silly stuff.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Let's put it this way Chris Farley and David Spade are not as annoying as other people we may know in cinema (Pauly Shore, Adam Sandler, etc.). Actually, when they want to, Spade and Farley could be extremely funny. (Well, more like when they wanted to, now that Farley is gone.) I'm sure if you leave your brain at the door this will be purely harmless stuff.The one truly hilarious scene was when the deer went stir crazy in the car, but most of the other gags consisted either of sexism or Farely running into things. I'll be nice and say it was OK, but gosh, why hasn't Rob Lowe's & Bo Derek's acting contract expired yet? "},{"Title":"The duo of Spade & Farley ranks up there with Abbot & Costello","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Chris Farley was quite possibly one of the best comedians to come out of SNL in all of its 29 years.  Though he had humorous cameos in such movies as both Wayne's Worlds, Coneheads, and Airheads, Tommy Boy was his first starring role.  And definitely his greatest.  This movie has become a classic among my generation (The ones in college now), and I have no idea how many times my friends and I have watched it.  I cried when I heard he had died, but he had fulfilled that classic acting motto Leave them wanting more.  And let's face it; if he would have continued in the movies he had done lately (Beverly Hills Ninja, Almost Heroes, Dirty Work), his routine would have gotten stale soon.  When he was paired with David Spade, however, that magic spark between the two of them filled the audience.  They played so well of each other Chris's bumbling and David's insulting, sarcastic retorts.  Nowhere was this clearer than in Tommy Boy.  It was their best roles, and I will always remember them for it.  Classic quotable scenes (not just lines), amazingly stupid physical humor (like the airplane bathroom scene), and superbly campy plotline.  I give it a ten. "},{"Title":"The plot is not as stupid as the one in Black Sheep, but it's not as funny as Black Sheep","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy does have laughs, but not as much Black Sheep. The plot is not as stupid as the one in Black Sheep, but doesn't deliver the same amount of laughs as in Black Sheep. Black Sheep has so many side spliting scenes, but Tommy Boy is a funny movie. I give Tommy Boy **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Chris Farley was an unbelievable talent, but this comedy is too lame for its own good.","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Chris Farley was a uniquely talented comic with relentless energy, and he almost always made me laugh.  Of course, his funniest appearances were on SNL with such legendary characters as Matt Foley.  He was quite funny in this movie, sometimes hilarious, but the script was extremely lame and forced the characters to go through such ludicrous, predictable situations.  Farley did his best to salvage the weakly written gags and succeeds at times, but not enough.  If there was a scene that required a cheap pratfall, he tried to make it funny by screaming out loud and overacting.  Usually, that method of comedy worked for him--and often cracked me up--but with material like this, he just made a fool of himself.  Luckily, Farley was the kind of guy who never overacted to the point where it was annoying--Well, at least that's how I feel.  He was another one of those comic actors--a little like Adam Sandler--who had an oddly appealing comic charm and made me laugh for no real particular reason.  David Spade, however, gave the most annoying performance of his career.  He can be funny.  In a lot of instances, he is.  But playing a sarcastic, stuck-up yuppie is not his forte.  He just spouted out one pretentiously annoying line after another.  The plot is predictable, stupid, implausible and topped off with some cheesy twists.  The gags are often cheap and embarrassing.Farley was about the only saving grace.  He was the only reason I did get some good laughs.  My score  5 (out of 10)        "},{"Title":"A fat, sad guy isn't funny in himself. He's gotta do something funny too!","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie sure deserve a better grade, that is if it was intended to appeal kids (1-9 years). But the movie makes adult sex-related jokes so it isn't made for a younger audience...Funny? Well, I did smile (not laugh) at least 3 times while watching. It's just a too boring story. I do give it 2 stars because I smiled a few times..Chris Farley plays just a guy that is just fat and stupid... A fat, stupid guy isn't funny in himself. He's gotta do something funny too!Stay away from this one folks, a rainy day is funnier!!( thats not a film-title, I meant an actual rainy day...-) ) "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is your typical junk comedy.There are almost no laughs. No genuine moments. No memorable lines. No scenes where you think to yourself, that was clever. Nothing. The plot is embarrassingly bad. It's ugly to look at and boring as hell! There is no substance here. This movie has nothing. It doesn't matter if Farely was in this or not. A crap movie is a crap movie no matter who's involved. Also, David Spade is a terribly unfunny comedian who plays the same lousy character in ever movie/TV show that he's in.This movie was dead on arrival. There is no life here. No fun. No intelligence. There are plenty of other dumb comedies more enjoyable that this one. This film is just pathetic. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Tommy boy is the best movie ever made","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy boy is the best movie ever made. Anyone who disagrees hasn't seen the whole thing or they have no sense of humor. How can anyone not laugh histarically at tommy cow tipping, ripping off Richard's car door, trashing the car, constantly running into walls and doors, and taring apart the airplane bathroom. I mean honestly this movie was so funny no matter how many times you watch it you still laugh just as hard as the first time you saw it. Take my word for it, Tommy boy is an amazing comedic movie, and you will love it! If you are at this site now you obviously enjoy comedies or are a fan of this movie, or are a loooooooser who just wants to make the people in this movie feel bad, and don't want other people to be happy. So really whats your problem you shouldn't be such a drag, thats rude and mean, and cant you find something better to do than insult a movie, at least they are famous. Unlike you, who's probably sitting in your moms basement right now trying to figure out which comic book your going to buy next. You know I'm right. So for everyone else out there who isn't a depressed loooooser go buy or rent this movie!!! "},{"Title":"A great cast and somewhat average movie!","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't care much classic films. They are too set on becoming classics. Films like Tommy Boy is not a rarity. It's not brilliant but it is memorable for its cast starring the late Chris Farley, David Spade, Brian Dennehy, Rob Lowe, Bo Derek, Julie Warner, Colin Fox, and Dan Ackroyd. I remember watching Just Shoot Me with Brian Dennehy playing David Spade's dad. I am grateful to see Bo Derek working since she openly admitted that she is a Republican. You would think that they would prefer her to be a lesbian. Regardless of our political differences, Bo is still a perfect 10 who takes care of herself and looks better than most women half her age even my age which is in my early thirties. I love Julie Warner and Chris Farley together. I enjoy the scenes between David Spade and Chris Farley which make the film irresistible to the viewer. I liked Canadian actor Colin Fox in his minor. I will watch him in anything. Dan Ackroyd has a small but pivotal role as the man who wants to take Brian Dennehy's character Tom Callahan's company which supplies 300 jobs to the people of Sandusky, Ohio. I know it's probably not based on an actual story. But this film is what America is all about, the American worker is the average man. We could all use employers like Tom Callahan who treated his employees more like relatives than just his employees. I won't say much more about the plot but I like this film. I will watch it again if there is nothing else on. Rest in peace, Chris Farley, you left us too soon. "},{"Title":"About As Good As Could Be","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy should have been a pure mess of a movie, but it somehow succeeds and is very likeable.  Chris Farley and David Spade go on a cross-country odyssey to save a factory which is the backbone of a small Ohio town's economy.  Farley and Spade work so well together that you are able to overlook most of the film's numerous problems.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"This movie was terrible!","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Tommy Boy is one of the worst films I have ever seen!  The acting is terrible.  The comedy is lame.  The jokes are gross!  Chris Farley was not a good comedian.  All he knew how to do was use disgusting humor along with his size to make raunchy jokes. The only hope for the film is David Spade who provides some comic relief in an otherwise unfunny film.  I don't recommend this film to anyone.  If you're smart, you will stay away from it.I give this film 1/10 and an F!  Two thumbs down! "}{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever!","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I rented this film from Blockbuster. It was down right hilarious. Tommy starts out as a kid and then a few minutes later it shows him when he gets older he graduates from College with a D+ on his history test. He wrote Herbie Hancock instead of Jon Hancock. So he's all happy he tries to kiss his friend. He meets a guy named Richard and eats peanut M&M's and leaves them in his car. Tommy stops by his dad's mechanic place there he sees his dad and three of the employees give him a tour of the place. Tommy finds out that his father has a girlfriend. Tommy's father dies on the day of his wedding. And he's very sad that his father's dead. Tommy and Richard go out to dinner and get into a misadventure at The Gas Station Tommy falls in the mud and Richard squirts him with a hose. Richard's car breaks down so Richard and Tommy check into a motel. Things don't go that well. Then when Tommy goes to get pizzas Richard sees a woman getting into the pool butt naked. Down Right Hilarious I have to agree dootuss on this one. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Yo! I never wore a helmet playing football!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ok, this movie is about the second most rotten film I have ever seen. Let me describe to all of you the type of low life anit-American scum bag that likes this type of movie.  1. They got a scholarship to college to play football 2. Don't know the difference between Nam and Korea 3. Think they are smart when they get a C on a phy ed test. 4. Hits on girls by asking them stupid questions in class like Who was the third president again? 5. Is severely brain damaged.  6. Thinks that drinking a beer is foreplay.  7. Is a communist. 7. Works as a yuppie in some corporate office fixing fax machines all day. 8. Is un-American. 9. Is just plain stupid.    Chris Farley is an idiot's idiot. This movie is more stupid than a pack of high school cheerleaders in a war tactics game. If you liked this movie, chances are you should have been donated to some science foundation to have some tests done on your brain.  "},{"Title":"FUNNIEST MOVIE EVER","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  TOMMY BOY is by far the best movie of the 1990's and one of the best movies of all time. It stars the late, great Chris Farley as the lovable oaf Tommy Callahan, and David Spade as his smart-ass sidekick, Richard. Tommy Callahan is a slacker who has FINALLY graduated college after 7 years, when he finds out that he is next in line to run the family business, Callahan Auto, right after his dad dies. Anyway, Big Tom Callahan kicks the bucket, and Tommy is named the new head of the company. Unfortunately, the company is not doing so well, and might be sold to a larger competitor. In order to save the business, Tommy and Richard go on a road trip to sell their brake pads to other companies. Anyway, hilarious things ensue, and the result is one of funniest movies I have ever seen. Chris Farley is probably the funniest physical comedian ever, and he will leave you rolling on the floor laughing after this movie. TOMMY BOY is a definite classic that everyone should see; and if you like this, I recommend BLACK SHEEP, which also stars Farley and Spade. "},{"Title":"Just not very funny.","Date":"24 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Tommy Boy seems to have become somewhat of a cult comedy, and also the movie that supposedly shows what Chris Farley's all about. I just didn't find Farley funny. He used the same type of humor over and over again, the same humor he used over and over again on Saturday Night Live. He yells a lot and is very over the top stupid, but it just doesn't come off as funny, it comes off as annoying. However, even though he's not funny, he had something going for him here. He plays a very dumb character, and plays it like a stupid kid with good intentions. So he comes off as a little kid, which makes the character somewhat likable.Tommy (Chris Farley) has just graduated college after six years, and is now working for him millionaire father, Tom (Brian Dennehy). Tom is the owner of a very successful auto parts company, and he's also going to be married. After dying at the wedding, Tommy decides to take over his father's business and go with his father's assistant, Richard (David Spade) on the road to sell the parts. Meanwhile, Tommy's father's widow and her son (Rob Lowe) are planning a way to get the money from the company. It's got a lot of twists and turns in the plot actually, which isn't a bad thing.David Spade plays the smart alec brat, the same character he plays in every movie he's in, and Chris Farley plays the loud idiot. These two actors, also seen together in Black Sheep, do not play off each other well, and both just come off as annoying for the most part. The movie looks great. The camera-work is really nice, and the musical score helps it out to make it seem like more than just another cheap Saturday Night Live skit. Unfortunately, the comedic abilities of the two lead actors just couldn't pull this film off.My rating ** out of ****. 97 mins. PG-13. "},{"Title":"Chris Farley's Best...Unfortunately.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Chris Farley made his starring debut in TOMMY BOY as an auto parts heir, who tries to save his late father's company.  The movie is tolerable at best, but it is nothing but silliness.  David Spade and Brian Dennehy (as Farley's father) have the best scenes in the movie.  The rest of it is threadbare.  It's a shame that Chris Farley was such a likeable talent on SNL, but was never really movie material.  TOMMY BOY was a modest hit at the box-office, but without much to show for it.2 out of 5 "}]