[{"Title":"Where Blade Runner feared to tread","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"66 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched Safe for our coverage of 1980s's health movements and the AIDS virus with a special eye for the conflict between New Age healers and the medical profession.  Safe connects so well with both; although there's no real homosexuality anxieties in the film, AIDS seem the unconquerable illness penetrating the lives of happy suburban people.First of all, Julianne Moore is absent in the film.  Her character, Carol White, is a model, rich California suburban housewife.  We notice how absent she is from the moment that sex with her husband produces nothing in her, but she goes through the motions of kissing him and petting him afterwards.  She has mechanical conversations with friends, with mother, with cleaning lady in her ultramodern, lush, carpeted, fashionably lit house with gardens surrounding it and police patrol by night.  She goes to her workouts, cleaners, and arranges furniture.This is a really tragic film.  It's also brilliantly shot, edited, acted, and its sets are so appropriate.  The use of teal and sky blue becomes numbing, anesthetizing in Carol's home, as does the harsh lighting of the doctor's office and the hospital.  The Wrenwood Center itself resembles where Deckard would have gone at the end of Blade Runner as the orig. end credits seemed to indicate mountains and nature as an antidote to the city.However, it's not URBAN life that seems to be killing Carol- it's SUBURBAN life, it's Northern California, it's fruit diets, mini-malls, 80s music playing in health clubs, housewifes, gardens, pools, teal green couches, endless lines of cars, power lines, and street lights.  It's dismal, and her family life is no big help having no real life to it.At one point, in a really wrenching scene, Carol cries, looks at Greg from the bed and asks Where am I?  Right now?  He responds flatly but tenderly, You're in Carol and Greg's house.  She only cries more.The question is what is really wrong with Carol White?  Did she succumb to depression and make herself a psychosomatic illness?  Is she really sick and dying?  Is she just afraid of living?  It seems to me the more that Carol is told that she is the only one with the power to cure herself, the less power she seems to have.  The final monologue where she stands in front of the group and discusses how far she's come is inarticulate, random, unthought, and not a good sign.The acting is done well for its purposes, especially by Peter Dunn, the leader.  He creates an interesting portrait of a man who is so determined to be a victim that he's created people who are dependent on him.  Peter is the only dynamic presence in the film, but even he wants peace, love, and tranquility in our hearts.  That doesn't seem to feed Carol.This film reminded me of Koyaanisqatsi, visions of emptiness and life out of balance.  Carol looks out her car window at the highways and powerlines and headlights, and she reminded me of someone watching that film, fearing technology.  Yet even retreating from technology is not an ALTERNATIVE it's a sign of defeat, isn't it?The film doesn't offer solutions- only one of the most frightening, eerie, and numbing indictments of suburbia and the New Age that I have ever seen.  It puts its images, sets, sounds, actors into a collective vision of decay, expressed through the decline of the model suburban housewife.  See it, but don't look for answers or happy endings. "},{"Title":"Gripping - with a masterful performance from Julianne Moore","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"48 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Safe' is enigmatic, anxious, bewildering and captivating. It will divide viewers, but I argue that this is the hallmark of all true art. You will either love it or hate it, you will either get it or you won't. But it won't leave you indifferent.Julianne Moore plays Carol White, the film's childlike protagonist with a phenomenal skill. In the hands of a more showy, ostentatious actress, Carol's 'illness' could have appeared trivial, her character, flighty, whiny and irritating. In the hands of Julianne Moore who is, in my opinion, the most intelligent, thoughtful and captivating actress working today, Carol's predicament is moving amd her character endearing. Her performance truly is astonishing. Never does she feel the need to overact, to emphasise Carol's confusion or her fear. She plays her with a childlike acceptance, a surface simplicity and a sing-songy girlish voice, and she is a master of restraint, implication, understatement. I have yet to see a more impressive performance from an actress whose skill lies in making it appear like she is doing very little, when really there is a huge amount going on underneath the surface. The film would be worth it for Julianne Moore alone, but it also has other things to reccommend it.There's the excellent direction from the genius, Todd Haynes. His mainstream hit, the wonderful homage to Sirk 'Far From Heaven' catapulted Haynes into the mainstream, but I find this work even more affecting. Haynes is a genius at utilising the mise-en-scene for the maximum effect. He uses his camera as a painter would with colour - each shot is masterfully composed, with the director never allowing us to get too close to Julianne Moore's character, making her predicament all the more confusing and alienating. This is a film which demands thought and concentration, and what you take from it will depend upon individual disposition and experience.The dialogue is generally sparse and quite functional, meaning that emphasis is placed onto the menacing soundtrack (giving the film a horror/thriller feel), the meticulously orchestrated mise-en-scene and, of course, the amazing nuances and depth of Julianne Moore's artistic gifts. In terms of what the film is trying to say, there is a real sense of satire in the second section of the film (When Carol goes to the commune to be 'cured') but there is no insistence upon one single message. This is reflected with a deeply ambiguous ending which leaves one feeling anxious and confused.Overall, 'Safe' is a masterful piece of work. The team of Julianne Moore and Todd Haynes is (as we have seen with 'Far From Heaven') a match made ... in heaven. I would urge those who appreciate non maintream, thought provoking and unconventional films to give it try, just don't go in with 'Hollywood' expectations as you will be disappointed. Finally, I'd like to end by reiterating what is possibly the film's main strength - the presence of Julianne Moore. This truly is a captivating performance from her, and certainly one of the most astonishing I am likely ever to see. 'Safe' gives us the chance to watch this gifted actress in one of her most underrated, little seen, yet most remarkable roles. "},{"Title":"My Kind of Thriller!","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There are some that feel that a thriller has to be a rollercoaster ride with thrills and spills every minute.  This film is not that kind of thriller. SAFE is like those chilling dreams where you are being dragged through something somewhat familiar yet otherworldly and just out of reach of total comprehension.  Those sort of dreams are annoying, but we all have them anyway.  Some people shrug them off, some think they can explain it away by analysis, and some just like to bask in the fact that they are mysterious, heart-palpitating, and fascinating.  I'm in the latter category, and such is my love for this film.  This film is like a kaleidoscope where the patterns seem fixed and definable, yet are constantly changing.  There's no doubt that Todd Haynes has something to say about the toxicity of our environment, the toxicity of our relationships, the toxicity of our generic society, and even the toxicity of our venues of healing.  Doctors and psychiatrists for example, are cold and sterile and seemingly wearing blinders and cotton in their ears when it comes to really seeing or listening to their patients.  New Age healers on the other hand are warm and receptive and seemingly interested in seeing you, hearing you and knowing you.  But they trod down the same path that religious fundamentalists do.  If your faith isn't strong enough; you won't be healed.  One recollects New Age &#145;healers' like Louise Hay who claimed that AIDS victims had subliminal desires to hurt themselves, but could be cured with a strong dose of self-love.  An especially nasty ruse, when one considers how most of society has already blamed the victim.  AIDS victims shouldn't blame themselves, but they shouldn't believe that &#145;enough' faith will heal them either.  So we can feel for Carol White (as generic sounding a name as one could imagine!) who knows her illness to be real, but who feels guilty nonetheless because no one will let her own her illness.  They don't even know she exists, really.  And she, from the beginning of this film, isn't sure either.Carol is an enigma to herself.  She's like a fish in an aquarium (her house in fact, looks sort of like a dungeon set in a space-age aquarium), only she never really saw her life as such until she reached the pinnacle of success defined by society.   At the opening of the film, she's &#145;got it all' wealth, security, servants, &#145;friends', &#145;family' and health (well, for the time being).  But what happens when you've reached the pinnacle of success? Just be happy going to dull social functions and decorate your proverbial palace?  Carol begins to see her life &#150;her aquarium- from outside.  It's dull, blue and facile.  A person who has a sense of self could try to survive in &#145;the ocean' of life, but Carol isn't such a person.  So it's not so unnatural that she might become so vilely inebriated by the blandness and inanity of her life that she can barely talk and ultimately, can barely breathe.  One can get literally ill with an overdose of generic, stupefying life.  Ever been stuck in a dentist's waiting room listening to the likes of Tony Orlando and Dawn or Linda Ronstadt?  We're talking real nausea here! So imagine being a person who lives in a 24/7 world of pastel colours, pop musak, shopping, vacuous conversation with &#145;friends', and being married to a man who has less charisma than a houseplant. Depression of that magnitude would leave any person raw.  Carol's blues (which we can see literally in the lighting of her house and in the God-awful furniture) have broken her.  Once she realized how raw she'd become, she lost all sense &#150;emotionally and physically- in how to cope.  Perhaps the reason that no one could help her was that they were all too busy enjoying the decor of their proverbial aquariums.  Her husband, her friends, her doctors, even the new Age healers, LIKE the limited, appropriately fashioned, seemingly inoffensive world they've found their niche in.  Gosh knows, I've thought myself nuts for not being part of the majority of the population that likes shopping malls, industrial architecture, Nike, Julia Roberts, or franchise &#145;coffee houses' that serve their overpriced coffee in paper cups.  I kind of understand why Carol would want to bury herself in an igloo by the end of the film.  But New-Agey as it may be, there is a glimmer of hope when she stands at the mirror and chokes out `I love you' to her reflection.  It's not exactly Descartes' `I think, therefore I am', but its affirmation enough that she does indeed have a face and a heart.  She does indeed exist.  I think that's what Todd Haynes' message to us is.  SAFE is a cry for us to take a good, hard look at the world around us, to recognize its variety of poisons, and to make a stand to save it and to save ourselves.  "},{"Title":"Intriguing","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not for all tastes, but a superb movie, without doubt.  The direction is austere and the character is almost too shallow to care about, but the brilliance of the script and the film as a whole is that it doesn't instruct the viewer what to think, but presents plenty of material to think about. The ending is subtly devastating.  Also, the movie contains two or three of the most striking, haunting images I've seen in the past half decade in film.Someone else compared it to Dead Ringers, and this is apt in many ways, though the subject matter is less perverse.  Safe shares a similar aesthetic both in the distance the director takes from the narrative and some matters of style.Recommended for the daring. "},{"Title":"brilliant depiction of suburbia and the new age movement","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is my very favorite movie, one of the scariest I've ever seen.  The alienation and isolation of the suburbs come across beautifully in this film.  Car culture and sprawl definitely contribute to the empty feeling one receives from following this story of a rich suburban housewife's allergic reaction to her vapid life.  The mood and statement of the film are epitomized by the scene in which Carol is driving alone on the freeway, going into convulsions from the fumes, all while the scratchy radio produces mundane religious babble.  Ironically, she pulls off the road and is saved by the confines of a parking garage.  How appropriate based upon the pigheaded tendency for urban planners to say, Boy, this traffic is horrible, what do we do about it?  I know!  We'll build more parking garages!  The scratchy babble of religious radio in the scene indicates the hypocritical irrelevance of spirituality when it exists as part of a alienated consumer-driven, environmentally-destructive society.  Religion, particularly the new-age movement seems to parallel the suburbs in its pretty blandness and emergence as a way for capitalists to try to redeem their souls/family life after destroying society (eg the inner city).  New age and suburbia combine when Carol goes to Wrenwood (a place even more sterile and removed from reality than Carol's suburb), a healing retreat for people with environmental illness.  Despite a lot of fluffy, positive talk on behalf of an AIDS victim guru, Carol's physical and spiritual condition only decline at Wrenwood--she becomes more and more like Lester, the faceless guy in the white suit (the perfect new age suburbanite) who is afraid of everything and is expected to die based on that fear.   "},{"Title":"Powerful but understated film with multiple meanings and a bravura performance from Julianne Moore","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although it's been almost ten years since filmmaker Todd Haynes (Velvet Goldmine, Far From Heaven) made Safe, the film's only secured cinematic release in Australia in 2004. As Safe quietly satirises the 80s, the delayed release improves it, adding another layer of perspective to a heroine who lives life in a series of bubbles.It's 1987, and timid California housewife Carol (a young Julianne Moore) is immersed in upper-middle class minutiae &#150; ensuring her couch is the right colour, sleepwalking through a tepid aerobics class, and submitting to her husband (Greg White from 24). But gradually cracks appear in this pristine life, tiredness, unexplained illness&#133;until she is diagnosed with multiple chemical sensitivity. She then moves to Wrenwood, a healing retreat founded by the charismatic Peter (Peter Friedman) &#150; but will this solve her problem? Or is it just another escape? Safe is a very interesting film about a woman so overwhelmed by her environment that she becomes allergic to it. Writer and director Haynes has combined aspects of the disease film (e.g. Love Story) with the psychological thriller &#150; as Carol doesn't know what triggers her symptoms, the audience never knows when she'll have another attack.While Haymes criticises the New Age belief that illness is psychologically-based, in Carol's case, it's impossible to separate the psychological and physical aspects of her illness. The cinematography shows her dwarfed by her environment and Haymes offers no easy solutions. ***½/***** stars. "},{"Title":"Beautifully focused but open-ended modernist essay","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A minor masterpiece of poised ambiguity. A quiet, unviolent - but malevolent - film, there are no great dramatic set pieces. Instead there is a super-smooth, Hitchcock-like spooling out of tension but, crucially, without the comfort of being told either what's actually wrong or which characters are good or bad.If there weren't a careful equilibrium between pacing and script then the film would be worth watching for two reasons alone. First is the brilliant composition of each shot, celluloid recreations of an (Edward) Hopperian existentialism. Secondly is the central performance of Julianne Moore. I'm not a huge fan but her default mode of pale, brittle neurosis is precisely what's needed for this film. In addition to this she follows the tide of Haynes' film perfectly, drifting in and out of control of herself just as Haynes pulls us toward and then away from centres of trust and security.I didn't find the film frightening; rather I felt great pity for Moore's Carol, and disturbed that the self-interest of her friends and benevolence of her carers appears increasingly interchangeable. Peculiarly gripping 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fascinating, important film.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I call this an important film because it deals with a very topical social issue in an original and subtle manner. It is also ambiguous (as the previous reviewer pointed out), which is something American audiences and critics often can't handle.  Carol, an affluent suburban housewife played by Julianne Moore, is becoming increasingly disturbed and unable to cope with the alleged pollution and impurities in the environment. What could have been a disease of the week TV movie, however, is handled with surprising depth by director Todd Haynes. Carol ends up in a new agey community dedicated to healing people like herself. What is fascinating is that Safe, while exploring the pressures and toxicity of modern life, is also a brilliant look at the pathology of fleeing from life and seeking an environment of purity. For Carol ends up, instead of recovering, more and more alienated and withdrawn. Safe does not provide answers to this dilemma, but it sure makes us look at some difficult questions. "},{"Title":"The Threat","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Most films aren't dangerous. You watch them, they live and die, and you walk away into the next experience carrying a memory instead of a burden.But some films are designed not for watching, but for carrying long after the lights return. In these films, nothing really happens. Nothing new is created, in fact. Instead, the images guide you to a place within you that is undiscovered. The film awakens that corner by giving it images, allowing you to `see' it. The most effective of these films - naturally - are discomfiting and therefore not popular. But they are quiet little gems hidden in the cacophonous pile of stimulation we normally inhabit.`Aguirre' is one; here is another. Everything in it until the last two minutes are a walk through vaguely familiar back yards, leading up to the one image of Helen encountering herself with what we know are thin buzzwords. Because we know the new age blather is vacuous, this image is multidimensional under the superficial yearning of Helen is a REAL encounter of ourselves but bereft of all those crutches. By her grasping at them, she deprives us of them. Pretty powerful stuff.Julianne had just come off the `Vanya' project, whose goal was the creation of general multidimensional folding. It was for her what `Streetcar' was for Brando, a way of developing more than one simultaneous communication with the viewer. Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"her sickening life","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Safe is sort of like The Exorcist in reverse. Julianne Moore plays a woman in such denial about her severe unhappiness that her body seems to take her over. She gets treated for environmental sensitivity, which is just smokescreen for escaping her truly awful suburban existence. She is a weak, shallow, childish, ignorant woman living a meaningless existence in a sterile, cavernous suburban California home with a husband who doesn't give a rat's ass about her. When she does escape, she begins the slow process of self-realization and the path to happiness. Director Haynes is walking a tightrope with this one. Is this an activist film attacking our industrially and chemically toxic world? An unflinching chronicle of a woman's psychological shutdown? A satire of modern society's reliance on medicine and quick cures? A thriller about an ordinary woman overtaken with paranoia, where the villain is the entire world rather than a murderer? Yes, yes, yes, and yes. It's an extraordinary effort, aided by Moore's seductive, brilliant performance. Haynes is a genius. His visual style in this film is hypnotic. Safe is a gem. "}{"Title":"Haynes' Masterpiece","Date":"5 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw 2001 A Space Odyssey and knew instantly that this is what Los Angeles should look like. It should be a space zone. It should be akin to this future world devoid of human organisms. A world in which nature is completely controlled. The formal severity of a film like 2001, the immaculateness, the restrained camera, which is in fact used in a lot of Kubricks films, really inspired me visually. - Todd HaynesThough similar in tone to Antonioni's Red Desert and Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey, Todd Haynes' Safe remains one of the most unique and interesting films of the 90s.Carol White (Julianne Moore) is a wealthy housewife who lives in suburban Los Angeles. She has a rigid and ordered live, in which all her basic needs are catered for. But gradually Carol begins to develop Multiple Chemical Sensitivity, and literally becomes allergic to her surroundings. Whether this illness is biological or psychological is left ambiguous.Carol turns to various doctors for help, but they're unable to cure her. It's just a neurotic episode, they say. It will pass. But it doesn't. In frustration, Carol turns to a New Age cult who operate a healing camp out in the wilderness. Cutting herself off from the world, we watch as Carol's sphere gradually grows smaller and smaller. In the end, Carol finds herself all alone in a white domed tent, staring at herself in a mirror. Her allergies cease only when she finds total alienation.Though titled Safe, this disturbing and powerful film is anything but. At once intimate in its depiction of a woman losing control and apocalyptic in its scope, Safe plays out like a roadmap of End-days paranoia (minus the politics).Carol is essentially an unfulfilled housewife in an uncaring world. She wants to get away, to escape the triviality of late-capitalism, and so her subconscious creates phobias and allergies, her body reacting to its environment. Get me out of here, it says.The first act of the film shows Carol surrounded by nauseatingly normal and dangerously apathetic, well-to-do people. Indeed, until the onset of her illness, Julie herself is nauseatingly normal. It's to Haynes' credit that, after having so skillfully established his lead character as the epitome of bourgeois WASP elitism, he still manages to make us feel for her.But the films turns horrific in the second act, as Carol becomes hypersensitive to the chemicals in her everyday world. This triggers frightening and intense allergic reactions. Watching Moore in these reaction scenes is riveting. The film combines a Kubrickian sense of menace with a spooky level of detachment.Eventually Carol decides to take matters into her own hands, and, for the rest of the film, we follow her down a strange road of discovery in the traditional self-help fashion which, terrifyingly, leads nowhere. Her last hope is Wrenwood, an isolation camp run by a cult leader. But Wrenwood is as flawed in its own way as are the doctors of the outside world. Wrenwood offers encouragement, support and singalongs, but precious little else. The cult leader pretty much defines the attitudes of the patients at the camp when he confesses that he's stopped reading the newspapers and watching television.Like the proverbial ostrich, the patients at Wrenwood have their heads in the sand because, ultimately, it is not only the chemicals of the outside world that effect them, but the entire postmodern experience. These are victims of the Twentieth Century, Haynes says. Even isolated from the crime, stray bullets and flaming riots of the inner city, this well-to-do and insulated woman is still unsafe.The film also resonates nicely with Kubrick's The Shining. While the Shining portrays the stifling nature of the family unit in an increasingly individualistic and alienated human context, Safe examines the terrors of being an individual outside of a family context. Kubrick says there is something about the traditional family that is doomed to unravel. Haynes says that, without some kind of spiritual/blood connection to a family of some sort, we as individuals are flawed and doomed to unravel.The Shining examines the breakdown of the nuclear family and the destructive power of the obsolete and meaningless roles in which that unit forces us to conform. Conversely, Safe examines the problems of individuals in societal free-fall, with no inbred moral tether, no real family support. At the end of Carol's journey, in a cold, white bubble that is an exterior reflection of her own barren soul, we begin to suspect the terrible truth that there is no cure for her kind of sickness. She has, consciously or not, abandoned humanity. Therefore her humanity has abandoned her. Belong or die. Thus, the film ends with Carol totally and utterly alone. I haven't seen as frightening a final image in a recent film as the sight of a weathered Julie, staring at herself in the mirror, telling herself unconvincingly I love you...I love you.Alone, she has only herself. In an apathetic world, only her love for herself is real. Or perhaps it's just another fragile attempt to mask self hate.9/10 - This is arguably Todd Haynes' greatest film. While Haynes has a university masters in semiotics, Kubrick was a student of semiotics professor Umberto Eco. Both directors seem to approach film in the same way, depicting the world through signs and formal structures. Strangely, the rest of Haynes' filmography seems to have degenerated into silly postmodern pastiche. "},{"Title":"Genuinely eerie near-masterpiece...","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I went into this film knowing little about it, except the basic subject matter (which I'd read up on in the past). In the first five minutes, I knew I was going to like it... the atmosphere, camera angles, saturated colors, acting, everything. The director seems to have really learned something from Stanley Kubrick here, and I can't help but wondering what the film would have been like if Kubrick had directed it. Many Kubrickian long shots and tilted overhead camera angles are used (perhaps a bit too often).This is one of Roger Ebert's how it's about it films (if you get the reference). There's a lot more depth to the film than what seems to exist on the surface. It's definitely not for those under-30 folks who seem to be lacking in attention span. No explosions or fires, and Schwarzenegger doesn't waltz onto the screen. Instead, it's a fascinating study of environmental illness, and it provides no real answers to the questions it raises. Some have noted the film as subversive, but it's also very entertaining (at least for those who appreciate cinema as an art form rather than simply a mindless escape). Demands a fair amount from the viewer, and is very rewarding for those willing to put something into the viewing experience. Safe has become one of my new favorites, and I wish I had seen it in the theater... some of the cinematography clearly demands large-screen viewing for the best possible experience. Sometimes I think the word safe should be written as reaf -- a rearrangement of the letters in the word fear. If you understand why I think this, you're likely to enjoy this film. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Deadly accurate","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Safe is a deadly accurate portrayal of a few of the perils of environmental illness and some of the responses to it by those experiencing it and by those around them.  It allows the viewer to feel vividly the vague nothingness felt by the main character, Carol, as her health spirals downward.I was moved to tears by many of the scenes in the first half of the movie, as I identified strongly with her growing indecisiveness, unfinished sentences, and stumbling about.  I find it sad that many people still do not yet recognize environmental illness when it occurs, and sadder still that many choose to believe it is all in a person's head as portrayed by some of the characters in the movie.  This movie shows all too well the dangers of our convenient society.  Unfortunately, I wish other alternatives had also been shown as possible treatments.Julianne Moore gave a stunning performance, with the one exception of the dry, somewhat unreal-sounding cough.  Her actions and movements perfectly mimic many of those of someone experiencing an overly toxic load.  I would encourage anyone who is interested in discovering what it's like to be afraid to walk down a public hallway to watch this movie.  Demons often lurk in unexpected places, insidiously creeping into our lives as we unknowingly invite them in.Anyone who is unfamiliar with environmental illness or denies its existence may find this movie to be tedious and slow.  I would encourage these people to take a more careful second look at what this is all about.Safe is a brief encapsulation of many facets dealing with environmental illness.  It deliberately leaves many questions unanswered, inviting discussion on many topics.   "},{"Title":"Difficult to pigeonhole but engaging & interesting with a great lead performance despite the problems inherent in Haynes' otherwise engaging delivery","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Carol White is quite a quiet woman, living in comfort in a lovely house in a quiet corner of California. This quietness starts to take a turn for the worse when a coughing fit starts from being stuck behind a lorry in traffic. This is the first of a series of apparently allergic reactions to something, although the doctors can find nothing wrong with her &#150; with the psychiatrists unable to pinpoint anything either. As the reactions get worse, Carol starts to feel trapped by her own surroundings and begins to believe that her illnesses are being caused by pollutions and chemicals around her in the world.As Theo has already stated in his review, this is a film that is hard to put in a box but, hoping that it will become a thriller or a normal drama will certainly not help you get into it because this is a film that, with the best will in the world, is a strange affair that is deliberately hard to put a finger on. The film opens with a great feel of emptiness and isolation that Haynes creates with clever framing of his shots; this makes the film feel like it is going to be a slowburn horror, but it works better than this because the horror is actually just the blandness of Carol's upper-middle-class life. As it develops the film keeps this tone while being deliberately ambiguous about what we are meant to think &#150; is Carol sick in her mind or really as a result of chemicals? Is her retreat really a clean place of healing or is it all expensive new-age mumbo jumbo. The film never really answers these questions and it thus produces a film that engaged me by freeing me up to think for myself and question what I was watching. At times it appeared to be savaging the new-age illnesses of the Californian bored, at others it seemed to be very clear that Carol was sick.Sadly the downside of this mood of ambiguity and isolation is that the film moves very slowly and doesn't actually deliver any satisfying conclusions. As much as I wanted not to see this as a problem (because I liked the aspects of the film that produced this as a bi-product) it is hard to ignore it although I personally felt there was enough going on from writer and director Haynes to make up for the inherent weakness it caused. It also helps that the wonderful Moore so totally gets her character and gives a convincing and engaging performance. She rarely hit a bum note and her performance is another reason that the lack of dramatic direction or action was not a killer problem for me. She easily dominates the film but support is quite good from Berkeley, LeGros, Gilborn and others, although the film was never not Moore's.Overall this is a film that is very hard to describe because its very aim is to confound the expectations and opinions of the audience, and even then not in a consistent manner (I bought some of it and was suspicious of other parts). Director/writer Haynes has done a great job of producing a feel to the whole film that compliments the story and, in turn, he has brought a great performance out of Moore. It is hard to ignore the general problem that the seeming dull delivery and lack of narrative punch will produce but I felt that the film had more than enough going for it as a whole to make up for such things. "},{"Title":"Safe as Suburban Horror","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Todd Haynes's modern melodrama, Safe (1995), has proven to be quite a controversial film for debate amongst film critics. Those who enjoyed the film defended it as an excellent critique on the twentieth century while others claimed it to be slow and boring. Although, as the study of film progresses Safe is being viewed under a differently light and becoming more accepted amongst American movie goers, developing what looks like the beginnings of a cult following. I would side with those who agree that the film is an excellent critique of the twentieth century although that is not my focus of analysis for this commentary. The real focus of analysis involves one extremely short scene where Carol White comes home and stares at the new furniture after it has been brought into the house a second time, which was about half way through the film. The mise-en-scene in this short five to ten second shot is extraordinary in its capture of the mood or in Carol White's case the sickness behind suburban life.The new couch alone was the most powerful aspect of mise-en-scene. There it was, black in color, square in shape, perfectly spaced between the walls and lamps. The couch is empty and unused yet filling in space and suburban peace of mind. It is the focus of the entire shot, forcing the audience to stare on waiting for a reaction, some kind of acknowledgment from Carol White. The couch, to me, has essentially become a reflection of Carol White, fitting since her name is just as blank and lifeless as the couch. I also thought the lighting of the room was crucial in creating the setting for the couch. The low key lighting of the enclosed room shuts out all life, helping to create that dead environment which Carol White cannot seem to escape. The darker scene really blurs the edges of the couch and the corners of the walls, forming a cave like design. This particular aspect of light really adds to the frighteningly scary mood which is most commonly felt and scene by audience members, but never really thought about or understood. Sound and lack of it really set the tone for hidden narratives of suburban horror. The beginning of the short scene depicts Carol White walking in the darkened room to see the new couch, and only her light footsteps are heard. After this there is complete silence for at least five to ten seconds. Since the scene did not have any muffled background sounds I found it to be quite useful in describing the silence in which Carol White lives her life. Even the furniture is louder than she. The style of mise-en-scene in this scene is quite evident throughout the rest of the film, and really shows its importance as a tool in every cinematic genre. A film such as Safe demands attention to detail and a unique style when it comes to mise-en-scene. One should always take the time to stop and enjoy the symbols, messages, and hidden narratives behind mise-en-scene.  "},{"Title":"Evening in America","Date":"3 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How to exemplify that Reagan's sun when he promised morning again in America was really a toxic sun, toxic for the soul, this is all the foreground you're going to need here. The film opens in '87, three years after that promise, in a sunny suburb somewhere in south California, and it's reasonable to assume this couple, with their spacious home, their well-kept garden, their ample free time, is one of many who were soothed by that promise, the promise to have a Dream, into a kind of comfortable sleep.Todd Haynes has the benefit of building upon Lynch, which is to say the option of discarding in hindsight the sexual darkness of Blue Velvet and Twin Peaks, the film opens to that effect with the woman having bland, passionless sex. This is how far sleep has numbed the senses, even desire is deadened and the nightmare has diffused into the very air itself, the smoggy air of Los Angeles.This is given to us as the woman developing some sort of allergic response to her surroundings, but the point is that we cannot know where evil is flowing from into the world, we just can't. Is it car fumes, the hair-dresser's chemicals, something off the new teal sofa they have ordered? Or is the mind conjuring the illness as the desperate means of making known the extent of the damage inside? Is it stifled instincts, stifled for too long? The point remains though, that life keeps breaking down on us and for no apparent reason, this satisfied life that should have been alright.Observant viewers will be able to link her response with the barely audible static on the soundtrack that continuously hums beneath dull day-to-day life. It is the mind humming to some malevolent tune of the fabricated world.This is taken to be resolved in a remote New-Age commune, out in the clear air somewhere in the countryside. Now we've been accustomed, ever since the Beatles traipsed all the way to India to be scammed by spiritual gurus, to view this sort of therapy as fundamentally crooked, but the leader gives some solid advice; quiet mind, beauty cultivated inside, clarity, all that Japanese gardening for the soul. At the same time, he advocates an almost paranoid retreat from the world, is complacent and satisfied, and we're shown his luxurious house that overlooks the otherwise spartan retreat. No, something is wrong here as well, and the filmmaker is smart enough to barely hint at merely another kind of toxic environment that sells peace of mind.Now so far the film's power is rhythm and pulse from the heart of this woman as she tries to cope with it herself; slow, dissipating, tiredness, plus ambiguous response to unsatisfactory reality. The husband is bland and selfish but is not a caricature, which would have significantly cheapened the thing. Nothing has been really subtle but evokes its own time and space.You have to wait till the end for the formative mechanism that gives rise to this clouded mind, the masterful touch is all Julianne's and carried alone before a mirror.Of course each patient has given his own reasons for his illness, but this one we have followed close. She finally encounters her own mirror image in that artificial womb of a room, and does she look at a real self looking to see a real image, warts and all, or does she soothe herself with another dream, another promise for morning again? This is the thing that got the ball rolling, ever since Reagan's ad one morning on TV; it would all be alright, you just had to trust someone else.Julianne Moore completely erases any presence of herself in the process, truly outstanding work. "},{"Title":"Safe 8/10","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm a devoted Moore fan, so how could I miss this highly-acclaimed indie film, which directed by the genius Todd Haynes in 1995 and also bestowed her the crown of Queen of indies. SAFE is an unorthodox indiewood member who has a unflinching core which dares to chart the mysterious battle between the body and soul through the dubbed environmental disease. The concept here is an intrepid self-salvation process, in a world without any certainty, it is what we believe decides our fate, any physical phenomenons have lost all its gauges and canons. A striking truth is that nothing can save a troubled soul.I do find stark pessimism in the film, and which is scarier is that it plunges a tremendous impact on me, which in turn solidifies my brief and proves that certain films could unswervingly employ this sort of manipulative trickery. Moore is laboriously stunning for her role, a delicate doll with a determined will to pursue the cure of her unknown disease, a subtle yet multi-layered interpretation, which reminds me of a saying that a lonely person should be disgraceful, until she eventually found the place where existed her idem genus. In the very end, she just cannot go back to her normal social life and only could survive by shielding herself inside a new egg-shaped clean room where she can dwell in forever.I consider the film as a modern-day allegory, it challenges its audience to face a wretched circumstance - the insecurity of our carnal figure and the lost identity of any classification. In my opinion, the gritty singularity of ourselves is the cradle of the evil side of religion, one of mine catchphrases is that Don't be swayed easily by those around you, by what you hear and what they say; adjust yourself in a placid mode, the one who knows you best is yourself, and is yourself only.Technically speaking, the film deploys a post-apocalypse palette and a brittle score to embody an almost horrorfest-like shtick, Todd Haynes is an authentic auteur who has gut to surprise his devotees. "},{"Title":"Definitely captivating and makes you think","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well what can I say. Julianne Moore is superb as Carol White. I don't know if I should say too much about this film, because essentially you will interpret this based on your own feelings and opinion depending on what you received from this film.To me, this is a film about a woman who becomes ultra sensitive to the world around her in terms of chemicals and starts having seizures and all sorts of symptoms. But what the film is also trying to say is how the plastic life one can lead can sort of make yourself distant from who you are and what you really enjoy. The fakeness that can sometimes surround you and the purpose of your life can be questioned at many times in your life.This isn't a film for everyone and I know if I recommended this film to some of my friends, they would watch it and then say to me 'What the hell was the point of this film?' This film does move at a somewhat slow and subtle pace in that you aren't given all the answers, and in fact you really aren't given any answers, but rather things to think about so you can discuss what is happening to this character. I was actually expecting the film to go down a typical path in the third act in that there is more to this than what it seems, but I was pleasantly surprised in that it strayed away from that thriller convention and gave us what the film has carried all the way through. You really just have to see it to understand it.Sometimes in my own life I feel this sense of alienation from the world and wonder about why things are happening the way they are and what I'm doing here. Safe sort of made me think about that in that if I was allergic to things that make up such an important part of my life, what would I be doing if that happened.Julianne Moore is a stunning actress and this film highlights how convincing she can be as a character that makes subtlety so loud in a performance.This film will make you think a lot, but perhaps it will make you think for good reasons. "},{"Title":"How not to survive in a crass, contagious, consumer prison...","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Julianne Moore is one of my favorite actresses and that's the reason I decided to watch this one.This film is labeled as Drama/Thriller. Well, the drama's here, no doubt, as Carol White (Moore) slowly begins to succumb to the multiple effects of all types of pollution that pervade our technocratic consumer societies. There's psychological drama also as her husband, Greg (Xander Berkeley) tries to come to some understanding about Carol and how his marriage seems to be slowly disintegrating. And, there's drama also when Carol reacts violently to various chemicals, such that she is hospitalized and undergoes a battery of tests...But... Thriller? Not at all, not by a long shot.This is something better than mere thrills &#150; at one level, it's a modern horror story that we are all living, because we are all part of this petrochemical world that we cannot reasonably escape. At another level, it's also the horror that results when a person decides to dislocate from the polluted world we all live in and construct another world within the mind. The end result of such an act is usually madness... eventually.Beautifully acted by all the players, so that it seems that they aren't acting; it is, after all, all too real, is it not? The musical background is simply stunning &#150; brooding, dark, menacing, and reminiscent of a David Lynch soundtrack. Visually, for the first half, you are battered with repetitive images of unending lines of traffic, excessive noise, mindless activities, rampant consumerism &#150; all designed to reflect the battered mind and body of Carol as she struggles to determine her future in a world that is increasingly threatening.How she does that forms the second half. Does she succeed? I could say Yes and No, but I'll leave it up to you to decide when you see it. Enjoy...if you can! "},{"Title":"Perhaps too ambiguous, but certainly interesting","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Safe is perhaps a tad too ambiguous for its own good. The film focuses on a suburban housewife (Julianne Moore) who feels sick for no reason. Her doctor suggests psychological treatment, but she finds more comfort in the idea that her sickness is caused by environmental factors, such as car fumes and the like. Haynes never answers the question of what is really affecting Moore. One moment you're sure it's psychological, then physical symptoms displayed by the woman are undeniable. It's not that I really wanted the questions answered, but the constant toying with the audience does become a strain, especially as the film runs for two hours and not much happens. There's also the possibility that the story isn't meant to represent reality, but instead it might be allegorical. This makes it all the more difficult to unravel. I know I sound sort of negative in this review, but I did like it. I don't think it works completely, but I found it fascinating. One reason it does work at all is that Haynes' major goal seems to want to put us inside Moore's head. It shows us what it would be like to suffer and not know why, and how comfortable it might be to, say, join a cult, which is basically what she does in the end. Not entirely satisfying, but definitely well worth a look. "}{"Title":"Interesting Perspective","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was surprised to find that this movie was related to AIDS in most peoples' perspective. I saw this movie just this year (2006) and even though my stepfather died of AIDS I did not see a connection, although it is obvious now.I saw this movie as being more related to pollution, electronic and technological dependence, and the degradation of mans relationship with earth.I think it's an insightful and beautiful film, and the variation of our responses to the film show how deeply it appeals to us on an individual level.Also, I thought Julianne Moore was marvelous in this film, she's an extremely beautiful and talented actress. "},{"Title":"What would you do if you were allergic to life?","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the question Safe ponders over its two hours. Julianne Moore plays a disillusioned young housewife who starts to slowly develop allergy after allergy, until she is effectively unable to co-exist with the busy city environment around her. As a result she embarks on a journey both physical and spiritual to come to terms with her crippling allergies.Right. Plot synopsis out of the way, how does Safe work? Pretty well actually. I don't necessarily agree with the popular summary that Safe is a 'horror movie for the soul' as there's much more to it than that, the summary suggests it's like Ring with allergies, which is selling it short at best. Safe is basically a human drama about someone who has to deal with strange and extreme circumstances, and decides to take equally strange and extreme measures. Via this, director Todd Haynes is able to both examine and partially satirise middle-America's values and accepted environment, and the self-help/new medicine craze of recent years.He does this with care and emotion, taking a good hard look at Moore's character and the things she surrounds herself with. Moore's character is both obviously unhappy but also too timid to say anything herself, so the allergies seem almost like an internal rebellion from her body, and her journey away from the city an escape for both body and soul. It's a fairly deep movie, and it's nice to see something that grapples with society at large and actually tries to say something as opposed to a movie that seems firmly entertainment.That said, you need some entertainment. If Safe has a weakness, it is its focus. There is almost no external detail to Moore's life, with even her family painted in giant broad brushstrokes. As a result the movie is a singularly lonely experience although I feel in part this is intentional. It is also a somewhat long film. 2 hours isn't a lot in this age of three-hour blockbusters, but most three hour blockbusters have casts you can't count on your fingers and toes, whereas I'd say a good 75% of screen time is concentrated on Moore and Moore alone. It's an intense, quiet 2 hours and you really feel tired and lonely afterwards.Thankfully, Moore is both sympathetic and likable, and you want her to do what she feels is right as much as possible. Also, the film's focus on her character enables Haynes to do certain parts of the film in an almost first person fashion. Certain sequences so accurately portray the experience of being really ill that you almost feel ill yourself, and the movie is an artistic triumph, with every shot looking absolutely spot on.So, I recommend Safe. It's a well-shot, terrifically acted movie, with a genuinely original feel and premise, but be warned that it is a long movie, and one with very few light-hearted moments or external characters. "},{"Title":"Ironic view of environmental poisoning","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was only Todd Haynes second feature and its a very impressive looking film with a solid performance by Julianne Moore. Story is about Carol White (Moore) who is married to Greg (Xander Berkeley) and they live in the San Fernando Valley of California in a very neat and sterile looking home. Carol spends her days going to the gym, functions, dinner parties and shopping. Her life is very organized and clean. Carol does not come across as a deep thinker and at times has difficulty finishing sentences. One day she starts to feel ill and goes to the doctor to get checked. They run tests but they show nothing. As time goes by and Carol gets worse she finally figures out that her immune system is allergic to things in our environment. Car fumes, hairspray, perfume, pollution, ink from newspapers and many other things. She discovers a spa in New Mexico that caters to people that have this affliction and Carol moves there. The spa is run by Peter (Peter Friedman) who acts like a new age, self help guru and preaches that all the patients made themselves sick with their mind. Todd Haynes has always sought out the best cinematographers that he could find and found Alex Nepomniaschy (Narc) for this film. One of the most impressive things about this film is how beautifully shot this is. Their are so many shots that are just stunning to look at and the use of colors is important as to how we respond to certain scenes. Haynes did this also in Far From Heaven which is one of the most beautiful films ever shot. This was a very important role for Moore and her performance is so vital to the film. Moore lost about 10 pounds for the role and later in the film she does appear gaunt. This performance was so well received that it launched her career to even better roles.*****SPOILER ALERT*****The script has many ironic points to it and the one glaring piece of irony is how we see Carol at the beginning and the end of the film. At the beginning we see her in her clean and sterile home in California. Then at the end we see her in her Safehouse. A totally sterile environment and still not much of a life to live. An interesting point that the film makes is that the condition of these patients is caused by their mental status. Their bodies react in a truly sick manner and can even cause death but its all caused by themselves. In the cast of the film is Jessica Harper who is not in enough scenes and I was happy to see her pop up in a role. I've always been a fan of hers and I wish her role was larger. And Brandon Cruz (The Courtship of Eddie's Father) has a small role also. The pacing of the film is slow and deliberate and some may find this to be a fatal flaw. It is a slow running film, especially when the film shifts to the spa in New Mexico. If your a fan of Haynes (Like me) than you should definitely check out this early feature from him.  "},{"Title":"Antonioni would be proud...","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having seen the movie and read the viewer comments on IMDb, I think I understand why this film seems to elicit such a broad range of reactions it is a movie that presents a story from multiple points of view without specifically directing the viewer as to which view takes precedence. Moreover, the multiple points of view are intertwined and, in some cases, at odds with one another. As such, this film demands a lot more from its audience than most are accustomed to. The beauty of the film lies in the deceptively simple, almost transparent manner in which a complex story with no easy answers is presented.The main theme of the movie is reflected in the title what is it that constitutes a feeling of safety in our lives? What do we require in order to feel safe? What are the conditions and situations that threaten our idea of feeling safe? Is it possible to construct a world of perfect safety around our lives and if it is, what are the consequences and side effects? The answers to all these questions are more often than not subject to the ideas and opinions of each individual rather than being universal in nature. In the case of Carol White, the focus of the movie, these are questions she is forced (or possibly forces herself?) to confront, with the odds of success being 50-50 at best.Safe explores some of the themes Haynes tackled in Superstar The Karen Carpenter Story. (This movie is hard to find, though you might want to check out the illegal-art dot org web site.) There are a number of similarities between the two films the view-from-a-car shots of bland suburban streets and the power lines to which they are tethered; the consumer-driven lifestyle of most Americans; the depiction of people as mannequins; the focus on one's external life to the detriment of one's inner life. But while Superstar takes a more militant stance, Safe is far less judgmental, which in turn makes it a far more subversive film. "},{"Title":"Unique, unsettling *some spoilers","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All the other reviews I've submitted were written immediately after having seen the movie in question, but this one's 4-5 years after the fact.  I haven't seen any of Haynes' other movies, and at the time I saw this one (at an Art House theatre in Chicago), I didn't think I took much from it.  In fact, later, when I saw Vanya on 42nd St and Boogie Nights I didn't realize I'd seen Julianne Moore in this film (I thought she was strikingly charismatic and gorgeous in both the other films).However, this movie seems to have lain dormant in my brain, emerging recently and compelling me to submit a review.  The greatest movies convey mood and ideas that are uniquely suited to the medium (as opposed to movies - good and bad - that are at heart simply visual analogues to plays or books).  For example, the works of Kubrick or Scorsese or Hitchcock could not be imagined in another medium.  Safe seems to me to be an example of uniquely filmic art, and its resonances have stayed with me for several years.Although the photography is slick and smooth, I still recall a very low-budget feel to the film.  The soundtrack, it seems to me, was hissy and indistinct.  Perhaps this is a fault of the print I saw, but the amateurish, almost pornographic intimacy now seems very effective.  As I have indicated, I didn't even recall Moore's presence in this movie, which now seems a testament to her achievement.  Her character is essentially transparent, hollow - an empty vessel, seeking purpose/direction first from middle class marriage, later from a self-help guru.  It seems significant to me in retrospect that an actress I've subsequently found immensely attractive registered to me in this film as dull and sterile.The later half of the movie, when she embraces the new-age self-actualizing cultism and comes to live in the nature retreat felt, I recall, a little forced, a little too symbolic or point-making.  However, the mood at the en was appropriately ambiguous and appropriate.Tone is all-important in films, and this film's tone is unique in my experience - a sort of morbid, detached cynicism;  not judgemental, but finally rather sad.  The subject matter seems fodder for smugness and point-making, and it is Haynes' achievement that the results are so compelling.  See it for a subtle, uniquely troubling experience. "},{"Title":"The most subtle and unsettling of films","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This truly is one of the rarest commodities in the cinema pantheon; a film that conveys multiple plot angles, each as disturbing as the next, yet in a most quiet and understated fashion.  Watching the WASPish, vacant, and utterly clueless Carole (played by chameleon beyond compare Julianne Moore) slowly morph from armpiece San Fernando wife to a fragile shell of a person, may not be an experience you will enjoy at first, as a close friend of mine said after viewing There's no damn way I'd pay eight bucks for that!.  Just give it a day or two, for never has there been a film (at least not until The Blair Witch came along) that has a way of seeping into your subconscious as this.  That same friend, who so soundly poo-pooed it, later confided to me that the final scenes, which show what Carole had become, were haunting him at work and rest. It is an interesting study in the effectiveness of true psychologically jarring film making, where much is left to the audiences imagination - including the root of this strange affliction, the viability of these help groups, and indeed Carole's perception of all that is happening to and around her.The soundtrack is perfect - simple eery piano over looming synth.  The use of the camera is as economical as it is effective - the less shown the more we think, with broad extreme long shots used primarily in the beginning, showing that Carole doesn't seem to belong in her own home.  Yet this film's greatest triumph is, for all that she has been through, and the weak diseased person she became, Carole appears to find happiness and respect for herself.  Without a second thought that is the most disturbing possibility I could, or would want to, imagine.  Safe may very well be a film that does not lend itself to repeated viewing.  But that's fine, because it only takes one dose of this quietly sad and ghostly film to haunt you ever "},{"Title":"Vapid queen, suburban nightmare","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  in this gripping tale of suburban inertia we find Carol White, who is also a milkaholic, at the center of an insidious attack by her self.  You see, Carol is the 80's nightmare wife of a free spending, typically self -centered businessman.  Her life revolves around a routine of pampering and shopping that somehow causes a great deal of stress to be foisted upon her uncapable self.  She seemingly has never spent more than a few seconds examining her reality, and that could be an over-exaggeration, until the emptiness of her life finally overcomes her.  The manifestation of this inability to cope with her own blandness is a severe reaction to milk, how wry, and chemicals.  We are taken on a journey through doctor and psychiatrist until she takes her salvation into her own hands and retreats to the new mexico desert.  Here she encounters more empty souls suffering from her condition and replacing it with a tepid new-age outlook.  Here she in confronted with somethings that seem to be completely new to her, specifically self-responsibility and emotion.  Yet wouldn't you know that even these seemingly worthwhile notions are as empty as her soul.  In this tragedy/satire/comedy, we are both repelled by carol's lack of substance yet drawn to her out of pity.  Her salvation ends up being thwarted, only she is too blind to notice, by a charlatan priest of all that is new-age.  The final scene in the movie is perhaps the most hauting in recent memory as we see a completely lost Carol chanting to herself, I love you.  The tragedy here is twofold in that she is incapable of loving and has no conception to whom she is speaking.  The performances are so subtle and brilliant that I would recommend Safe without reservation.   "},{"Title":"A revisionist take on the paranoia thriller with this story of a Southern California housewife who suddenly falls victim to an inexplicable, apparently incurable illness.","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Made with the kind of analytic intelligence that was the signature of Stanley Kubrick, but also with a tenderness that Kubrick seldom permitted, Safe is an intellectual horror film. Carol (Julianne Moore) is afflicted with environmental illness. It is a syndrome which many in the medical establishment refuse to recognize; those who do consider its sufferers, most of them women, to be the canaries of the 21st century. Keeping Carol at a distance - a fragile, almost paralysed figure in a chill, repressive environment - director Todd Haynes nevertheless locates the film within her subjectivity. Rather than alienating us from her, the measured, wide-angle, hyper-real mise-en-scene becomes an expression of the alienation she experiences. As her health deteriorates, we realize that everything in her environment - which is not very different from our own - is potentially lethal. The tension between identification and remove gives the film great gravity. Every frame seems charged with the push-pull of desire and loathing. Safe has the most conventional surface of all Haynes's films, but it makes the greatest demand on viewers. It would be wrong to look for the film's meaning in the words of the affable guru of Wrenwood. Nothing could be further from Haynes's position than the New Age prescriptions. 'Do you smell the fumes?' is the inscription on a flyer that catches Carol's eye. Safe suggests that we are all vulnerable to the fumes; the rest is up to us. "},{"Title":"Isolation brilliantly studied","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I advise Safe to all that look for more in a film than accompaniment to popcorn. It makes you think whether civilization took a wrong turn somewhere. I disagree with those that see ambiguity in it. Impartiality, yes. It reminded me of Michael Tolkin's The Rapture. Julianne Moore was not perfect, though. She coughs unconvincingly, for one. "},{"Title":"Self-absorption turns to self-evaporation","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For some inexplicable and troubling reason I with furrowed brow and mild anxiety loved this film.I believed every moment. I approved of every shot and camera angle. It's rare for the writer/director combination in one so young as Tod Haynes not to lead to at least some degree of self indulgence. Not here.I could write more but instead I'll rewind and watch again.Sincere to the point of absurdity, Andor Ventorpent "}{"Title":"Chemical Malady","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Todd Haynes' Safe starts off as the chronicle of the life of a bourgeois housewife from the 1980s. She seems a bit repressed by her frequently overbearing husband and her interactions with others never progress beyond rote banalities. She has no personality to speak of, in fact she seems almost incapable of acting of her own accord. Eventually she develops an illness which is so foreign to her doctor that he suggests a psychiatrist. It seems that she has grown so dissatisfied with her empty life at a subconscious level that she begins to physically manifest this dissatisfaction.The woman begins to search for a way to overcome her new condition, or at the very least to find some way to explain it. She eventually falls in with a group of people who claim to be sick due to an inability to cope with the chemicals that the modern lifestyle has released into the environment. Her condition worsens as she heads to an isolated commune where other rich people with equally enigmatic maladies gather to convalesce. This commune is led by an incredibly wealthy man who claims to be terminally ill and explains that the only way for his clients to improve their condition is to learn to love themselves.The film doesn't take a stance as to whether the protagonist's condition is caused by her physical environment or her lack of mental stimulation. It is critical of the society that claims to have all the answers for her, however, as everybody she encounters seems to have a plan to heal her but they succeed only in worsening her condition and decreasing the size of her living space. Haynes milks the ambiguity of the situation for his unusual narrative as his languid pace calls to mind the work of Michelangelo Antonioni, that Italian poet of ennui. Although Haynes does an adequate job technically and even manages to create some memorable images, he never manages to capture the zeitgeist the way Antonioni's best work did, nor does he combine that well worn style with any unique personal touches the way other Antonioni-influenced auteurs such as Wong Kar-Wai or Tsai Ming-liang did at around the same time. Safe manages to make its points fairly well in spite of its lack of originality and the sense of narrative bloat toward the end, making it a decent but non-essential film. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie dramatizes the plight of the hypochondriac, a person who sincerely believes that he or she is physically ill although all empirical evidence indicates the exact opposite. A person has a cough, or a headache or some other somatic problem yet a physically examination reveals no problem. What is a person to think or do? Okay, then is it the environment that is making the person sick? That leads to more frustration as those in charge of the environment claim that everything is fine, that nobody else is getting sick, only that one person, so therefore the problem must be psychological. By this time the person is frantic, can no longer function and then really becomes mentally ill. This is the theme of this movie. How is one to cope in an increasingly polluted environment that literally makes you sick but nobody really believes that you are really sick?What is one to do when they sick, really sick, yet there is no empirical evidence to suggest the presence of a health problem? Is it all merely psychosomatic? That is, is just in one's head? That is is the them of this provocative movie. Our environment is filled with thousands of chemicals the exposure to which cannot be avoided. Yet what is one to do when exposure to these chemicals effects one's health? How can one effectively cope? As movie so effectively shows, there are few if any viable options. For instance, what are you to do when at the workplace you have an adverse reaction to the chemicals in a detergent used to mop the floors? Stop working? Go home? Quit the job? Complain? Stop breathing? And then there is the question of whether you may be overreacting or is a hypochondriac. This movie dramatizes the plight of those who become sick as a result of exposure to chemicals. "},{"Title":"The horror of the valley","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Todd Haynes has made one very fine feature--Far From Heaven--as well as three smaller works that have found an audience. His films construct a world from the inside, instead of from the outside as a more technically accomplished director like Spielberg does. Although it is too long by about 20 minutes, Safe is a worthy addition to those films that try to describe what's wrong with our society by creating a counter-world.I liked Peter Friedman as the clinic leader; he made me think of a much brainier Jim Jones. Xander Berkeley as the husband intrigued me he kept me guessing as to how long it would take him to abandon his wife. Julianne Moore starts off healthy in her aerobics classes, starts getting nosebleeds and panic attacks, ends up the most forlorn Pre-Raphaelite maiden you can imagine, carrying her oxygen tank along with her. I thought of David Bowie, his flesh being eaten away in the hostile Earth environment in The Man Who Fell To Earth. Marvelous performance from one of our finest actresses. "},{"Title":"Makes you think, but ending of film leaves you empty.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There wasn't anything on television so I was surfing through my Digital Cable and came across this film. I never heard of it before, I didn't know what to expect. What made me stop to look was Ms. Moore and the location of the film, spots I am very familiar with in Southern California, the San Fernando Valley.I didn't know what to make of this film...(Spoilers) I saw a very, very timid, of course young, well-kept woman played by Moore who had an obviously older, hard working executive type balding husband. To be honest, this was very disturbing to me, because that is just about the stereotypical size of second wives, etc., in California's San Fernando Valley in the 1980's. Nothing to do except keep themselves up by exercise, getting their hair and nails done, car-pooling, crank out the kids to have SOMETHING to do, have little masked congratulatory parties for others in that circle who crank out the kids...and the neat little circle keeps going round and round. But then the title sunk in, Safe. Yes, that is about as Safe as these situations get until this woman began to get ill. That really kept my attention. Also the fact that no one around her really cared! It seemed to be a hindrance to their little safe lives. Their lives kept being Safe while she was falling apart, and the best her Husband, her friends, even her Doctor could come up with was that it was all in her mind! The sickness was NOT welcomed! This was extremely sad, and disturbing to watch. On the other hand, there was a part of me that was thinking, Oh well, nothing else was going on with her in her life, what could this be about? When you find that her illness was due to her safe and everyday life, you wonder, how safe is she....are any of us?Again, something really important to think about but after that, the film takes me into several different directions. I'm really not sure whether or not where Moore's character ends up is a cult. I'm not sure if she will ever be well even in this new environment. I'm not sure if her relationship was a relationship. As I was hoping the film would go somewhere to answer these questions---it didn't. That was the biggest problem with the film. I'm not saying there should have been a tight little Hollywood ending. I am saying that here was an important horror that was not realized, with any of the characters that were introduced who suffered mildly or accute. Maybe, I was secretly hoping this would turn out to be a cult, maybe I wanted to know whether or not Moore's character would get help and identify really what was effecting her, how her relationship would turn out, how this place may have helped her or not. I was drawn in to this film and left empty to the point where I didn't care to seek out more information about the problem..if there really was a problem. Safe kinda reminds you of the Oreo Cookie situation that is going around now in 2003 which started in California. You know, the one where Oreo Cookies lead to health problems so you MUST take them off the market. Well, maybe, but it all depends on how many Oreo Cookies you eat, if you eat them at all, if you like them at all, if you can stay away from them, how accessible are they, or if you do or don't have self control. Bottom line, Oreo Cookies are there, but no one forces you to buy or eat them, the choice is yours. That's how I was left to feel about Safe. "},{"Title":"Safe?","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The reviews originally intrigued me, and I'd naively waited for the title to show up on Blockbuster Video shelves. NADA.Hollywood Video later had it for rent. BRIEFLY! Would I ever get the chance to pop it in and press play?I recently taped the drama Safe from the Independent Film Channel.Safe's analogies work for me toxicity emotional, physical, environmental. Director Todd Haynes subtly addresses issues though nearly satirizes them, while playing to the imaginative paranoid in us.The politics of physical and psychological states you are what you eat. You made yourself sick.The obsession with diets and exercise have a problem? It must be your diet! The fruit diet will no doubt cure your ills. Unhappy? Sweating and endorphins will make you happy HAPPY and forever banish those bad moods!The typically brilliant and luminous Julianne Moore portrays young upper-class wife and stepmother Carol White, whose mysterious yet very real physical symptoms threaten her stability and her marriage. 24's Xander Berkeley is perfectly understated as Greg, Carol's increasingly bewildered, business-executive husband.Is Carol environmentally ill, or suffering the toxicity of repressed emotion and an unfulfilled life? Or both?The haunting score ominously builds and adds to the tension. Peppered throughout the film are images and references to our indeed toxic world new furniture, cleaning supplies, auto exhaust, dry cleaning chemicals, permanent wave solution. As insomniac Carol walks her property at night, we hear helicopters a clear reference to California's spraying of the pesticide Malathion.Yellow roses wetly shimmer . . . with dew or pesticide?Who can help Carol? The medical profession? Her MD typically refers her to a psychiatrist, the first route for female patients whose symptomatology does not fit the mold (no pun intended).Lifespring meets The Juice Man the concept of modern day cults is well-handled. Imagine if you will a charismatically-led cult that psychologically plays you and empties your wallet as your unnamed and mysterious illness or syndrome is treated at its remote desert location. (Sounds like a thriller, the more I think about it)The ending scene is brilliant would Carol indeed become ultimately 'safe'?Safe is definitely worth a viewing --- and another for its subtleties. There is a lot to get. And be in the proper mood when you press play. "},{"Title":"beautiful and hypnotic","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have watched this film over and over again, and each time I see it I become more enchanted by it. This film, in my humble opinion, is one of the best (and most emotionally charged) films that I have ever seen.  The film literally invades the viewer and although this invasion creates a sense of discomfort and at times alarm, the over-all effect is brutal and stunning. Todd Haynes, with help from Julianne Moore, is able to present a character that is not very sympathetic, but who is a woman that the viewer cannot help but feel sorry for, as she searches for a sense (and place) of safety. I highly recommend giving this film a chance, and please don't give up on it if you don't like it at first. . .   "},{"Title":"SAFE is Sound","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As modern society grows more complex, the array of breakdowns in once stable structures becomes more diverse, nowhere more apparent than in the sphere of health. An endless cycle of cures is replaced by newer, mutated, more harmful physical and psychological maladies.   One disease gaining attention as of late is Twentieth Century Sickness or environmental illness, frightening consequences of which are explored in director Todd Haynes' narrative film SAFE.Haynes, creator of such controversial films as SUPERSTAR THE KAREN CARPENTER STORY (told with Barbie dolls) and POISON comments on his latest choice of subject For me, living in New York City in the 90's has meant witnessing on a daily basis the disintegration of the American 20th century. Poverty, homelessness, and the AIDS crisis have all contributed to a climate in which the notions of safety, immunity, and survival have taken on a new meaning. And the more I learned about environmental illness, the more I was struck by its many parallels to AIDS. The difference is that environmental illness has a known origin -- chemicals. It is a disease that is embedded in the very fabric of our material existence.Environmental disease results from an extreme adverse reaction to any of the 60,000 or so chemicals which are a part of everyday life. These cause the breakdown of immune and enzyme systems which results in a plethora of different symptoms. Initially dismissed by the medical establishment as an unproven correlation, the malady is becoming more investigated as it becomes more widespread.     Haynes came upon environmental disease in a television program about a group of housewives developing extreme reactions to everyday chemicals.They called it '20th century sickness', says Haynes, because its sufferers seemed incapable of tolerating the very substances that pervade modern life. Ultimately they were forced to move into climate-controlled trailer homes and live the rest of their lives like the boy in the plastic bubble. What can I say? I was hooked.SAFE is the result of this intense interest. Filmed on location in Califronia's San Fernando Valley, it explores the emotionally sterile world of Carol White, a rich suburban housewife played by Julianne Moore. From the first scene, in which she is shown in a dull, almost mechanical tryst with her husband, it is obvious that Carol derives little satisfaction from her life.Her husband is a stern, thin man devoid of affection. She has no children, and seems to have no emotional connection to her stepson, who lives with them. She carries on a superficial rapport with her best friend, trying out new fad diets with her. Her social milieu is solely of her peers, who seem even worse than her with their affected fawning and falseness, punctuated by high-pitched voices.One day she has extreme trouble breathing. The next, she goes into convulsions at a baby shower. Horrified, she goes to the doctor, but every time, he finds absolutely nothing wrong with her. Finally, she collapses at a trip to the dry cleanerÕs and his hospitalized. When she emerges, she makes contact with a group of others like herself, and becomes educated about her affliction, eventually traveling to a secluded commune for those with '20th century sickness.' Through her agonizing, uncanny psychological experiences there, she finds herself awakening to the realities of her life, and coming to grips with who she really is.The film is eerie, darkly ironic, and moody. Exquisitely lensed on a low budget, it has a sense of documentary realism, and it depicts the modern affluent suburban American lifestyle as outwardly harmless, but inherently brutal and deleterious. One thing which is subconsciously intimated throughout, is that environmental disease may be mostly a psychological pathology. A sickness that results from wretched emotional pain, buried deep and not allowed to surface, amid lack of identity and a life based not on ones' own will, but on expectations of others in a surface-level quagmire.Julianne Moore magnificently emotes this plain Jane, whose humanity erupts to the surface in rejection of the emptiness and banality of her life.She pensively articulates, I really hope that this film causes audiences to walk away thinking about their lives. It's so easy to be trapped by the way we live and, in Carol's case, she is trapped voluntarily. She has such a strong desire to be safe but she denies everything she is and could be.           "},{"Title":"Powerful, unsettling, and complex","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching Safe -- wow. I can tell I'll be thinking about it for a while. It's an unusual film, so different from the usual Hollywood fare with which we're bombarded.Julianne Moore is fantastic (although I agree with the poster who said she didn't cough very convincingly). She strikes the right balance between helplessness, numbness, depression, and hopefulness...I didn't find any of the other actors particularly remarkable, though.This film adheres to the adage, Show, don't tell. The filmmaker isn't trying to convince you of any one point of view -- rather, he shows many aspects of, outlooks on the same situation. "},{"Title":"Far from heaven","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this the other day and had high hopes, having seen Far from Heaven featuring Julianne Moore which was a stunning film. On a positive note I thought it was beautifully shot and well acted. The 1980's setting was bang on, the clothes, colours and texture of the movie as accurate a picture of the decade as I've seen on film. I loved the soundtrack, reminded me of the first Terminator film. I have real problems with the narrative here, mainly because early on the film hints at something insidious or dark to come. This drives you along but unfortunately it becomes a little 'Channel 5 afternoon movie', American films about domestic dramas. The ending is a real let down..no spoiler here but it's almost as if the studio insisted on coming up with a credible reason for her ailment and the movie loses it's power. "},{"Title":"A gripping near-masterpiece by Todd Haynes about realization and awakening from society's safe lines","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1995's Safe, Todd Haynes creates a world that is so completely mundane, vapid, that it both literally and figuratively suffocates its main character, Claire. This world? Suburbia.On the surface, Safe is centered around Claire battling a mysterious environmental sickness and the emotional breakdown it wrecks on her soul. But past that, Claire's arc and sickness symbolizes realization and awakening. Claire's dialog is rare, but when she does speak, she often envisions people waking up to the toxicity of the world, much as her disease allowed her to wake out of her existence as a meaningless drone of a housewife. When she checks into a rehab for her illness in the last act of the film and hopes to find answers and companionship, she only encounters more exploitation and wrong, and her condition worsens. The more she feels awake in relation to the sheepish mentality and falseness in the world around her, the sicker she gets, and the more in condition she separates from the regular, blind humans. In one of the film's most defining sequences, Claire sees a man wandering across the grazed land outside her rehab cabin. He is the most separated from regular human societal conditions and borders, and thus looks like a walking mummy, beautifully inhuman, stoic, and removed from any other being. He is removed from the blind, safe world, Claire's original world.Julianne Moore's performance still stands as among the best in her career, and Claire's gradual mental breakdown is among the most intricately and internally well-acted in cinema lore. Haynes is wise to keep everything about Claire subtle and closed in; a lesser filmmaker would've felt the need for big crying scenes, but Claire's inner turmoil is portrayed so effectively in Moore's quietness that it creates a completely human character in a world that is not. The film benefits from not feeling the need for over-exposition in either the plot or its messages, Haynes lets the audience put together and interpret the film themselves. In particular the film wisely leaves whether Claire's illness is real or simply mental as ambiguous, but it doesn't matter, the end result of Claire's world making her sick and being forced to awaken from it is the same.The film is shot beautifully, Haynes as usual has perfect framing in his shots, capturing the slow drawling movement of Claire through her house, driving, or being choked in the rest of her world. Like many great filmmakers he reaches the most effect through images over dialog (which is intentionally useless in most of the film anyway), and again his decisions concerning Claire as a completely internal character and general withholding of exposition, are very wise.Ironically enough considering the title, Safe is one of the more difficult and daring films I've seen recently, as Claire's bland world is as intoxicating for the viewer as it is for her. But at the very least, the film stands as an extremely ambitious and interesting film, if not near-masterpiece, that certifies Todd Haynes as one of the great present-day directors. "}{"Title":"Move over Kubrick","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm so obsessed with this film, I've been watching it in awe every week for the past few weeks. To me, it's like listening to a great piece of music, getting better with each viewing. It's such a beautiful film to watch with every scene carefully constructed, every set design(some in Todd Haynes parent's home!)intriguing and breathtakingly crafted with the colours and lighting eerily muted. Everything in Carol's world is beautiful but hides an underlying menace, an obvious metaphor for her internal turmoil.The premise is Carol develops a severe allergic reaction to her environment, suddenly becoming extremely sensitive to fumes and smells from everyday suburban/city living. Of course, if you take it that literally, you're missing the point. This is more an exploration into the human condition and the artificial happiness we perpetuate in our seemingly unachievable quest for perfection via material possessions. The opening sequence includes one of the most soul destroying and familiar scenarios (coming from a fellow female) that I have witnessed with the supposed 'love making' scene with her husband, especially the 'patting on the back' scene as he fulfils his primal need. She's not a happy camper.The film then moves into 'society' territory where we witness Carol's attempts to fit in with the American/Western Society ideal. Todd Haynes shines during this part of the film as he ever-so-carefully paints the picture of insidious tedium that Carol encounters during her struggle to recognise what is 'wrong' with her. In particular, I love the scene where Carol enters her friend's ultra modern home to console her on the death of a relative. The friend utters the words It's so unreal in such an ironically surreal environment.We then move into the third act of the film where Carol is forced to seek proper 'help' for her condition. After the 'slap in the face' realisation that this all may be in her mind, with a perfectly executed scene (especially the set!) at the psychiatrist's office, she happens upon a brochure at her local gym entitled Do You Smell Fumes?.From here on the movie turns into true horror with Carol moving into the isolated complex with other so called 'victims' of modern society/pollution. Some of the scenes remind me of my teenage years where my older brother took me a 'Born Again Christian' Church (no offence!) where people spoke in tongues and generally 'freaked out' because of their obvious reaction to the perceived constraints of their lives. It's quite an uncomfortable experience, especially with Carol's husband present, and Mr Haynes captures it perfectly. We then experience some almost unbearable scenes between Carol and her husband, who's trying to show some understanding and empathy but doesn't quite get it (with son in tow) and the frustration is dreadfully apparent.Then we see the product of this 'cult' gone too far with the fellow in the weird getup walking around like he's seriously physically crippled around the complex, the ultimate in horror! The film ends with Carol finally moving into one the ceramic built enclosures that supposedly protect and help you build your resilience to your environment. She looks at herself in the mirror, recalling a story from a fellow cult member, and pitifully says I love you. "},{"Title":"Accurate References but Could Have Been Delivered Better","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched Safe purely because my Mother suffers from Multiple Chemical Sensitivity which is the illness that Carol suffers in the movie. Multiple Chemical Sensitivity is a real and extremely debilitating illness that causes the sufferers to react to even the smallest exposures to perfumes, pesticides, car fumes and many other chemicals found in modern life. I watched the movie with an intimate knowledge of the condition and direct experience of the isolation, pain and suffering is causes.Overall the movie did present many of the key components of the condition such as the confusion that Carol felt when she first started feeling unwell, the reactions that gradually got worse with repeated exposures, the misunderstanding and intolerance of family, friends and medical community; and the need to find a safe haven. However, I realized that whilst the symptoms and problems associated were quite clear to me, they would have probably been almost completely lost on some viewers (especially in the first thirty minutes of the film which was slow going).That said, Safe is the only movie I know that does address MCS and was obviously well researched as the details in the movie were very close to the mark right down to the fact that people were using reading boxes at the retreat.I found that the emotional side of the characters were brushed over and not really accurately portrayed. The emotions were represented in a cold way and while this might have been the intension of the director, I feel that the movie could have had much more impact than it otherwise did. The isolation, the physical pain and the confusion that MCS causes the sufferer and the family is much more dramatic than what is portrayed.In summary, the movie is quite accurate in the detail and it was easy for me to identify with the many different circumstances presented. I found myself saying yes and nodding knowingly a lot during the film. It really did follow the journey of someone suffering from MCS and gave a sense of hopelessness that does unfortunately often result. "},{"Title":"Danger in Domesticity.","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I started off thinking that this was a public-service film lecturing us that even homemakers with no children of their own can have nervous breakdowns. However, slowly it is revealed that there is a palpable cause for our main character Carol's malady - Everything. Well, there's a downer. How does one escape from that? I'm not sure that the movie is even convinced it might eventually be possible.As ever, Julianne Moore gives a terrific central performance playing a woman who seemed to me to be highly suggestible, so that when there is something wrong with her, she's looking for patterns and fusing the leads together in the wrong way, making things worse. Later she attends a retreat, desperate to make herself better, but if she is as easily led as we suspect, her problems may only multiply and transfer themselves to another source...It's an ironic shame that a film which has the lead actress giving it her all still feels as 'sterile' as Safe ends up doing. Perhaps it's because when you suffer, YOU are the one suffering and the other characters in your life matter much less. If that's the case, it's a tough job for any of the other actors here to make an impression and break into the bubble. Fans of Julianne who'd like to see her afflicted with new-age paranoia similar to something from Right At Your Door, for example, may still find however that there are rewards to be had from taking a chance with this. "},{"Title":"''Nausea'' Figuratively Transported to the San Fernando Valley....far from simple","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What is there to cling, when the only thing left turns against you?Mastermind Todd Haynes has been known out of carrying accounts and portraits soberly and candidly, with an eye for indulging in all the richness and complexity they might entail. For most people, it is a devastating characteristic that in Safe is unleashed masterfully. Being a gay man with a complex perspective, most of Haynes' filmography is composed of bold, striking nuggets that radar all sorts of readings and eventual appreciations from the audience, but beneath all layers, stay stubbornly and painfully fixed with their underlying depth. This is true from on his controversial start with underground staples Superstar The Karen Carpenter Story and the theme-summing Poison to his latest and most 'mainstream' film Far From Heaven, in which he brilliantly juxtaposes an alluring atmosphere (bourgeois 50's) with a chilling and bare representation of emotional turmoil. His turning point and best film Safe showcases Haynes' complexity and sharp, vast eye as a filmmaker.Safe's most transcendent trait is what its ability of being, in my words, expository. Exposing a given situation with no parameter or concentration, just exposing, and letting the audience absorb and interpret. It's a painfully realistic film, at times to a fault. Haynes' lens portrays a lifeless, infested and desolate world with a demarcation that borders on caricature. 80's upper-middle Southern California becomes a zombie land of people living in consumerism and dread. At times one feels as if watching Stepford Wives with a human undertone. Julianne Moore's android aura and other-worldly performance is perfectly fit for Carol's role, looking more like an alien creature brought up to be a housewife than an actual one. Many people have felt emptied by the film, due to its textbook atmosphere of stereotypes of anesthetized people in banal L.A, a mature society whose true feelings and emotions seem to be shadowed by lifestyle clichés. At first one clearly sees that the numb Carol and her social surroundings are a group of people with no true communication amongst and ambitions that stay limp, on what refers to decorating the house and generic jobs. These people, or in this case we should say Carol, carry underlying waves of angst beneath, and these eventually show beneath the thick crust of restraint. In that case the actors and Haynes' direction do a fine job in creating a quiet,deeply unsettling real version of The Stepford Wives.Safe has a devastating boiling point. How Carol's desperation bursts throughout without using traditional breakouts. Her pervading gloom and excruciating lack of focus becomes evident in the first 20 minutes of film, in small events like the uncomfortable coitus with her hubby. That sinuously palpitating need to cling to anything that's not her blankly forlorn suburban world, leads her to catch what seems to be global, fatal syndrome that is beginning to have its spread in the decade. The symptoms start vague to every time sharper reactions. The detachedness of the camera and the faithful saturation of lighting help the elegant sterility of the Whites' house be raided by a whiff of trepidation. Carol gets little support from her frustrated husband and is unable to communicate her true feelings with the physicians. She conveniently relates her unexpected malaise with stress, virtually non-existent in her life. Her health declines severely and her reactions start disturbing her duty as a 'homemaker'. Finally after an advertisement, conferences and a painful test is when Carol finally confirms that she's one of the increasing sufferers of the 20th Century Disease, or Environmental Illness. Like an external AIDS, EI is a large-scale condition that is nourished by the ongoing range of toxins in our quotidian products and city atmosphere. Afraid and alienated, Carol starts becoming more enrolled in the disease, switching to linen clothing and soon establishes her own private spot in the mansion. A final and fatal incident finally lands her into establishing in Wrenwood, a healing center which welcomes people with all types of defying maladies. One would traditionally want Carol to find a spiritual answer, but once she arrives all hope fades. Wrenwood plays as a seemingly decadent, puritan community that for the terrified Carol seems inescapably unfriendly. It is lead by the enigmatic and stern guru Peter and the hideously frail Claire, both infect the hazed, depleted minds of patients with an aura (folk repertoire included) of introspection and reflection, the hardest area for Carol. The least she wants to do is to admit is how unhappy and suffocated she felt from her environment and how increasingly hard it will be to ever get back after the sudden abandon. At the end of the film, Carol appears as sick as ever, close to surpassing all the other mildly-recuperated patients in their vegetable seclusion. She came for answers but the only glimmer she finds after a long while is by a final if indefinite act of self-acceptance. Safe is a film about the environment, but not the way it affects us. It is allegorical as it deliberately reveals a pervading virus of loneliness and alienation. It is not a criticism or parody of an aspect of American society, but plainly takes it as the truthfully insipid background for the germs of materialistic society (as in Haneke's Seventh Continent). I thought the film to be more tragic than scary, as the calm uncertainty of the first half becomes increasingly overwhelmed by irreversible streaks of humanity. The real horror finally laid on the recoiling emptiness of Carol's existence. Although for me it is secondary to the emotional power, the photography is mesmerizing (watch out for the perm scene) and the score is orchestrated perfectly with that sense of beautiful disrepair, feeling at times only a little contrived. Nevertheless, Safe is mesmerizing and affecting in all of its supposed 'emptiness' and lingers long after it leaves the screen.Needs to be watched at least for the emotional core beneath the stubborn veneer. "},{"Title":"Just didn't work for me","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Safe is a very well made film. It was so well made it had me eating out of it's hand and asking what's going to happen now? - nothing was the answer. Julianne Moore plays Carol White, a housewife who doesn't seem to be well at all. Is her illness genuine? Is it in her head? and all such questions are thrown at you and a good amount of suspense is built up and just as you're waiting for the big revelation, or at least a clue as to what's really happening the credits start rolling. Needless to say, this is just my opinion, there are some viewers who would enjoy this sort of end to the film and sit chewing over it for an hour or so after, myself, I wanted some answers. As said before the film is very well made and Haynes' directing and the score are used brilliantly, the film holds an internal intensity that was great to watch, but if you were to watch it, be aware of the ambiguity ahead, otherwise you'll just have the what, that's it? feeling that I had, which for me, swept the rug out of most of what I had just enjoyed. "},{"Title":"Remarkable. A Provocative Gem","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is easy for people to criticize Safe. The movie gives no real answers about the protagonists condition. The movie is very slow. Some even say the movie lacks a climax. Truthfully, it does have a climax but I even have to admit it is very subtle. These are some of the reasons I love the film so much. The movie almost invites you in too give your opinion and really get into it.The movie is flawless. As many people have said and I will say it, Julianne Moore gives a truly great performance possibly one of the best and underrated of the decade. The dialog was great and very life like. The movie has some great cinematography especially in the later half of the film. The movie is way ahead of its' time. It definitely corresponds to the millennium than to Generation X when it was made. The movie will give you a whole new view on things you have never stopped to ponder.SEE THIS MOVIE NOW! "},{"Title":"Dependency and pointlessness","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The medical melodrama typically follows one of two well-worn patterns the patient either battles against medical indifference to find the miracle cure, or dies, stoically and with tears all round. But Todd Haynes' film, 'Safe', certainly has the merit of a distinctive narrative arc. Julianne Moore's character develops a host of allergies to substances in her environment; her condition gets progressively worse; she eventually joins what appears to be a cross between a self-help group and a cult. Is the cult real, or a fraud? Does Moore really believe it is helping her? And does she get better? The film, oddly, chooses not to answer these questions, and in it's final scenes we see Moore's character proclaiming the doctrine of self-love practiced in the commune but without any underlying confidence. Whereupon the film just ends. Clearly, it's meant to be a character study, and Moore is often praised as a fine actress, but the problem here is that her character is uninteresting. A pampered, useless executive wife, she clearly has massive self-esteem problems at the start of the movie, which are not improved by her illness; but without the miracle cure, the overall plot can be summarised as feeble minded woman gets ill. There's some interesting material in the way that Haynes suggests that society may encourage the development of feeble-mindedness in women, but the early scenes, with their almost stylised portrait of upper-middle class life, are also deadly dull. The later scenes, with the portrait of the cult, are more interesting, although don't look for dramatic resolution. For me, the problem was that at no time did Moore's character ever reveal herself as someone with whom it could be interesting to spend any time; pull yourself together! may not be a fair response, but it's hard to be fair to someone so bland. I'd be interested to know exactly what Haynes was trying to do in this movie; for the truth is, I watched it while feeling I was missing the point. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I have ever seen!!!","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is amazing...  More people should know about it...  Perhaps it is time for a theatrical re-release...  The VHS cover isn't that wonderful, who designed that anyway???  OVERALL - Great directing, acting, and editing... I love it!!! "},{"Title":"Nobody's safe","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Safe is an extremely unsettling film.  It uses the metaphor of being allergic to everything to dramatize an uncomfortable human truth  that while we deeply desire to be safe, the condition is incompatible with living one's life. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Only an absolutely great actress like Julianne Moore could pull this off, which is the only positive thing I can think of. On the other hand, she shouldn't have done it. The plot is non-existent, the action slow and boring, there is no point to it all, and it's a total waste of time. Even the picture quality on the DVD is at a record low. We were wasting the full two hours just waiting for now it's gonna happen. Almost every character showed promise as a crook. Almost every situation looks like a conspiracy. But, abandon all hope, ye who watch, there's nothing there. Nothing ever happens. I guess you're supposed to come away scared that we're all slowly poisoned by something out there, even though that something is never described. Save yourself some serious aggravation and avoid this film. Unless you enjoy content free, uninspiring, and diffuse messages of pollution coupled with unscientific drivel. Now I know to avoid anything with a similar set of prices won at obscure film festivals. "}{"Title":"Safe is dangerous","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dangerous in that it doesn't do what you expect, in that it gives you nothing concrete to grab hold of, in that it asks a lot of you as a viewer. I watched the movie while playing Snood on my laptop, glancing up now and then to check out the action, and I think it worked cuz by not paying too close of attention, I feel like I got it.The point where I sat up and took notice is when <spoiler alert> the guy was leading the group discussion about how they caused their own illness. This idea makes me see red. By that point I was feeling defensive for the woman, and I wanted to tell the guy to shut-up and back off. Then I realized, her illness isn't caused by environmental toxins so much as it's caused by the toxic people and situations she lives under. Yeah, maybe the dork is right. Her illness is caused by her not telling guys like him to shut up and back off. Everybody and everything bullies this woman, including her environment, including the people at her retreat. She is pressed to conform there as much as she was in her suburban life.It's a little morality tale, not so much about how we've poisoned the world around us, but also that trying to be what others want you to be can make you sick. Although there's a satirical flavor to the view of her life in suburbia, it was not bad per se. Nothing wrong with baby showers, gym class, shopping. There was a lot of really good stuff at the retreat place; not all New Agey stuff is garbage. I don't feel the movie was sneering at it, as much as pointing out another form of control. Cuz it wasn't about where she lived. It was about how she lived. She inhabited her life like a ghost. Maybe she used to be a whole person, but somewhere she got lost and nobody noticed. That is what makes her sick.I very much like the way it was filmed. The slow pace underscored her passivity. So many times, I waited for her to say something, and she didn't. Scenes are deliberately prolonged to increase your awareness of the void, I think. And that unreal sense of the twilight zone something horrible wrong in a picture where everything's perfect. This Stepford Wife threw up on her husband. I think she had to go into an emotional igloo and be as alone as she was at the end of the movie, in order to start out again from someplace real. The end of the movie was the beginning.  "},{"Title":"the best of the 90's","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is definitely one of the best, an unknown, American films of the 90's. It's a scathing satire on upper middle class values. Juliana Moore gave the performance of a life time. I can't believe she wasn't nominated for an Oscar. She did a great job playing a weak and not-too-bright woman, who is completely alienated by wealth she didn't earn.  The underlying socio-economics of the movie are quite clear. Environmental illness is the kind of disease only rich, bored  people can afford to be afflicted with. Of the two halves of the movies, the first part is the most effective, but Peter Friedman is the ultimate touchy-feely guru. This is also one of the best color composing I've seen in recent years. Hayes went out of his way to make sure each scene was filled with purples, pinks, yellows and other pastels. The movie has an incredible feel of realism, also. The characters sounded and looked like real people. "},{"Title":"A film that defies convention","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almost entirely composed of long and medium shots, Todd Haynes' second feature is clinical to the point of being Cronenbergian. (Its deliberate pace and glacial camera moves are most reminiscent of Cronenberg's masterpiece, Dead Ringers.)Set in the San Fernando Valley in 1987, Safe is all about Carol, an idle homemaker played by Julianne Moore, who tries to control her environment, but her environment ends up controlling her. Her husband tries to be as understanding as possible, but when medical science repeatedly fails to find anything wrong with her, it puts a strain on their marriage which would have lead to an explosion of some sort if this had been an ordinary film. Instead, Haynes has something more interesting in mind.This is a film that is about its environment in so many ways. We hear the traffic sounds when Carol is having lunch with her best friend, the soundtrack of '80s songs frequently reminds us of when we are, and the periodic silences force us to focus on Haynes' compositions and the characters' surroundings. Even early on, when an acquaintance from her aerobics class comments that she doesn't sweat, or she confesses to her doctor that she's a milkaholic, or she decides on a whim to get a perm, we can guess where Haynes is going, but not necessarily how he will get there. In this film, it's all about how we get there.It would be foolhardy to claim that this is a film for everyone, but if you have the patience for it, Safe can be a very rewarding experience. "},{"Title":"Lifetime-Noir","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When my wife and I settled in to watch the least-unattractive-looking cable fare, we had no clue what lay ahead.  About 20 minutes in, we asked Is this a going to be a dark comedy, or what?  It plodded on, always right on the edge of some thing, but never quite tangible.  We finally agreed that it was a Disease-of-the-month-Noir flick, and so carefully crafted that we were never quite sure of the ride we were being taken on.  This is a momorable film, in the sense that it is pure Vanilla, but such a delight after all the Moose Tracks and Dolce de Leche that the film industry has to keep spoon-feeding us.  A film which will delight you in inverse proportion to your expectations. "},{"Title":"One of the Creepiest Movies EVER","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, look, I absolutely love suburbia. I think it's great. I like lawns, I like parking lots, I like big homes, I like everything about it. I am aware that this movie was some kind of critique of, among other things, suburbia. But I don't care. To me the suburbs in film offer the same kind of dynamic as the towns in Westerns. A clean canvas on which to develop an idea without much environmental interference. Not to mention the fact that whining about the suburbs is in itself extremely suburban, as all the complaints come from suburbanites with little understanding of why suburbs exist in the first place. So my interest in this movie was purely the mental decline of the main character. This was done beautifully. The tension built slowly and strongly as she was overcome with anxiety and struggled to make sense of it. This is a pretty basic theme in film (and everything else) but it was handled in a very unique and compelling way. This is a great work of art. Very American, very Nineties, and it will stand the test of time.  "},{"Title":"Incredibly slow and empty","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I found this insufferable. Perhaps I am missing something and unable to appreciate it for some reason, but depressing movies about the weakness of human nature - fragile, miserable characters who are flailing and failing - never do it for me.The worst aspect was the pace - slow as s-l-o-w can be, with great expanses of whiteness when I found myself urging something - anything - to happen. It has a disquietingly insipid tone. In the end I set my DVD player to 2x speed...but I STILL found myself perpetually 'waiting'.I don't like misery movies any more than I like being scared by horror, jarred by violence or brought down by exaltations of mediocrity. If you, like me, prefer substance and inspiration in your movies, you are very unlikely to enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Julianne Moore is stunning","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Julianne Moore was ripped of an Academy Award for her stunning performance in this nearly perfect film. (No she wasn't even nominated, the Academy was asleep that year.) A must see for fans of this extremely talented actress. The movies eerie calm will seem dull to those requiring bombs and blood for visual interest or those suffering from A.D.D. Watch only if you are willing to sit, pay attention and not be distracted by the phone, the dog, the bathroom, the pause button. The final scene is one of my all time favorite movie moments.      "},{"Title":"Where is Adler When We Need Him?","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You know who should be alive to see this movie? Alfred Adler. I'll explain in a moment, but first a couple of things about allergies. One, they are very real. We all have them. If you've ever had a poison ivy rash you know they can be annoying. Two, they've presumably been around forever but weren't given serious medical attention until around the turn of the century when it was discovered that some forms of vaccination led to immediate death due to a severe reaction called anaphylactic shock, a kind of allergy. Third, they may have a strong psychosomatic component. People who already know they are allergic to, say, animal dander can have a typical reaction when they are experimentally exposed to a cat although, without their knowing it, the cat is sealed off from them behind an air-tight glass plate. Fourth, some people suffer from more allergies than others, although nobody is allergic to everything, so there is no such thing as environmental illness, just the empty name, like sudden infant death syndrome. Fifth, there IS such a place as depicted in the film, a small community located not near Alburquerque but in central Texas.This movie about the wraithlike Carol White whose ill-defined allergies drive her from an upper middle-class existence to a safe house on an isolated ranch designed for people like her is a tragedy that can be read at three different levels. The easiest -- and the most wrong-headed and the least interesting -- is the feminist (or more accurately anti-male) story of a woman so submissive to current mores that she no longer functions. Another p interpretation is that this is an analogy of modern alienation. How many yuppies must be ready to throw up their hands when they finally have two BMWs, an SUV with a 20 millimeter cannon on top, a more than spacious house in the valley, and cry out in agony, What do I do NOW, Ma? But an Adlerian interpretation is just as apt. Alfred Adler was convinced Freud was wrong. The engine that drove neurotic symptoms (called hysteria) was not sex, but power. Patients didn't want forbidden sex. What they wanted was the capacity to tell others how to behave. Well, there are two ways you can get people to carry you around. One is to be powerful enough to order them to carry you around, and the other is to collapse. And women, deprived of authority in Victorian society, were more likely than men to suffer from what he called masculine striving, which is why they more often showed up as patients. Let's get past the generation-bound terminology and look at the film from Adler's point of view, as the story of a woman's attempt to achieve power by collapsing that has gone terribly wrong. From the beginning, the pretty, carefully groomed, almost completely empty Carol White is so lacking in self-assertion that she can barely bring herself to speak. Her husband uses her as a sexual receptacle, her son cares nothing about her. So she becomes ill, and sometimes displays dramatic symptoms. And -- Lo! -- attention is paid. People talk to her, express concern, they are solicitous, go out of their way for her, spend money on her. The illness is working. But now there seems no end to them. The doctors can't help. The psychiatrist is a joke. And behind everything is the subconscious realization that if she gives up her symptoms, she gives up her new-found status. The symptoms are working, if only barely so, but they have taken over her life. She winds up at a ranch for the hyperallergenic affluent, the rest of whose residents are as much in the grip of their illnesses as she now is. The earnest, smooth-talking leader can't do a thing with her either. She is visited at the end by her distracted offspring and still inexpressive husband who move her into a safe house, a gloomy kind of allergen-free zone the size and shape of a cement igloo, where she lives alone with a few bits of spare, functional furniture. Her husband approaches and embraces her but she draws away, saying, I think I'm allergic to your cologne. He replies tonelessly, I'm not wearing cologne. And she responds, Maybe I'm allergic to you. Later, a fellow sufferer, a nice-enough seeming guy, walks her home after dinner and takes her hand when they reach her door. Will she find someone else, finally, as a sensitive and satisfying lover? Does she invite him in with her? (Sex is permitted.) Will he at least kiss her? Nope. They separate and he turns to look back as she enters her drab safe house, an empty kingdom wherein she is monarch of all she surveys. This is underplayed, like the rest of the film, but is truly a touching and tragic scene. On the real ranch, in Texas, a woman sealed off in her air-filtered safe house was being interviewed through a penetration-proof window and after a few minutes of conversation told the reporter he had better leave because his presence was beginning to bring on an attack. You can see these dynamics in action at the community level by visiting the side streets off Shattuck Avenue in Berkeley, intersections blocked by huge chunks of cement to prevent through traffic, sheets and posters hanging from the apartment houses proclaiming in loud letters USE ANOTHER STREET! and WE DON'T WANT YOUR POLLUTANTS! What would Adler have suggested as therapy? He was better at diagnosis than treatment. He and his wife were social activists. He would have patted patients on the back and told them to go out and join a club. "},{"Title":"A psychological thriller perhaps?","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Safe is a remarkably quiet and rewarding movie.  The IMDb calls this a Thriller, although there is very little action in the film.  However, Todd Haynes' slow pace perfectly heightens anxiety and captures emptiness of suburban life and consumerism.Without being as heavy handed as I am being here (and as most people are when talking about this topic), Haynes demonstrates wonderfully how the cliches of the 1980s consume Carol White's existence.  One of the most inspired things about Safe is Haynes' use of insipid 1980s music and fads as the backdrop to Carol's passionless Barbie doll-like life.  Julianne Moore plays Carol with wonderful restraint, resisting the proto-feminist cliches of a spirited woman being submerged in a cruel capitalist world.  Perhaps the scariest thing about Safe (and maybe why the IMDb classifies this as a thriller), is the suggestion that even Carol's own best efforts to get well, shaped as they are by her own bland notions of what life should be, might fail.It takes a lot of patience to watch Safe, but, as Safe demonstrates, Haynes isn't into instant gratification. "},{"Title":"An unsettling masterpiece.","Date":"24 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A terrific, unsettling film. A great performance by Julianne Moore. Great cinematography, of Los Angeles interiors and exteriors, highways and streets, restaurants and stores, and a health club - all amazing. A story that unfolds slowly and has loads of hints and pointers about what director Todd Haynes is trying to tell us, but in the end, the viewer is more or less left alone with Carol White in her dark bubble.I've read a lot of discussions and reviews about people wondering what exactly is going on here. My thoughts are all over the place as well, but I'm not getting into that, except for adding that it felt like one of those conspiracy / paranoia thrillers from the seventies, mostly those by Alan J. Pakula. This isn't really the same thing, maybe, but the vibe was at times very similar.What else can I say? I watched it twice within a short period of time, and that doesn't happen all too often these days. A must-watch for any film fan who likes to take a look outside the usual and familiar. A big 9 out of 10 for now, but that may change... "}{"Title":"Prisoners of our own Biology","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Millions of people in every democracy have illnesses for which there is no correct diagnosis. The lucky ones eventually find out what's wrong with them. Here we have a woman who has everything to live for until she suffers from something that no one can understand and often doubt.Julianne Moore carries this film as its central character. The supporting & surrounding characters cover the attitudes of doubt, resentment, paternalism, empathy, indifference, ignorance, apprehension, caring, understanding & compassion. Carol White's submissive personality & helplessness at first results to her becoming victimized by those looking for a quick solution to her pain. On its surface, this film is about Carole and her illness. On another level, it's about a chain of unfortunate events that can overtake our lives. Unless we go through it ourselves, we cannot fully understand the loneliest chapters in other people's life story. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and beautiful, but ultimately as hollow as the life it depicts.","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Safe is about Carol, a woman struggling with her hollow existence as a wealthy suburban housewife. Although the movie, which was made in 1995, is set in 1987, there doesn't appear to be any significance to this. The central concern of the film is Carol's mysterious, possibly psychosomatic illness, which serves as a wonderfully ambiguous metaphor for her emotional and intellectual malaise; nobody, including Carol, can quite put her finger on what's wrong. She just knows that something isn't right.While best film of the decade is a fairly ludicrous pronouncement (does anyone really think Safe is better than, for example, Schindler's List?), the film is indeed a hauntingly beautiful portrait of spiritual bankruptcy in contemporary America. Despite this, I found that Safe was, perhaps intentionally, itself hollow at the core. It simply didn't have anything interesting to say about such a big, important topic. One could argue that it is not the job of the film to supply answers or even an easily-digestible plot, but the almost complete lack of narrative drive, dramatic tension, and penetrating insight ultimately left me cold, and quite honestly, bored stiff. By contrast, American Beauty (1999), a roughly contemporaneous film with a roughly similar subject, also has nothing to say, but at least does so in an entertaining, over-the-top style.The latter half of the film depicts Carol's experiences at a New Age retreat called Wrenwood, where she attempts to find the solutions to her problems. Unlike many viewers, I did not interpret Wrenwood as a cure that is worse than the disease. In fact, almost everything said by the guru Peter and his underlings is, as far as I can tell, consistent with widely-accepted, scientifically-validated ideas, such as Mindfulness. The exception is some of the more questionable statements about and practices surrounding chemicals and the immune system, but nothing remotely equivalent to psychological fascism, which is how one high profile review of Safe termed it.At any rate, the movie does seem to imply that life at Wrenwood for Carol is as empty as life in the suburbs, and her condition does not appear to improve. Particularly painful to watch, due in no small part to Julianne Moore's flawless performance, is a birthday scene at Wrenwood that serves as a climax of sorts. In that scene, Carol struggles to articulate the beliefs of the cabal, with the words as hollow as those in discussions with her vapid friends back in suburbia. The final shot in Safe, reminiscent of the final shot in The Graduate (1967), is a masterpiece of ambiguity, perhaps implying there is hope for Carol if she can find it within herself, but then again, maybe not.I can't help but notice the similarities of Carol's journey to that of the protagonist in Hermann Hesse's classic novel Siddhartha. The protagonist in the book feels empty, tries various means to fill the void, including materialism and organized religion, and eventually finds peace through the hard-won development of a very personal perspective on himself, his life, and his place in the universe. By analogy, the plot in Safe would be like the novel's plot if it followed the protagonist through his life until it simply stopped in the middle of another failed attempt at finding meaning. It's certainly a journey, and perhaps a realistic one. However, it would be deeply unsatisfying, and would make me question the value in even reading the book in the first place. That's how Safe felt to me. Perhaps there is great value is simply calling attention to the issues, depicting the toll it takes on a woman, and doing so with compassion, honesty, and artistic skill. On that level, Safe certainly succeeds. "},{"Title":"Lame story, brilliant director and star","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Beautifully written, directed and acted movie about a rich Los Angeles housewife going insane and blaming it on environmental toxins (sort of like the nuts nowadays who think their Teflon pans and plastic wrap are trying to kill them). Having found no doctor who can help her, Carol takes refuge in a creepy new-age cult in the desert - but instead of getting better she gets much worse.The story itself is pretty lame, but the extremely subtle and intelligent dialog, the absolutely perfect direction, editing and photography, and Julianne Moore's tight, brutal performance make it fascinating. I can understand why it won some obscure award as the best movie made during the 1990s, but it doesn't seem dated at all. I could easily believe it was released last year, and the fact that Moore has hardly aged at all in 20 years would back me up. "},{"Title":"Julianne Moore kept me engaged","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Carol White (Julianne Moore) is a wealthy housewife living an empty life in an affluent California suburb where the wrong colored couch being delivered is so very important. She's married to Greg (Xander Berkeley) with a stepson. She starts to suffer headaches. Her sickness gets more and more serious. People have differing opinions. The movie seems to indicate the everyday modern toxins. Her doctor (Steven Gilborn) sends her to a psychiatrist. An allergist finds that milk which she drinks constantly is a big trigger for her. She picks up a flyer from the community bulletin board and joins a group that blames it on modern chemicals. Peter Dunning (Peter Friedman) leads a chemical sensitive group living out in the middle of nowhere called Wrenwood.There is an overall haunting emptiness in the film. I do wonder what Todd Haynes is trying to say with this movie. It is Julianne Moore that keeps me intrigued. One thing that I didn't like is that Wrenwood has too many artificial things. It doesn't fit the concept. Also Does that makes sense? started to really annoyed me. I want the movie to do something but it somewhat peters out. It's more of a spiritual emptiness and a horror of the soul. I feel the same way about Wrenwood as the movie. Wrenwood is a bit cultish but it's not really hurting anyone. The movie is a bit odd but there's nothing obviously bad about it. "},{"Title":"austere, ambiguous, in many interesting ways","Date":"23 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Julianne Moore plays Carol, and Carol is not in the best way really. Something is... off. Oh, she lives very comfortably in the San Fernando Valley, with her husband and their son (well, his son, her step-son), in a house that is so wide and lush with placid colors and spacious rooms and she can go and do her work-outs and select colors for the sofas (wait, why is it black, it should be teal - drama), and have lunches with her friends where they try to get her to go on all-fruit diets to cleanse and... does she have any thoughts or identity of her own? Hard to say or see it. No passions really, no inner-self, but why should she need it, she has the home and husband and car and LA is so... ugly and dirty, and full of smog that makes her cough and gag relentlessly. Oh, and she has asthma, but that seems second-fiddle to what is really wrong her everything.Haynes makes Carol the lead in this story, about how she tries to become 'healthy' by joining a group, the Wrenwood, where she can join with other people also trying to find health and purity of some kind, and yet she is never really comfortable in being herself. Who is Carol? She is mostly defined, as we see in both Haynes' writing and direction, by other people, and also as by herself. For long periods in this film, Carol is off by herself, or other characters are seen in long-view, wide shots, where the loneliness and space is emphasized. Characters may be 'close' at times with one another, but even then there's a distance to people in the frame, and Carol has the distance constantly. Even by herself she's on the margins, and even if she doesn't mean it to be so (or especially if that's the case) she may 'need' these new people, but at what cost? We want her to get better, but it's not simply because she is the protagonist. She could be any woman, or even most men, lost in a kind of society where terms and status and a sense of self-worth aren't determined by what the individual wants. At the same time there is a pretty clear commentary on AIDS - I wasn't sure if Haynes was going to have anyone say it out loud, but it's present, and a character at the Wrenwood has AIDS - as far as what a person has to deal with when a disease that doesn't really have any clear-cut cure is prevalent. Surely the 'cyst' that Moore has in the latter part of the film - she gets sicker really, you see, on the outside as she says, or means to say, that she is getting 'better' - is meant to symbolize the lesions AIDS victims would get when the disease worsens.But Haynes doesn't make anything easy here, which makes it so fascinating and mesmerizing. Initially, it almost seems like it could be difficult to get into. Nothing is very much dramatized here, even when Carol passes out and has a seizure from a fumigation in a laundromat (maybe that comes closest, to be fair). Things happen at a slow pace, and the emotions conveyed are subtle, calm (I was reminded of the recent Foxcatcher overall, to give a recent comparison). But things build, and beneath the subtlety and nuance and every-day that Carol goes through the eerie sense of humanity is always there. And what's great is that nothing is so easily explained as 'oh, this is where it is'. There's a scene where Carol gets her hair done - is it too extreme, it's just a perm, the 80's after all - but right after it she gets a nose-bleed. Is it from the sickness? Is the room just dry? Could be anything. Nothing is so easily explained away except that, yes, she's sick. From what? The 20th century perhaps? Safe could be read as pretentious fodder for the malaise of contemporary culture (just typing that makes me feel 'ugh'). But Julianne Moore makes it so vivid and powerful because she holds back and makes Carol so fragile and desperate and delicate. In many moments I was worried she might crack, like some precious vase, but there's more to what Moore is doing here. She knows there are women like this in the world, defined by others, unsure, psychosomatic to a degree. So that by the time the ending comes, after all this time around what is essentially a cult - maybe a good cult, or maybe not, can a cult be anything but harmful, but is it really, these are questions I kept asking, it's so tricky - when she is staring at a mirror saying I love you over and over... it's heartbreaking, and raw, and kind of 'WTF' in a peculiar way. Safe is imperfect but in the best way an original. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Fantastic acting","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Seems like Todd Haynes is definitely a director with a certain skill for visualizing and really executing certain themes and ideas in ways that, if not entirely original, are surely very unique in their presentation. This film, like many have said, could really stand for a lot of different things (AIDS being the most obvious one) but it's definitely concerned with those types of ambiguities and metaphors that serve another type of resonance. The acting is fantastic, Moore actually giving one of the best performances from her entire career (shame it's such an underrated/underseen flick because I could see it having been a lot more popular). The film as a whole is very well developed. "},{"Title":"Todd Haynes' Big Film","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" An affluent and unexceptional homemaker (Julianne Moore) in the suburbs develops multiple chemical sensitivity.Although much of the film is not noteworthy for its cinematography beyond the coloring (lots of green), there is one scene that features the most terrifying process of getting a perm... almost as terrifying as Haynes' obsession with AIDS.Safe was voted the best film of the 1990s in the 1999 Village Voice Film Poll, though it does not seem to have gained the same reputation from general audiences. IMDb rates it a bit low, as does Rotten Tomatoes, and the awards overlooked the film. Jessica Harper appears as Joyce, and that makes the film worth seeing whether or not it has awards.At times the film seems like a subtle attack on Scientology, not unlike The Master... and yet, the film also seems sincere. Maybe there is something to be said about making life simple, avoiding chemicals, and other things... maybe. "},{"Title":"Julianne Moore worth watching Safe","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The marvellous Julianne Moore plays a woman who's married to a successful business man, they have a big house with a huge swimming-pool, she has a group of Barbie-friends, she goes to fitness classes... In short she's living a completely vane and superficial life. One day she begins to feel bad, she gets breathless for no reason, she faints... And here it comes (for me) the big question about Safe as I watched it I thought that Moore's character was going' through a personality crisis because of her meaningless life and that way she gets involved with sort of a New Age sect. But the final conclusion looks rather confusing it looks like Todd Haynes is really supporting that group of pseudo-hippies that brainwash anyone who gets involved with them. So, depending on the real meaning of the movie it is either a great criticism of the modern life style, the shopping centres, IKEA and stuff or a piece of dogmatic brainwashing trash.Anyway, it is a high quality movie that's been perfectly filmed and Julianne makes a hell of a performance.*My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"Even Brighton women get the blues","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Even Brighton women get the blues. Or, in this case, a rash &#150; Julianne Moore is Carol, a Los Angeleno housewife who becomes mysteriously ill when exposed to car fumes and dry cleaning chemicals. (She gets a nosebleed after a perm.) Safe (1995) divides in two &#150; the first half is a 'hollow life of the wealthy' picture. The damning details pile up for all the gleaming surfaces, we are encouraged to believe that Carol is desolate. We see her lying expressionless as her husband fucks her, grunting with satisfaction. Her daily routine consists of baby showers, lunch with friends and aerobics classes. She has a run-in with delivery men they arrive with a lounge suite in the wrong colour. She has a Latino maid to help maintain her big, barren house. In a little-girl voice, she tells her psychiatrist, I've been under a lot of stress lately. With its glum swathes of synthesiser, Todd Haynes does nothing to distance Safe from the way of life it surveys. The movie is almost ten years old. Haynes later collaborated with Moore on Far from Heaven (2002), another film where a woman is the victim of an affluent lifestyle. (Moore has cornered the market on miserable domesticity.) In Far from Heaven, Moore had a saving curiosity that led her to challenge the boundaries of her suburban existence. Carol does nothing. Haynes acts as though a bored, indulged housewife is a genuine object of pity. He has a fixation with his numb heroine &#150; Moore is in every scene, at the centre of the frame. If Carol was relied on for something &#150; if she had a job, or was not so well-off &#150; if she could not afford a disabling sensitivity to chemicals, there would at least be some dramatic tension. She is cosseted, given the best medical attention. We never really believe that she is at risk. With its chilly surface and immobile protagonist, Safe is dead on arrival.SPOILER ALERTCarol finally goes to Wrenwood, a health resort where she can flee the ill effects of chemicals. Here, the casting is exactly right. The staff at Wrenwood exude the sense of wellbeing common in born again Christians. Life here is all hugs and strummed guitars. There is something sinister beneath, however at Wrenwood, they believe that convalescents are responsible for their illness. (It is a variation on the Christian idea that God visits disease on humans as a judgment on their weakness.) In one scene, patients are asked to account for how their lifestyles made them ill. Feeling well is just a matter of loving yourself more. Haynes criticises this belief. In the last frame, a blotchy, perilously thin Carol stands at a mirror and mouths, I love you. The criticism seems somewhat inconsistent when Haynes uses her worsening condition as a symbol of a more general malaise. Why else give us all the lingering detail of her daily routine?  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, but disappointing","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In many ways, Safe could be considered a prequel to Todd Haynes' latest film, Far From Heaven.  Both movies star the amazing Julianne Moore, bringing out her radiance as an actress.  Each film also takes a critical look at different suburban social scenes for Safe, it's the San Fernando Valley in 1987, while in Far From Heaven it is fifties Connecticut.  Both films capture each period perfectly with gorgeous cinematography and other strategic artistic choices, but unfortunately, Safe falls short of the amazing Far From Heaven in so many other ways, that it disappoints viewers who have seen the newer film first.Yes, Moore is exquisite as a wealthy, suburban housewife struggling with an unknown ailment.  As always, she is subtle, hinting at emotions lying beneath her cold surface.  What else is remarkable is her ability to replicate panic without it seeming cheesy or overdone.  She gives a flawless performance.(Spoilers) Unfortunately, Haynes' script is what really leaves something to be desired.  It's just a little too mundane to be interesting, even with Moore's repeated flareups.  Too much time is spent building up Moore's illness without giving us a propper climatic moment.  In other words, the viewer's patience in the beginning is never rewarded.  The very end of the film will suffice for some viewers, but though I was touched by the ending, I still turned off the film wanting more.We do see in Safe a directorial vision that will later be reshaped into such wonderful films as The Velvet Goldmine and Far From Heaven.  The film has wonderful energy, It just simply never catches its breath.Rating  6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Depressing in a good way.","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Is there anything more depressing than the drudgery that accompanies suburbia? Todd Haynes does a brilliant job in portraying the sickeningly banal and dull life of this suburban housewife. She has nothing. This illness that seems to appear from nowhere is symbolic of an illness that is just beneath the skin of all of suburbian America!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent and deep movie! One of the best of all-time!","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am going to set the record straight for the movie Safe On a side note about the movie Safe by director Todd Haynes, it does not support or center around AIDS or homosexuality. I got a chance to talk to the director himself. Many people are off on criticizing the film for being slow, or confusing or they rate it more to the negative side for all the wrong reasons. Many do catch the movie where it counts, however. The background music, the message and the struggle that this lady endures in spite of her environment and others around her is extraordinary. Now I have seen mention a lot of the retreat that she attends as being cult, new age and descriptions of the people running it and some attendees being downright creepy losers. This is so much missing the movie's points and reasons, that they might as well be blind. This movie is deep, true and doesn't apologize for it, nor should it have to. Having opinions about something is fine if you really see the truth in what you are reviewing, and frankly many do not, so this movie is lost on them, and sadly so. I for one listen to what is commonly referred to as new age music which really has a lot less to do with anything new age than often the category suggests or is implied. The same goes for this movie, Safe. For example, on a music side of this, I also have spoken with William Ackerman, who originally founded Windham Hill music company, and he says people just don't understand the music when they are approaching it from an unjustified and unwarranted standpoint. The music is beautiful, deep, meaningful and life-changing. And that is what good music or a movie is supposed to be. That describes Safe perfectly, and the director will back that up. If you don't see it all, talk to Todd Haynes. "},{"Title":"Bizarre, disturbing - good performance by Moore","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had heard that this movie was pretty good, but did not know anything of what it was about. It has the atmosphere and music of a horror movie, but without a tangible monster. The movie's monster of course is the undefined environment. One of the things I liked is that the disease or ailment is never really pinned to one thing. Sometimes it seems psychological and other times physical. Julianne Moore really gives a believable performance of an afflicted person. The film could've strengthened supporting characters a little better. Sometimes other characters seemed kind of 2-D or plot device like - especially the husband. Their relationship has little vigor or vitality, how were they in love in the first place? There is little resolved either - almost as though a foreboding feeling of her continued problems. We know the problems are there, but how does she get through them; what is the resolution? Does the sterility of the environment make progress? These questions are sort of left...Nonetheless a good mystery....disquieting "},{"Title":"Powerful movie by an up-and-coming great director.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although I haven't seen Far From Heaven, I still can safely say on the evidence of this film that Todd Haynes is a great director.Julianne Moore plays a vacuous suburban housewife who gets sick by an unspecified disease. And actually that's all you need to know plot-wise. Moore is great because she plays an annoying character, but somehow you don't get turned of by her. Moore holds a firm grip on your attention. Haynes has shot this movie with a cool, subtle eye and he comments on many things in our society e.g. consumerism, suburbia, new age, therapy groups, etc. But he holds it together by keeping you at a distance. Hereby his critique on society isn't scatter-shot. See it! Whatever you think of it, it's still an unusual work containing a tour de force performance by one of the best actresses around. "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Safe is a little-known masterpiece from director Todd Haynes, who later directed Velvet Goldmine and the highly successful Far from Heaven.The film begins brilliantly, subtly evoking the underlying menace of everyday life that troubles the film's lead character, the self-professed homemaker Carol White, played in a performance of wonderful understatement by Julianne Moore. Carol eventually succumbs to what she diagnoses herself as environmental illness, a 20th Century disease much to the bemusement of conventional medicine and psychiatry.Many have said the film is too ambiguous to be effective, but the very strength of the film is the seemingly detached and neutral view Haynes takes. I say seemingly because I think the director has a view to express, but does it in a very subtle, abstract way. There are many clues in the film that suggest an authorial view, albeit subtly invoked. Safe wants us, as viewers and interpreters, to work through the film carefully rather than be presented with an all too obvious summation of how we should feel about Carol's predicament.When Carol enters a New Age/Christian haven called Wrenwood the film is less ambiguous in its critique of the hypocritical values that tie fundamentalist notions of disease to suffers such as Carole. Haynes does not much have time for Peter, Wrenwood's founder, who isolates himself in a big white house aloft a hill that looks upon Wrenwood and its confused inhabitants.The film is a highly demanding but ultimately satisfying study of the relation between identity and disease in late 80s America where AIDS was the dominant talking-point among conservatives and liberals alike. It's worth seeing for Haynes's superb direction and Moore's stunning performance. "},{"Title":"Top Ten","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This may be Haynes' last great film (Velvet Goldmine was AWFUL) but what a great film it is. It's on my all-time top ten, and I'm not the only one I thought I would mention this since it isn't on the awards page...Every ten years about 75 or so film critics get together for the legendary Village Voice and rate the top films of the decade. In the 80's, if memory serves, the number one film of the decade was voted to be Raging Bull (or was it Wings of Desire?). What was voted the number one film of the 90's?Safe. "},{"Title":"Burn Out?","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the greatest film I've seen for the past few years about the acceptance of oneself. I'm not sure the question is to know whether she has aids. As edorapetrafiesa perfectly said in lower discussion, she became to be allergic to the whole world. And even more to herself. I guess she couldn't stand the person her entourage asked her to become. Her lack of self confidence from a long time coming from former failed relationship (this is not her child implying that regarding her age, it's not her first husband neither) + her desire to control the least detail of her life and you have a perfect cocktail of burn out and depression. No doubt anyway this movie is about Aids and the way the illness was perceived in the eighties. A perfect mirror movie to understand why and how sometimes we locked ourselves into social plays and the consequences for those who don't master the rules (personnally I haven't ) "},{"Title":"Safe","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Todd Haynes's Safe is married to its era's increased awareness of plastic toxicity where the world had once embraced plastics as miraculous new wondersubstance, its environmental implications were at last coming to the forefront. There is tension, however, in the toxicity of plastic's chemical origins and the sterility promised in its final form overwhelmed by the omnipresence of invisible chemical fumes, protagonist Carol White finds refuge in a plastic oxygen mask. The irony of her reliance on plastics mirrors her relationship to larger systems of oppression in the film in escaping her claustrophobically prescriptive suburban life, she finds even greater claustrophobia and restriction on her anti-chemical reservation; she must strain herself to find the new environment any sort of improvement. The film offers a clever commentary on our relationship to the social systems above us, and comes recommended in spite of its occasional intentional dullness. &#x96;TK 11/11/10 "},{"Title":"Environmental Illness is Real","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie would be extremely disturbing to anyone with Environmental illness (EI). At the same time it is a unique example of the challenges one has to go through due to exposure to chemicals in everyday products.Specifics about the movie outcome are discussed in my comments. It was not uplifting, or entertaining. it was more of a documentary on the life of a person with Environmental Illness. I found it cathartic, yet validating, as well as empowering. It was a captivating horror story of the daily struggles that one with environmental illness faces. It didn't offer a happy ending, they did offer a sad solution, total avoidance by complete isolation.The characters voicing the thinking that if you just changed your attitude you could change your health portrayed the realistic cruel judgmental opinions that are put upon those of us faced with Environmental Illness or undiagnosed health issues. The portrayal of the isolation, self doubt, accusations by family & professionals that this is all of your own doing... are all experiences I've encountered as someone with EI. Thankfully Environmental Illness has been proved scientifically in recent medical studies and is no longer considered a psychosomatic illness. Our Veterans returning from combat with similar symptoms after exposures to chemicals are now diagnosed by medical physicians with Gulf War Syndrome or Environmental Illness. They are being treated with cutting edge detoxification treatments that would have been considered a bunch of hooey when this film originated. The movie truthfully portrayed the opinions of the general public who are ignorant of the plight of the environmentally ill. There will always be those who are uncomfortable being around anyone who is sick. Those people are the most dangerous, because they do not see how their everyday products can harm anyone and blatantly expose the known chemically sensitive person to these lethal products. Because of this her only solution was to isolate herself from all of the chemicals that were literally killing her. In order to do this she had to find a safe haven no matter what the opinion of any others co-habitants were. I found this film educational and helpful in motivating me personally to find another solution. A solution in the middle, somewhere between total isolation, and continued exposure, not believing others opinion that I was crazy, but having faith that our medical community just doesn't know yet what the cause was. It let me know I wasn't alone, yes, someone else was experiencing these real symptoms as scary as that was to watch. I've learned there is power in knowledge and this film helped me find a balance in my own life based on that knowledge. "},{"Title":"It is not the environment, it is the environment; it is not sick, it is undeveloped","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those few movies where the more you watch it and observe the smallest details, the more you begin to love it. I watched it two times, and after that had an eerie feeling that there's something in it, especially in the end. Carol blames her sickness on the environment, the fumes, the aerosols, etc, but it seems that this is not the real cause of her sickness; all of that is just an excuse! What really seems to get her sick is her social environment- all those daily futile activities she's engaged in; the lack of personal development; the pressure by her friends and husband. Carol is pressured, for example, to start a fruit diet, or to go to a highly fake and disgustingly-sweet baby shower, or to stay inside the house at night (when she wandered in the garden at night that immediately was a cause for a police question and for her husband's worry.) Her husband seems to be concerned for her, but in reality he seems to make her sick more than anyone else (both the vomiting and the oblivion scenes occur with his presence). What Carol seems to need is a safe place, but not something like her house- instead, a place of her own without any social obligations, fake words or routine chores. It was noticed by many that Carol is childlike, and more so- an undeveloped child, a fetus, a prematurely born creature. She indeed can be compared to a child who got born too soon and needs special oxygen to help him breathe, and milk for food, and extra care, and who is very very fragile. In the end Carol seems to go to a truly Safe place, an egg-shaped dome, a womb of sorts, an incubator, where she can be left to develop further and finally to progress from a helpless fetus stage to a whole person stage... therefore, I think the ending scene is meant to signify hope and real cure just about to start... "}{"Title":"best","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It takes a while to sink in.Once infected, you can't get it out of your system.Todd Haynes has made the finest post-industrial suburban suspense thriller. Ever. Period. "},{"Title":"Excellent, moving and thought-provoking movie","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie through a digital cable service and was immediately captivated by the music and the cinematography which painted the movie well to start with. I do not watch a movie because of how famous or good the actor is, but how well it is produced which in turn moves me, and which I can relate and connect to. The character of Carol is so much like me and what I went through in my life and past. I have spoken with the director in detail concerning this movie and I can tell you that unfortunately most descriptions or comments about this movie on this message board were off, not entirely correct or just plain ignorantly rude. The person who said you either get this movie or you don't had it exactly right. You need to have an open mind and heart while watching this presentation and really feel and connect with what is being shown and said. There were comments about Wrenwood being new age on this message board and elsewhere in other places out there, and yet that is not even mentioned anywhere in the movie. The label of new age is a misnomer as everything that is said can be compared to passages in the Bible as well. I see so much struggle with that term but we are living, and have been living in an age for a very long time of so many things going on and we need to learn that everything we do see and feel comes first from the inside. That is how faith, the spiritual and love work and healing happens from all of that. This movie is so profound and deep, and I never stop for a moment watching it. To those who say it is slow in some parts, this movie is made exactly the way it was supposed to be, flawless in every way. It is not meant to entertain, but to enlighten and to educate and to help others who have faced so much in life like Carol, and who have often been misunderstood, rejected and left alone. Always watch a movie like this through the eyes of love and depth. This is what the director meant by the safe place and seeing the bigger picture. I applaud the director for the bold and deep creation of this movie. "},{"Title":"Elements stunning. Others possibly stale?","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For some unknown reason it has taken me 6 years to finally see this film. It's been on my list for awhile but I never managed to see it. It's true, I did have some apprehensions that it would be preachy or too PC. I also had some trepidation about seeing a depiction of spiralling illness.After seeing it I'm stunned at the impression made by Julianne Moore. She's convincing as she conveys her disbelief in the fact that she's getting sicker every day from her new furniture and other seemingly innocuous elements in her environment. I felt her dismay as well.I do believe that, inasmuch as war films never truly convey the range of emotions experienced by combatants, Safe, despite noble efforts, will never convey the feelings of those battling a life sucking illness.Safe succeeds in elevating the collective consciousness around debilitating illness. It's a well put-together film. I do have one or two reservations but others have attended to them in polite and ignorant manners. "},{"Title":"A bizarre look at a society drowning in chemicals.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Safe gives us a good reason why we see all of those This is a smoke-free, scent-free, meat-free household signs across the Bay Area.I admit that I don't live a chemically-free, vegan lifestyle; however, I appreciate how this film portrays a polluted world and this woman's slow response to it. What are pesticides and additives really doing to human biology? Carol White is forced to answer this question whether her friends and family understand it or not, even if it leads her to what could best be described as a purification cult.If you happen to be a strident vegan who posts signs like the one I mention or are simply prone to allergy attacks, your concerns will totally be validated by this provocative movie. "},{"Title":"Safe, but dead?","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A strange and vague film which reaches no obvious conclusion, Safe will not set many pulses running. It's technically interesting, with a measured tempo, strange camera angles and a telling lack of close-ups during the first half. Furthermore, the actors perform like brain-washed zombies; noticeably in the birthday-party scene straight out of Stepford wives-territory.Personally, I think the world's reaction to the threat of AIDS is the veiled theme of the movie, even if the disease isn't mentioned more than in passing. Safe seems to say that we can't hide from the horrors of the world, not even AIDS, unless we are willing to give up our humanity and replace it with a sterile, vapid cocoon-like existence.Still, Safe could have used some more (oh, I hate myself..) action, though, couldn't it? It's all pretty lethargic. "},{"Title":"Safe at Home with herself","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A quiet, disturbing horror story of Carol White a meek, uninteresting housewife, Julianne Moore as Carol White living a mundane existence in a safe community of banality.Safe with its horror-film music on the soundtrack and long slow takes of our heroine becoming slowly overcome by the unseen forces of the world stands as post-modern comment on religion-deplete society.Weightier is the fact that our infected lead character is a woman who holds the possibility of birth, is a masterstroke of Todd Haynes excellent story.The people in the film don't live in a God-ruled world; the real forces at work are the consumers, and the pockets of alternate social groups that exert communal power.A woman of the earth, we meet Carol White first by hearing her sneeze as she gets out of the car - her name echoes the blood, (symbolic of the 'white' blood cells?).Made in 1995 and coming in at 121 minutes the feature is a slippery revisionist take on the paranoia thriller. What is Carol's problem? With her husband, she seems uninvolved beneath him as he has sex with her. She seems disconnected with her friends at lunch and at her aerobics class, she is out of synch with her husband's friends at dinner.She seems most alive in natural environments- we see her in the garden happy and alive, and later when she is beginning to get ill we see her escape at night to the garden.When she enters into the church of New Age Health run by Peter Friedman's character Peter Dunning, she spends most of her time in natural scenes where trees and grass replace the automobiles and shopping centers of Los Angeles.If there was ever a film that cried out for Man to return to Nature it is this one, with its heroine Carol consistently drinking the white milk of nourishment.Her very name proclaims that she is a character of pure substance- Carol White even later in the film has her hair permed and retains a halo of ringlets, but is still so out of synch with her society that she interacts even less with her husband and son.The only real family she can produce is the rag-tag tribe of health nuts who retreat from society to live in the wilderness, and seek a cure from within themselves.Their leader asks them in groups to claim that their sickness is a result of emotions inside them, thus countering what medical experts claim to be able to achieve.Although Carol's doctor did find an allergy to something, this small discovery does not do much to change Carol's mood- she is not a part of the society she lives in with her husband.Later when Carol is writing a letter to Wrenwood, a sanatorium for un-healthy folks, her husband walks in and she breaks down crying asking him where is she. This is the center of the film with this character confronted by her isolation form the society she lives in.The features on the DVD offers commentary from director Todd Haynes, and Julienne Moore about how they structured the story and particularly how they funded the film, a particularly interesting thing for struggling film-makers given that Safe was made for under a million dollars.The film is an allegory, a haunted-house tale, in which the haunted house is the chemical-laden world we live in and the ghosts are in the food we eat, and the soap we wash with, and the air we breathe, and even the material we use to construct our world.It is also obliquely a statement about AIDS. The unknown disease that grows and has no cure, only a treatment is balanced with the unknown ills those Carol White experiences. The film really offers no solution however.Carol's only friend at the retreat Chris, is a gay man played by James Le Gros, and the role is played for bitter-sweet humor successfully to add balance to the serious mystery of Carol White.James LeGros plays a valuable role as Chris. His character's name proclaims the Christ figure as an ironic commentary that the traditional elements of religious faith have been reduced to an ineffectual feminized boyfriend? A moment of pure pith comes during the kitchen activities with Carol and Chris. While making pasta he tells the story of his friend who gets depressed every time he walks into a Mall, so they referred to him as Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Formaldehyde.A funny story but a simple echoing of the main theme in the film. Carol and Chris- their name together sounds like a religious prayer.In a final moment of self-reflection Carol enters her new igloo-like home in the wilderness of Wrenwood and slowly states to her face in the mirror I love you.The film asks us to return to our own selves to begin the healing process, whatever that healing need is.If for instance the answer to AIDS is like the answer to the mysterious disease that Carol has, is it right to move out of society? The film seems to say yes, as if the healing process will come from a like-minded community.The film garnered a number of awards. Nominated in 1995 for the Independent Spirit Award Best Actress - Julianne Moore; Best Director, Best Picture, and Best Screenplay - Todd Haynes.The movie is scary and disturbing to anyone who has even felt that they were reacting to toxic elements, where it was smoke or food. I have returned to is many times to look over the perfs and listen to the commentary from director, actress, and producer- it's valuable to anyone interested in chemical toxicity, independent film-making or fine acting. "},{"Title":"New age Enviro Propaganda BS film","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I actually had to cringe when I checked Contains Spoilers because there is nothing that I or anyone else can spoil. This film starts nowhere, goes nowhere, and ends nowhere.Apparently the only reason for its existence is to warn people that evil 20th century technology will kill us. Never mind that raw nature likely will kill you much sooner. Never mind that pollen, plants and dust from the ground can do you more harm than any alleged fumes from new furniture. Never mind that power line EM fields have been proved harmless.As to the cult, I'm left wondering what the point is. Was he for or against new age pop psychology BS? I don't know and please don't bother telling me.The only similar movies to this one that I've had the misfortune to see were Left Behind I and II. Equally terrible acting, equally wooden characters, equally bad script and direction.If you want to kill a few brain cells, go ahead and see this stinker or better yet, why not go on an all-night drinking binge at least that would be more fun. "},{"Title":"I'm amazed I managed to stay awake...","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unbelievably slow, and uninteresting. A really lengthy, drawn out, overly dramatized story about a meek housewife who becomes allergic to her environment. She then goes to a retreat to seek alternative help after her friends, family and doctors cant find anything wrong with her. In the end she eventually find comfort and learns to love herself. However she doesn't get better from this illness and even after going to the retreat she still can't distinguish whether its psychological or actually physical even though everyone there pretty much admits to it being psychological. I cant believe I wasted a couple hours of my life watching a movie about a hypochondriac. I'm honestly insulted anyone would dare make a movie so bad and play it off as a movie of the soul. No... its really boring useless movie of crap. "},{"Title":"A movie that makes people dumber","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't mean that the movie makes the people dumber because of misinformation or anything like that; it's because of the brain rot that occurs from sitting through the movie. The pointless meandering, the random subplots, and the pathetically thin two-dimensional characters will cause the death of at least a few braincells. It's almost as if a child was afraid of getting sick and started writing a story that they just got too bored with to bother putting in an ending or draw any correlation between all the events that took place in the movie. Julianne Moore, a great actress, gives a flat performance at best. Oh, I'm a pathetic little sick housewife who goes to aerobics and hasn't had an original thought in my life. Not a lot of room for depth there! The cult leader is the most interesting character of the lot - but that just ends up as a big, Huh? like everything else in the movie. There was a fleeting moment where the whole cult theme, playing with people's minds to make money was about to get interesting. Apparently, everyone had to break for lunch before they could actually make it interesting. I suppose one could say that the movie makes you use your imagination - this makes sense, because no one involved with the movie used their imagination - someone should. "},{"Title":"Insomniac?  Take a huge dose of this movie.","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Safe, Drama (reportedly Horror, but trust me--it's not)Don't ask me why, but I found this movie listed under the Horror/Science Fiction heading on my cable TV's On Demand menu. It's really neither. And, kind of a let-down.Well then, this movie revolves v-e-r-y s-l-o-w-l-y around Julianne Moore as a woman who appears depressed. Then it appears that she's just got some sort of bizarre chemical allergy. As in, she's allergic to everything. Or rather, she's allergic to the 20th Century. See, this movie takes place in the 80's when, apparently, smog and chemical pollutants were at their most abundant. Or something. Eventually, she ends up on a compound that gives off that secretive cult vibe and... well... Okay, that's all that happens. Let get on with this shall we?Here's the breakdownThe Good--Well... I would have to say, the story concept of a person allergic to the 20th Century is kind of a neat idea... but...Didn't Hurt It, Didn't Help--The acting is average. It's so slow and plodding that, really, there's nothing to it. The characters, for the most part, almost totally lack emotion and feel very distant. The movie is so slow that, at least for me, I couldn't really get into them.--Fairly interesting music--but not enough to help along the pace of this movie.--Fairly interesting sets, though, somewhat standard 80's yuppie designs.--Interesting cinematography, extensive use of long shots.The Bad--Very, very, very, very tedious. I mean, this has got to be the slowest movie I've seen... probably ever. I thought Fear X was an obnoxiously dull film. I think this may have topped it. I mean, it was way slower. I found myself losing attention almost constantly and my attention focused to bookselves or the cat or the aquarium in which our lizards live as I tried to pick them out from the giant green plastic plant they have to hide around. You see where I'm getting with this? Those lizards are 10 feet away and 3 inches long--I was more interested in picking them out from that distance than watching this movie.--Barely any plot at all. Just a monotonous story about a woman going from normal rich people life to eventually ending up in something like the Vegan Commune From Hell. Between the beginning and the end of the movie, almost nothing interesting happens.--The characters were really dull. Now, if you're going to make a long boring movie where nothing happens, why compound the problem by making some of the slowest, dullest, most insipid characters on the planet?--The founder of the creepy sick-people compound lives in a huge mansion. Why? Is he crooked? Is he secretly rich? Is he using all these sick people for personal gain? The movie didn't feel like exploring that route, so apparently, that crap doesn't matter.--Lots of scenes of Julianne Moore doing the following Looking sad, Looking depressed, Looking placid, Crying, Weeping, or having an allergic reaction to chemicals of the 20th Century.--Nary an entertaining moment in the entire movie. If I sat on an uncomfortable, rusty folding chair ten inches away from a wall, on which paint is drying while I fiercely study it, with someone dumping poisonous snakes and spiders on me, I'd be more entertained than I was with this film. Unless there is a television nearby playing this movie. Then I'd just be aggravated and, quite likely, lose the will to fight for survival against the poisonous hordes of creatures dumped on me.The Ugly--This movie is 2 hours long.--Unsatisfying ending.Memorable Scene--The opening scene is Julianne Moore looking placid while her husband fvcks her. It all went downhill from there.Acting 7/10 Story 2/10 Atmosphere 3/10 Cinematography 6/10 Character Development 3/10 Special Effects/Make-up 0/10 Nudity/Sexuality 1/10 (Just that one sex scene that shows nothing) Violence/Gore 0/10 Dialogue 3/10 Music 2/10 Direction 2/10 Cheesiness 0/10 Crappiness 8/10 Overall 2/10 I settled on a 2/10 because, well, I don't give zeros, and this movie had an interesting idea at the very least. But, hell, I just can't recommend it. It's mind-numbingly boring and way too long. Normally, I love two-hour long movies. Or even three hours. So long as the movie doesn't FEEL that damn long. This felt like it was about 4 hours long, and terribly uninteresting.www.ResidentHazard.com "}{"Title":"A genuine masterpiece, and the most important work of modern American cinema along with Jarmusch's ''Dead Man''.","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the most important figures of modern independent American cinema, Todd Haynes is widely known mostly for his music-based projects ( ''Velvet Goldmine'', ''I'm not there'', ''Superstar  the Karen Carpenter story'' and the videoclip for Sonic Youth's ''Disappearer'' ). But it's 1995's ''Safe'' that, although not related to music ( except for the amazing soundtrack ), stands out as his greatest work by far - and that is because it proves once more something that seems paradox at first glance  that the most ''anti-American'' culture that we've known so far, is the American culture itself.Carol White ( Julianne Moore in the greatest moment of her multifarious career ) is a bourgeois housewife that leads a peaceful and safe ( motif that obviously repeats itself several times throughout the film ) life with her husband and her adopted son in their luxurious house. Her daily routine is limited to aerobic classes, choosing the right color for the new sofa and having healthy meals with the rest of the good housewives - her friends. While the story unfolds she goes through some crises that look like epileptic and she starts believing more and more that its due to the effects of the environmental disaster, like the infected air she breathes in the city, or the chemical products she consumes on daily basis - and that's enough with the synopsis cause I already gave away a lot.Judging from all the above, someone would imagine that this is just a film with eco-friendly messages and indeed, this is the impression that the viewer gets around halfway through the film. Sure, the emotional emptiness of her family routine and her materialistic way of life has been made clear so far, but until then her emotional crisis doesn't seem to connect to the environmental crisis in any convincing way. The viewer is trying to connect the pieces, completely unsuspected about what's coming up next - and be sure that it's going to shake and flutter you like few other movies do.The ideology that dominates the world right now, not only in the US of course but globally, has too many aspects and the environmental crisis is only a small part of its effects in the social life - also in the film, it's going to be proved that the ecological extension is just an excuse. What really matters here is the basis upon which this ideology is build, meaning everything that feeds it and promotes on a daily basis ''from below''  the path of individualism and family alienation from society create the need for safety from everything that threats to shake the peaceful life of the proud ''civilian'' - and that's exactly what Carol is. A low-profile, exemplary, law-abiding citizen that minds her own business and that once in a while ''breaks'' the routine by drinking tea with lemon at her friends' or trying a perm for a change. However, she's completely helpless fulfilling her need for emotional contact and, in what seems a huge step for her from what we've known so far, she decides to change her way of life drastically. Convinced that the root of all her problems is the exhaust gas of the big city, she cages herself in an even more limited environment, a strictly closed society that promises peace and serenity to her. ''We are safe, and all is well in our world'' teaches the new ''alternative'' mentor and he warns her that she is the sole responsible for everything that spoils her peace - and that is because ''she doesn't love herself too much''. Carol is willing to believe anything to find a cure, but her new cage is as deadlock as the previous one, only this time human contact is restricted by rules. The shockingly ironic last scene still haunts me every time I walk alone in the dark. "},{"Title":"Woman is fading away, but what's the cause?","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Carol, a Southern California housewife, is stricken by an undefined and unknown illness. Life seems to be draining out of her, she's becoming passive. She goes to a retreat in the countryside for people who believe they're suffering from environmental illness led by a guru who's just full of homey New Age psychobabble. It's like a summer camp for adults, but they don't seem to be having very much fun. The other patients seem equally wan and passive as Carol. They hang on the guru's every word. I haven't been to such a retreat myself but the filmic rendering seemed authentic to me. Carol feels better, for a week or so, then a car goes by on a road nearby and she runs in terror trying to find safety from the fumes, or whatever it is she thinks is effecting her.I have known people who suffered from environmental illness. Everything and nothing in particular seemed to be poisoning their systems, and their symptoms were equally diffuse and unspecific. The ones I knew did not look to be really suffering, but instead appeared to rather enjoy the distinction that their unique and trendy illness gave them, though they constantly complained about unnamed chemicals that were attacking them. Perhaps it was civilization itself that they feared and which they ultimately blamed as their abuser.The film is straightforward in its telling Carol's story. It reports what is going on but does not take a position. Is this all in their heads? Is the environmental illness a placeholder for a severe and chronic malaise with civilization in general, or Southern California living in particular? Are they just a bunch of narcissists who can only get attention by being ill? Are they physically super sensitive to their environment? The movie doesn't try to answer any of these questions, and that's a cop-out. The film has been praised by other reviewers for this ambiguity but for me that is a major drawback. Is the film maker saying that they all share a common delusion? In that case the material would make a good satire. In any event, this movie is a downer--the patients appear to be caught in a self-created purgatory where there is little hope of escape. It is very boring to watch life slipping away from them without any logical explanation. In a documentary this lack of explanation would be acceptable, but because it's fiction it is dramatically unsatisfying. Here's the spoiler so you won't have to suffer through 2 hours of nothing Carol doesn't get better. She is offered a tiny igloo of a house; presumably inside its cramped confines she is more protected from the toxins in the environment. She has retreated to a sort of womb or tomb. Essentially her life is over. This film may be considered to be artistic achievement, but it is like watching a slow-motion train wreck. It would be sad, but it's hard to feel sympathy for the pale, passive, dimwitted Carol. Safe may be successful in showing the lives of people afflicted with 'environmental illness' but it offers us no illumination on the subject and only leaves us feeling depressed. "},{"Title":"Go Lester!!!","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What to make of this movie? Honestly, I don't know. Let me start by mentioning the most annoying parts about this movie. First of all, it's not fun to watch J. Moore have really bad sex. Furthermore, I do not find it entertaining to watch Moore get the wrong couch, call to complain, show up at the office, and finally getting a new one. You don't have to use friggin' 30 min to tell that tale!! This movie dwelled a bit too much on uninteresting points, and I have had more fun watching my nosehairs grow!! And I don't know why they called it a f*******ing  thriller!!? The most remotely scary part was a guy named Lester with a really creepy walk seen in the background!! That dude was kind of funny but I suspect that it was only because the movie had fried my braincells at that point and my state of mind had reached a suicidal stage in my life!!! It's a movie about a goddamn flu, for God's sake!!! Did it even have a point!!!???       "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is probably the worst movie I have ever seen and I have seen a lot of bad movies. But even most bad movies have some sort of plot. Nothing happens in this movie. NOTHING. Julianne Moore's character suffers from environmental sickness so she goes to some freaky commune and hangs out with a bunch of wackos. That's it. There is no conclusion. It's like Todd Haynes ran out of film and just said screw it and left it there. You gain nothing by watching this movie. The cinematography isn't even done well. It's really a shame because Todd Haynes is actually talented. Please don't waste your time. Everyone I know who has seen this movie is angry that it wasted two hours of their lives. "},{"Title":"A weak plot dragged over two hours","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie revolves around us watch Julianne Moore cough and mope around for two hours with a mysterious illness. If we're classing it as a horror  I know I'd be scared to sit through it again, but only because it's a bad movie.The main character in question (Carol White played by Julianne Moore) finds out that she has an illness. First headaches and coughs then nosebleeds and vomiting. It builds up to having a fit at one point (which I may add is the high point in the film). The dark side in you is waiting for someone to die, waiting for the government cover-up, a serious epidemic, something stimulating at all but it never materialises.We don't even find out what she's allergic to in the end! The suggestion is that she's allergic to the Twentieth Century. Well, this is just ridiculous! It's hard to relate to this character at all, you can feel sorry for her on a level but it doesn't make for a good story line at all.The direction may be good but to me it can't save the film from being one of the most unentertaining and dull films I've ever seen. I feel sorry to say that considering I like a number of Film Four releases but it is. I can applaud a film like Traffic for it's cinematography, it's direction and some good performances from the star-studded line-up but the story there is interesting. It's not really an exciting film to watch and if you thought it might be you'd be let down. Can't appreciate Safe for the same kind of values really. "},{"Title":"A Bizarre Film","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" !!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!The TV Guide described this movie as  A dark drama  while the TV page in the newspaper described it as  A thriller  and in the plot summary on this page director Todd Haynes describes it as  A horror movie of the soul  . I wouldn't class SAFE as any of those things ( Though  A dark drama  probably comes closest ) and when you've got so many people debating what type of movie it is then this can only be seen as a failure of sorts Julianne Moore plays Carol White , a home maker who is married to a rich man and who lives in a very nice big house in California , and perhaps a woman who has it all apart from a good sex life ( A sex scene opens the movie and boy does Carol look bored ) but as the story progresses Carol becomes more and more sicker and the doctors don't know what's wrong with her The serious problemwith the story - And it's a serious problem - is that the audience are expecting something to happen along the lines of Carol's husband is giving her poison so he can elope with a mistress but halfway through the story it's revealed Carol is allergic to the 21st century via chemicals etc . This is a real though thankfully rare condition so don't scoff but we still have to endure another hour of running time and the audience are still waiting for the story to take a turn . I was thinking that when Carol reaches the new age commune the guru in charge is revealed to be a Mr Kurtz type maniac from THE HEART OF DARKNESS and at one one point this is suggested but then the story just ends and the audience are left puzzled as to what the story is about SAFE was written and directed by Todd Haynes and I've pointed out his failings as a writer with this film but I also have a problem with his directing - It looks like he's almost trying to parody the work of Stanley Kubrick . Much of his camera work involves static long shots which means for a movie lasting almost two hours it feels considerably longer , much too long to hold my attention . He does deserve some credit for getting a good performance out of Moore but when have you ever seen her give a bad one ? and at the end of the day SAFE literally feels like an overproduced disease of the week TVM "},{"Title":"A Weird Movie, With a Great Performance of Julianne Moore","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Carol White (Julianne Moore) is a woman living in a wonderful house, apparently wealth and well married with Greg (Xander Berkeley). She has a stepson and spends her time decorating the house, in the gym classes or with her friends. Apparently without any reason, she becomes ill, although all the exams show her in a perfect shape. She goes to the family doctor, to the psychiatrist and finally moves to a commune clinic, managed by a man with Aids. There she realizes that she has a sort of `environmental disease' and she apparently feels safe. This weird film has a very positive point another great performance of Julianne Moore. It is amazing the capacity of acting of this actress she can be evil, like in `The Ideal Husband', a strong FBI agent, like in `Hannibal' or a fragile housewife, like in this `Safe'. This unconventional, very slow and too long movie is at least intriguing. The `clinic' seems to be escaped from `Billy Jack' or other movie from the 1970´s. The last part of the story, when Carol joins the `clinic', is boring and disappointing. This movie also offers the opportunity of seeing Jessica Harper, the star of Brian De Palma's `Phantom of Paradise', with a minor participation as Joyce, a patient in the clinic. My vote is five. "},{"Title":"Cynical and Dishonest","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I try to see the good in all films. If a film director is honest and his motivations sincere and he has attempted to entertain or to challenge, I will give him/her the benefit of the doubt. There are a few exceptions, however. Some films I have a visceral dislike for because I feel that the director is either promoting an agenda, or simply being dishonest in presenting the material. One film that falls into this category is Safe by Todd Haynes. The film was made in 1995 and has received a great deal of praise.Safe features an outstanding performance by Julianne Moore, and does well to express the sense of unease and dislocation that many people experience in the modern urban world. The movie begins with Moore's character, Carol, coming into an awareness of the emptiness of her life. At a dinner party scene early in the film we see that behind the laughter and amiable conversation surrounding her, Carol feels isolated and afraid. She has little sense of who she or of what is meaningful to her. She finds herself coughing and experiencing sudden fits of dizziness and nausea and we are meant to wonder what is wrong. The question is compelling; at one point it is suggested that Carol is simply allergic to the 20th century. Unfortunately the film really slips up when Haynes takes us to Act Two.Carol abandons her home and family and takes refuge in the chemical-free zone of Wrenwood, a healing facility out in the desert. She wants to retreat from the whole world. Wrenwood is presented as a New Age cult, run by the slick Peter Dunning (Peter Friedman) who is infected with AIDS. In the words of reviewer Steven Shaviro, He (Peter) encourages Carol to look inward, into herself. Her selfhood is as carefully nourished in Wrenwood as it was denied at home. You yourself are responsible for your illness, Peter tells her. If you got sick, it's because on some level you chose to. If you want to get well, shut your eyes and ears to everything from outside. Purge away those negative feelings, and give yourself to love. Learn to cherish and love yourself, and everything will be fine. However, Carol does not progress but gets worse. She loses all sense of her identity, and at the end of the film is as lost regarding her sickness as at the beginning.The problem I have with the film is not so much that Wrenwood fails to help Carol, or even that the group is portrayed negatively. What I object to is the casual way that Haynes recycles the worst cliches and falsehoods regarding self-help movements, and to my mind, est in particular. Peter Dunning is portrayed as a slick phony, praying on people's insecurities with a combination of charisma and empty pieties. It follows that Wrenwood's participants are dupes, brainwashed, taken advantage of. In my personal experience, the goal of these programs was to transform people so that they could experience themselves and the people around them fully, with love and with joy. The fact that over a million people participated in est and in similar movements attests to the fact that, in the main, people got value from them and shared it with people they cared about.Because Haynes uses ideas that have a direct basis in reality, there is a burden to be honest about what these movements stood for and practiced. Yet, Haynes' approach is cynical and fundamentally dishonest. The truth is that no one in any of the self-help programs I was familiar with ever told anyone anything such as Peter tells Carol. Many came to similar conclusions but only through looking inward and discovering the truth for themselves.Haynes failure in portraying the group at Wrenwood is problematic not only ethically, but finally, and perhaps most important, dramatically. Watching this section of the film, one senses that Haynes is not truly invested in the journey of his protagonist; rather, he is leading Carol around like a puppet through events contrived to enforce his own attitude toward self-help groups. The action falls flat, as the film becomes nothing more than a moody demonstration of cliched and profoundly false assumptions. A serious issue such as the one Haynes has developed in the beginning of the film demands a serious exploration. Safe never follows through on its intriguing premise. "},{"Title":"A film of two halves - one fascinating, one dull.","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Safe' is an interesting movie - up to a point. The first half concerns an affluent (and vapid) Californian homemaker, expertly played by Julianne Moore ('Short Cuts', 'Boogie Nights') who finds herself affected by a mysterious illness which appears to see her allergic to just about everything in her environment. These sequences are compelling, fascinating and frightening. Moore gives one of her most accomplished performances to date, and the underrated Xander Berkeley ('Terminator 2', 'Heat') is excellent as her concerned but distant husband. All's well and good, so far an excellent movie. Then the narrative shifts to Moore's involvement with a support group cum cult located in a remote desert location. Cue some New Age bashing. Nothing wrong with that, mind you, but the movie becomes much more conventional and less involving by the minute. By the time the James LeGros (another underrated character actor - 'Drugstore Cowboy', 'Floundering',etc.) character is introduced as a possible love interest(? Hard to see any other reason for the character) I had lost all interesting in Moore's fate. Watching this movie is therefore quite a frustrating experience. Todd Haynes next went on to make the messy and self indulgent 'Velvet Goldmine', another movie with some good ideas that fell apart way before the end. Perhaps he needs the help of a co-writer, because with a little more focus 'Safe' had the potential to be a modern classic. As it stands it is flawed and ultimately unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"Too slow for words","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was possibly one of the least interesting movies I've seen in a long time, if ever. I'm normally a big fan of Julianne Moore's, but her acting was a sincere disappointment in this yawn-fest. The lighting was insufficient, dialogue insipid, and the pace incredibly, horrifically slow. It's bad enough that nothing interesting happened -- it took FOREVER for it to not happen!When I rented this film, it was labeled a 'dark comedy.' The only thing I found comedic about it was that somebody actually wrote this script and thought they were on to something. That somebody else thought it was good enough to produce, to star in, to bother with at all. I would have laughed at the thought that somebody somewhere probably laid out the full price of admission to see it, but it just made me sad to think about.There was no emotion, no drama, no interest at all. It was a nothing film about a nothing woman who dreams up some allergies to make her NOT interesting life interesting. Might work in life, but it sure didn't work in this movie.This movie didn't even fall into the 'bad enough to be good' category. Instead of wasting money even renting this flick, why not stay home and stare at the wall? It'll be equally as entertaining, easier, and free. "}{"Title":"complete waste of time","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you want to waste 2 hours of your life, then go see this film.  the first hour there is no objective to the movie other to show that the main character leads a typical suburban life.  They couldve done this in about 10 minutes, but i guess the director wanted to bore the audience.anyway...i think i'd rather watch a pauly shore movie- its that bad.sorry....bye bye!   "},{"Title":"Lifetime Television for Women","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yet another movie that should only be shown on Lifetime Television for Women. A woman in distress has to seek out some sort of healing because she cannot live in the modern world with al of its toxins. Julianne Moore, although not a household name in 1995, is a better actress than to portray a feckless and helpless ditz who trundles through life with all the grace of a dodo bird. Certainly there was a better role for her take on that year and this train wreck.The only message that I got from this movie was to turn it off--but I ignored the message and ended up sitting through it, watching one lame duck after another complain about self-healing and environmental stress. Geez, it was about as interesting as the E! True Hollywood Story on Tori Spelling.Do yourself a favor and skip this clunker. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oh, what a painfully pointless movie!  Don't rent it to watch at home(though if you're in a theatre you may feel more obliged to watch the whole thing). It took enormous discipline to watch the first half ... then I started matching my socks, paid a few bills etc etc etc.  Eventually the film just became annoying.  I didn't watch it to the end and I'm quite sure I didn't miss a thing. "},{"Title":"I want my time back","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film contains virtually no conflict and it provides no resolution for what passes for conflict. I want my time back. What might have been interesting drama, or at least an interesting exploration of a person or a subculture was instead a slow plodding descent into nowhere. My step children through things at me when the credits rolled. I felt I must warn people against seeing this movie. I'm having a hard time commenting on the plot since it lacked one, but here goes An unhappy housewife gets sick for no apparent reason leaves her husband and child to join a cult of random people who believe that the only way they can be well is to live in isolation away from modern civilization, but even this does not make them well or happy. It certainly does not make them sane. "},{"Title":"Intriguing, but ultimately self-important...","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wife and mother Julianne Moore, living in affluent area of California's San Fernando Valley, starts ailing one day and can't seem to improve. Patchy, anemic picture is initially intriguing, targeting the toxins in our environment, but soon gets caught up in preachiness and melodrama. Some see the film as a dark comedy, others as an AIDS-era document of our times, but there's too much hand-wringing and brow-beating in the mix for it to be enlightening or surprising. Moore (doing a Julie Hagerty impersonation) is too smart to passed off as a ditz, although some of the supporting performances are solid (particularly Peter Friedman as the leader of an awareness group). Muddled movie attempts a Social Statement; abandon hope about midway through. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Safe","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had heard the title and seen the poster for this poster a few times, and I knew the leading actress and that it featured in the 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die book, so I had to see it, from director Todd Haynes (Far from Heaven, I'm Not There.). Basically, set in 1987 in a prosperous neighbourhood of the San Fernando Valley, homemaker Carol White (Julianne Moore) has a seemingly unremarkable life, but then she develops a chronic medical condition, multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS, or the Twentieth-Century Disease), and she experiences many severe non-specific symptoms that she believes are triggered by everyday household and industrial products. She passes her days with gardening, taking clothes to the dry cleaners, attending aerobics classes and various other activities, and her marriage to husband Greg (Xander Berkeley) is stable but lacking emotional or sexual intimacy, and her husband has a son from a previous marriage who lives with them, and she only has distant friends. She goes about her days with her normal routine, and then she develops this unpredictable and unusual bodily reactions to things, such as persistent mental exertion, coughing uncontrollably (with truck exhausts around), symptoms of asthma, nose bleeding, vomiting and involuntary muscular convulsions. The doctors only conclude that she has an allergy to milk, which she drinks regularly without consequence, but they do not have a clue of her other symptoms, and they have no help to cope or cure her, so she decides to attend psychotherapy sessions, which do not give her any better answers of her condition. She then sees an advertisement at her community centre for a New Age/religious retreat in the desert called Wrenwood which is designed to bring people together and help them overcome and cure themselves from suffering MCS, in various ways, mostly group sessions, headed by phony but sensitive Peter Dunning (Peter Friedman), and by the end this does seemingly work well enough for her to return home. Also starring Kate McGregor-Stewart as Claire, Mary Carver as Nell, Susan Norman as Linda, Steven Gilborn as Dr. Hubbard, Ronnie Farer as Barbara, James LeGros as Chris and Jodie Markell as Anita. Moore is very interesting as she slowly breaks down due to the many elements of the modern world, the plot of a person becoming ill with almost no reason or circumstance at all is intriguing, I admit the pace is a little slow, but the claustrophobic, psychological and haunting monster movie without a monster feel makes for a watchable drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"A Very Dull, Dull, Dull Film","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nothing happens in this movie over and over again. One cannot ever feel anything for any of the characters, and even the excellent acting of Moore cannot help rescue us from this film's dullness. The story, when it actually unfolds, is certainly relevant to today's world of toxins and pollutants, but this drama has no punch whatsoever. You just don't feel drawn into the story. And the third act goes on and on with much dialogue and very little substance. I couldn't wait for this movie to end.  "},{"Title":"To paraphrase a poem","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When they charged me $7.50 for a ticket at the Seattle Film Festival I did nothing.When half the audience walked out I did nothing.When the remaining people around me started dozing off I did nothing.And finally when the film ended and my butt fell asleep in the chair, it was too late and I could not leave. "},{"Title":"vex","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this is one of those films that if you watch it with another person you turn to that person after it's over and ask, what just happened? and they say, i haven't a clue the criticisms of this movie are valid and the plaudits are also valid. it is kind of pretentious, boring and preachy. it is also about a very boring person who isn't going to make it so i guess the pace and lack of character development are appropriate. but i guess the question is why would i want to spend an hour and a half entering the world of someone boring and hollow even if that world is cleverly caught on film. maybe we get enough of that in our daily lives. "},{"Title":"dull","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SAFE Bad soundtrack, too much Julianne Moore, slow, painful, boring, dull, misguided, really bad soundtrack, aimed at pretentious NYU undergraduates, and has that morose guy who plays John Connor's dad in T2.Ted's Grade C   "}{"Title":"2 hours we'll never get back","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The most annoying cinematography I have ever seen. At times it seemed like a hearing and vision test, which we failed. It was more boring than Solaris and slower than 2001. Julianne Moore's performance was the only reason we were able to slog through to the end of this dismal film. My advice to those who thought this movie was a '10' - see more movies. "},{"Title":"Emperors new clothes","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Absolute rubbish. The attempts at symbology are amateurish, direction poor and the acting is stilted. The subject of the film bears a serious message and will probably appeal to those already interested in the total allergy syndrome and environmental poisoning. I'm afraid however, that this particular vehicle will not deliver that message to a wider audience. The only allergy they will develop is to the film itself!!  "},{"Title":"An Info-mercial by any other name would stink as bad....","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie will only be of any real interest to those poor souls afflicted with an environmental allergy.  The film is reasonably well-done and held my attention until the plug or ultimate product placement for the Recovery Center started.Believe me, Safe is nowhere near the Bladerunner league as one review tried to imply.  This is not a thriller, or science fiction. The pacing is plodding and static. At best it is one-sided documentary, at worst, an infomercial.  Recommend viewing only by those with a particular interest in the environmental allergy phenomenon. "},{"Title":"BOOOOORRING!","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ray Carney, the famed film prof out of Boston University who likes to call this possibly the most subversive film of recent years, also wrote that the family didn't appear Italian in Cassavetes A Woman Under the Influence.Now a movie doesn't have to make me think.  It doesn't have to have all the flash of Minority Report, but I hope on some level I might at least hope to be entertained and I found this one of the most boring flicks of all time.  Really, subversive.  Though I think the message was made, and on a true level it was realistic, I somehow get the impression that a lot of reviewers are health nuts who relate at a level other than on artistic content. Okay, maybe that's going too far...as a friend recently asked, would I have ask Goya why his work was so dark.  My point is, I just don't care.  I believe I can understand the message and the artistic points and the subversiveness, at levels, but it still doesn't change the fact that I think this is boring Sunday afternoon fare (in which case, I would have changed channels if I sat on the couch).It is an infrequent day when I have to force myself to sit and watch something to say I did.  This was one of those films.  Perhaps it wouldn't have been so subversive had it not arrived on this plane and had been done differently, but as it sits, as one other reviewer noted...staring at the wall would be just as entertaining.For me, I might argue the wall more entertaining because I could have experience with my own thoughts rather than this exploration of melancholia... "},{"Title":"Not Haynes' best work","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was ready for this film, after seeing Poison and Velvet Goldmine.  The entire cast is so believable, their acting is on par with the best documentary you have ever seen.  The problem here is that Haynes' script literally goes nowhere.  There is no big pay off, or even a change in characters' behavior by the time the credits roll.  I was left feeling cheated after watching these interesting people do nothing for more than an hour and a half.  I give this a 6. "},{"Title":"b...o...r...i...n...g","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If I set out to make the world's most enervatingly mind-numbing film, I could not possibly create anything as dull as this pretentious puddle of drool. "},{"Title":"TOTAL TRASH MOVIE....This movie is one, if not THE most BORING film I have EVER seen!","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My God this movie are SO dull an SO absolutely amateurish I cant believe it! What is it about? A woman gets the flu and attend this Cult like resort in the country where she lives in an airtight Iglo hoping to recover. Totally uncanny and what a trashy story this one is... "}]