[{"Title":"in response to your response","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read some of the other comments comcerning this movie. And personally i thought that this movie was greatly misinterpreted. This movie (while have some man-bashing elements) is more about the friendship of four strong real black women who represent a little part of most women in society. I love this movie. I think that it has humor, depth, and presents a very real perspective on love and dating in today's world. And while men might take offense to the representation of the male gender in this movie, I think that it's important to realize that unfaithful, self-absorbed men do exist. However, as we must acknowledge the less moral men of our society, this movie also portrays that good decent men are not a figment of our imagination. With Wesley Snipes and Gregory Hines characters, we see that men are not all callous unfeeling creatures. So basically, I feel that this movie is one to be appreciated and enjoyed. (And in response to one respone that i read. . . One does not CHOOSE who they fall in love with, love just happens. We cannot choose who we love.) Anyways. . .i loved the part where she burned all the clothes too )  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a good movie, even though I'm not the target audience.  It's nice to see that black women had a movie about them, and thanks to the star power of Whitney Houston it became no.1 and was a big hit.  I am actually tired of reading little comments saying that Whitney isn't that good of an actress because all of those comments are based on the fact that she's a singer.  If she wasn't a famous singer, nobody would say anything bad about her acting.  IMO, she acted very well just like in all her movies, she's not an oscar caliber actress (very few are) but she definitely has screen presence, charisma and gets the job done.  Stop hating her because she's a singer, unlike Madonna or Mariah, Whitney at least did some quality work with some quality people, and she hasn't had flops & horrible movies. "},{"Title":"Don't Exhale Just Yet","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have the video of this movie and it grew on me as time passed. It's not a great movie but it is enjoyable and as has been pointed out by others, it feels good to see a movie about women of color for a change. However, the movie would not have been watchable without the formidable talents of Angela Bassett and Loretta Devine. I felt that they really were Bernadine and Gloria -- even their smallest gestures were in tune with their characters. I don't have the words to describe what fine actors these ladies are and their skills are right up there with Debra Winger, Holly Hunter, Alfre Woodard and others.Gloria seemed to be the only moral woman in the lot. She was adorable as an overweight, insecure no-nonsense business woman and mother. She didn't think she was worthy of love because of her weight, but she was the only one who found it (and deserved it). She was the only one who didn't sleep around, wasn't a man basher, set a good example for her son, and gave good advice to her girlfriends. The other three could learn a lot from her. Loretta Devine has a really beautiful face -- look past the weight and for those of you who judge people by such things, her skin color. She has wonderfully expressive eyes and attractive features. I think it was noteworthy that Gregory Hines' character saw her real beauty and responded to it. His character was a decent, good man and I'm glad this was addressed in the movie.Angela Bassett has always been one of my favorite actors. She is the total package --- beauty and talent. Her character wasn't perfect but Bernadine did take responsibility for the mistakes she made in her life. She was so much better off without that reprehensible excuse for a husband in her life - she could now start her catering business, she had a possible new love in her future and she had good friends that would always be there for her. I was as happy for her as if I were really one of her girlfriends when things turned out well for her in the end.Lela Rochon didn't display any acting talent here and wasn't quite up to the job of conveying Robin's vulnerability and immaturity. She was little more than a tearaway that slept around and made dumb choices. In the book, you realized that Robin had a lot of love to give a man and didn't seem to know how to choose a good one to bestow it on. She was obviously beautiful and decently educated but she lacked common sense and had never really gotten over her betrayal by a man she had really loved. Her mother was a cancer survivor and her father suffered from advance Alzheimer's disease. I don't feel they rounded out this character at all and she didn't seem like an actual person. Just a cute slut who wondered why she got used by men.Poor Whitney has no acting skills whatsoever! Every character she attempts to portray is exactly the same -- Whitney Houston being well groomed, pretending to be well spoken and classy, and looking cow eyed at whatever male actor she is paired with. Its a shame because Savannah should have been played by someone like Angela Bassett or Kimberly Elise (although she might have been too young). The character had to tell us she was smart -- in a phone conversation with her mother she said I'm smart, I'm a good person and I work hard. Thank goodness she told us because we sure wouldn't have known otherwise. She has sex with a man she doesn't like at all and doesn't even know well and then has an affair with a married man and calls him scum! She has poor conversational skills, doesn't really seem interested in her friends'problems and preferred to roll her big eyes and act as if she were so above whatever little difficulties they were going through. Savannah would be such a waste of time for any man unless she took a long hard look at herself. She deserved to be by herself at the end.This movie might have been better with a female director, as Forest Whitaker didn't tell this story properly at all. We ended up not liking or caring about the characters because we really didn't get a strong sense of who they were.Also, was it me, or was everything in this movie either orange or blue? "},{"Title":"Double Standard","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So I finally got around to watching Waiting to Exhale on Encore the other night and I don't understand why this became a hit.(Note spoilers ahead) As far as I can tell, the basic premise of this film is that all men are insensitive, callous and unfeeling; especially towards women.Okay, well and good. That is the storyline? Fine. Men suck, got it.But there is a huge double standard here; two of the women are dating married men and clearly, we are meant to be sympathetic about their plight as they whine and cry about not having their man with them at night in bed.How about this? STOP DATING MARRIED MEN! Maybe that's your problem in the first place.Now, on the flip side, Angela Basset's character is abandoned by her husband for another woman. Yet, if you pay attention, even this character is not completely innocent. When her husband informs her he is leaving, the things she says makes it clear she's known about his lover(s) for years but ignored his infidelities. Why? Obviously, because he's so wealthy.She liked all the stuff a little too much to have confronted him about it. Again, she's made her bed here, not as completely as the two who are actively cheating, but still. She spends the rest of the movie being so angry that he left her you never really grow to like her. Strangest of all is the man whose wife is dying of cancer; he sleeps with the Angela Basset character after they run into each other at a bar. With their clothes on, which apparently means it's oh-so-platonic and sweet. Then he writes her a letter months later, thanking her for that night and leading the viewer to believe that when his wife kicks off, he'll contact her again.Did anyone else think this was more than a little sleazy? I would hope if I were dying of breast cancer that my husband wasn't out sleeping around (and I do mean just sleeping) with other women. Sweet, platonic, whatever; I think it's pretty horrible.Bottom line; the characters you're supposed to connect to are unlikable and the ones you're supposed to hate are just pathetic. Not very enjoyable. However, I did give it three stars for the music, which didn't suck too badly and the clothes and style. It's a nice little snapshot of how things looked in '95. And the print wasn't very faded. That's about it, though. "},{"Title":"great touching story","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While this movie truly is bound to be more appealing to women than men, it is a touching story of four best friends. How they stick together and grow together through life's mistakes, joys, and bad taste in men. I love Angela Bassett and she is outstanding in this movie. The other 3 ladies, Whitney,Lela, and Loretta do great jobs too. This movie is filled with sweet moments, great laughter, and maybe some tears. Just a wonderful movie that shows what friendship is about. I have not read the book, but I have heard many times that the book is better... but hey thats true for almost every book turned movie. So all I know is I love this movie, and every time I watch it, it gives me great pleasure. Not too mention the soundtrack is fabulous! Whitney, Brandy, Babyface,Faith Evans,and Mary J Blige make the music in the film absolutely great. "},{"Title":"Soap Opera","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Predictable, full of every soppy sad tragic story you've seen on the soaps. You know who is going to sleep with whom, you know they shouldn't, you know what the outcome will be. You could write the dialogue yourself, if you've ever seen even a week's worth of soap operas. You either want to leave the room, or turn the channel, it's so soppy and predictable. Of course they all turn out to be strong women in the end; it was written during that era. Of course 99% of the men are jerks; it was written during that era. Of course all the women are fantastically beautiful; you wouldn't put up with this movie if they looked like real, every-day women. The saddest thing about the movie is how beautiful Whitney Houston used to be before drugs and her husband ruined her. "},{"Title":"The Book was Better","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Feature Film version of the MacMillan Novel was a welcome change from all the Hood movies that were being released. Unlike the Hood movies Exhale did not have a plot that revolved around violence,drugs, and guns. Instead it was a more Upscale drama. If you read the book the roles were cast perfectly with the exception of the woman that played Savannah. Angela Bassett as Bernadine, Lela Rochon as Robin; Loretta Devine as Gloria; could not have been better casted, if the movie were done over a thousand times!Unfortunately Terry MacMillan allowed the project to get too commercial, thus compromising her craft! One verification of this is the exporting of Whitney Houston from the Music Industry to fill the lead as Savannah. The part of Savannah demanded a lot of acting ability. They could've gotten Theresa Randall, Robin Givens or Tyra Ferrell to do the lead, but they didn't. Instead they hired a pop diva in an effort to get millions of her fans into the cineplexes; and of course sing on the Kenny Babyface Edmonds produced soundtrack! Needless to say the grammy Award winner gave a highly unimpressive performance!As for the directing; now Forest Whittaker's my boy, but the direction needed a womans touch! The story was supposed to be about feminine friendship, and all the complications that go with it.Despite the box-office success of Waiting to Exhale it failed to produce a demand for more Upscale Black Dramas! Macmillan had to do it herself in her follow up book turned movie How Stella  Got Her Groove Back!Read my review of How Stella Got Her Groove Back "},{"Title":"Whitney ruined the great potential","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Angela Basset was good as expected, but Whitney has no Range as an actress. The screenplay also neglected to portray, on film, the greatness of this novel.  Instead of promoting sisterhood, they emphasized the canine-qualities of men.  Read the book; rent Soul Food instead! "},{"Title":"Meh.","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got an opportunity to see Waiting To Exhale for the second time recently, the first time shortly after it came out, and now now. I can't say time has improved my thoughts of the film, which is odd, as I seemed to recall really enjoying this the first time it came out. (Maybe I should watch 'Homeward Bound' again, as I LOVED that movie the first time I saw it) The only actress really to impress in this movie is of course the amazing Angela Bassett who growls and hisses every chance she gets! I really liked this character, and I felt for the trials she was going through. The other character I liked was the one played by Loretta Devine, who was cute as the overweight mother who unexpectedly falls in love. I kind of thought the Lela Rachon character was underwritten, and seemed to almost revel in her wantonness. lol. As for Miss Houston, when I was watching her act, well, Chesty Morgan's performance in Deadly Weapons came to mind for some odd reason, as it appears the acting thing was becoming a struggle, and wasn't going to last for too long.. All in all, I wasn't really disappointed in the film, it just slid off...  "},{"Title":"This movie made me cry.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film brought me to tears not because it was so emotional I had to cry but being a Black man and a working actor making a living for 20 + years, It was the first time a big budget, well shot, well acted (Whitney is still weak at times), well directed film about most black lives got a big theatrical release. Most black films (Excluding Spike Lee) are about thugs or are so low budget you never get to see them. It was about time! "}{"Title":"A decent movie that could have been better","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Basically a movie about black women who whine about their unsatisfying relationships . Angela Basset is the shining star here, she is wonderful to watch and a very talented woman but she alone cannot hold this movie together .  i have never read the book but from what ive heard about it , its much better than this movie ..I dont get whitney houstons character , she sleeps around and calls men pigs yet shes screwing around with a married man and lela rochon is also with a man who has a wife. why would you stay with men like that. only person who acts real is angela basset's character who gets unceremoniously dumped for a white woman by her husband and reacts believably ,,  its a decent movie that could have been better .  "},{"Title":"A real disaster!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is awful! The caracters are shallow and almost ridiculous, especially Lela Rochon. It's a very, very, very bad soap opera. I was watching this movie with my wife and we were laughing almost all the time. It is much too long, with no rhythm with absolutely no emotions. It is only a poor attempt to manipulate the viewer by using one cliché after another. Skip it, it's a waste of time!  "},{"Title":"Frustrating...","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  That's the word I'd use to describe the film, an adaptation of Terry McMillan's 1992 best-seller. It's not great, it's not bad, but it's frustrating to watch, and the fact that I'm of the male persuasion undoubtedly had something to do with it.Now, let me be the first to say that I did enjoy seeing a group of strong black women portrayed onscreen. To say that Hollywood has been exceedingly lax in this regard is an understatement. But it would've been nice if their collective talents hadn't been squandered on this disgustingly anti-male tirade. Especially Angela Bassett and Loretta Devine, who otherwise shine in everything their names are attached to. Good, solid movies about sisterhood are probably needed now more than ever, but not at the cost of shortchanging the good, upright, decent brothers out there, whom this movie largely forgets about (with some notable exceptions -- Gregory Hines, for example.)And the frustration doesn't end there. Both Savannah and Robin manage to find themselves involved with the most shady characters (a married man and a dope fiend, respectively), yet they complain about the lack of good men out there. I suppose it would be silly to question just where they've been looking, even though it might hold the answer. The sad thing is that there are fellas out there who have little to no regard for women (the scum of the f__king earth, to quote Savannah), and women who fall for fellas like that for the most silly, shallow reasons.If it wasn't for Bassett, Devine, and Babyface's score, this movie would barely be watchable. As it is, it's a moderately entertaining diversion, albeit a frustrating one. "},{"Title":"WAITING TO EXHALE  Waiting To Go Somewhere, But Sadly It Never Does...","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" WAITING TO EXHALE Waiting, and waiting, and waiting, and waiting... you get the point. Waiting To Exhale, Forrest Whitaker's take on Terry McMillan's popular book, had a rather popular following upon it's release in 1995. It was packaged brilliantly, crossing over into the popular music scene with a blockbuster soundtrack featuring it's star Whitney Houston. However, as Leonard Maltin said it so beautifully, this film ultimately reminds one too much of the easy listening jazz that plays under nearly every scene.Waiting To Exhale had the potential to be an interesting movie. It features a nice ensemble that manages to have good chemistry while also allowing certain performers to step into the limelight and really dominate certain scenes. Unfortunately, in the end, the movie is a repetitive drone.It tells the story of four African-American females (played by Angela Bassett, Whitney Houston, Loretta Divine, and Lela Rochon) as they struggle to find the men in life that can satisfy there needs. The only problem, in the world of this movie, men are nothing but complete ass-holes who wouldn't know the word feelings if they looked it up in the dictionary. How can this film possibly go anywhere when it's screenwriters has made men so incredibly unredeemable that nothing can change.For the first 45 minutes, the film is slightly enjoyable. However, as it continues on into it's 2 hour and plus running time... it begins to feel like deja-vu. The women keep putting themselves in identical situations to those they've experienced in the past... and as much as they talk about it in slow/sultry voice-overs, they don't seem to learn squat.It's like the soundtrack music. Slightly soothing, enjoyable, and easy to digest... but too slow and pointless to listen to for very long. Waiting To Exhale in the end is nothing more then a boringly pointless film that wastes the potential it had with the cast. Were the film given more of a focal point, and a more distinct narrative line, perhaps it could have been a good film. But everyone on board apparently missed the memo that... films are better when they have a plot and a purpose.... D ... "},{"Title":"WHINE! WHINE! WHINE!","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  With all the hype surrounding Waiting to Exhale, I was looking forward to renting it on video.  It's nice to know that someone has made a movie with four strong, independent African-American women. But when I saw it - and maybe this is me ranting because I, being a white male, am not part of the target audience - I was annoyed by all the whining, especially regarding that the men that these women were sleeping with/getting divorced from were leaving them for white women.I can understand them being upset, even furious, with all of the philandering. But they act as if it would be OK if the men left them for other African-American women. Not to make light of the issues of racism, adultery, or divorce, but I can image Bernadine saying, Hey, Savannah, I see that you're sleeping with my husband. Care if I join in!? (Apologies to those who may take offense).Speaking of Savannah, why is Whitney Houston complaining about finding the right man when she seems to be able to have sexual relations with any man that has matinee idol looks and a job - not to mention is *MARRIED*. I guess that any man who isn't married is a loser to Whitney. Having not read the book, I realize that this is merely an adaptation - or, for Terry McMillan's sake, I hope it is. I'm not knocking any of the acting. Angela Bassett, Whitney Houston, Lela Rochon and Loretta Devine, as well as the supporting cast, are all talented and do commendable jobs. And Forest Whitaker proves himself to be a talented director. It's just that the lion's share of the characters come off as unsympathetic. I realize that I'm merely scratching the surface, but I've wasted enough time on this movie. Why Do Fools Fall In Love, the movie which describes Frankie Lymon's battles with the recording industry and liasons (sp) with three different women, one of which is Rochon, is a far superior movie and worth at least $5 of the $6 that I paid to see it.  I give this one 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hilarious in Parts","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 1995 was a year of the awakening of women, in general. At least an awakening that they were in an era where they were not beholden to be 'like momma'. I never saw this movie on the big screen. That was probably because it came out only two years after I had ended my own affair. I suppose that, in 1995, the angst of dealing with infidelity did not make one want to watch a movie that includes a lot of infidelity. In the end, as became my lesson in life, the movie is about four different women dealing with male problems in different ways. So, watching this movie some two decades after going through a healing process, I could laugh at the realities that were portrayed while celebrating that being alive leads us through various situations because we are indeed different as men and women. The movie is, therefore, while old and not a break down the door to see event, worth the watch.... as a chick flick or a guy 'bin there and was arrogant/insensitive like that' reflection "},{"Title":"I wanna move to Arizona","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought It was a great movie, although it is a lot of sleeping with other women husband that are taken, we all have to be honest, this goes on a lot in reality. it's not right, but it happens.... Overall I really enjoy the movie because it took me way back to 1995, the movie was great. great times, although I was just 11 when it came out, I remember all the hype over this movie from my mom n my aunts.... One factor that I've never notice before was the setting... It makes me wanna pack up my family an move to peaceful Arizona.. Great Movie. r.i.p. Whitney HoustonI cannot believe it took me all this time to see this movie all the way through... "},{"Title":"My favorite movie ever !","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm so surprised by the comments i read here. Since i saw that movie maybe 10 years ago now, it's one of my favorite movie ever along with boomerang.Maybe it's because i was fairly young when i watched those movies.. but i find them extremely good. I watched the movie before i read the book and it may be the reason why i loved the movie so much.Sure Whitney's acting could have been better but she managed to do a pretty decent job overall. As for the soundtrack it's a pure bliss for RnB lovers and i would say a classic now. The image of Black men in the movie is very negative but in a sens it pushed to be the exact opposite so it kinda shaped my vision and my life, and deepend my love of black women.Some parts of the movie are just so classic like the break up between Robin and troy on the balcony and the soundtrack at that moment was some kind of a symphony..anyways great great movie .. enjoy "},{"Title":"An honest portrayal of relationships in society today","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Overall I thought this was a good movie. What some fail to realize is that although this seems to be a Male Bashing convention, it in fact accurately portrays what has become very common outcomes of a lot of relationships now-a-days.Now, I don't say that just men cheat or are all in all bad people, but the fact remains that there are a ton of situations just like the ones in this movie. I feel that these situations are very well shown in this movie.The movie in my opinion shows motivation and support to those that are in situations like these, that you don't have to be miserable and you CAN be strong and pull yourself together and Exhale instead of putting yourself in a stressful environment feeling unable to take another breath.Yes, there may be characters that may are a bit extreme, but there are also plenty of people in this world the exact same way.I do agree with ones previous comment portraying the image that if it were a black woman he cheated on her with, it would be OK was a bit too far, but then again, there are still those that still to this day are against other races. Although not too many people agree with it as I don't, there are some that do.I believe it does show great strength as strong women taking a stand for themselves to pull themselves together and stay strong and realize they have the ability to make themselves happy no matter the situation they are in. It shows friends supporting friends which is a great aspect to have. I thought it a very good movie and motivational to people on the outside in these types of situations. "},{"Title":"A One-Sided Celebration of African American Feminism","Date":"1 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Directed by Forest Whitaker and adapted from a smash best selling novel by Terry McMillan, WAITING TO EXHALE is a glossy, but one-sided look at the relationship between four strong black women and the various men in their lives. The film is one-sided because the screenplay presents most of the male characters as sexist, manipulative pigs without a redeeming characteristic in sight, but the sensitive direction and outstanding performances keep the rather lopsided story watchable. Whitney Houston made an impressive film debut as Savannah, an ambitious television executive caught in a dead-end affair with a married man (Dennis Haysbert). Angela Basset does Oscar-worthy work as Bernadine, a woman who has spent her life being the best wife and mother she knows how to be, who has her world rocked when her wealthy husband (Michael Beach) calmly announces one night before a formal dinner party that he's in love with someone else and wants a divorce. The scene where Bernadine gathers all her husband's stuff and makes a bonfire out of it in her driveway is one of the film's highlights. Lela Rochon plays Robin, a not-too-bright doormat who finds herself pregnant by a man she wants nothing to do with. Loretta Devine is fun as Gloria, a hairdresser who is divorced from her husband, who it turns out was gay, and is struggling to raise her son (Donald Faison) and tries to begin a relationship with a new neighbor (Gregory Hines). If you can accept the fact that in the world of these four women, all men are pigs, then this film can be very entertaining but the top-notch performances by the cast cannot be overlooked. "}{"Title":"Decent","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Those of you who ranted and raved about how horrible this film was really tickle my funny bone. I love to see miserable people hate a movie just because...well, they have nothing to better to do.Not saying this was the best movie I've ever seen. But I agree with others who say that Bassett and Levine are the ones to save this film from drowning with all the other horrible movies.I love Angela Bassett, I'm a huge fan of hers. The scene which depicts the morning after her husband leaves her for his secretary, which would've otherwise been too cliché for my taste had it not been for the way Bernie (Bassett) burned up that BMW! I mean that was classic. Sorry if any of you testosterone-fueled men out there will accuse me of man hating, but I love that scene and will watch it over and over again. Three cheers for Angie.And Devine's character, Gloria seems sort of weak and unable to stand up to even her teenage son, but I love how she bends a little and confesses how she feels to the late Gregory Hines' character. You'll notice Devine's Gloria and Bassett's Bernie are slightly juxtaposed but their chemistry is excellent. If you haven't seen it, check it out, if not for anything but the performance of these two gifted actors. "},{"Title":"Hot Soundtrack, Terrible Character Development","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Waiting to Exhale is guided thoroughly by a hot soundtrack from beginning to end.  It is also complimented by sharply shot scenes and attractive locales.  However, much of this is wasted on poor character development.  Without likeable characters, this plot sinks quickly and doesn't recover.  What should be shown is complex identities that the women have, but instead viewers are shown superficial confusions of the women which makes them out to be dumb and non-rational leading ladies.  While the movie is supposed to highlight the women, and have males as supporting characters, the plot so demonized the men that even the nice men such as Gregory Hines and Wesley Snipes seem entirely out of place and more token goodness than believeable characters.  Worst of all, were some vastly misplaced and undesirable scenes, which I honestly hope were either more deeply probed in the book, or not part of the book at all.  For instance, why was the fact that Gloria's former man is gay/bi-sexual even remotely important to this script.  Clearly the answer is that it isn't.  Gloria's character did not need that type of nonsense to provide a background that she could work with.  Why the director didn't see this, I don't know.Weak film, waste of acting talent by wonderful actresses like Angela Bassett, and a brutal waste of an excellent soundtrack by Babyface.4/10 "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this movie and its story are quite good on the whole..........Ms Bassett is the leading and the best actress,for sure.I get her character.she's beautiful and I guess she's blown people away with her beauty and the EASE WITH WHICH SHE FASCINATES.Ms HOUSTON IS NOT TO NEGLECT NEITHER.She looks natural in this one.And despite her little experience as far as her actress career is concerned,she is good even though her story is a bit common .Loretta is divine!Anyways,this motion picture is merely good.There's nothing amazing.And it don't stand out from all the other movies.the only thing that makes me stick to the screen is the complicity and the crude humor on men of the four ladies! "},{"Title":"Good movie, Better book","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This wasn't a bad movie. The acting was great (although Whitney Houston still seems mediocre). Some of the scenes were powerful and funny. However, unlike the book which also deals with the sisterhood of Black women, the movie becomes a long Men are pigs tirade that gets weary after a while. Plus it's sometimes hard to root for the characters. For instance, considering all the one-night stands Savannah has, it's hard to see why she's questioning her ability to find a good man. Overall, Waiting to Exhale, is basically a sorely-needed bonding movie for African-American women that, while a little biased, is good escapist fun. "},{"Title":"Sticky","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There was nothing in the movie that made me excited. The message did not come through,  if there was one. Perhaps it is to convey the idea that men are useless,  or that relations are complicated because women make it complicated. If a comedy,  I did not laugh.  If a drama,  I did not find it dramatic.It was like drinking a cup of coffee presented to you with way too much sugar.   "},{"Title":"Could be better","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie is okay, mediocre might even be the word to describe it. I have to say that you can really tell who can act and who can't. Angela Bassett was brilliant in her portrayal of an angry, heart broken wife, whilst Whitney Housten seems rather emotionless throughout the film- and no i'm not only saying this because she's a singer.Furthermore, i don't understand why all black movies have to include such explicit sex! I mean the normal amount is good.. but this is too much.. I don't mean the frequency of it , but the way that sex is portrayed. It's bad because all it does is feed thriving stereotypes about black people which aren't necessarily true. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is simply about a bunch of women who pick men who's behaviors they claim to hate & then spend the rest of their time complaining about them. It seems that this view is held by many women & possibly accounts in some measure to the number of women who consider their relationships with men to be unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"A 3 is generous","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It had some laughs, but overall the motivation of the characters was incomprehensible. Why should they be mad at men for cheating when they sleep with all sorts of married men themselves? Very hypocritical. Their lives are messed up because they messed them up with stupid choices. I had no empathy for any of these women.   "},{"Title":"Total hypocrisy","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As a middle-aged man, I found this to be one of the most ridiculous films I've seen in some time. It's basically two hours of one dimensional portrayals of men by women complaining of being seen as one-dimensional by men. One fairly long scene in one of the characters' living room in which they all state their opinions of men flabbergasted me; why would any self-respecting man WANT any of these whining, narcissistic victims in the first place? Performances aside (except for Angela Bassett, who was totally wasted by never changing her angry expression throughout the whole film), the effort is pretty badly written, and the constant message of those bad, bad males starts to become tiring after awhile. I didn't find these women strong... I found them very entitled and, as another reviewer put it, self-absorbed. I don't think there was one male character in the film who was portrayed sympathetically or in a three-dimensional manner. It's interesting to me that when films like this come out portraying women in the same way, there's quite a brouhaha; when the tables get turned, it's groundbreaking. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Arizona... where there are no Hispanic people!","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Honestly, I didn't hate this movie as much as most others on here, but it does have some considerable flaws. Now first off, I'm usually not one of those race baiting affirmative action types. But it struck me about half way through this movie that nobody we've met is Hispanic. Hello! Not even any minor characters. Seriously even in 1995 at least half of Arizona was Hispanic. Had to be. All of the main characters in this film however are black, and a few of the supporting cast is white, but that's it! And of course, the white people are generally bad, inconsequential, or not to be trusted. Anyway, about the plot....The story deals with four 30 something black women who cannot find a good man who isn't already married. Three of them at one point or another sleep with married men, two of them hoping that the married man will one day divorce their wives. Another woman's husband leaves her on New Year's Eve to be with his mistress after openly confessing the affair and his desire for their marriage to be over. But apparently the worst thing about that is the fact that his mistress is (gasp!) a white woman! In fact the wife (Bassett) seems more upset about that fact than anything. Since the concept of black men sleeping with and or settling down with white women is brought up more than once during the film in a negative way, one wonders how many men chose white women over author Terry McMillan. Maybe some of these black women might broaden their horizons and perhaps look for love outside their own skin color once in a while. Yet this film never even presents that as the slightest possibility for any of these characters.The film is never boring though, and has strong acting performances from most of the characters. The cast is full of easily recognizable faces and names. Even Leon from Madonna's Like a Prayer video has a role as one of the men in these women's lives. The film shows many different potential suitors for these ladies, but also gives most of them a fatal flaw why he cannot be husband material. By the end of the film, only two of the four seem to have found good men, while the other two have at least come to their senses about the men they liked best. These women are very attractive, and the whole production feels like a big budget soap opera. Whitney Houston looks especially fine as this was made before Bobby Brown had her all strung out on crack. Antoine Fuqua's wife Lela Rochon is quite a site as well. Angela Bassett looks better in how Stella Got Her Groove Back. Her hair is just too short here after she cuts if off in a rage. And for all you in the audience who like a woman with meat on her bones, you'll love Loretta Devine. And her character seems the most grounded of the four. She doesn't chase after married men. She has enough trouble looking after her son. The film isn't great but I was never bored. And that isn't bad considering it lasts for two whole hours. Not a bad feature debut from director Forrest Whitaker. 6 of 10 stars. "}{"Title":"Feel Good Movie","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The acting in this film is phenomenal, especially on the part of Angela Bassett who always does an amazing job (see What's Love Got To Do With It). The inter-cuts work well where they are placed, much like all of the other shots, and keep the films pace and the viewer interested. I've read other user comments and I find their opinions to be completely biased and unwarranted. If you're watching this film looking for profound insight to life you will be disappointed. This film is an adaptation of Terry McMillan's critically acclaimed novel FOR BLACK FEMALES. Waiting to Exhale explores the lives of four female friends. Each woman makes mistakes and has to deal with those consequences. But it is through being there for one another that they overcome these problems and others. For me, most of the negative user comments are from people who the film was not made for, that are only analyzing the film from the story. There is more to a film than it's narrative and when base your full opinion on that alone you are missing out. Plus, for me, it's just flat-out annoying when people who are completely not the target audience bash a film. Note this is not to say that art cannot breach color, age or sex barriers. But be let's be realistic for a moment. If say, a heterosexual, black, 21 year old female studying Art was asking you for a good movie suggestion for a Friday night...Would you suggest The Dukes Of Hazard? I think not. Not unless you were joking. "},{"Title":"FAbuLOuS","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Simply fabulous.I thought it was a great movie. I was completely empowered! It made me want to start my exes car on fire.Embrace your independence &#150; watch this movie. (is great to watch with the scorned over glasses of wine and bon bons) It'll make you laugh, cry, get mad, and then plot getting even.I can waste a lot of your time telling you to see it, defending it from what others say about it, or just generally talking it up. But haven't you always wanted to see Angela Basset throw a fit? How bout cut her hair off?And who wouldn't want to watch Whitney act with humility. This is by far my favorite movie with Whitney - second, The Bodyguard - third, The Preachers Wife. "},{"Title":"Looking For Love in All The Wrong Places","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Looking for love in all the wrong placesWaiting to Exhaled depicts four black females who have special friendships. The movie shows each one of the women trying to find true love. Each character has a different situation going on in her life as they are trying to find true love and happiness. The first character named Bernadine (Angela Bassett) was married until her husband left her for his white secretary. Bernadine was very upset about this. The next woman named Gloria (Loretta Devine) who is divorced and raising a son on her own finds out her ex-husband whom she still had feelings for is gay. She later finds a new interest in a next-door neighbor. Robin (Lela Rochon), the third character, has a relationship with a married man. Robin always wanted him to leave his wife, but she did not need him after he did finally leave his wife. Savannah (Whitney Houston), the last woman, had a mother who was trying to make sure her daughter's life is not without a man. Even if the man was married and had a child, her mother did not seem to mind. Director Forest Whitaker shows modern day women in this 1995 film. The main message is finding out that true love is hard to find. I did not like that these women seem to have to think that married men were the answer to finding happiness. I feel that they finally found that friends can bring happiness as can being happy with your self. You cannot depend on someone else for your happiness. You have to find that from inside yourself. This film taken from Terry McMillan's best selling novel I enjoyed. This film used very beautiful black women as their characters. Each woman was unique. They were dressed in very glamorous outfits. I really enjoyed Bernadine as she cleaned out her husband's closet and her victory in divorce court. "},{"Title":"Sweet, funny, tear-jerking, heartwarming, touching, and romantic movie","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In my opinion, WAITING TO EXHALE is a sweet, funny, tear-jerking, heartwarming, touching, and romantic movie. I thought that Savannah (Whitney Houston - THE BODYGUARD), Bernadine (Angela Bassett - WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT), Robin (Lela Rochon - BOOMERANG), and Gloria (Loretta Devine - THE PREACHER'S WIFE) looked very beautiful in their fancy dresses. My favorite parts of this movie were when Bernadine gave John (Michael Beach - INTERNAL AFFAIRS) his comeuppance and when she went to John's office, interrupted the meeting he was in, asked Kathleen (Kelly Preston - FOR LOVE OF THE GAME) if she could have a few words with John, slapped her, and yelled at John. Those parts really made me smile and feel good. I thought that Angela Bassett's performance was just as good as it was in WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, When I said that this was a sweet, funny, tear-jerking, heartwarming, touching, and romantic movie, I only cried on the inside. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Whitney Houston, Angela Bassett, Lela Rochon, or Loretta Devine, I recommend this movie. You're in for lots of laughter and tears, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Extra in Movie","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was actually an extra in this movie and had a quite a fun time hanging out w/the cast/crew. I had an opportunity to be at several of the locations for days of filming and it was a lot of work. You don't realize what a day of filming entitles until you actually do it and I was just an extra. I was more interested in the process of the film making than being on camera so it was a great opportunity. I even got spoiled and met a lot of the cast and drove around in the SUV's that are for the main cast...fun stuff! I think over all the movie was to enjoy for fun. I think the basis of the friendships were the most important aspect of the film. That through all the craziness of men in their lives they were still there for one another. "},{"Title":"This film does Terry McMillan's writing no justice","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had great potential had it landed in the right directors hands (as seen with How Stella got Her Groove Back).  Many rough cuts, sloppy editing, and terrible lighting at times to name a few.  Casting was excellent with the exception of Whitney Houston who has the tendency to over-chew her scenes.  Though much of the book was not adapted to the film the strength and love amongst four friends was apparent.  It was the one thing that was not lost or left on the cutting room floor.  Good movie, better book.Waiting to Exhale (the movie) ***** (5 stars)Waiting to Exhale (the novel) ********** (ten stars) "},{"Title":"A bit too soapy but deserves respect for being a positive film for black women","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vannah is travelling to see her friend Bernie while leaving behind all her old live to start anew.  Bernie has just been left by her husband of 13 years for a white woman.  Robin wants to be loved and happy but always makes the wrong choices.  Glo has an estranged husband and the only man in her life is her teenage son.  The four get together through their struggles in love and live as they try to put it all together again.This is very much a woman's film and, as a man, it's easy for me to criticise it for being a weepy or for being a bit of a woman love &#150;in, so I won't.  The plot is pure soap opera, the lives and loves of our 4 women, however it is still involving as the four stories all have strengths as well as weaknesses.  The mix of comedy and sentiment is a bit too much 2080 and at times the sentiment gets too much, but the sassy characters keep the interest.The soapy sentiment isn't helped by a poor soundtrack and poor use there of. In itself I like some of the love ballad r'n'b stuff &#150; but here it felt like it was all over every scene.  This really bogs it down. Also a down side is the whole man hating thing &#150; only a few come off looking good.  I thought the director being a man would help redress the balance but it seemed to have no effect.Why &#150; can someone tell me &#150; was Houston chosen to lead this talented black cast?  Was it because she could do a cut price soundtrack?  She's a poor actress and he spoiled her scenes &#150; she needs to stay in TVM's.  Bassett however is powerful as ever and really steals every single scene she's in.  Devine adds comedy and sauce while Rochon is perfect as the vulnerable beauty going about love the wrong way.  The male cast is great too &#150; there are so many well known faces in this with only two criticisms of them  1 &#150; everytime I see Haysbert now all I can think of is his 24 character.  And 2 &#150; Wesley Snipes' character just don't convince me at all.Overall to criticise this for being girly or sentimental is to miss the point.  It is actually good to see a film with so many good roles for black actresses.  It's a bit too soapy for my taste but it is funny and involving with a commanding Bassett.  Only Huston, a soppy soundtrack and constant man caricatures spoil it. "},{"Title":"Male bashing at its finest","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you're a guy you better wear a teflon jockstrap before going to this movie. It is a non stop male bashfest.Wear a fire proof suit to this drivel guys.The acting was bad.The story was ludicrous.Every scene was basically the same.A conversation among several women about how bad men suck.So, if you're feminist or a man hater you will love this gem.Whitney Houston was my favorite plastic statue in this one.I like Hale Berry but she never should have got roped into this.I'd love to have those 90 minutes back of my life.Please. "},{"Title":"pure unadulterated drivel","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  do you read harlequin romances? danielle steel? do you in cessantly read women's magazines to find out  how to please your man? do you hinge all happiness on having a man in your life? is your IQ equivalent to your age? then you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Mediocre film about jealous, spiteful women","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I did not find this film to be particularly enjoyable.  I haven't read the book, so I don't know how they compare.  However, the film didn't seem to have anything that appealed to me.  It appears to be about a group of women who become bitter and spiteful when their husbands leave them.  Then they sit around talking about how all men are terrible.  While one can sympathize with the women for being upset, they quickly become extremely unsympathetic. The whole point of their conversations seems to be that women are superior to men, because a woman would never do such evil things.  Additionally, the main focus of their concern seems to be that the men have left them for white women.  I thought these ideas of racial purity went out with the civil rights movement.  One almost senses that they wouldn't have minded so much if they'd been replaced by other black women.  I was also irritated by the one woman's burning her husband's possessions after he left her.  I realize she's angry about the whole situation, but that destruction is very childish.  Her first thought was probably to burn him, but she felt that burning his things would be better, particularly since he'd be alive to suffer.I was generally disappointed by the film and frustrated by the characters. I would never have considered it to be a comedy, although I'm sure I would have liked it better if it had been funnier, since that would have softened the impact of the unappealingly bitter and spiteful nature of the women. As it was, however, the film did nothing but irritate me. "}{"Title":"Excellent for the broken heart...","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps the reason they call this movie a chick flick, is because that's exactly who it's aimed at. Women. I don't see this as a man bashing movie, but more as a how do you deal? type of movie. It covers every situation The unworthy co-worker, The drug-addict boyfriend, the gay husband, the cheating husband, the married man, the New Years fling, the sweet attractive neighbor, the teenage son....but most importantly, it show how women react and deal with the lies, the cheating, and the friendships between both men AND women...and how to survive from that.Any woman who has ever gone through a relationship can relate to this movie, regardless of race, situation, or age. You will want to scream, cry and laugh throughout the whole movie, and I can guarantee that every woman has got a little Angela Bassett in her, especially when she rips through her ex-husbands belongings.Two thumbs up...A definite must-see for any woman with a wounded heart. "},{"Title":"This movie is GREAT!!!!","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well, what a nice way to put a movie together about the lives of four African-American Women. It runs through some pretty common obstacles in women's lives today.It did seem a bit comical in some situations though. All of the actresses portray their characters well. With Whitney's business minded and Basset's strong, no mess taking characters, you can't help but to love the movie. This is probably Whitney's best performance, and I recommend this movie to anyone, male or female of age. The movie is not focused on bashing on degrading men, but on the empowerment of women. Many women can use a movie like this to give them the strength to leave unhealthy situations, such as cheating husbands. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a hilarious, classic movie.  I mean with lines such as Get your stuff and get out...it's great.  This movie is a mainstay on Bravo! and I make sure to catch it when I can.  I read the book when I was about 15 or 16 and I liked it, but I really love the movie, maybe because I see it less as a reflection of the book and more as a kind of extension.  The next time you watch it, just look for the humorous aspects (even in the serious scenes) and believe me, you will better appreciate this movie. "},{"Title":"Sweet, funny, heart-warming, touching, and romantic","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, WAITING TO EXHALE is a sweet, funny, heart-warming, touching, and romantic movie. I thought that Savannah (Whitney Houston - THE BODYGUARD), Bernadine (Angela Bassett - WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT), Robin (Lela Rochon - BOOMERANG), and Gloria (Loretta Devine - THE HARD TRUTH) looked VERY beautiful in their fancy dresses. My favorite parts were when Bernadine got back at John (Michael Beach) and when she went to John's office, interrupted the meeting he was in, asked Kathleen (Kelly Preston) if she could have a few words with John, slapped her, and yelled at John. Those parts REALLY made me smile and feel good. I thought that Angela Bassett's performance was just as good as it was in WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT. In conclusion, if you are a fan of Whitney Houston, Angela Bassett, Lela Rochon, or Loretta Devine, I HIGHLY recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Black people","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you know black people, especially black women, this is a very entertaining, realistic and adult movie. Angela Bassett is playing to the utmost. Her style is superior. This movie has told me a lot about modern people,  and my own situation. "},{"Title":"Sweet, funny, tear-jerking, heart-warming, touching, and romantic movie","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, WAITING TO EXHALE is a sweet, funny, tear-jerking, heart-warming, touching, and romantic movie. I thought that Savannah (Whitney Houston - THE BODYGUARD), Bernadine (Angela Bassett - WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT), Robin (Lela Rochon - BOOMERANG), and Gloria (Loretta Devine - THE PREACHER'S WIFE) looked very beautiful in their fancy dresses. My favorite parts of this movie were when Bernadine got back at John (Michael Beach - INTERNAL AFFAIRS) and when she went to John's office, interrupted the meeting he was in, asked Kathleen (Kelly Preston - FOR LOVE OF THE GAME) if she could have a few words with John, slapped her, and yelled at John. Those parts really made me smile and feel good. I thought that Angela Bassett's performance was just as good as it was in WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, When I said that this was a sweet, funny, tear-jerking, heart-warming, touching, and romantic movie, I only cried on the inside. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Whitney Houston, Angela Bassett, Lela Rochon, or Loretta Devine, I recommend this movie. You're in for lots of laughter and tears, so, go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Great female flick of the '90s!!!","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an absolutely wonderful movie. Waiting to Exhale stars Angela Bassett, Whitney Houston, Loretta Devine, and Lela Rochon. This movie is about four women who find strength through their rare and special friendship. One woman, Bernadine (Bassett) thought she had love in her life until she found out from her husband that he was leaving her for a white woman (Whoa, hello!! He told her this on New Year's Eve!! He's no gentleman there!), and got back at him. When I first saw the scene where she cleans out her husband's clothes closet (while throwing a screaming fit) and burns them in his car, I thought it was so funny. She really got back at him. There was another scene where she went to his workplace to talk to him by interrupting a meeting he was conducting, walking up to the white gal he's seeing, asks her if she can have a few minutes alone with him, and slapping her in the face in everyone's presence without waiting for an answer, and then goes off on him. Talk about getting revenge; she had guts!!! Gloria (Devine) was so sweet as the lady with her hairdressing place and trying to deal with her teenage son, and getting romantically involved with a man that moved in across the street. Robin and Savannah (Rochon and Houston) were the ones successful in business, but their love lives were down to almost nothing. I don't care what anyone thinks of this movie. It is truly worth watching. I think Whitney Houston was marvelous in her role as Savannah. The soundtrack album to this movie is okay; I only like the Whitney tracks, especially the first one Exhale (Shoop, Shoop), which has a neat easy listening sound to it. I DO NOT like the track done by TLC (Track 6 This is How it Works). That is an inappropriate song to listen to. I know what the lyrics of that song describe, and I won't get into it. Anyway, get this movie and prepare yourself for some laughter and a few tears here and there. If you want to get the soundtrack, too, that is fine. But don't try to get hooked on the TLC track, though! "},{"Title":"Sweet, funny, tear-jerking, heart-warming, touching, and romantic movie","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, WAITING TO EXHALE is a sweet, funny, tear-jerking, heart-warming, touching, and romantic movie. I thought that Savannah (Whitney Houston - THE BODYGUARD), Bernadine (Angela Bassett - WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT), Robin (Lela Rochon - BOOMERANG), and Gloria (Loretta Devine - THE PREACHER'S WIFE) looked very beautiful in their fancy dresses. My favorite parts were when Bernadine got back at John (Michael Beach - INTERNAL AFFAIRS) and when she went to John's office, interrupted the meeting he was in, asked Kathleen (Kelly Preston - FOR LOVE OF THE GAME) if she could have a few words with John, slapped her, and yelled at John. Those parts really made me smile and feel good. I thought that Angela Bassett's performance was just as good as it was in WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, When I said that this was a 'sweet, funny, tear-jerking, heart-warming, touching, and romantic movie,' I only cried on the inside. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Whitney Houston, Angela Bassett, Lela Rochon, or Loretta Devine, I recommend this movie. You're in for lots of laughter and tears, so, go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it.  "}]