[{"Title":"Horror is not the right word here folks","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"37 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tales from the Hood centers around three drug-dealing youths. The movie opens up with the three of them walking up to a funeral home run by a creepy mortician named Simms(Clarence Williams III). They are at the funeral home to pick up a stash of drugs. Instead of getting right down to business, Simms entertains the three men with some rather grisly stories. In the first story, Rogue Cop Revelation, three white, racist cops murder a black politician; all the while a black police officer is watching the entire thing. The black officer is then told that if he opens his mouth, he will join the politician. A year later, the politician from beyond the grave contacts the officer so he can get revenge on the cops who killed him.In the second story, Boys Do Get Bruised, as some people have claimed, is an interesting twist right out of The Twilight Zone. A new boy at a school shows up the first day with a bunch of bruises on his arm. His teacher begins to get very concerned about this. The boy tells the teacher he got the bruises from the monster that lives in his house.In the third story, KKK Comeuppance, a former Ku Klux Klansman-turned-politician moves into a mansion that was once the sight of a horrible slave massacre that occurred around the end of the Civil War. There is a lot of distrust towards him, because of his shady history. He is told by many of the protesters that a bunch of voodoo dolls, which are inhabited by the souls of the murdered slaves, are still on the mansion grounds. The politician shrugs all of this off as just local superstition, until his assistant (who might I add is black) dies mysteriously. Soon it becomes clear that the politician is not alone in his brand new house.In the fourth story, Hard Core Convert, a gangster is arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment for murder. Some years after being sent to prison, he's offered a chance to be released, if he agrees to be a participant in a brand new experiment. It is here that elements of A Clockwork Orange begin to come into play.Being African-American myself I feel Tales from the Hood is one of the most important horror films to come out of the nineties. I really like the fact that all though most of these stories are fiction, they all are based on reality and have many issues surrounding the African-American community that need to be addressed. Issues such as police brutality, child abuse, racism, and black-on-black crime are all brought to light here. I admit that although the horror elements of the movie are a bit cheesy, it does get its message across without much trouble. The stories themselves, while they aren't too original, are very well written. The first segment, which may be the weakest of the four stories, has one of the more important issues, which is police brutality. The idea is sooner or later, the cops would get their comeuppance. You see the three white officers probably still would not have been proved guilty, even if the black officer had said something. Surprisingly, the black officer is not spared from the dead politician's wrath.The second story is probably the one that I find the most ironic. This story proves that monsters do exist in real life, although they may not always be in the form of what we've come to expect.The third story is probably the mediocre of the bunch. This story gives a new meaning reparations. It also shows us that racism really is ugly and that sooner or later, somebody in the present is going to pay for someone else's past evil deeds.The fourth story will prove to be the most important as it revolves around the topic of black-on-black crime. The main character of this story is an uncaring and unsympathetic young man who would kill everyone on Earth given the chance. The best example of this is during the sensory deprivation scene where he begins seeing hallucinations of all the people he's killed. It also shows when innocent people are caught in the crossfire. The scariest part of this whole movie takes place during this segment of the film. It is in the part where the main character is sitting in the cage before his treatment and he starts a conversation with the man sitting beside him. The man as we quickly see, is a white supremacist. The man then begins talking about how the gangbangers are always killing each other off, thus helping along his theory of cleansing. What makes this so scary is that it is true and that nothing is being done about it. The issue of gang violence is something that really needs to be addressed.Tales from the Hood is a very good movie no doubt, despite its flaws. But you need to watch this movie, not expecting a horror film, but a very important social studies lesson. "},{"Title":"Mediocre horror anthology film with one excellent tale","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Tales From the Hood, another horror anthology film dripping with EC comics-style ghoulishness, strings together four stories told by a wild-haired, macabre funeral director (Clarence Williams III) to a trio of gangbangers seeking their missing drug stash in a mortuary.  Virtually all of the tales are familiar -- walking corpses and voodoo dolls are staples of the format -- but director Rusty Cundieff makes every effort to inject the proceedings with social morality.  Child abuse, racism, and police brutality each get a pretty heavy-handed treatment, but the last story, involving a voluntary behavior modification technique for an unrepentant killer (ala A Clockwork Orange) explodes off the screen.  In the film's most powerful sequence, Cundieff serves up a quickly cut montage of unsettling images culled from a number of state historical archives depicting vicious, stomach-churning lynchings meant to deter the rapacious young killer from wanting to harm any more people.  It's potent stuff, and makes one wish the rest of the film had this kind of intensity. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" An eccentric funeral director shares four tales of horror from an African American perspective with three young thugs. The first involves a man who exacts his revenge from beyond the grave after being murdered by crooked cops. The next tells of a boy alleged torment at the hands of a monster may not be tall tales. A white supremacist politician haunted by forces of injustices past highlights the third story, while the fourth focuses on a gangbanger undergoing frightening behavior modification.TALES FROM THE HOOD benefits enormously from solid writing and an entertaining pace. With a running time of under 100 minutes, director Rusty Cundieff does an admirable job of cramming everything he's got into each vignette. Few of us have the stomach for a horror movie with a message, but this is one that succeeds. It has things to say about racism in our society and says them in ways in which they've never been said before. Though definitely not for all tastes, TALES FROM THE HOOD is a surprisingly solid horror anthology.* *Cast Note Clarence Williams III, who plays the funeral director, is best known as Linc from THE MOD SQUAD television series. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This ain't no funeral parlor. This ain't the terrordome. Welcome to HELL mothaf*#%@! In not too many words I want to express my respect for one of the most underrated horror movies of the 90s. Like The Twilight Zone it is a segmented film (although all directed by Rusty Cundieff) that spans across a good variety of horror genres. The real horrorshow here, though, is the domestic/racial issues against the black community. Cleverly (and without being preachy or offensive to white people), Cundieff disguised his agenda with rich characters and a bone chilling conclusion.The HIGHPOINT of this movie for me is the film's proverbial ringleader- a funeral parlor director. The man, brilliantly and hilariously underplayed by a bug-eyed Clarence Williams III, finds a stack of drugs he wants to sell to three young hoods. As you watch you begin to wonder what eerie agenda he really has in store. These scenes tie all the vignettes together.Also, the final segment is a very profound statement on gang violence (although beware, this is the preachiest segment). I like to call it A Clockwork Black because it applies Anthony Burgress's idea of reversing violence onto the offender onto a gang leader called Krazy K. Those K's in his name aren't a mistake either! Cundieff underlines a necessary argument about between black-on-black violence by comparing K to a neo nazi.Like any memorable work of horror, Tales remembers to keep its monsters metaphorical. Police brutality, domestic violence, racial profiling, and gang violence are the most hideous creatures found here. I complement Rusty Cundieff on a job well done there. Excessive campiness and at-times generic camera work keep this from being great, but nothing stops its relevance in the genre.STAR RATING *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly great movie!","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not really scary of a movie, but this movie really did serve a good purpose.  I noticed that the four stories in this movie touched on four topics in today's society Domestic Violence(David Alan Grier, Brandon Hammond, Paul Jai Parker, Rusty Cundieff), Police Brutality(Anthony Griffith, Tom Wright, Michael Massee), Racism(Corbin Bernsen, Art Evans, Roger Guenveur Smith) and Black-on-black crime(Lamont Bentley, Joe Torry, De'Aundre Bonds, Samuel Monroe Jr., Ricky Harris). There is basically a message in all of them but the 4th story in this film was probably the best one.  Not an unpredictable movie but not at all bad, and the ending was fantastic as well... "},{"Title":"One of the better horror anthologies","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Yes, it's flawed, and it's cheesy, and it's over-the-top. It's equal parts clever satire, straight-up homage, and occasionally even a parody. There are many horror, exploitation, and black humor elements sprinkled throughout the movie. I just can't understand why this movie isn't beloved by more people. Maybe it's because the cast is mostly black, and the stories revolve around inner city, black youth? Well, as a white guy from the suburbs, I absolutely loved this movie. It's flawed, of course, but when it works, it works better than most other movies of this type.If you're not familiar with it, this is a horror anthology highly influenced by Tales from the Crypt, an old 50s horror comic book series that birthed several spin-off movies and an influential TV series. It also takes ample inspiration from the Twilight Zone, Tales from the Dark Side, and Creepshow franchises. If you're a fan of any of these, I'd have to highly recommend Tales from the Hood, especially if you're also into Blaxploitation, from which it also takes some inspiration.In the time honored tradition of horror/exploitation movies everywhere, the guilty are punished with gory deaths and lessons are learned (frequently too late). Is it preachy, didactic social satire? Perhaps, at times. But it's also entertaining as hell. It has a great cast, some really cheesy, over-top-the-top acting, and was produced by Spike Lee. For me, that makes it almost required viewing. "},{"Title":"Hoodwinked","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** In The Hood three homeboys Stack Ball & Bulldog are mysteriously drawn to the Simms Funeral Home to get their hands on a stash of, what they call illegal drugs in gangster jive, The Sh*t thats supposedly hidden there. Forcing their way in they get the owner of the place the mortician Mr. Simms to take them where The Sh*t is threatening to murder him if he doesn't do business with them and lead them to it. Mr. Simms, who's new in the business of drug selling and who's also a bit weird and screwy but, for some strange reason, seems to show no fear at all of these dangerous hoodlums! Who are all armed with handguns and ready to use them in an instant. Simms tells the homeboys that they'll get The Sh*t all right in fact by the time the night is over they'll be knee deep in The Sh*t. But before he takes them to where  The Sh*t is he's got a few nice little stories to tell them about some of the stiffs, that are now being prepared for burial in his funeral home, stories that he calls Tales from the Hood. The first tale that Simms tells the hoodlums is about a former black cop Clarence who went insane from guilt in not doing anything to save the life of a popular black community activist Martin Moorehouse when he was brutally beaten and then shot up with drugs, that caused him to die from an overdose, by three of his fellow cops. Clarence ended up murdering the three criminally-corrupt policemen on the one year anniversary of Moorehouses murder and then lost his mind and later his life. The next Tale from The Hood is about little Walter who's dad Mr. Johnson constantly and brutally beats him and his mom to a pulp for the slightest reason. Back in school a bully who also beat up Walter had for some strange reason both his arms and legs broken when Walter drew a picture of him and then crushed it. Having his teacher Mr. Garvy go to see Mr. Johnson about Walter's fears of going home Mr. Johnson shows up and, true to his nature, starts to attack the teacher as well as Walter and his mom. The brutal and mindless Mr. Johnson soon ends up broken to pieces and burned to a crisp by Walter doing the same thing to him like he did back in school to the bully with his strange and destructive powers. The third Tale from the Hood has to do with this racist politician Duke Metger who bought this old southern plantation, that he'll run his campaign out of, where the owner had all his slaves slaughtered just before they were to be set free by the Union Army after the Civil War. Stirring from their graves the souls of the murdered slaves came to life by taking over a number of voodoo dolls buried in the mansion who then vengefully and ferociously do the arrogant Metger in.And finally the last Tale from the Hood is about local homeboy gang-banger Crazy K which seemed to strike a cord with the three thugs. Crazy K was brutally shot down in the streets by his fellow homeboys who he was at war with over the control of the already mentioned Sh*t that killed so many in The Hood, like black atavist Moorehouse, over the years. The story about Crazy K really shook up the three who it turned out where the one's who did in the vicious and unrepentant Crazy K. Now with all the tales and stories from The Hood finished Mr. Simms takes the three hoods, who by now are getting very inpatient with him, down to the cellar to get the valuable Sh*t all for themselves. And they do get The Sh*t but it's not The Sh*t that they expected! And worst of all Mr. Simms didn't turn out to be the wacky harmless and non-offensive eccentric that they thought that he was! But The Sh*t and the person-Mr. Simms- who took them to it turned out to be their, the three homeboys, worst darkest and most terrifying nightmare! A nightmare that dwarfs anything that they could have ever imagine in their wildest drug-induced hallucinations to be really Bad in The Hood or for that matter anywhere else! "},{"Title":"your own private mortality","Date":"9 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A tribute to movies like Dr. Terror's House of Horrors and Tales from the Crypt, Tales from the Hood presents some horror vignettes centering on life in the black ghetto. Some drug dealers go to a funeral home to pick up their s**t, only to have the eccentric owner (Clarence Williams III) tell them about the fates of some recent customers...with a twist at the end. At once a fun horror flick and also warning about getting mixed up with the wrong people, this is a cool one. A particular scene in the fourth vignette appears to be a tribute to A Clockwork Orange. All in all, a real credit for director Rusty Cundieff and executive producer Spike Lee.Featuring Tom Wright (the hitchhiker in Creepshow 2), David Alan Grier, Corbin Bernsen and Rosalind Cash (in her final role). "},{"Title":"A superb mid-90's horror anthology tale with macabre humor and confronting topics","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had to wait more than 10 years to finally see this one. Not one single copy seemed to be available over here in Europe. That was until 2007, when I finally got my hands on a Region 1 DVD copy.If you like anthology movies, then you have no excuse for not seeing this one. One of the best anthology movies of the 90's (it's up there with Tales From The Dark Side The Movie and Necronomicon, if you ask me). And probably the best horror movie from the hood with a nearly all Afro-American cast ever made (because I can't really say I've ever seen a ghetto-horror flick that was actually any good). Three hood-rats, out to collect some 'shiiit', visit a freaky coroner who tells them 4 terrifying tales of the supernatural.The first tale is about three corrupt white cops who had it coming... Wings Hauser is especially enjoyable in this one. He already evoked my interest at the time after having seen his enjoyable performance in Night Shadows (AKA Mutant). And by know I simply love the man. Second story is about a boy and his bruises, which are being caused by... a monster supposedly living in his house. Great and fascinating conclusion this one had. The third tale has some killer-puppet action going on in it of which Charles Band could easily be very jealous. CorbinThe DentistBernsen stars in this segment that revolves around voodoo and slavery. The fourth and last segment gives a big nod to Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange. Enough said about that one. The wrap-around story wraps it all up nicely, and has a very satisfying conclusion. Tales From The Hood is actually more than 'just a horror movie'. With Spike Lee being executive producer, you can rightfully expect that this movie will carry important themes & topics like racism, politics, police brutality, guilt, child abuse, brothers killing brothers, etc. The message always comes across, but possible statements & points of view never become too dominant. This film's primary goal is to entertain a horror audience. And it splendidly succeeds in that. The filmmakers also clearly know the rules of the horror-anthology-genre as well as the tricks of the trade, all to great success. Need I even say that the make-up and special effects are darn excellent too? The tales from this hood, are all winners. "},{"Title":"Impressive.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A collection of four vignettes that while telling moral tales, do so without being trite or heavy handed.  This was an excellent film that did not get the chance it deserved. "}{"Title":"Rented this for the first time at age 15, own it now, very enjoyable for any horror fan","Date":"12 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I wrote a review for this on Amazon a couple years ago, I figured I'd do one here as well. The first time I saw this, I expected a comedy, boy! I was dead wrong! To be honest, the first two stories were so freaky, I had my mom turn it off. Obviously, I'm a lot harder to scare now and like it overall, despite the constant language. It's kind of a social commentary with realism and supernatural overtones mixed together. This was my first horror anthology, followed by several others It's got a decent script, even though some will say 'I've seen all this before' but to me, clichéd doesn't have to mean bad, if the right people are in it/behind and in front of the camera, this was also my first Spike Lee film, so I won't judge it on those merits. I know he didn't direct it, but I've heard about a lot of his movies, some look pretty good. By the way, I'm not black either, but I have a large amount of respect for them. I'm getting off track here, bottom line if you like horror stories with some semblance of reality, you'll probably enjoy this too, but you'll have to overlook the language. "},{"Title":"You Died","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was excellent and very familiar and/or a remake but only not a skeleton and black people from Tales from the Cyrpt.The first one was about a black man who knows the white policemen are trading drug dealing and three white cops kill him and the black cop felt so bad and heard Clarnce and told to bring the tree cops to his grave.He did it and then it became a party,he killed all tree in horrible ways you can imagine.The next was about a boy who has a daddy and thinks he is a monster and gets help from his teacher,and found how to kill him...by drawing him and then destroys the paper which killed him.Next was a white man who didn't respect the black people who fought for this house he is in and doesn't care.Later so black dolls in the picture came in and taught him a lesson not to forget.And lastly Crazy K who kills white and black but a woman tries to help him and ended up by being shot by his homes.And great ending when the three black dudes are in hell and didn't know and tough they were alive. "},{"Title":"parts are greater than the whole","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" An interesting, at times totally innovative take on the horror film genre. Three young hoodlums go to a funeral home where a bizarre mortician (an eerie Williams) takes them on a tour and shares four terrifyingly twisted ghost stories. The first involving corrupt cops is routine and obvious; the second is a unique take on child abuse that is creative and fairly creepy; the third involving vengeful voodoo dolls is at times shocking, at times corny, but eerie and crafty in its own right; the fourth about gang violence and rehabilitation is highly imaginative and something to marvel at; the film's content isn't always on target, but the special effects are convincing, and the performances rock solid, making this a fairly impressive showing for all those involved. **½ "},{"Title":"Well Done!!!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie. I am a big fan of the whole tales type of movies and i thought that this film had a great way of taking four horror stories and giving them an urban twist. Clarence Williams III is hillarious and spooky as mortician Simms and David Alen Grier who is mostly known for his comedic talents gives a frightful performance as an abusive stepfather. Of the 4 tales told int the film i mostly enjoyed Boys Do Get Bruises which offered an interesting way of dealing with child abusive by showing how a monster doesn't necesarily look like one. The other story i enjoyed was the final one Hard Core Covert which gives an eerie look at racial and gang related violence. The other two stories which mostly dealed with racism and corruptness were good although predictable and kind of slow but were still entertaining. A somewhat suprise ending was well done and this remains as one of the best horror films of the teen slasher filled 90's genre. FINAL RATING ****/***** "},{"Title":"More than just a Black Tales from the Crypt","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  At first glance Tales from the Hood is very similar to Tales from the Crypt. They just put a black culture spin on the stories. There is more to the movie than that though. Although there is some run of the mill plots to some of the stories, others show a surprising amount of originality and creativity. The stories vary in quality. The first story concerning a murdered black activist rising from the grave is boring and hardly original. It's not scary either and the makeup is some of the worst I've ever seen. It's like they bought their supplies at Rite Aid. The second story about a boy that suffers abuse is a lot more original but not what you would call scary. It does feature David Alan Grier in a role that he was surprisingly good in. The writer and director Rusty Cundieff plays a concerned teacher in this story. The third story shows Corbin Bernsen as a racist politician who gets what's coming to him. This story is the most eerie and shows the most imagination. The last story is not scary but shows what can happen when you lead a life of evil and submit to experimental re-education. The story is narrated throughout by Clarence Williams III, obviously having lots of fun. I was surprised that this film received so few votes, it must not be too well known. Bottom Line If you haven't seen this yet then check it out. It is decent horror even by the horrible standards the film set itself up for by being named Tales from the Hood. "},{"Title":"Underrated Horror Film","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" *Possible spoilers*Horror movie tropes are paired with sociological issues in this underrated horror film. In my opinion, some of the best horror and sci-fi films reflect the political climate of the era in which they are made. Tales from the Hood is a great example, and still relevant over 20 years later. It's also one of the best examples of a horror anthology film.On one level, we have a somewhat typical cheesy horror flick with low-budget special effects and some silly moments. But the real core of this film is that the horrors of real life are scarier than the supernatural events portrayed.Zombies, monsters in the closet, haunted dolls, and a mad scientist laboratory are all used as frameworks for truly terrifying, real life social issues - police brutality and corruption, domestic violence, white supremacists running for political office, and gang violence. The final story also seems as a cautionary tale. "},{"Title":"A Terrific,Underrated Horror Anthology.","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tales From The Hood is a terrific and underrated Horror anthology that combines fine direction,a good cast,a memorable score and great special make-up effects. All of those elements make Tales From The Hood a great Horror Anthology and one of the better Horror films of the 1990s.Tales From The Hood tells the story of three Black youths who have come to a funeral home to purchase some drugs from the funeral home's owner Mr. Simms(Clarence Williams III). While at the funeral home Mr. Simms tells the three youths four different tales of Horror about death,revenge and madness.During the early to mid 1990s when Horror films was seen as dead and African-American cinema and Hood/Urban films were being made saw the release of Tales From The Hood,a fantastic Horror Anthology that is one of my favorite Horror Anthology movies and is one of the better Horror films of the 1990s that has thankfully earned something of a Cult status among Horror fans. Tales From The Hood takes it's inspirations from Movie and TV Anthologies such as The Twilight Zone,EC Horror Comics,Tales From The Crypt,Creepshow(1982)and other Horror Anthologies before it but what sets Tales From The Hood apart is the African-American aspect and how the movie in a thrilling,scary and suspenseful way with bits of dark humor mixes together Supernatural Horror with an urban style and social commentary of a Spike Lee(who executive produced the movie)film talking about real life issues such as Racism,police brutality,child abuse and gang violence which Tales From the Hood stand out from other Horror Anthologies. The tone of the movie has a great balance of being serious and over the top with a dark and twisted sense of Humor that hangs over the movie. Like many Anthologies each tale is different and are unique in their own way. The movie gets off to a great start with the first tale Rogue Cop Revelation,a revenge story about police brutality and murder involving a civil rights leader,a young and naive Black rookie cop and three corrupt racist Cops. It's a simple but effective tale of revenge that give viewers enough intensity and thrills that keep them entertained. The second story Boys Do Get Bruised is about a young quiet boy named Walter who is getting abused by a monster in his home and wants to kill the monster. Boys Do Get Bruised is probably the most clever and imaginative written of the four stories giving a interesting take on a monster story that is like a Twilight Zone episode but dealing with child abuse with multiple twists and turns(you'll see)at the end of the tale. The third story KKK Comeuppance is about a racist former Klu Klux Klan member and southern Senator Duke Metger who's at plantation where slaves were tortured finds himself being stalked by a living voodoo doll that represents a dead slave. KKK Comeuppance is an entertaining mixture of suspense and dark humor but if you have a fear of dolls or puppets you will probably be a little freaked out. The forth and final story is titled Hard-Core Convert about a violent and homicidal gang member named Crazy-K who is in prison and is given a chance at redemption by a doctor named Dr. Cushing by being put through an scientific program that will help him reform. Hardcore Convert is a disturbing account about gang on gang violence and the consequences of ones actions dealing with violence and death. The segment also pays a great homage to the Stanley Kubrick classic A Clockwork Orange with thought-provoking commentary and a powerful message. The scares and suspense in each story will make you jump and keep you on the edge of your seat while keeping you glued to the screen. If there was one flaw with Tales From The Hood is that the stories were too short and I would have loved if each of the stories were longer and better developed. The violence,blood and gore is a little vicious and gruesome at times but goes well with the film. The ending of Tales From The Hood is amazing and will be very scary and surprising for viewers bringing the movie full circle in a powerful way. A great conclusion.The cast is great. Clarence Williams III is excellent and over the top as Mr. Simms,the owner of the funeral home. Joe Torry(Stack),Samuel Monroe Jr.(Bulldog)and De'Aundre Bonds(Ball)are fantastic as gang bangers who meet Mr. Simms. Tom Wright is effective as Martin Moorehouse,a civil rights leader. Anthony Griffith is wonderful as Clarence Smith,a rookie cop. Wings Hauser(Officer Stroum),Michael Masse(Newton)and Duane Whitaker(Billy)are great as corrupt racist cops. Brandon Hammond is great as Walter,a lonely boy. Rusty Cundieff is good as Mr. Garvy,Walter's teacher. Paula Jai Parker does a fine job as Sissy,Walter's Mother. David Alan Grier is intense as Carl,Sissy's boyfriend. Corbin Bernsen is terrific as Duke Metger,a racist senator. Lamont Bentley is fiery as Crazy K,a homicidal gang banger. Rosalind Cash is sensational as Dr. Cushing,a Doctor who wants to help Crazy K. Roger Guenveur Smith(Rhodie)and Art Evans(Eli)give good performances as well.The direction by Rusty Cundieff is great,with Cundieff bringing a nice pace and workmanlike quality to the film while giving the movie and some nice visual touches. Fine direction,Cundieff.The score by Christopher Young is amazing,effective and creepy with each part of the score being different for each segment. Outstanding score,Young. There is also a incredible Hip-Hop soundtrack that includes the memorable song Born II Die by Spice-1.The Special and Practical Make-up Effects by K.N.B. Efx Group are well-done,realistic,effective and work for the movie. Great effects,K.N.B.In final word,if you love Horror films or Horror Anthologies,I highly suggest you see Tales From The Hood,a terrific and underrated Horror Anthology that is worth your time. Highly Recommended. 9.5/10. "},{"Title":"Not Bad Horror Anthology Film!","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This 1995 horror anthology film stars Clarence Williams III, Corbin Bernsen, Tom Wright, Lamont Bentley and Rusty Cundieff. This begins with 3 African-American thugs who arrive at a funeral home to make a deal with mortician, Simms (Williams) who reveals 4 true tales to them. The 1st features an ex-cop helping a murdered activist (Wright) exacting revenge on 3 crooked cops who killed him. The 2nd features a teacher (Cundieff) trying to help a young boy who is scared of an abusive monster. The 3rd features a racist senator (Bernsen) who buys a southern plantation and becomes haunted by a possessed doll seeking revenge for his tortured ancestors. The 4th & final tale ties the film with a violent gang member (Bentley) who gets shot and is experimented on for a chance of redemption. Soon, the thugs get more than they bargained for when they learn who Simms really is. This follows in the footsteps of Tales from the Crypt, Williams is menacing in it and Cundieff also directed it. It's not bad and I recommend it to horror fans. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, quirky vignette horror. Worth investigating","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Vignette Horror is one of my favourite types, it's not just the accessibility of the format, but the deftness and wit that is required to create a sequence of short stories usually bypasses the problems which certain horror films have in terms of an overstayed welcome. The structure used in Tales From The Hood is the classic one which was perfected by the Amicus and Hammer studios in the 1960′s and 1970′s, only minus Joan Collins.The 'cryptkeeper' in this case is played by Clarence Williams III, who is a drastically underused actor and always a delight to see on screen. He draws the attention of three local gangstas through the promise of a large amount of drugs which have come into his possession. The catch being that they must first listen to him tell several stories relating to the bodies which currently lie displayed within his funeral home.It only has a running time of 98 minutes which is part of the reason why it is so successful and enjoyable. I am very much of the opinion that a great deal of horror movies now unnecessarily approach the 120 minute (and beyond) when they could have been infinitely more successful if shortened. There are four stories on show here, each relating to a particular hardship or struggle faced by the African American communities of the early 1990′s.It's important to remember that this was an America which was still sore after the chaos of the LA Riots and the exposure of a crooked police force through the Rodney King videotape leak. Once you see that Spike Lee was drafted in as an executive producer, the social elements of the movie become contextualised to a greater extent.The topics of the cautionary tales cover areas such as police brutality and racism withing law enforcement (Rogue Cop Revelation), domestic abuse against women and children (Boys Do Get Bruised), racism within politics (KKK Comeuppance) and the futility of gang culture and the violence it creates (Hard Core Convert). All are delivered with a supernatural twist which places the movie strongly into the horror genre and making it not only groundbreaking, unique for it's time, but also helps it to maintain a strength when watched today.I was aware of the soundtrack before I was aware of the film itself as it was given to me shortly after its release in 1995, it would be a couple of years before I was able to track down a VHS copy. The OST features some fantastic tracks by Gravediggaz, Wu Tang Clan and a brilliant Ol Dirty Bastard track and is well worth locating a copy of.When one considers the depths to which 'hood' based horror movies became after this ('Snoop Dogg's Hood of Horror' and 'Leprechaun back 2 Da Hood' being just two examples), it is all the more reason to revisit Tales From the Hood. There's something about it which will greatly appeal to a certain horror fan, particularly those fond of the genre output of the early 90′s.I'd tell you to go to your local video store to acquire a copy, but there probably isn't even one left in your town. Get it whatever way you can, you won't regret it.Read more at zombiehamster.com "},{"Title":"you might just want to skip to the last one","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" For all but the last vignette this movie seems to be the occasion for lots and lots of gleeful indulgence in pretty disgusting racist profanity and other really offensive material - eg the violence at home chez monster in the closet which was really really over the top and next to nauseating and all the stuff that comes out of duke's mouth as he's chased around by the little dolls. there are lots and lots of roles of the sort that black actors really hate to play and constantly complain of being stuck with the 2 exceptions being those in which CW III and Roger GS are cast, both of them being a little too classy to offer any of the other negative-stereotypical central casting black roles that comprise the rest of the film. The white actors in this film, actually, are subjected to that sort of casting that blacks have to put up with lol so that's kind of funny. Poor Corbin Bernsen not that LA Law was such a great height to fall from but still . . . But it's OK ya dig cause it's directed by a black guy and co written by him with a white guy (let's sing together now, ebony... and ivory... etc) Well, it all sort of makes sense when you see the producer is spike lee, and so . . . I mean basically it has the same problem as the other spike lee films I've seen in that it's fundamentally separatist and whites and blacks can both enjoy making boogie men of each other in this movie. lucky audience eh? makes very strange viewing.The last story, though, was pretty cool though and sort of a tour de force all around, even if it was a copy of another film it was certainly freshened up. I would like to see its equivalent in Gay Cinema which is so full of us vs them BS.It was really cute how they made use of CWII's gap tooth smile )This is a really tough one to rate so I'll give it a 7! "}{"Title":"Horror in the streets.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  From the beginning of the movie to the end,three young men wanted to find drugs of all places a funeral parlor. The stories the mortician told these young men were strange but surpising. The mortician played by Clarence Williams III was the most frightening part of the movie. Who could have played a better actor? If you look at this movie for the first time it's kind of confusing because the beginning the movie didn't coincide with the stories the mortician told. But at the end you'll see why there's always consequences for one's actions. Especially living the street life in the hood. "},{"Title":"There's nothing fun about this","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Horror anthology movie directed by Rusty Cundieff and produced by Spike Lee. Features four stories plus a framing story that ties it all together. The first story is about a rookie black cop who knows three white cops killed a black politician but doesn't say anything. He's then compelled by the spirit of the politician to bring the murderers to his grave. The second story's about a little boy who shows up to school with bruises he claims he got from a monster in his home. The third story is about a doll terrorizing a former Ku Klux Klansmen running for office. The fourth story is about a killer who agrees to participate in a behavioral modification program in order to get early release from prison. The framing story sees three gangbangers visit a funeral home where they intend to buy some drugs from the eccentric mortician (Clarence Williams III). If you've seen any horror anthology movies before, you'll easily predict how this turns out. Violent, profane, and ugly. The much-ballyhooed social commentary is obvious and insulting. None of the stories are fresh and you'll probably feel the need to bathe after watching this. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"5 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As Mr.Simms says......ahhh....the s***. I really liked this movie.When I first saw this movie I was 15 yrs old and it scared the crap out of me.Especially the first story where those cops beat up Mr.Moorhouse and drove him to the deck and the cops put him in his car and drove his car into the water after they had over dosed him with drugs and after that he was calling out for Clarence to bring the cops to him and when the police came and that one cop whizzed on Moorhouses grave and he made his other partner whiz on the grave too and Moorhouse grabbed the cop and pulled him in the grave and tore his heart out and they showed Moorehouse standing there holding the cops beating heart and then he went after those other 2 cops.I didn't sleep for 2 weeks.I kept thinking I was gonna see Moorhouse standing over my bed or something when I woke up.I liked the story about the the boy who was being abused by his step dad and he said his step dad was a monster.And the one about the dolls was good too. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Hell...Motherf*ckers.","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Tales From the Hood is a good horror effort that is almost too saturated with social commentary.  It's a Tales From the Crypt inspired flick that's told ghetto-style.  David Alan Grier as a spouse abusing husband is just too funny.  I know that's nothing to laugh about but it's David Alan Grier.  Corbin Bernsen also fits right in as a former klan member and politician.  He makes me laugh as well.  But the person who takes the cake is Clarence Williams III.  He is WAY over-the-top and every line he utters elicits a laugh out of me.  Actually this movie could play well as a comedy.  There is not one white character in it that's not racist to the 3rd degree.  And the characters are so racist it becomes a joke.  Tales From the Hood paints a very negative picture of racism and I do applaud them for that.  I just think, as a genre picture, they may be pushing it a bit.  The best horror story is KKK Comeuppance with Bernsen.  It's just a classic tale about someone getting their just desserts.  The most socially conscious segment is the last one entitled Hard Core Convert.  That one borrows a bit from A Clockwork Orange while adding some thought-provoking insight.  Screaming Mad George provides some trippy make-up effects, as usual. "},{"Title":"3/5ths good.....","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Three inner-city gang members have to go to a funeral home to make a pickup, where they encounter the weird old guy who runs the place (Clarence Williams, who is really very good at this.) The flick's five stories are an amalgam of idiotic horror movie, a ripoff of the Twilight Zone and other spooky TV shows, and decent moviemaking. As has been said in other reviews, the first story, about racist cops, is, on the whole, a stupid piece better left to bad zombie movies. The second, however, deals with child abuse with a voodoo ring to it; the first of the better stories has an abused kid drawing voodoo-type pictures that can kill people if the paper is abused. (Maybe this a popular myth of voodoo; I do not know.) The third is the aforementioned ripoff; little dolls imbued with the souls of dead slaves (voodoo or voodoo-myth?) attack a racist politician. The fourth story is by far the best; a former gang member elects for behavior modification, encounters a white supremacist, goes through strange chemical and visual processes, and is subjected to sensory deprivation. He goes through severe psychological trauma, then the movie cuts to the funeral home, where there is an entirely unexpected (to me) ending. Overall, the second and fourth stories, plus the in-between shots, are good, but the other bits are clunkers.9/10 (The 2nd and 4th and in-between) 2/10 (The rest) "},{"Title":"Two out of five....","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Out of the five (including the wrap-around) stories in this movie, only two work. Both are excellent.The wrap-around story actually is okay, but its punchline isn't really surprising or anything. Clarence Williams is a hoot to watch, thoughThe first real story, involving racist cops, is lamely written and directed. You KNOW what's going to happen before it does. It even rips off a gag from the movie DEAD ALIVEThe second story is a little predictable, but it's well-executed and manages to be creepy. You'll discover what a REAL monster in a closet is like...The third story plays like an episode from The Twilight Zone. It's okay, but not surprising. And most viewers will have seen something like it before.The last story is the best. Kind of A CLOCKWORK ORANGE for the 90s, it involves a gang member going through a new kind of rehabilitation. Very intense, and with a pow of an ending.Bottom line Not quite enough for a rental (unless it's 99 cent day at your video store)...but if it's on cable, it might be worth a look for lovers of these multi-story movies.  "},{"Title":"Is this supposed to be a horror movie?","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Weak anthology black horror film. It has three urban youths being told a bunch of purportedly horrifying tales by a creepy funeral director (Clarence Williams III).The first deals with a black police officer who does not stop his white cop friends from beating a black man to death. The guy comes back to extract revenge.The second deals with child abuse. Just barely a horror tale.The third has a Ku Klux Klan man buying an old Southern mansion where he is attacked and killed by little dolls containing the souls of the black people who were killed by whites.The fourth deals with a black youth being cured of his violent behavior with VERY extreme tactics.This is very well-acted and has a few (very few) moments but I mostly hated it. This is NOT a horror film (which is what it's marketed as). It tells these horror stories but every single one of them, in a very heavy-handed way, hammers us over the head with a moral message. Such as racism is bad, violence is bad, child abuse is bad etc etc. I mean NO KIDDING! I KNOW all this! I go to see a horror film to be scared NOT preached to. If they had handled it subtlety it might have worked but they hammer it at you. It's badly directed to boot.This gets a 5 only for some cool violence, acting and an admittedly bravura finale. Williams is just great going WAY over the top but in a fun manner. I wish I could recommend this (how many black horror films are out there?) but I can't. "},{"Title":"Not a horror' movie, a call the the problems facing American society...","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time as a teenager. I thought this was going to a be a black version of Creepshow of Tales From the Crypt. It wasn't. This movie opened peoples eyes to horrors that plague Americans every day. The movie touched upon domestic abuse and the psychological effects it can have upon a child who experiences it or witnesses it. Police brutality and the brotherhood that calls for cops to cover each other made for a great story. The intolerance against those who vocalize the wrongs plaguing today's society is a part of that same phase in the movie.The one part of the movie that affected me the most was the gang banging episode. Joe Torry is a gang banger out for the almighty dollar and couldn't care less about who he hurts to get it. When he is shown what his actions are perpetuating, the images are haunting and get anyone's attention.The movie has it's share of gore, but uses horror to show viewers that the sociological, economical, and racial problems in this country are more horrifying than any idea a writer can produce. "},{"Title":"Hide Your Film in Shame.","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A trio of African-American adolescents go looking for illegal narcotics in a spooky inner-city funeral parlor run by the creepy Clarence Williams III. He pulls their chain over and over by telling stories of terror that all have an African-American flair to them. Silly venture of an anthology series only comes to life when Williams is doing his unintentionally hilarious routine. The ending is predictable and strangely silly as the true reason for the youths coming to the parlor is shown in a would-be frightening sequence. Good for a few laughs (not meant to be that way), but critically speaking another in the long line of horror film wastes. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"A little racist but the morals are good","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" As a white American, I view this movie a lot differently than its intended audience...lemme tell you why.The movie is basically a Tales From the Crypt like setting with a black cultured twist. It starts off with 3 homeboys checking out the shyt from a mortician (played brilliantly by Clarence Williams the 3rd who ironically was in an episode of Tales From the Crypt years earlier). The mortician then tells 4 tales centered around real life issues.Tale 1 is about 3 white cops who murder a black politician while a rookie black cop looks on. A year later the politician rises from the grave to extract revenge. Its your basic police brutality and one of the weaker stories because its not very realistic, which I thought this movie was supposed to be.Tale 2 is the second best in my opinion. A child on the first day of school is examined by his teacher to find bruises all over him, he claims the monster at home did it. This one centers around child abuse with the awesome moral that there are monsters in real life, just not in the form everyone thinks.Tale 3 is another weak one but Corbin Bernsen is the man, he absolutely rules so I refuse to hate it no matter how absurd it is. This one's about a former KKK member who's moving into a mansion that was once the sight of a brutal slave massacre back in the civil war days. Once he move in the ghosts of the pasts haunt him and his associate to drive home the fact that someone always pays for the sins of the past. I don't know whether it was a casting goof, but Corbin's associate was a black man so if he was a racist then why would he choose this guy as a partner? The whole dolls come to life idea is another cheesy idea (coming off about 5 Puppet Master and Child's Play movies) and if anyone else was playing the role, I would have hit the fast forward button.Tale 4 is my personal favorite...it involves a young black gangster who will kill everyone and anyone with no remorse or fear. After murdering some homeboy, the cops catch him and throw him in jail. This is where he meets a white supremacist who thanks him for doing his job for him. which leads to one of the most sickest, eye opening montages in film history. Basically the moral is, what's the difference between white lynch mobs of the 19th and 20th century and gang bangers from today? Gang violence is murder any way you look at it, and it doesn't matter if the parties are black or white, people suffer and die just the same.The film is done incredibly well but it does portray the white race as the bad guys with all the characters being racist (3 cops, politician, prisoner in the cell), but I guess that's payback for all the black characters being petty thugs and thieves in the Dirty Harry series.The tales themselves offer morals that people in every day life deal with, whether it was cheesy or not. Child abuse, crooked cops, corrupt politicians and gang warfare are an unfortunate but very real situations that this movie shines the light on beautifully.I won't give away the ending but Clarence Williams is the man of the hour and the one with the power, too sweet to be sour.I guess the highlight for me was when Corbin Bernsen calls the media spooky reporters 7 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Actually...pretty good, though not 'great'....","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tales from the Hood is a unique film...kind of a Black spin-off on Twilight Zone or Night Gallery TV shows.....the stories starkly displaying the horrors and injustices of Black life and those who inflict those horrors...from present inner city scenarios to past slave times. The writing is good,, the acting is OK...and the messages are clear. The drug and gang-shooting era were upon us to a great extent at the time of this release...and hopefully it helped some bangers come to their senses and realize what they were doing, and that it should cease. If it helped in that capacity, then not only was the project worthwhile, but also some lives were saved when it was demonstrated how lives were destroyed and what the after-world could hold for those reckless enough to dis-respect life instead of helping and allowing it to flourish. I do not care for films that use a lot of filthy language and the N word, but Tales from the Hood is a MUST SEE. "},{"Title":"Scariest Movie I ever seen","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Back in 1995, I was told about a little movie that featured horror tales from an African-American perspective. People told me that Tales from the Hood was a funny, laugh-out-loud film. I believed them. It wasn't until the end of this eerie movie that my decision had changed, along with my life.Tales from the Hood, the 1995 gangsta horror flick moved quietly into theaters without anyone noticing. It had made it's way on home video in December 1995(yay, in time for Christmas) and little did I know what I was getting myself into. Yes the film did start off funny, cuz it was rather amusing to see three bumbling gangsters go and collect drugs from a funeral home(how odd) but little did I know that this movie would forever change my life after that brief introduction to the movie.As with any horror anthology or anthology in general, this film had a series of stories that had an impact on me. The first story was the scariest of all which featured a black politician that is killed by three white racist cops, which he ultimately comes back from the dead and gets his revenge. The second story is a new twist on the my stepfather is a monster type stories and it features a young boy that is abused by his stepfather and through a change of events, he gets even with him in his own, quirky little way.The third tale features a white racist politician that receives warnings to move out of his house(because his house was built over an old slave plantation).The fourth and final tale is probably the most important one. It speaks on black on black violence in the African American community and while studying other people's comments about this film, I heard that it draws similarities from A Clockwork Orange. Even though I said Tales from the Hood is the scariest movie I've seen it was still rather quite boring. It is as if the film slows down in between the middle and doesn't know whether it's trying to take itself seriously or play the audience up for a few laughs.I think the main reason why I thought this film was scary was not because of the whole film, in general, but for the first tale, that about police brutality against blacks. I didn't really fully notice the underlying themes, but that was some scary stuff when Martin Morehouse came back from his grave.Tales from the Hood has forever changed my life. Even though people will disagree with me and say that this film is not scary, this is the only true film that ever actually scared me and I seen this when I was eleven. Next week will be the 10 year anniversary(Dec. 26, 1995) since I seen this film and sometimes, and I have never watched the film all the way through since. "},{"Title":"What do you think was the scariest story?","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There were 4 stories. The one about the politician who was murdered and had that cop bring the 3 other cops to his grave. The one about the little boy and how he thinks his mom's boyfriend is a monster because he physically abuses him. The one about the racist who won't leave that house with the dolls and they come after him. Or the one about the gangster who gets put in that muntal hospital.I think the scariest was the one about the dolls because thy're so little. They could be hiding anywhere.The least scariest, I would have to say would be the one about the mental hospital. Because unless you're in a mental hospita, there is nothing to be afraid of.What do you guys think? "},{"Title":"Thought provoking horror, a rare gem in its genre","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After coming off of the hilarious Fear of a Black Hat, director Rusty Cundieff gives us a look at horror in the streets in Tales From The Hood. Thugs Stack, Ball and Bulldog (Joe Torry, DeAundre Bonds and Samuel Monroe Jr.) go to a local funeral parlor looking for stashed drugs. They meet up with the creepy head of the funeral parlor Mr. Simms (Clarence Williams III). Going through the parlor, Mr. Simms tell the guys four eerie stories about his clients. The first story is about a black man slained by the police and he comes back from the dead. The second is about an abused child that sees the monster in his father (David Alan Grier). The third is the story of an ex-klansman turned politician that bought a house. The house used to be a plantation and the ghosts of the slaves (thanks to voodoo) comes back as dolls and get welcomes him. The last (and the least scariest but thought provoking) is the story of a thug that is killed and is shown his contribution to the deaths of millions of black people. Tales from the Hood's messages clearly separates it from Tales from the Crypt or any other horror films. This film covers everything from child abuse to black on black and gang related violence. Tales from the Hood is a must see in it's entirety. The edited versions of the film makes it seem hilarious and a waste of time. Check it out.Tales from the Hood- rated R *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Kick ass!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great horror movie!  Some very good stories and deep content. Creepy tales with meaning, what a concept.  The best part would definitely be the last sequence about the gangbanger facing the ugly truth about himself.  The ending is really cool, too. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not necessarily scary, but well-directed and acted with nifty special effects. Story number one will probably appear to standard slasher fans, number two is creative and explores child abuse in a different way. It also explores our use of imagination. Number three is probably the most comical, but still a bit creepy at times. Number four is an edgy, in-depth look at gang violence. Overall, a decent horror film with a lesson in morality. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I went to see the movie I expected something different.  It was a lot better than what I anticipated.  There were a lot of morals to the story lines.  The deprogramming concept was great.  The climax to the overlapping storyline was brilliant.  If it were made today, I'm sure it would be much better.  Compare to other black horror flix it was great. I would see part 2. "},{"Title":"Not Great, Not Terrible","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It didn't surprise me that Clarence Williams gave the best performance here.  He is a man with true range in his acting abilities.  I loved every moment he was on the screen, right up to the inevitable end.To review this film is to break it apart into its different stories.  On a whole, I would say it wasn't a fully wasted project.  I've seen it twice now, and it really does grow on you.The first story is the weakest.  It's pretty heavy-handed and sloppy.  The potential was there, it just seemed like the segment was rushed.  No atmosphere is built, the theme was crammed down our throats too early on, and it seemed like they didn't even try to make the living-corpse creepy.  Oh, well.The second one, about a real-life monster, plays on your expectations and then throws in a small curve.  I mean, it wasn't fully unpredictable, but then again none of the EC comics, (from which this movie is built), were, either.  The ending is pleasantly squishy.The third is my favorite by far.  This one, for me, was the real knuckle-biter.  Again, it started in one direction and never strayed, but I had no complaints.  Corbin Bernsen played a racist politician so well that I couldn't wait for him to get offed.  The dolls were PLENTY creepy, too.  If the other segments had been able to tap the nerve this one had, the movie probably would have been better received.  I thought the woman in the painting coming to life at the very end to be a bit cheesy, but that was easily forgiven.The final segment touched on the theme of the film the best.  Call me a traditional horror fan, but I was hoping for a more monstrous outcome.  Although, the atmosphere in this one was by far the best.Overall, I would say 5 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Extremely important!!!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very, very important horror film. I don't just recommend it to horror fans, but for everyone. It's a great horror film, that shows us, how terrible racism is. That's some of the HORROR this film delivers. At the same time, the film is funny, to keep it from becoming a very difficult film to watch. It delivers the entertaining horror atmosphere, with great horror stories, told by the devil.  "},{"Title":"It's OK","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Since everyone seems to have commented on it I won't bore anyone with the details...suffice it to say it's intresting. My only problem wasn't the gore which is to be expected but the strong language...especially near the beginning of the movie. "}{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Group of African American teens head to a funeral parlor in search of drugs. They are greeted by Clarence Williams III, who has an odd manner and tells them four horror stories, that feature clever modern day twists and make some rather important commentry on todays society. The living dolls segment, while the most unoriginal of the bunch, is by far and away the scariest and most entertaining of the bunch. The wrap up at the end of the film, while no surprise though it is meant to be, is creepy also. Williams nutty performance just adds to the fun.Rated R; Strong Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"What a waste of film!","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Was this movie supposed to be scary?  Or was it supposed to be funny yet thoughtprovoking?  It think it was supposed to be a piece of CRAP, which in that case it succeeded greatly.  This was a waste of my 2 hours I'll never be able to get back, so I would suggest others to do someting with their time that watch this film.  The thing that brings this film down is it's lack of imagination and originality.  Williams is absolutely horrible and a Spooky mortician (how original) who is the storyteller to three young gangbangers, who are stereotypical as hell, who are looking for their s**t (drugs). The ONLY story worth anything was the story of a hardcore gangbanger who is set to undergo a strange rehabiliation process, but it isn't what it seems. The rest can be thrown in the trash. A rating of 3 out of 10 was given. "},{"Title":"Mmmm...Interesting Anthology","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While this movie tends to be very predictable, as stated before by other viewers, and it is somewhat heavy-handed with the racial stereotyping, foul language, and blood and guts, Tales From the Hood does manage to create some good old-fashioned horror in the Tales From the Crypt vein(no pun intended).  The five stories are each interesting to varying degrees and some of them are very good.  The first story is the most predictable, yet it has an interesting execution(again no pun intended).  I liked the second story the best as it is easily the most subtle.  Corbin Berson plays a David Dukes type character in the third that is terrorized by slave puppets.  Even though the episode is hardly creative, it is effective in many sequences.  The fourth story is reminiscient of A Clockwork Orange and is probably the best of the episodes in terms of direction and style.  The fifth story is the wrap-a-round story and it is pretty lame, yet has some of the best comedic elements due in large part to a terriffic performance by Clarence Williams III as an undertaker that is funny, bizarre, and witty.  Williams steals every scene he is in and is easily the most memorable part of the film.  His performance is worth a look at the film, as is the ethnic way in which the stories are treated.  Amidst all the foul language(and it is plentiful) and the gore, some kind of lesson is being presented. "},{"Title":"crap on a stick","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I guess since I am a white male from the South my views will not be posted. I love horror films, and always have. This movie makes every white guy in existence a bigot/racist, but would that not be the view of this director. I say it is. All indications aside the movie is not well written or acted except for Clarence Williams III. A superb actor in my reckoning. I make no support for the Klan or for racism, but this flick speaks of it in leaps and bounds from the other side of the fence. If this is a cry for help my only guess is that they needed some good actors and a lot better budget. Again I don't expect my opinion to be posted nor allowed to make further postings even though it is my right, and the only film i have ever felt this way about.Proud from the South "},{"Title":"Dousing Racial Fires With Gasoline","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is four short movies-in-one four tales,' so to speak. I liked the first three when I first watched this back in the mid 1990s. I did not like the fourth story. The good is that the stories are basically interesting and feature good sound and neat visuals. The bad is that they are racially-motivated and very slanted. If the roles were reserved in here - blacks and whites - people would have screamed racism. It's the typical double standard we have seen for awhile. Imagine if all the black people were villains and all the white people the good guys? That's what you have here in reverse.Even on the IMDb plot line, it says the stories are with an African American focus. Excuse me?? What if it said, made with a Caucasion American focus? Come on, folks - stop the double-speak.Another negative is the extreme profanity, including blasphemy. Why I am not surprised that Spike Lee had a hand in this movie?? Those negatives sound like a typical film made by him.I really liked Clarence Williams III as the funeral parlor director spinning these stories. I thought he was consistently the best character. The punks listening to him were the worst. All four stores are horror ones and have different casts in them. All the villains were white racists. Do you think these stories help race relations, or inflame them? "},{"Title":"A really good movie!","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not going to add much, since most has been said already. I just wanted to state that I really enjoyed this movie. It not only pays a good homage to the classic EC comics (or at least the adapted early movie versions or series) but it manages to portray profound messages in a very powerful manner. The effects are pretty good as well and there's some nice gore so horror fans should be satisfied. I think that it's really one of the few movies that successfully combine horror and moral. The soundtrack is also very good - This movie was made in 95' - a time where hip hop in my opinion had reached it's highest point. So it's definitely worth a look! "},{"Title":"Great Twist on an Old Idea","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It's strange that there have been so many anthology films since TALES FROM THE CRYPT (1972), but never a black one. Come to think of it, there haven't been many black horror films PERIOD. While this certainly ISN'T the best (that would go to the other one, CANDYMAN), it is a lot of fun and not just pure camp. The best stories are the second one and the last, which get points for being the most cohesive and having a message that's Afrocentric. A unique addition to genre films.If you like this film, then definitely rent CANDYMAN. Too bad I can't say there's many other black horror films worth watching, if there even are any at all. "},{"Title":"A flawed embarrassment  of a film... that had potential","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Reading the commentary on this film, I was absolutely blown away by the LACK of negative reviews. I don't know... perhaps seeing this movie on television (as presented by the Sci-Fi Channel, infamous sanctuary of bad films and the even crappier sequels) affected my interpretation. Perhaps watching with my roommate served to skew my interpretation of a brilliant film (he couldn't stop laughing, but neither could I). Perhaps... but I really, really doubt it.Since other reviewers have written summaries of each of the film's four stories, I'll just give my impressions. The first story, as others have said, is arguably the weakest. The concept in itself isn't terrible but the execution is poor. The Evil White Cops do a good job of reinforcing the ugly stereotype that most police officers are sadistic racists out to brutalize minorities while hiding behind their badges. Despite this, the story manages to carry a nothing-new-but-I'll-watch-to-see-what-happens force... up until the climax. I am not one to dismiss a film because of dated special effects, but what takes place in the final scene looks too ridiculous to take seriously. And keep in mind the full effect was censored on the version I saw. Overall, it's pathetic and predictable. The second story is much better, owing in no small part to a surprising performance by comedian David Allen Grier that's anything but amusing. The concept behind the story is more creative than that of the previous story, and the climax is interesting if a bit predictable; as others have said, there is a distinct 'Twilight Zone' feel to the entire section. There was very little laughter as I watched this part of the movie. The laughter soon returned. The third story exploits the unfortunately socially acceptable stereotype of Racist White Southerner with an over-the-top, black-hating politician. I'll say it again special effects do NOT make a movie, but I almost laughed myself into a blackout. Whereas the second story had a 'Twilight Zone' feel, the third has a spirit more akin to the worst, least self-aware episode of 'Tales From The Crypt' imaginable. Absolutely horrible, howl-inducing stuff. Finally, the fourth story. I agree with several other reviewers that the fourth story is actually pretty good, especially when considered alongside the others- nothing glaringly wrong here. I won't say anything that might spoil the plot, but I will say that the ending was simultaneously satisfying, unsettling, and unintentionally amusing. I tried to take this section of the movie seriously, but the director made it very difficult, and the ending had on me the same effect as the ending of 'Training Day' (an EXCELLENT film, but as my friend put it, it looked like Denzel was feeling the Holy Spirit).Oh, and the framing story. Clarence Williams, III is an excellent actor and does a great job with what he's given, but the idea that three (laughably stereotypical) gangbangers looking for their drugs would sit down and listen as a creepy old guy tells them stories- it's ludicrous. Aside from Williams, the acting is terrible, and the God-awful special effects that accompany the final seconds of the movie pretty much destroy any impact that the ending may have otherwise had.I realize most people will give this a higher score because it attempts something that is conceptually sound and intriguing horror from a black point-of-view. I can't rate the movie higher than a 4 because it COULD have been great, however.My advice if you have about two hours to kill and you want to laugh at a bad-but-not-abysmal movie, 'Tales From The Hood' will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Great horror movie with a Meaning!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is probably one of the best horror movies I have ever seen. Each different story has a meaning. I would seriously go rent this. It has one of the best and most scariest endings I have ever seen. This movie makes you want to do good in life. It shows how bad things really are and how much worse they can get. Not only are parts of it serious, it has some fun little horror elements thrown into it to make it more fun to watch. I don't give a crap what other people say. I give this movie **** out of **** stars!!! "},{"Title":"A poor rip-off","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" i watched this movie from start to finish with a few of my friends and i have to say that is a horrible movie. Before anyone says that i am racist i want you to know that i am not. This movie had very poor acting, the stories were very dull, and the ending was a direct rip-off of the ending of the classic Tales From the Crypt. I am sorry but the only thing i could do while i was watching this film was laugh, and not in a good way like with Blood Feast, i was laughing in a way that was saying that it was one of the worst films that i ever saw. I understand that the movie is trying to say some sort of message but come on it is just way to generic. If you want a good film that tells short stories I would recommend Tales From the Crypt, Vault of Horror, Creepshow (both 1 & 2), and Tales From the Darkside,and skip this. "}{"Title":"The worst horror film I've ever seen.","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't know words for this film. The plot was absolutely horrible it doesn't make any sense at all. The acting is very bad and cheesy and the background music is extremely annoying. I can't believe that there's actually films out there like this. The creators obviously thought that they were making the next Dawn of the dead. I can't believe that I was stupid enough to watch this film. I can't even begin with the acting its so bad and the actors are acting all gangster and everything. This film glorifies gang bangers which the gang bangers are pretty much the heroes in the film. I recommend this film to no horror fan or any decent, hard working, law abiding citizen. This is total crap it deserves a -10 out of 10....1 was the lowest I could rate it. "}]