[{"Title":"A travesty of a great novel","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"48 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why should anyone find it necessary or even appropriate to hijack one of the landmark works of American literature to replace it with an emotionally slack, thematically vacant, and feebly agenda-driven narrative?  Demi Moore's curious Scarlet Letter is almost an hour underway before it even reaches the point where Hawthorne's book begins whereas Hawthorne's novel is a study of sin, psychological torment, and forgiveness, this film has neither heart nor mind behind its high-gloss presentation it is apparently a libertine tract in defense of adultery, and an attack, pretentiously lofty but incapable of more than junior-high subtlety of thought, on intolerance.This can only be pulled off at all by systematically reducing Hawthorne's three-dimensional characters to flat and dull-witted markers, inane in their dialogue, a set of manic and breathy artifacts of a soap-opera sensibility. Accordingly, the characters of Hester Prynne (Moore) and her erstwhile husband Roger Chillingworth (Robert Duvall) emerge as parodies of themselves -- bad acting and bad direction across the board by one bad actress and one good actor.  Gary Oldman's Arthur Dimmesdale is astoundingly more or less credible for whole scenes at a time, but he has nothing to play against, and the thematic underpinnings of the story have been knocked out from under him.  One can defend this film for its cinematography, for its score, and for any number of other production-based virtues, but when they are all added together, they still don't come close to justifying the film's existence.  It is a vulgar and banal demolition of one of America's greatest novels. "},{"Title":"Not that bad, actually","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"40 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was expecting something really awful, but once I got about 15 minutes into the movie, I decided that the only way to enjoy it was to forget that it was based on a famous novel and just enjoy the movie for what it was.  And I found myself very entertained.I was impressed with Gary Oldman's performance.  It's nice to see him portray someone who isn't a psychotic ham and he did admirably well.  Demi Moore suprised me with her acting and apart from a few stilted scenes and discomfort with the dialogue, I think she pulled it off pretty well.  I found myself caring about her character and her relationship with Dimmesdale.  Perhaps the bathing scene was a little too gratuitous -- c'mon, Demi, do you need to show it all? -- but it was only a few minutes out of 135.I wish that Pearl could have been given more screen time and character development and the woman who did her voiceover throughout the story left much to be desired.  As did Robert Duvall's performance.  I didn't much like his acting in this movie at all.The supporting cast was excellent Joan Plowright, Edward Hardwicke, and others.  The locations and set design were exquisite and the costumes were gorgeous.Overall, I thought it was a very good way to spend a couple hours.  You see some early colonial atmosphere, something which is almost extinct in movies nowadays, and adequate and sometimes inspired acting.  Just don't expect to see Hawthorne's novel on the screen.  If you want to see the unhappy ending in all its self-mutilating glory, see Lillian Gish's silent version that is sometimes aired on Turner Classic Movies.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Just Horrible","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"29 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If this movie were original it would be only fair to mediocre, but claiming its based on Nathaniel Hawthorne's classic novel is insulting. I hear the ads for this movie say its based 'freely and liberally' on the book. Well, this is an insult to the book. Is Demi Moore so illiterrate she comments (see trivia section) that it was okay to change the ending of the book from sad to happy because not many people read the book? Unbelievable. The Scarlett 'A' imagery has been permanently etched in American culture. Take classic literature and try shoving it through the Hollywood formula mill and this movie is the result, a faceless, emotionless and forgettable movie. Try sayign that about the book "},{"Title":"Shallow lies wrapped in easy to swallow eye candy.","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"46 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just caught this movie on cable. Eager to see a film version of the Hawthorne book I was, Very Disappointed. It is sad that some people will think that this is the real Scarlet Letter. The names of characters are the same as the book but it rapidly departs from the book beyond that -- and for the worse.You will read commentaries here about what a wonderful film this was with discussions of the beautiful cinematography and great acting. They will also say how it is loosely adapted from Hawthornes' book. These are all true statements and the loose in loosely should be especially emphasized. I even agree that normally an adaption might be judged on its own merits. So why did I give this a low score? Because it is titled The Scarlet Letter. That is a classical book with some very deep moral messages. The very term Scarlet Letter has taken on a special meaning in our language and culture. But, if someone recognizes what Hawthorne was trying to do with his book, they will immediately see this as a rotten-to-the-core script. Consider the Scarlet Letter, a central theme in the book and holding so much meaning, is just a minor prop in this movie that almost gets in the way.In Hawthorne's book, the heroine, by her actions through life, turned the Scarlet Letter from meaning Adulteress to meaning Angel -- it became an emblem of her inner beauty, redeemed through her strength, integrity and good heart. In our own time, people often find themselves labeled or identified in some way as bad or as a loser. What a great thing it is to have messages that say You can rise above that!. This movie completely and totally misses that opportunity. It is one of the great messages that can be given to others in this life, and it is abandoned in this movie.And what is it traded for? Feminism, rebellion and justifications of immorality. Edgy? Groundbreaking? Incisive? No. So shallow its like cliff diving in a birdbath compared with what Hawthorne brought. In this adaptation, Hester, the heroine claims to not know if what she did was wrong -- or sometimes suggesting it was right. From that high moral ground, Hester almost becomes a feminist warrior or icon leading an insurrection of women against men. That rebellion is ridiculous historically but worse, it completely guts the morality of the book. And the Scarlet Letter? From what I can tell, the movie Hester seems to finally throw it away when she gets her freedom. It has no meaning other than as a talisman for oppression.That is a different message than the book gave out. But the Movie is still called The Scarlet Letter. If the screenwriter wanted to send out a different moral message, then he should have retitled the movie. Something like Hester's Anachronistic and Pointless Rebellion would have been good. Then it would be truth in advertising.The actors and technicians did a great job but after reading the script they should have dropped the project. I suppose they needed the money. Beautifully shot, well acted, great score ... it still gets a 1 for being an egregious lie. "},{"Title":"Who is to say what is a sin in God's eyes?","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"30 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For my point of view The Scarlet Letter is a good film with great performances&#133; All the actors do a superb job&#133; I was worried that Demi Moore might not have the range to handle the role of Mistress Prynne, but she is excellent... She is strong, passionate, intelligent and damaged&#133; In another place and time she might have been a leader; in this movie she is quite believable as the woman who defends her love at all costs&#133; Gary Oldman looks perfect as Reverend Dimmesdale&#133; He projects force and sexual magnetism along with the guilt for his sin&#133;The film opens in 1666 when Hester Prynne (Demi Moore) arrived in the Massachusetts Bay Colony filled with hope that here, at last, in this new World, would come the freedom to worship without fear or persecution&#133; She didn't suspect that beyond the trees there is a savage land of savage passions dark and untamed, and that soon she will face a scornful community in which she will forever be shamed by the scarlet letter&#133; Mistress Prynne rejected the idea of staying in the congregation until her husband's arrival and looked for a house of her own&#133; She finds a beautiful and frightening place, just as 'Eden must have been so untouched&#133;' On one Sabbath morning, Hester met Reverend Dimmesdale (Gary Oldman) who helps her when her cart got stuck in the woods&#133; She truly enjoyed, few minutes later, his sermon &#133; It was rare, for her, to find a man so young and fiery who could speak with such force of passion&#133; She was moved by his passion&#133; Dimmesdale thought that comprehending God was going to be his greatest challenge, but&#151;after he met Hester&#151;he was not the man he seems to be&#133; He lost his power before this seductress beautiful woman&#133; He lived in this township his whole life and his purpose was clear&#133; But now he would risk everything&#151;his life, his ministry, his soul&#151;just to spend a few moments alone with her&#133; After he asked her why that morning in the forest, she didn't say that she is married, he wondered how she were able to see so deeply into his nature&#133; From that moment, two hearts were there struggling against a love that grew stronger with each passing day&#133; Hester was courteous enough but her tongue knew no rules&#133; She earned more than a few reprimands in her life for speaking too bluntly&#133; With a frightening strength, she challenged her persecutors and stood up to their hypocrisy, refusing to reveal her lover's identity&#133; The Scarlet Letter compels us to recognize the shadow side of our lives, including this passion that pushes us beyond our limits... The climax also compels us to contemplate about whether there is anything that we would be willing to die for&#133; "},{"Title":"Absolute dreck.","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You could try to imagine a worse film, but why bother?  As a film and as an adaptation (freely adapted is perhaps the greatest understatement since our involvement in Vietnam was labeled a police action) of a book, it's a complete failure.  The acting ranges from the clueless to the atrocious. Gary Oldman is apparently trying to do a Scottish accent, Demi Moore is just plain terrible, and Robert Duvall is nuts.  The soft-glow sex scene is risible.  There's no tension to the story because Oldman & Moore don't appear to have souls to lose.  Instead of a perceptive & morally soaked tale of guilt, sin, and conscience, this is a trite, gushy story about being true to yourself.  It's basically a Disney cartoon message, except without as sophisticated a presentation. The script (it's idea of 17th century English is lots of thees & thous) is as bad as everything else, substituting a nick of time rescue happy ending for Hawthorne's.  So bad that it's not even enjoyable on a camp level. C-R-A-P.  "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this movie","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"29 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, I apologies because my English, I'm from Panama. Second, for me, TSL is a very beautiful movie and I know that it is far from the book by Nathaniel Hawthorne, nevertheless, I found nice things there, for instance, the setting was so refreshing to me and the love scenes were very romantic too. In this movie I felt in love to Gary Oldman.  I consider that Demi as well as Gary were chemistry.  On the other hand, I think that the producer and the whole team portrait the epoch of the pilgrims, the way they lived and thought about morality and religion. Demi was pretty in this character and convincing.  For me this was a sad story of love. Although, the screenplay changed at the end, I found that this movie was done to give audience happier than the original book. "},{"Title":"While Not Well Received, This Is Quite Well Done","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I must inform you that that Roland Joffé has utterly bastardized Nathaniel Hawthorne's work with this film, but I find I must review the film as a film, rather than an adaptation due to the strength of the film itself in comparison to the original literary work. As an adaptation, it is a sexed-up, stylized-down piece of detritus. But as a film...This work stands alone, as it will not bear up under scrutiny when compared against Hawthorne, but aside from that, this based on work is a fabulous dramatization of Hawthorne's story. I have to say the performances are marvelous, the story is captivating, and the emotion of the portrayals is wrenching.I highly enjoyed this bastardization, and rate it at a 7.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"this movie was an embarrassment","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote The Scarlet Letter, one of the greatest classic American novels. This Roland Joffé movie would have caused Nathaniel Hawthorne to roll over in his grave. The only similarity the movie had with the original story line was the character names and the title. It was an absolute embarrassment to the intelligence of anyone who actually read the novel, or even those few who went to see it.It would be impossible to name all the things that were changed from the novel to the movie, but the most drastic were the 80-minute prologue, the entire Indian plot line, and the changed ending. While watching in class, I noted only three major lines taken from the book, two of which were out of context. In a deranged cinematic nightmare, the movie added a nonsensical prologue that Hawthorne never would have included in his wildest dreams. Also, added into the movie was an Indian plot line. This was never even slightly mentioned in the book. The battles and gore were a figment of the imagination of Hollywood, and a horrendous attempt as well. The most offensive part of the movie for me personally, was the changed ending. Not only did it not make any sense, but it undermined the entire point of the story. The Scarlet Letter by Nathaniel Hawthorne was not supposed to have a happy ending in North Carolina. It was absolutely scandalous of the writers of this movie to allow that to happen. Demi Moore reportedly said it was, okay with her to make the ending happy because not many people have read the book (http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0114345/).Besides creating a bastardization of a classic American novel, Joffé created a generally horrible film. The acting was unrealistic, the sex and violence utterly unnecessary, and the symbolism offensively overdone. The unsubtle, tacky symbolism was an insult to anyone over the age of four. In one pathetically obtuse moment; Hester chases a red bird into the forest; a place of evil doers, and eats the forbidden fruit off of a tree. Clearly the American public did not appreciate this terrible movie either, according to www.boxofficemojo.com, it cost 46 million dollars in production, and earned a surprisingly high 10.3 million dollars; equaling a net loss of over 36 million dollars. The only saving grace of this movie was that there wasn't a sequel, but maybe if there had been they would have eventually found some essence of the original plot. "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  VERY stupid adaptation of Nathaniel Hawthorne's classic.  For one thing Demi Moore is totally miscast in the title role.  I have nothing against her--she can be good in the right roles...but casting her as a Puritan was just stupid.  Gary Oldman looks like he doesn't know what the hell he's doing in this and Robert Duvall sadly embarasses himself.  I (unfortunately) saw it in a theatre back in 1995 (Yup--I PAID to see this movie!).  There were a bunch of English school teachers in attendance.  They started laughing during the opening credits which says the movie is based on characters created by Hawthorne and didn't let up during the entire movie.  Actually their comments were more enjoyable than the movie itself.  And they REALLY howled at the end which was totally different from the book!  Also, at 135 minutes, it's WAY too long.Really...who thought this was a good idea?  Why take a classic book and screw it over completely?  Thankfully, this seems to be forgotten--it should stay that way.  Don't bother. "}{"Title":"Entertaining, sensuous and beautifully lensed film.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"23 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am an English major and have to say, yes, the book was better and this film is not equal but by itself as a freely adapted version it too has merit.  It has a beautiful score by excellent film composer John Barry, superb acting by both Gary Oldman and Demi Moore (as a woman way ahead of her time) and even excellent supporting cast.  It is beautifully filmed and on its own - is a rare romantic treat that would be great in a double feature with say THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS w/ Daniel Day Lewis.  Oldman is terrific...his best role I believe.  The only distraction....the always wonderful Robert Duvall as a madman...who starts to stray this film toward THE CRUCIBLE area of witchcraft. "},{"Title":"Movie Well Made","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"25 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Now, I can honestly say it's not a movie that attracted my attention at first. Maybe it wasn't publicized well, but watching the beginning of the movie, got me in to watching the middle and the end of the movie in one sitting. I agree with past comments of this flick that it was not as people portrayed it to be, meaning so much speaking of the adultery issue. In the basic sense it follows the book, but I think the movie went much further in exploring the love two people shared, almost at first sight. I read the trivia in this website about this movie and noticed that Demi Moore had approved the ending of the movie. I am glad they went a different route and made the audience feel comfortable with the way things made out, rather than to leave the theater or shut off your TV set feeling like something was missing. It's unsatisfying. This movie is far from unsatisfying. If you would like an excellent love story with a great twist, see this movie. Gary Oldman is for the first time, sexy, and this movie has now made me a permanent fan of his brilliant acting. "},{"Title":"Love hurts; aggression with passion.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Based very loosely on the work of Nathaniel Hawthorne. Forbidden love, patience and stout convictions. I really enjoyed this despite the bad reviews. In 1666 Massachusetts a married woman(Demi Moore) falls in love with the young reverend(Gary Oldman)of the colony. Her husband(Robert Duvall)is believed to be part of an Indian massacre on his following arrival to the new world. Duvall's character is actually captured by the Algonquian tribe and forced to live among them. He then vents his wrath on his wife, who is expecting a child from her affair with her lover.Very good acting and wonderful scenery. I did not mind the two plus hours length of this romantic drama. There is some nudity, just enough to spice things up...but the violence is bloody and harsh. I found this version of THE SCARLET LETTER to be sensuous, interesting and very entertaining. Moore, Oldman and Duvall were excellent. Notable in support are Joan Plowright, Robert Prosky and Edward Hardwicke. This is worth your effort to watch. "},{"Title":"Truly disastrous - a classic turned into a travesty","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Why? That one word could sum up everything that makes this movie so bad. It was made primarily because a lot of Americans got fed up with people suggesting all the classics are English - so what do they do? Change the ending and most of the rest of the plot too! As well as swapping the tragedy at the end for a typically Hollywood lovey-dovey ending, the story is told through the eyes of Hester's daughter Pearl, and halfway through the film the villagers are still guessing that Hester has been having an affair with the minister - even though the novel opens with Hester wearing the Scarlet A for adulteress! The only reason to watch this is to enjoy the irony of a studio thinking 'we'll show the world America has classic novels too', only to rip out everything that made it a classic. If you need any more proof of what a disaster this was, look at what Demi Moore, once Hollywood's highest paid actress, has done since... "},{"Title":"Completely Different From the Novel. Don't Watch If Your In Love With the Book.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Scarlet Letter is a piece of American literature greats. Written by Nathaniel Hawthorne in the 1800's the book has been considered one of the greatest piece of American literature ever. But when Hollywood caught hold of it in 1995 the story was changed. I'm not a fan of the novel, it was boring to me, but this movie brought a new sense of hope for me.Hester Prynne (Demi Moore) is the wife of a British man and has been sent to Massachusetts to secure a house for him. Hester is quiet woman and lives on a coastal beach house just outside town. She quickly makes friends with locals including Harriet Hibbons (Joan Plowright and becomes a little to close with the local Reverend Dimmesdale (Gary Oldman).Soon Hester and Dimmesdale have done you-know-what and Hester is pregnant! This is strictly forbidden and she is placed on trial. Instead of pointing right at Dimmesdale she hides the father's name. Hester is forced to wear a scarlet letter 'A' standing for adulteress and shame is cast upon her. But soon a new figure arrives. It is Roger Chillingworth (Robert Duvall) who is seeking to find the father and destroy the relationship already known by him between Hester and Dimmesdale.Instead of the boring book of magical happenings and devil worship, the film version offers a believable account and actual human suffering as seen through the eyes of two that are in love. The book has little to do with the film except for the characters and the story. None of the background stories are placed into the film like Hester in jail or visiting the governor's house. Instead screenwriter Douglas Day Stewart brings out a new story and a bit more attractive.I wouldn't necessarily recommend this film for it was boring at times and some nudity present was un-needed. Demi Moore is average as Hester but Gary Oldman is fantastic as the suffering Rev. Dimmesdale. The score to the film was very well done and helped capture the suffering of the characters.As I said before, do not watch this if you're a big fan of the book or one of those die-hard book nuts.The Scarlet Letter. Starring Demi Moore, Gary Oldman, Robert Duvall, and Joan Plowright.3 out of 5 Stars "},{"Title":"Strayed from the book; even worse, made no sense whatsoever","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Indians?!  Excuse me?  Did the person who adapted the screenplay even check out Cliffnotes to see what Hawthorne meant the plot to be?I wouldn't mind as much if the movie had been titled differently.  It's just plain disrespectful to use the name of a classic if you mean to change the whole point of the story.  Moore was many things Hester shouldn't have been. Hester is a beautiful woman, a romantic, who loves but also knows, deep down, that her sin hurts herself as much as anyone else.  Moore lacks any of the depth that Hester Prynne ought to have.  And the ending?  Pfft.  Don't watch this.  Read Hawthorne's book, it'll do you some good.  "},{"Title":"Garbage!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ICK! I was actually in physical pain as I watched this movie. I feel this way for several reasons1. It's below Gary Oldman. Come on! He can do so much better, and has!2. THIS IS NOT WHAT NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE WROTE! I know it's supposed to be an image of his novel, but actually incorporating some of the story into the film may have done well.3. Demi Moore ruins everything. EVERYTHING she touches turns into some sexually explicit trash, like this was some Danielle Steele piece of crap instead of Hawthorne! Classic literature people! I read the novel in high school (which was only two years ago) and yes, it was painful, yes, I hated being forced to read it, but you can't ruin things just because you have a huge (fake) rack.A horrible film, terrible interpretation of the novel, and the second worst film I've ever seen (the worst was The Avengers with Ralph Fiennes). I give it two thumbs, two toes, two whatever way way way way down. "},{"Title":"Was it SO Bad???","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good Grief.  This particular version garnered nothing but bad reviews.  Personally, I don't see why it was SO hated - and films like the Austin Powers movies are LOVED...beats me.First of all, I give it nine out of ten points for the mere PRESENCE of Gary Oldman - who, looking EXTREMELY beautiful, tried so hard to give the movie some credibility, with his excellent performance as the Reverend Dimmsdale. One other point for Demi Moore - who is a really wonderful actress, and tried her best, TOO.I fail to see why this picture got SUCH bad reviews.  Okay, so they DIDN'T follow the book..many movies do NOT - and don't get panned like this one.  WHY?   "},{"Title":"Good acting by a motivated crew","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Yesterday I saw, after many years, The Scarlet Letter on Cinemax. Again, I was stunned by ,merely, the ability of playing roles like these by the actors(not only Demi Moore and Gary Oldman),good acting, for it is a movie adapted (indeed,freely) from a novel that plays in 1666(!!).Especially the English phrasing is brought well by all actors, although Demi Moore failed to imitate the known British accent of that time. Gary Oldman performs better in this, especially in the sermon as a Minister shortly after he returned from the woods having helped Hester.Very heartfelt and well-played. An original, though somewhat exposing movie in the sense of the extreme strict puritan-English rules imposed upon a community in that time. Robert Duvall's role is underestimated, since he only was present in one-third of the movie.Maybe he did not get all the possibilities to act as he normally does, because of the shortage of time. The movie is long, but never boring and very original, although some other viewers , who have read the novel as well, might find it a typically Hollywood adaptation.But that is movieland! For me, a plus and a favorite. "},{"Title":"A Stunning Adaptation","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For starters, I have read Hawthorne's Scarlet Letter, both for high school and personal enjoyment, and I absolutely loved the novel, but most high school students would disagree with my view of the novel.  When seeing this film, one must remember the phrase freely adapted from, because that's what it is.  Things are changed, yes, but that doesn't stop this movie from being wonderful.  The movie gives background to the Hester/Dimmesdale romance that Hawthorne left in the background, and so beings the tale to life and makes it more understandable to the modern population.  Depsite its inaccuracies and liberal use of literary lisence, the movie is a hypothetical What if?  It asks what would have happened had Dimmesdale come forward, had Pearl been a more congenial, innocent character, and had the Indian troubles played more of a part in Hawthorne's work.  As Dimmesdale, Oldman performs marvelously, depicting the tortured soul of the Puritan priest in love with a strong, undaunted woman.  This movie is a must see for all the historical romance lovers out there as well as those who need a reprieve from Hawthorne's often long and difficult prose.  Just don't use it to pass your tests; that's what Sparknotes are for... "}{"Title":"A beautiful, evocative movie--loved it.","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"36 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, I know everyone and his canary has panned this movie. But I don't get it.  I like to think I'm a decent critic and I find what I believe to be disaster and Hollywood stupidity in many popular films (Fish Called Wanda stank, e.g.,) but here, what gorgeous scenery, what evocative music, what a passionate screen play and  oh la la, what a love scene.  It so evoked a time and place I believe to be early New England that I could just be there. I was there.  Wasn't bad either getting to see Gary Oldman play so against type -- and damn well, too.  A moving, beautiful love story -- I don't care what I'm supposed to think.   "},{"Title":"why?","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a big insult to the great book 'Scarlet Letter' of Nathaniel Hawthorne.It has nothing to do with this amazing piece of Literature.So, if you've read the book I highly recommend you not to see this film. Nevertheless,if you enjoy yourselves by seeing Soap Operas this movie will thrill you to the bone. The only good thing of this movie,I could say, is Gary Oldman,whose performance is truly respectable.The same thing can not be said for his co-star Demi Moore.No one maybe can deny the beauty of this woman.But her talent is poor in this particular movie,better not make any reference to her other 'exceptional' works. "},{"Title":"A completely pointless adaptation","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This certainly ranks among the Top Ten of What Were They Thinking? films ever made. The production is sumptuously photographed, has a more than qualified director in Oscar nominee Roland Joffe, a recognizable supporting cast of Oscar luminaries featuring Gary Oldman, Robert Duvall and Joan Plowright, and a then-bankable leading lady in Demi Moore. Factor in the pedigree associated with Nathaniel Hawthorne's legendary novel and something far more worthwhile should have been the end result.Moore is cast as Hester Prynne, a proper Puritan wife sent ahead to the colonies to prepare a home for she and her husband. Emboldened by the new responsibilities thrust upon her and some of the new relationships she starts, Hester gives in to an attraction to the righteous Reverend Arthur Dimmesdale (Oldman) when it is believed that her husband has perished in an Indian massacre. Hester's peccadillo and her subsequent illegitimate pregnancy cause her to become persona non grata in the colony and she is forced to wear the scarlet letter of the title brandishing her an adulterer.Anyone who made it through high school is familiar with the tale of Hester Prynne, but given the issues inherent in the material and how it still remains pertinent in today's society with women's right being trampled on, its cinematic adaptations have been amazingly rare. So it is doubly unfortunate that Joffe and company have so succinctly bungled this effort.Moore is pretty as a picture, but entirely too contemporary a presence to convince as Hester. She provides neither the insight nor the range to make Hester's plight palpable. Oldman is solid and provides a titillating full frontal voyeuristic skinny-dip, but his role is beyond ridiculous (more on that later). Robert Duvall as Hester's wacko husband shows up later in the film and gives the worst performance of his career. This is so bad it is akin to the work Nick Nolte contributed in Hulk. And pretty much everyone is out-acted by a bird that seems to be chirping for sexual freedom.The film's biggest problem and the result of its failure is that it fails to have respect or even understand the entire point of the source. No one feels that Joffe needs to be slavishly faithful to Hawthorne's prose. And sexing the material up for modern audiences is also not an unwise call.However, what is absurd is basically castrating the story of its core. Joffe and company take the window dressing of the Scarlett Letter, but abandon its entire reason for being. Hawthorne's story was an indictment of Puritanism and the hypocrisy of Christianity in that Reverend Dimmesdale was a self-righteous blowhard stirring up his foolish flock and leading the charge against Hester by day, while being her lover at night and demanding she keep their secret. If anything, he is the villain of the piece, yet the film version somehow re-imagines him as a worthwhile, misunderstood romantic figure! Instead of Dimmesdale being depicted justly as a craven, cowardly monument of hypocrisy, we instead get Dimmesdale as the Puritan answer to Fabio and Duvall gets to usurp the villain role as Hester's wild-eyed madman hubby. This shift in narrative, plus changes in the latter half of the film including the ending, completely abandons the entire purpose of Hawthorne's tale. Joffe instead throws in Indian attacks and nonsense sound and fury to distract from the fact that there is no longer anything at the center of his film. As such, the film does not conclude, so much as implode under its own rubbish pretensions. "},{"Title":"Fails as a film and as an adaptation","Date":"29 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am not going to keep on comparing here, but this film as a film and an adaptation is a mess in my opinion. The book is one of the greatest American novels, and is so interesting and thoughtfully written. The film version of The Scarlet Letter does have exquisite costumes, scenery and cinematography, a lush John Barry score and despite the inconsistent accent and a slight need to over-compensate Gary Oldman is surprisingly credible as Dimmersdale. However, the script is trite and the storytelling is uninteresting, has little heart and has some overly-gratuitous scenes such as the bathing scene. The pace is also uneven, some of it is too quick while other scenes are ponderous and stilted. The direction feels lacking, and you know there's something wrong when Oldman gives the only half-decent performance. I love Edward Hardwicke and Joan Plowright but they have awful dialogue and their characters are not written well at all. Robert Duvall is embarrassing here, and that pained me to say that as he is usually brilliant. Worst of all is Demi Moore, I don't hate Moore as much as some do(I liked her very much in Ghost, A Few Good Men and The Hunchback of Notre Dame) but she is very bland and not very believable at all as Hester. Overall, disappointing and a failure film and adaptation-wise. 3/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A very highly enjoyable movie(DO NOT pay attention to the bad ratings it got)","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Arriving to freshly formed Massachusets colony without her husband, Hester Prynne tries to adapt to the extremely strict minded colony. After she falls in love with a pastor, Arthur Dimmsdale, she receives the information of her husband's death. Following the path their passionate love has shown them, Hester and Arthur later have to face unexpected factors and the Puritan colony's cruelty...The Scarlet Letter is one of those 90s Hollywood movies that I have been used to see since my childhood. I also have to admit that this is probably a movie more of women's preference. However, that does not mean that the movie is bad. In fact, I still cannot understand how it managed to be so disliked, for I simply loved it. This motion picture is beautiful beautiful in its scenes, beautiful in its music, beautiful in its story... I cannot say that it was powerful, for it made some interesting choices like keeping the reverend alive in the end, but is it not a love story after all?(I have never read the book and I was begging for him not to die, so I am completely satisfied by that fact. ) Although Demi Moore's voice was slightly annoying, I can easily say that her performance was totally believable and included a good character portrayal. There is naught to say about Gary Oldman except for that his performance was perfectly enjoyable. Being used to seeing him as the villain,(or the character who simply has too much ego besides the others,) I was pleasantly surprised by how well he played Dimmsdale's emotions, which were screaming out 'I am an honorable man!' I really, really had fun watching this movie and finished in a COMPLETELY satisfied state of mind. I strongly recommend it to anyone who needs some positive emotions and suggest that instead of looking at it with an eye of a critic you enjoy the music, the thrill(yes, there are many sharp turns in the story, and that's why my summary is so short) and the performances. "},{"Title":"Wha...wha...what?","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why? That's all I have to say. I don't know what they were getting at. They gave a classic book a politically correct makeover for 1995 and sent it on its crooked little way.*Possible spoilers so be careful if you haven't seen it*There was just a lot of weird stuff going on. I didn't really understand the whole sex scene. I guess Hester and Arthur are goofing off in a big pile of beans and Mituba is...masturbating with a candle in front of a bird?Is that what she's doing? I've looked for any other explanation and I can't find anything. I don't remember THAT in the book. I know you're going to dismiss me as concrete but honestly, what is going on with that? You can't say there's any kind of meaningful metaphor or purpose to Mituba watching Hester pleasure herself by the bathtub. Those are the more obvious transgressions against Nathaniel Hawthorne. I haven't read the book in two years and even back then I wasn't really paying attention because I was a sophomore idiot in high school but I can still see where the book is begging to have its say through the faulty seams of the movie. For example, I do not remember any Algonquins. I could be having a memory lapse but as far as I know, they didn't have too much to do with the plot. Also, the plot seems to sing the harmony of a feminist anthem and I can assure you, the book does not sing the melody.Demi Moore who we all know now as Ashton Kutcher's sugar mama was a dreadful choice for Hester. I would have appreciated seeing an intelligent, imperfect, tragic-looking girl for the part. Of course, Hollywood will have none of this and decided to cast the girl from Striptease so people will forget that they failed English because of it and go see it. I also think they might have focused on Pearl's life a little more.If this was perhaps titled something else and no reference whatsoever was made to Hawthorne's book, I would have been happier and I might have actually liked it a little. But this is just another one of Hollywood's attempts at making money, like many movies are. I'm not going to encourage you to skip it. Just make sure you read the book first and ignore the political undertones. Treat it just as it is an inaccurate historical fiction.  "},{"Title":"ruined by the movies","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had hoped that demi could pull this one off, since she just did now and then, and i was rather fond of that movie. but, things took a nosedive and totally messed up the novel by hawthorne, which does have an excellent storyline beyond the thees and thous.  the man that demi is married to is a complete babboon and should consider taking acting classes. The man couldnt even perform as a crazed man (**SPOILER**) who sought out revenge on the wife and the preacher. i saw this on hbo, and was hoping to god that it was a spoof, probably made by a college film maker, but i was let down hard and fast.  Now, some movies that are based on outstanding literature, like death of a salesman, focus, and the crucible (ALL arthur miller) were made to come into a different light and actually get us a visual on if we are in the novel and observing.  scarlet letter made me want to shut the book and abandon the remote underneath the couch.  (F F-)  "},{"Title":"You Will See So Many Shades of Red Watching This.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ridiculous take on the Nathaniel Hawthorne novel as those who worked on this behave like they never even read the book. In the Massachusetts Bay Colony of 1666 a young woman (Demi Moore) fears that her husband (the much older Robert Duvall) is dead after a year of absence. She befriends pastor Gary Oldman (laughable that he could ever be a religious man in a film to start with) and soon romance blossoms. The romance turns physical, a child is born (no one knows who the father is), Moore is forced to wear the titled item, Duvall returns and plots revenge on the man who impregnated his wife while he was captured by wild Indians and Oldman secretly punishes himself as Moore keeps their affair a secret from the townspeople. Where will all this lead? The Scarlett Letter is a really disappointing film considering that Roland Joffe' (a once great director in the 1980s who made modern masterpieces like The Killing Fields and The Mission) acts like he is just not comfortable with the material and does not know how to execute the excruciating novel into a cohesive cinematic product. Oldman and Duvall, usually very dependable players, cannot cope here and Moore just continued to under-achieve in front of the camera. Void of intelligence, dim-witted and poorly paced, The Scarlett Letter is one of those films that has absolutely no tone and thus becomes a hard experience to get through. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).  "},{"Title":"Strayed from the book; even worse, made no sense whatsoever","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Indians?!  Excuse me?  Did the person who adapted the screenplay even check out Cliffnotes to see what Hawthorne meant the plot to be?I wouldn't mind as much if the movie had been titled differently.  It's just plain disrespectful to use the name of a classic if you mean to change the whole point of the story.  Moore was many things Hester shouldn't have been. Hester is a beautiful woman, a romantic, who loves but also knows, deep down, that her sin hurts herself as much as anyone else.  Moore lacks any of the depth that Hester Prynne ought to have.  And the ending?  Pfft.  Don't watch this.  Read Hawthorne's book, it'll do you some good.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood Knows Better Than Hawthorne?","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is comforting to know that no animals were harmed in the making of this film.  The same cannot be said of unwitting audiences who try to weather this mess of a film.For starters, I am genuinely intrigued as to why Hollywood screenwriters feel emboldened enough to rewrite an America classic.  The result of their toil is dismal.It's been a good sixteen years since I tackled Hawthorne's classic, albeit in the form of print.  However, even my hazy recollections of the reading leave the imprint of the message bright in my memory.As I recall, the story dealt with the destructive effects of adultery, be they right or wrong.  Pearl was a suspicious character hiding a dark heart. Hester, her mother was burdened with the shame of the community, and the Reverend was a man turned inside out, void of strength.In short, everyone was a bit worse for wear.  This is the end result of personal responsibility, mixed in with a healthy dose of hypocrisy. Hawthorne expertly got this message across.  The filmmakers in this movie  ignored the message altogether.There is not enough time in the day to recount every ridiculous scene in the film.  However, let the climax of the movie suffice. You can see that all of the inconsistencies tends to make one's head hurt. Well at least they didn't harm the animals.  "}{"Title":"Atrocious.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the worst presumptions to  respectable cinema that I've ever seen.  It would better have been billed as 'The Crucible' meets 'The Last of the  Mohicans' meets 'The Scarlet Letter.'  I do not take issue with a movie when its plot stands alone, on its own footing, and without the backing of a previous work.  When a movie like this comes along, however, parading itself in the well-respected trappings of one of the most widely-read works in the canon of American Literature, I feel compelled  to speak out strongly against it and the people responsible for creating it.  I am deeply sorry for those who saw this  cinematic monstrosity before reading the book, and hope that they may give Hawthorne's highly esteemed original a chance to prove and redeem itself. "},{"Title":"Does this movie have ANYTHING to do with the book?","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, not that I'd know or anything, but if you're supposed to read _The_Scarlet_Letter_ for English and you watch this movie instead, it doesn't help you at all on the test.  Most of this movie deals with how Hester Prynne gets pregnant and her life before she has her baby (the book starts right after Pearl is born), the little girl is characterized totally differently, and the movie MAKES UP A WAR WITH THE NATIVE AMERICANS THAT WAS NEVER IN THE BOOK (not that I'm bitter). "},{"Title":"I guess sticking to the novel doesn't matter","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ending is different, some of the story is ripped from historical accounts and writings concerning Salem, Mass, and the sex and violence is gratuitous...As for Demi Moore, she did claim it was o.k. to change the ending of a book not many people read...a flimsy defense that detracts from the dedication to consistency Hawthorne toiled over to remain faithful to the Puritan mood he created...which in turn, blows the whole purpose of Hester Prynne staying in Salem to fulfill her punishment.  To not understand Hester's Puritannical dedication to staying true...WHICH IS THE WHOLE POINT OF THE NOVEL!!! "},{"Title":"are you kidding me?","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  how could they ruin this classic with such a piece of cr*p like this movie! a happy ending?!  if it's a happy ending, what's the point!!!!!  if you liked the book you'll hate and despise this movie.  though if your someone who hasn't even bother with the 'long boring book' (which is not true), then this piece of junk is for you.0 out of 5 stars.(read the book). "},{"Title":"Bad....That's all there is to it","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film, is just bad, that's all there is to it. It's just bad in so many ways. Nothing but corny writing, the scenes are just awful. All they really took from the book were it's characters and the basic idea of the story. After that, they totally f**k everything up from the book. It's one of those films that makes you wish Demi Moore would just go away for the overrated actress that she is. Just a truly awful film that's a waste of a lot of money. "},{"Title":"The title of this movie is misleading.","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The reason I rated this movie so low was because it can hardly be called the Scarlet Letter. True it has the same setting, some but not all of the main characters, and some even totally created. Artistic liberty is what is used to shave a 250 page book to fit into a 2 hour film slot. However, what this movie has done was create an entirely new fiction. This is above and beyond this so called liberty. I guess as soon as I read the opening title sequence containing the words, freely adapted I should have know once a piece of literature enters the limits of the city of Angels it becomes a void piece of garbage that anybody with the money enough to do so can make it into a movie. P.S. Good luck Demi with the new Hubby. "},{"Title":"experience on the set","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" i actually had the honor of working on the set of this movie for 12days. in the summer of 1994.Roland was a bloody perfectionist the best thing about this movie was the scenery. from what i remember they sure spent a ton of money wasted it more like it. the movie was down right dreadful. but was a blast working on the film set for those 12days. Gary Oldman was a real prick thats one thing i could remember. i thought the casting was very poor for this film. all in all very sub par film.Robert Duval was a very nice person on the set of this film. this was the start of Demi Moores down turn in movies one bad film after another.The Only Good Thing this Film did do was launch this area Northern Vancouver Island B.C productions followed in years to come Are We There Yet,Final Destination 2,Trapped and a few TV series bits. "},{"Title":"Scarlet-faced","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film had a tendency to meander like a McManaman run you knew there wasn't a point to it, however hard it tried to convince you there was one. "},{"Title":"Why did critics so passionately dislike this film?!","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay, maybe it's just my infatuation with Oldman's superior acting that had me distracted the whole time, but I really, truly enjoyed this movie! Now, I hadn't read the novel, so perhaps that changes things, but on rotten tomatoes, this film only received a 6% rating! SIX PERCENT! Wth?!?!?! Like I said, maybe I should have read the book to know why the critics seemed so appalled, but still...even if the movie took a few liberties, I thought it did well in conveying the overall bittersweetness of Hester's and Arthur's love affair. Besides, this wouldn't be the first book-based move that tweaked things, and I can think of some that did well despite drifting from the books they were based on! If I had to say one negative thing about the whole film I would say I was distracted during Hester's and Arthur's love scene by Mituba's little escapade (I got the connection, but I didn't think it really added anything but confusion -to any first time viewer-to the primary love scene).Oh yes, and I just was so happy when the doctor got what was coming to him. Well I liked the movie myself, and at the very least it turned me onto Gary Oldman (who I had only previously seen as villain after villain in other films). Those are my two cents! Sarah PSR "},{"Title":"A spirited, affirming adaptation","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Really enjoyed this movie! I vaguely remember reading the Scarlet Letter in high school, and feeling already then dissatisfied with the harshness and inevitability of Hester's and the minister's fate. In the 30 some years I've lived since reading this book, I've learned that fate is within one's sphere of influence, and I love seeing characters take the circumstances of Hawthorne's story and actually DO something to affect the outcome. This is a beautifully filmed, engaging, affirming story in its own right. I realize I like Demi Moore as an actress--her bold spirit gives the story spark. And Gary Oldman's portrayal of a whimsical, earnest, torn man makes Dimmesdale a much more sympathetic man than I had found him in the book. So, maybe not true to Hawthorne's book, but affirming of the spirit of love. "}{"Title":"For a love story, it delivers","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was expecting a bit that I could see a love story that's great and yes for me the movie delivers just that. I can feel the suffering of both leads and how great their love is at the same time which might not be similar to the book as they say. Still, it's a great story with a believable acting. Gary Oldman was really good in acting out the role of a reverend yet he can easily cast out his being a reverend for Demi in the story. It wasn't captured how hard he tried to stay away but was just narrated with a few scenes. Inspite of that, I can feel how great their love is for each other. I thought that one will die in the end but it's good to see a Hollywood movie that doesn't have a terrible ending "},{"Title":"20 Years Later, It's Still Just Fine","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not going to lie and say I didn't enjoy this film. It's faults I found forgivable. I saw it when it first came out and liked it, and I still like it. I have read the original Scarlett Letter by Hawthorne and liked it too. I believe this film serves two useful (perhaps unintended) purposes. One it's hopeless as a cheat for kids who try to do a report on the book and watch this instead. Two It will perhaps make teens more interested in reading the book - something I was usually not interested in in high school. The most frustrating aspect of the film for me is that it exactly contradicts Puritan teachings when it tries to damn Hester for saying she speaks to God. The whole point of Puritanism was to remove clergy and government from between Believers and God. It would have been more outrageous for her to say something like, All believers in Jesus Christ are saved from this sinful world. Puritans believed a select few would go to Heaven, even of their own flock.Great costumes, cinematography, lighting, and locations. "},{"Title":"The Bad Reviewers of This Movie Urgently Need To Lighten Up","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Okay. Calm down people. This movie is an overall very good movie&#x96; terrific cast, great sets, great costuming, lots of action and I've never seen Gary Oldman look so handsome. The actors did a really good job. Very entertaining. The book was boring, people. Boring boring boring. Don't you remember having to read it in high school? THE MOVIE IS MUCH BETTER. And I'll state this unequivocally-- it's way better than 90% better than most stuff I see on the big screen-- hands down. And the amateur critic that pulled the race card and said the Indians in this film were not depicted doing anything other than one dimensional, childish actions obviously didn't watch the scene where the two older tribeswomen were discussing Robert Duvall's character very astutely-- great dialogue! You other hater critics need to lighten up! Seriously. Loved the film. "},{"Title":"The worst adaptation of a novel to screen, ever","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Apologists for this hackneyed cut of The Scarlet Letter point to the disclaimer that it was Freely Adapted from the Nathaniel Hawthorne novel, and therefore should be judged as a work of art on its own. Frankly, I'm not sure how this argument could ever hold up. Enough of the plot and the characters were bitten off from the novel to warrant a comparison and value judgment.Though set in the seventeenth or eighteenth century, The Scarlet Letter was very much a product of the nineteenth century. Hawthorne's story is a definite reaction against the optimistic Transcendentalist mentality that then characterized social reformers, Unitarians, liberal mainline Protestants and much contemporary literature in the United States just a little tweaking, and man can attain a state of glorification here on Earth, in the shining city on a hill. Although he indicts New England Puritan society--in some ways very harshly--his story somehow manages to vindicate Puritan ideology at the same time.The film, on the other hand, is a proverbial slap in the face of everything the man stood for in his prose. This beautifully crafted tale of sin, judgment, redemption and the need to confess is perverted into a soft-core screed of feminism, defiance, self-righteousness, and universalist moralism.To recap, in the novel, the scarlet A for Adulteress mounted on Hester Prynne's chest comes to mean Able or Angel (it's been a long time) as she makes the best out of an unfortunate situation. Her partner-in-crime, meanwhile, remains tormented by the A burning within his heart until at last he confesses, brings it to daylight and releases this terrible sin in a glorious redemptive climax. The troublesome daughter Pearl is the wages of sin, but in the end there is hope for her as a precious gift amidst all the turmoil. All the while, the harsh judgment of the townspeople and the evil nature of the directly offended party remind us of man's limitation to judge and the dangers of hiding our sin behind a moral veneer (just as Minister Dimmisdale does).There is none of that in the film. This Hester Prynne is an unlovable, sensual brat, whose scarlet A serves little purpose other than to draw even more attention to Demi Moore's cleavage. Pearl has been reduced to a disposable plot device and a relativist narrator, relating this disgraceful ending asking us to ponder if we can every truly know, In God's eyes, what is right and wrong?Finally, the film's visuals hardly do justice to the quaint charm of early New World even the A inflicted upon Hester Prynne is devoid of the kind of intricate style one would expect after reading the novel's description, seeing previous artistic depictions of the character, and even just looking at New England architecture.Hollywood, of course, is the master of sex and lies, giving Satan himself quite a run for his money. This is only one of the more egregious and quintessential of such examples. Read the novel, and save this one for a mystery science theater night, preferably alongside another Demi Moore film--and a lot of ethanol. "},{"Title":"Stunningly BAD, Hawthorne Is Spinning in Grave...","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I got the feeling, watching this travesty, that the filmmakers flunked Literature class because of Hawthorne's morality tale, and swore they'd 'get him back' after they'd 'made it' in Hollywood. Using Freely adapted as an excuse to attach the title and character names onto a CRUCIBLE/LAST OF THE MOHICANS hybrid, the end result has about as much in common with the source material as SLEEPY HOLLOW has with Washington Irving's 'The Legend of Sleepy Hollow'...but SLEEPY HOLLOW is a far better film.Okay, there ARE a few good points...John Barry's score is lush, if reminiscent of OUT OF AFRICA; Robert Duvall, as the psychopathic bigot Dr. Roger Prynne, seems to be having a ball affecting a British accent and chewing up the scenery; Joan Plowright, as witchy but sweet Harriet Hibbons is great fun; and Gary Oldman, playing tortured yet sensitive macho hero Rev. Arthur Dimmesdale, is such a 'stretch' from his usual villainous roles that he is almost worth catching the film just to see.However, Demi Moore, bringing twentieth century sensibilities to a 17th century woman, is simply 'eye candy', and from the opening scenes, as she lusts after the naked Dimmesdale as he bathes in a river, to her infamous 'bath' scene, as she runs water over her silicon-enhanced breasts, while fantasizing about him, to her hopping in the sack with him, after her husband is conveniently declared 'dead'...her Hester Prynne is straight out of 'Lady Chatterley's Lover', not Hawthorne! Her lack of respect for the novel was evident when she told critics it was okay to make the ending a happy one because not many people have read the book. If THAT were the case, why use the title at all?If you want well-made recreations of the time, in films that at least attempt fidelity to the source material, catch THE CRUCIBLE (based on Arthur Miller's superb 'witch hunt' play) or THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS (brilliantly adapted from James Fenimore Cooper's classic adventure tale). If you are watching THE SCARLET LETTER just to see Demi nude, rent STRIPTEASE, instead, as you'll see a lot more, without having to wade through all the bogus history to get to it.For a well-made and reasonably faithful retelling of Hawthorne's novel, the best version, by far, is STILL the 1926 silent version, with Lillian Gish and Lars Hanson. It offers no nudity or revisionist interpretations, but it DOES respect the source, unlike Demi's 1995 fiasco.     "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing.","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movies is far from being a masterpiece, but I still don't understand why the critics got into such a blind fury about it.  It wasn't quite that bad and it had its positive points. Demi Moore seemed to struggle sometimes, always being just a little off key, but Gary Oldman was brilliant in the role of Rev. Dimsdale and although he did not make the movie more believable, he DID make it pleasant to watch. Robert Duvall as Demi Moore's crazy husband was rather convincing and the rest of the supporting cast did what they could with what they had.Despite the mysterious red canary ( flying around at critical moments) and the unexpected happy ending the movie is watchable. Besides, the cameraman did a good job. Of course, it has very little or nothing to do with the book, but as a separate work it can be enjoyable if not taken too seriously. This movie has more in common with the Little Red Riding Hood than with the Scarlet Letter. Anyhow, there is nothing to get nuclear about. It's just another fairy tale for grown-ups.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding performances in an outstanding movie","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this for the first time last night at 200 in the morning. It did keep me awake!! I loved Gary Oldman's performance. He can surprise you without warning. Demi Moore brought you the feelings of a strong woman even back in the hardest times for women. The Puritans were hard people, but Demi portrayed such poise even in the crucial moments of breaking down. Gary Oldman is very handsome and so versatile his portrayal of a minister. It was an excellent movie in all the ways it could show, but the only thing that bothered me was Robert Duvall. He is an outstanding actor and the character he played did not do him justice. But overall I would definitely watch this over and over. It's a MUST see movie for all to watch! "},{"Title":"Scarlet Letter was Awesome","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoy the movie and the principal of the plot. Demi Moore is a great actress and Gary Oldman is a wonderful actor, I have seen several of his movies and Gary really becomes the part. So does Demi. I have enjoy Gary performance in this movie so much that I bought several more of the movies he has been in. He is a true actor. I really enjoy the arts and it is nice to see actual talent! Demi movies have been wonderful and I love the fact that she is willing to go to all lengths to bring the part to life. I am not an actor myself in anyway, I have no talent in that area, But I would love to have been able to watch them Film Scarlet Letter. "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie. It is a little different than the novel, but in my opinion it's better. This movie tells us about REAL people and real people's emotions... This is my favorite movie EVER. It ended happy which was a surprise but it made the story all the better. The way of life that was depicted in this movie was horrible and constricted. Also, Gary Oldman is HOT in this movie! I understand why Hester couldn't hold her lust. Demi Moore is passionate and strong, just like we all should be! I gave it a rating of 10 because it made me feel what the characters felt. I don't care what other people say about it. It makes me happy and that is all that matters to me!  "},{"Title":"Loosely based on book but still a good watch","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ive read the book for an university assignment and I was excited to watch the filmOkay, the film is only loosely based on the book and the ending is completely messed up and a happily ever after one (typical Hollywood!) but I liked this film. The star of the show was definetly Gary Oldman (reminded me so much of his protrayal in DRACULA- just the romatic bots of course!). He was supported by a really good cast liek the terrific Joan Plowright (although I wasnt too convinced with the way Demi Moore protrayed Hester). Itd have been nice to see more of Pearl and her development.Although, its not Gary's best film (that at the moment goes to DRACULA or LEON), I would not stop watching this film. I would have liked it to be more based on the book but with Hollywood, all they care about is romance (look what they did to DRACULA in 1992!)On a scale of 1-10, with 1 being rubbish, 10 being top notch and 5 being iffy, I give this film a 7!!! "}{"Title":"A desecration of Nathaniel Hawthorne's timeless classic","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The unsuspecting general public must be warned against this movie, a total desecration of Nathaniel Hawthorne's novel. It is VERY loosely, quite unrecognizably, based on his Puritan tale of a young woman, Hester Prynne, who gives birth to a child as a result of an adulterous affair with the local parson, Reverend Dimmesdale. In doing so, she is condemned by the local community, who humiliate her by forcing her to wear in perpetuity a scarlet letter A to remind all of her adultery. She also incurs the wrath of her long lost husband who has suddenly reappeared, now calling himself Roger Chillingworth. Maybe this movie would have been somewhat acceptable on its own merits, had they changed the title, kept poor Nathaniel Hawthorne out of it, and just slyly kind of 'borrowed' a fragment of his general concept. However, it bears little resemblance to the classic novel of the same name and hence, should not bear its title. For starters, what's with the Indian plot line? I don't know where that came from, but it definitely wasn't Hawthorne.I'm not sure exactly what's with any positive reviews from English majors, who should presumably know better. Either they haven't read the novel or else have succumbed to the modern impetus to basically turn every cinematic theme into sex. This novel is NOT about sex, albeit sex was obviously involved before the novel opens, in the conception of Hester's illegitimate child. It's about guilt (and redemption), hypocrisy, societal condemnation, and ultimately, Hester's quiet triumph over them all.This version is SEX, at least one reviewer describing it as sensuous. Frankly, I don't think Hawthorne intended his tale to be sensuous, as his book certainly isn't. My husband (not a prude) found Demi Moore's erotic bathtub scene bordering on soft porn! *** WARNING SPOILER COMING *** ...though I don't believe anything I write here could possibly spoil this story more than the screenplay writers have already managed to do...The worst outrage of this film is the completely altered ending. I believe you can omit events from a classic book adapted for the screen, alter or embellish them a bit even, but you cannot unrepentantly TOTALLY change the ending 180 degrees from the original novel. In this absurd version, Hester and her Reverend Dimmesdale more or less go off into the sunset together. Suffice it to say, for those who have not read the book, that this was not what Hawthorne envisioned. Quite the contrary. Apparently Demi Moore found it okay to change the ending because not many viewers would have read the novel. I honestly don't know whether to laugh or cry, but it's about what you'd expect, coming from Demi! Maybe there are other classics she's like to re-do. Perhaps Catherine & Heathcliff or Hamlet & Ophelia might settle down happily together at the end with a white picket fence. To use a cliché, poor Nathaniel Hawthorne is literally rolling over in his grave. No, as another cleverly commented, he is positively SPINNING! Demi Moore and all her cohorts should each be forced to wear a scarlet A themselves for participating in the adulteration of his classic. In closing, a tip of my hat to that witty reviewer who did not give this movie an A. My grade is F for this travesty, surely the worst outrage in cinematic history. Avoid this movie like the plague and read the novel. "},{"Title":"Not a horrible movie","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am an English major working towards graduate school with concentrations on Milton, Donne, and Hawthorne.  I think  my comments on the movie should hold a little water.  The truth is, the movie isn't that bad.  The acting is okay and so is the setting and music.  The only major problem with this movie is the title.  I feel naming it after Hawthorne's novel is somewhat offensive.  But on it's own, it's really not that bad. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, sweet pleasure for the true romantic heart.","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If this movie were not based on a famous novel, the reaction would have been quite different. Many more of us who are still unjaded would have been able to enjoy this movie for all it has to offer. I love this film. It is a true romantic escape, the very essence of why the romantic goes to the movies. We are taken back to another time, to a glorious, pristine land where true but forbidden love dawns for two beautiful people. There is terrible conflict as in any great love story but a happy ending for these characters is necessary and appreciated. The exquisite score precisely explains the emotion of each scene. Gary Oldman is absolute perfection and Demi Moore is exactly right for the so-loved woman with whom we want to identify. What more does a love story need? One must see this film more than once to fully realize the value of this precious gem. Never mind the great novel or the cynics who don't understand. This movie stands on it's own as a pure, heroic, sweet pleasure for the true romantic heart. I never get tired of watching this film, of being whisked back in time to meet a man who so dramatically and completely loved a woman. "},{"Title":"I'm glad I didn't live back in that time.......unless Rev Dimmesdale could have been mine","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hawthorne's story begins in the middle....with Hester already out of jail and her baby about three months old, and already wearing the Scarlet Letter. The movie starts out and tells what happened leading up to that, which I thought was much better. I wanted to see the story between Hester and Arthur, and find out how they fell in love. While I was waiting to see how Hester and Arthur meet, imagine my surprise when she's standing behind the bushes watching him swimming naked up and down the river in front of her....even turning over on his back for a brief scene. The way she was standing there with her mouth hanging open pretty much showed that she was already taken with him. Hester was flirty and seductive, and while Arthur Dimmesdale seemed kind of shy around her...especially after finding out she was married.........they fell hard for each other even though their love was forbidden and they faced serious punishment if they were discovered. Gary Oldman was cast perfectly as Rev. Dimmesdale......he's physically beautiful, and soft spoken but strong. And his blue eyes just made me melt. Demi Moore is a lovely actress who did a splendid job IMO. Her little girl had the same color blue eyes as Gary/Arthur did, so it looked really believable that she was his daughter.IMO a movie made just as Hawthorne had written it would have been so totally boring. This one had a great story, with wonderful actors who had loads of chemistry with each other. The only one I didn't like was Roger Prynne....or Chillingsworth as he was known but I like Robert Duvall as an actor. Chillingsworth was a truly evil man. I wondered if that red bird that lured Hester into the forest where she first saw Dimmesdale swimming might have been Roger, since he seemed to have some sort of magical powers or witchcraft. Maybe, as the girl who was telling the story said, he was one to lay a trap for someone and hope they might fall into it.I was glad they changed the ending. Actually the ending in the book made little sense anyway.....it was so jumbled up. I liked this ending better. "},{"Title":"Worse than book","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie is worse. Much worse. The people who made this movie obviously read the first couple of pages of the book, got bored and look over the cliff notes a little then sat down to write a screenplay. However who wants to see internal trauma on a big screen, not the public that's for sure. So they stuffed some sex and violence into the plot to make it better. The movie people tried to make Hester Prine a feminist character and to have the viewers care for her. Well first of all any feminist that saw the movie would be outraged by the fact that Hester is having wild passionate sex on the big screen, and any non feminists would want to shoot her in the face.The screenplay takes the worst eliminates from movies and combines them into a unbelievably bad result. It takes the dialogue from any Bruce Cambell movie or a cheap porn` I've wanted to poke you'. It takes the camera angles from Battlefield Earth, and I don't know where they came up with half the crap they put in this movie. It is as if someone had brushed a keyboard with their butt and accidentally written this screenplay `oh I'm terribly sorry I seem to have written the `Scarlet Letter movie' on your computer'. Somewhere along the line the director decided it would be a good idea to stick a couple of witch trials in there for good measure, a couple of native American scenes and a scalping. This movie does have some merit though. It can be utilized to wipe out the pesky problem of `intelligence' that is plaguing the world. Any person who knows literature upon watching this movie will scream plunge red hot pokers into their eyes and jump out of a window screaming something about witches and red As. I would recommend this movie only to my most bitter of foes, and perhaps the blind and deaf. "},{"Title":"Snipe about accuracy if you like, Oldman is brilliant","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read the book in high school.  I hated it.  I only gave the movie a chance because of the casting of Gary Oldman.  I was not disappointed.Oldman is the most underrated actor working in movies today, and the intensity of his performance here makes this film worthwhile.  Don't watch the movie for its faithfulness to Hawthorne, watch it for the brilliance of Gary Oldman. "},{"Title":"Not all that bad!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, it's not faithful to the novel . . . .I waited a long time before I finally decided to rent the video and watch The Scarlet Letter. Afterwards I wondered, what was everyone so upset about?! I was pleasantly surprised. Gary Oldman was his usual -brilliant, and looking soulfully handsome for a change. Demi Moore turned in a decent performance -watch closely- and then decide for yourself. Robert Duvall as the crazy doctor was a bit over the top, but had enough self control to not let it get out of hand. Joan Ploughright was charming as usual, and the only one who got the accent right -being a Brit, of course.I don't recall the Indian war, and witchcraft from the novel . . . but it's been a long time. Yes, I guess it was a different movie, but watch it for what it is. "},{"Title":"A beautiful piece of cinema... So why does everyone hate it!?","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was completely shocked after watching The Scarlet Letter to find such strong negative criticism towards it. 4.7 on IMDb? 14% on rotten tomatoes? nominated for several Razzies?? But why? The only possible answer I can come up with is that this film is largely being critiqued by Hawthorne Puritans, so to speak. And truly, to say that this adaptation strays from the book is like saying that the Kardashians sometimes appear in the media. It does take liberties, and several key plot points have been changed - but does that make it a BAD MOVIE? I have read the Scarlet Letter, and I can see the appeal, but it's not as if it was without it's flaws. It needed some back-story. The characters needed more likability. There needed to be a greater depth to the relationships. This movie gave it all of that with the added bonus of giving it a more exciting story line.The novel aside, this movie was absolutely gorgeous in every aspect. The sets, score, and costuming were top quality, and really transported me into 17th century New England. The acting was stunning throughout the cast, with Demi Moore portraying a strong, enduring Hester Prynn, Robert Duvall giving a thoroughly chilling performance as her husband, and Gary Oldman managing to transform Reverend Dimmesdale - a horribly weak and unlikeable character in the book - into a charming and extremely complex man that the audience could sympathize with. There is nothing that this movie didn't have that most Oscar nominated hits have as well.The only flaws I can think of were, and this is a stretch, the excessive amounts of nudity (which on Mr. Oldman's part were actually very welcome), and the fact that the feminist attitudes were slightly anachronistic. But again, does this make The Scarlet Letter bad? I don't think so. The people I saw it with didn't think so. I honestly don't understand how anyone COULD think so. (and I here I though comprehending God was going to be my biggest challenge) So I say go ahead and watch The Scarlet Letter. Just don't turn it on expecting a word-for-word rendition of the book because you will be disappointed. Instead, expect a beautiful, high-quality, high-intensity romantic thrill ride that deserves a much better reception than it received. "},{"Title":"It's called CREATIVE LICENSE for a reason!","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have noticed that most of the bad reviews for The Scarlet Letter are written by lovers of Nathaniel Hawthorn's classic novel of the same name. I myself have read the novel, and I appreciated it as much as the next person, but let's be realistic here; is it really made for the screen? Director Roland Joffe has done the right thing here by adding some extra *umph* to the classic story with the right dose of action and romance - even if many key elements of the novel were altered.First, let's put this into perspective. Yes, Joffe took the title of the book, hinting towards a relatively accurate adaption, which it was not by any means. However, there have been many successful films based on novels that have even used the author's name directly in the title whilst making it just as inaccurate. Example 1 Bram Stoker's Dracula - also starring the wonderful Gary Oldman - TOTALLY strayed from the book but is still a favourite of many. #2 Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. Complete filth in my opinion (possibly because Frankenstein's my fav book and Ken Branagh is just such a ham in it), but it was still approved by most critics. Get what I'm saying here? Just because a film is not word-for-word like the book it's based on, it doesn't mean that it isn't any good.Truth be told, I love this film! Yes, yes, I'm a bit of a Gary Oldman fan girl, and yes, seeing his wet, naked, beautiful body made me swoon, but that is NOT the only reason why I loved this film. Honest.Despite the incredible length, Scarlet Letter managed to grab my attention from start to finish. The soundtrack, lighting, costuming, sets, camera work, script . . . it was all fantastic. It had me smiling and giggling at the flirty exchanges between Arthur (Gary Oldman) and Hester (Demi Moore), sighing at the love scenes, biting my nails at the moments where those crazy Puritans showed their (arguably) evil side,reaching for tissues at the tragic moments, and had me actually hiding my face behind a pillow when things got really intense. This to me is the mark of a great film.Another great thing is the performances. The entire cast was incredible - a thing that rarely happens. The stars of the film, Moore and Oldman, were both critically knocked for their performances - Gary for not being 'into the role' and Demi for just, well, sucking. NONSENSE!! Gary, while not in his usual bada$$ and over-the-top crazy element, played the charming and romantic version of Dimmesdale to a T. He really let us feel his torment in having to choose between his moral and spiritual beliefs, and his heart (and I can't stress enough how beautiful he is in this role - okay, hormones are settled now). Demi was equally as wonderful, showing us both the strength of a woman seeking independence from domestic and religious restraints, as well as vulnerability in her inability to actually fight the power so to speak. Both actors had amazing chemistry and passion - passion for their individual beliefs, for their child, and above all, for each other. Simply wonderful. Another stand-out performance was Joan Plowright as Harriot. She portrayed a gentle, warm and kind wisdom like I have never seen before. I felt immediately drawn to her character.*drum roll* Time for the one and only flaw! My main problem is the unnecessary amounts of gore. I won't say how it's gory, but if you haven't seen this yet, consider yourself warned. I understand that this is a device that only makes the film more powerful and intense, but truthfully, it's just plain hard to watch. OH! I just thought of another flaw. Mituba diddling herself with a candlestick. It might sound like a bad Clue scenario, but lo and behold . . . It's just unnecessary.So those are my two cents. If you're a hard-knock fan of the book, try to forget about it when watching this film. It really is great as an independent story, so just let your mind relax and sink into the creative depths of the directors' interpretation. And keep a pillow handy. "},{"Title":"a good movie after all","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was expecting something awful because of the mockery and disparagement from the critics. I'm so glad I saw it anyway! I am critical and usually hard to please as a movie viewer, and this was a good movie, especially when you compare it to most of the crap being made. I find it hysterical that people are pretending to take such offense that Hawthorne's story wasn't followed to the T. Name one classical story that is followed to the t by Hollywood. Or any book adaptation for that matter. Name one.I think all the mockery is really about the fact that this movie critiqued the early brutal treatment of women in this country's history. This is almost never explored, never exposed. When Hester says, This isn't about the sin of us women, it's about the sin of you men, that is the sort of line that makes you unpopular with critics. Then they will pretend it's all about the art. There was a lot about the art in this film to appreciate. Oldman's performance was incredible, subtle, believable. Duvall never disappoints, and the abuse of Hester was realistic in its viciousness, even though it only showed the edges. I appreciated most of all that the filmmakers were willing to take on this subject matter. How they adapted it to modern movie viewer tastes, well, maybe they could have done better, but the pressures to make an expensive film commercially successful cannot simply be overlooked. All and all they did a good job. I'm so glad I finally watched it, and didn't let the mocking critics turn me off to it forever. "}{"Title":"Entertaining for a while (but has a poor outcome)","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There is an opening credit at the beginning of the movie that reads; adapted freely from Nathaniel Hawthorne's book. 'Freely' that's an interesting choice of words. 'loosely adapted' sounds a bit too euphemistic I suppose. Saying 'freely' makes it sound as if the makers of this picture took a timeless American novel and did god knows what with it; they 'freely' toyed around with a masterpiece.I should probably mention now, that I am not saying these things without a bias. I haven't read the novel personally, but having seen the film, I think I can verify for myself (based on good common sense, without the need for the 'freely adapted credit) that there is no way this could have been Hawthorne's original story. The writing is mediocre, and not that smart. That said. I won't argue that it is a terrible movie, and in fact the first half is pretty good, but the second half is clumsy, overdone, and rather pointless. The finished product has its ups and downs, but it is an uneven production which could use a slight rewrite and maybe a few trimsFor a good while I was enjoying myself. The romantic portion of the film, is believable. Gary Oldman turns in a pretty good performance opposite Demi Moore, who is not as good, but does her best. Oldman has more charisma. I guess it's too much then to ask for a movie to be stable for a hundred and thirty minutes. At the one hour point (give or take a few minutes) The Scarlett Letter, becomes a whole new ballgame. Once Robert Duvall shows up, the plot turns contrived and non sensible. Much of the remainder of the film, is about this character's involvement, and it takes us nowhere. Duvall is way out of place as a hammed up, Hollywood stereotype; the really bad guy, if you will. It's not even a role that requires the involvement of such a skilled actor. The movie ends with an unusual bang; an outburst of violence that is also irrelevant, and if for nothing else was probably thrown in as a last minute attempt to break the tedium. The Scarlett Letter's strongest aspect is it's portrayal of 17th century puritan Massachussetts. There is a credible sense of history to this setting. It's all in the way the people dress, behave, make chit chat. Anyone who knows their movies will know that this was a much despised picture. I certainly see fault within it, but I did not think it was terrible. The fact that it eviscerates it's source material is a pretty good reason to dislike it, but as a movie goer, I judge it for what it is. For better or worse, Roland Joffé's film is pretty much a Hollywood melodrama. "},{"Title":"No brainer entertainment flop","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  (just a few spoilers but it ain't bad) That's all it was and a commercial let down to the victims who were forced to read N. Hawthorne's novel in High School. Well, and just a general dissapointment all in all. The ratings and overall reviews sceam disaster.  I initially had two motives for viewing this movie. And a third one I will explain in the end. One because Demi was at the height of her career and really busy consistently popping out watchable films. And two, sometimes its just interesting viewing old classics or any adapted form of literature transformed onto the big screen.  Now looking back on it, all I want to do is laugh. Gosh, Hollywood really knows how to butcher literature. The people in charge of this production were not gutsy enough to let Demi die. And what man during that time (what was that the witchcraft times) grew  courage to speak up?  It would have offended the sensitive or possibly boosted healthier reviews? Who's to say, they killed it and shame on Demi for contributing herself to such a glossy fake film. And who would have thought that Gary Oldman was drunk 95% of the time during the making of this film. The third motive speaks for itself.  "},{"Title":" student @ EBHS (9th grade)","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie, I'm pretty young but i still understood the plotI enjoyed it because it showed sin from even pure ministers and widowed(if u saw it u'd kno what happens)women and normal people have in them and it showed a sort of beauty that romeo and juliet shows (a sinful love).  "},{"Title":"an enjoyable movie","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i enjoyed this movie, and have seen it several times.  i feel the producers did a pretty good job of telling the story.  granted, the movie is not exactly like the book, but that's to be expected in any film.  gary oldman plays arthur dimmsdale very well.  whether you've read the book or not, this movie is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"twas cool","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i've never read the book, maybe that s why i ve seen the movie twice and enjoyed it both times... don t care about the actors, especially about demi, but i really enjoyed the atmosphere of the movie -- that s what i look for in a movie... being sent to somewhere different for a couple of hours "},{"Title":"Roland Joffé turns Nathaniel Hawthorne into a heavy-breather!","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Prurient, ludicrous, but undeniably entertaining drama with some camp appeal could politely be called a revisionist variation on Nathaniel Hawthorne's classic book about a New England woman in the 17th century whose illicit, secret affair with a minister results in her scandalous pregnancy. If you throw out the source material and view this simply as a star-crossed lovers tale, some minor enjoyment can be eked out of the overheated scenario--but who wants to throw out Hawthorne? It's an over-the-top simplification with a ridiculous script which at times mirrors--rather amusingly--The Blue Lagoon (both screenplays were written by Douglas Day Stewart). Story previously filmed in 1926, 1934 and 1973; Demi Moore is our Hester Prynne this time, and while she's not exactly 17th century, she fits right in when the narrative steams up. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A Butchered Classic","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How could they totally miss the point of The Scarlet Letter? The book was about redemption and taking responsiblity for your actions. The creators of this movie have turned it into an appalling mixture of a Danielle Steel romance novel, and a Demi Moore peep show. A note to all directors. Don't put freely adapted on your movie! "},{"Title":"Demi Moore ruins another movie","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is definitive proof that Demi Moore can destroy any movie that she is cast in.  Her admittedly very good looks and Hollywood connections will always get her roles in the industry, unfortunately.  She's basically Sharon Stone, albeit with a wig.But she's not the only thing wrong with this lame movie.  Freely adapted from?  What the heck is that?  Why don't I freely adapt something this weekend, since I have nothing better to do?  Like having a GOP member card fall from Ebenezer Scrooge's pocket as he shuffles around London cursing carolers in An Al Gore Christmas Carol?  (Hey, it's obvious where H-wood's political sympathies lie, why not just have them admit it?)  Of course, Tiny Tim would be long dead because he had to wait so long for his universal health care to kick in...And while I'm at it, maybe I'll freely adapt Moby Dick and have Ahab carve GOP onto his wooden leg and let Greenpeace save the whale at the end.  I'd even add a cute dolphin sidekick to ol' Moby to move some merchandise.  Looks like I've got a busy weekend ahead... "},{"Title":"Too bad the IMDb doesn't offer a zero for reviews!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  By a strange coincidence, I was in 11th grade and assigned to read this book the year the movie came out. Unlike most of my classmates, I liked the book. However, this movie was down right AWFUL. Saying it was freely adapted from the book is an understatement. Everything good about the book was turned awful in the movie, worst of all the ending. I can't believe that Robert Duvall, one of my favorite actors, would do a movie like this. I'm glad it bombed at the box-office.  "},{"Title":"a definite misfire","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This adaptation of Nathaniel Hawthorne's novel is pretty disappointing. The casting of Demi Moore as Hester Prynne is laughable - she looks what she was at the time, a pretty, A-list, Hollywood star. Gary Oldman does slightly better as Dimmesdale - in fact he might have just saved the film - but Robert Duvall is atrocious as Roger Chillingworth; totally wrong.The adaptation is stodgy, the story tampered with, and the direction by Roland Joffe is pedestrian. Faces like Edward Hardwicke, Tim Woodward, Roy Dotrice, and Joan Plowright, give the film some credibility, but not enough. "}{"Title":"this movie has to be seen to be believed","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am not a fan of the Hawthorne novel- frankly, the whole story could have been said in thirty pages as opposed to a hundred and fifty, and I don't think I'd be terribly interested in the thirty page version either- but if there's anyone out there who likes this movie as anything more than an extremely funny example of Hollywood at it's stupidest, then I genuinely fear for the futures of film and literature(let alone criticism) in this country. This movie is such a desecration of the book that it should have been retitled. The novel's most interesting character- Pearl- is reduced to a silent, annoyingly helpless baby, while the novel's token witch character (who appears on less than ten pages of the book) is blown into some sad attempt at a strong, outspoken woman (or something), terribly played by Joan Plowright at her chin quivering, blank-eyed worst. Much more offensive is the inclusion of a new character, Matuba (whose name and actions are shockingly similar to that of Tituba in Arthur Miller's THE CRUCIBLE), who has nothing to do with the story and seems to exist solely to be embarrassing to watch- a function much better filled by Demi Moore as a blazingly mis-cast, busty Hester Prynne, magically transformed by blind and sexist Hollywood anachronism into a gun-wielding, lace wearing, convention breaking bimbo who occasionally spouts vaguely feminist tripe to remind us we're sharing in a story of courage and individuality in a dark time (or something). Robert Duvall continues to be one of my least favorite actors on the planet and Gary Oldman continues to solicit my pity for a man with so much talent but obviously not when it comes to picking his projects. Whoever made this movie (be it an individual or a gang of armani suit wearing studio execs who were hoping to cash a quick buck on the good old adapt a classic and cast a star band wagon) is obviously devoid of any sense of literature, history, drama, filmmaking and (most importantly) taste. The only good thing I can say about this terrible film is that it's fun as hell to watch- for all the wrong reasons- especially if you've read the book and want to know where all those witches and slaves and attacking Native Americans come from. "},{"Title":"Anti-Christian Propaganda","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know where to begin. I'll just ramble off a list of things which I thought were ridiculous.1) In the beginning of the movie Hester talks about how much she has studied the Bible and even quoted Old Testament Scripture. Curiously though, she spends the rest of the movie making obscene theological blunders that the most novice of Christians would never make.2) She questions how could a mere man know what is a sin before God or something along those lines. Ummm...you're a Christian. It's called the Bible. You know that book that you told us you knew so much about in the beginning of the movie. If you are honestly questioning what is sin after reading the whole Bible, then you are either intellectually inept or you are a flagrant heretic. What would be the point of even questioning the very word sin? Who would care if you didn't believe in the Bible. The word sin is from Scripture.3) The movie clearly is pro-fornication, pro-adultery, pro-immoral church leaders, anti-Christian, anti-traditional marriage, anti-white man, as clearly shown by how awfully the good Indians hated them. It also seemed pro-lust, pro-paganism, highly feminist in its viewpoint, and on and on. It's mainly liberal, modern day garbage. "},{"Title":"A - The Scarlet Letter","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can ensure you that The Scarlet Letter receives too much negative criticism. It's an easy target. I've never read the novel though I wish I did read it so I could better effectively rate the movie, but the book is great so the movie has big shoes to fill. The Scarlet Letter is clearly a fine film. Its direct comparisons to the book is one big reason for all the underratings, another big reason is The Scarlet Letter viewing sells itself as some great movie, with its vivid storytelling, its great acting and strong cinematography, yet it's not quite great. It's hard and difficult to deliver a pure dramatic period piece based on a strong selling novel. The movie may supposed to be sophisticated, elegant drama, but The Scarlet Letter quickly settles into a regular on the surface movie at the time when Authur and Hester meet, not being too artistically poetic, but more commonly driven by its desires. The Scarlet Letter is lost between those two film modes with no seaming connection. Another strong critique is it's missing very intriguing plot points. All this lessens the film, but not all so much. The Scarlet Letter is a passionate romance taking place in a beautiful though turbulent setting. It has a good, deep cast. Demi Moore and Gary Oldman as Hester Prynne and Authur Dimmsdale make The Scarlet Letter good all while their characters engage in forbidden lust. Moore and Oldman offer tour de forces in The Scarlet Letter. Moore is beauty at its finest. I love Demi Moore and Gary Oldman, two my favorite and two of the very best. I quite enjoy their impassioned performances in The Scarlet Letter. It may make the characters themselves slightly exaggerated, but Oldman and Moore do a good job of maintaining it. I wouldn't change it if I could. The Scarlet Letter is a great tragic love story in the form of a good movie. I must say, The Scarlet Letter is really good, and anyone who bashes it as bad is being too harsh. It's a strong 6. The Scarlet Letter is a great stay at home couples date night movie because it's boldly, desperately romantic and you do not have to watch it too closely to follow it as it speaks of pure passion being very passionately compelling. "},{"Title":"Not the Hawthorne classic, but enjoyable on its own","Date":"25 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Nope, this film is NOT an accurate adaptation of The Scarlet Letter by any stretch of the imagination. It's more like a modern Variations on a Theme by Nathaniel Hawthorne, or one of those Fantasias that 19th- century composers used to write with a famous, much-older melody as a starting point.That said, I enjoyed this movie quite a lot. The depiction of late 18th/early 19th century Native American civilization on the Northeastern Seaboard is vividly and richly imagined; don't think I've ever seen this in a film before. Gary Oldman, as a wonderfully sexy and yet perfectly pure young Rev. Dimmesdale, probably would have pleased Hawthorne on the whole, and his chemistry with Demi Moore's obviously anachronistic, but compelling, Hester Prynne is delicious (their scene in the barn is very hot indeed).Finally, something has to be said about the gorgeous John Barry score. What lovely, memorable film music! On the strength of the score alone, I encourage anyone who enjoys romantic stories (and won't be offended by the vast, ridiculous departures from Hawthorne's masterpiece) to give this movie a look. "},{"Title":"Freely Adapted!","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the opening credits, it is stated that the movie was freely adapted from Nathaniel Hawthorne's novel of the same title. From the looks of it, director Joffe really has taken a lot of liberty in making his movie different from the book. However, having not read the book, how does the movie work as a stand-alone? Well, Joffe's film is a half-baked, melodramatic and pretentious product. It tries to take a feminist point of view through the main character but ends up being a mockery. The portrayal of the native Americans is laughable. All they do is frolic, talk gibberish (with an expressionless face) and shout and kill. The symbolism is plain obvious as it looks forced but some of it is nicely shot (e.g. the red canary flying against the green trees in the background). The happy ending is a misfit and too convenient. Demi Moore's dialogue delivery is inconsistent. Perhaps this has to do with her poor British accent but her acting is quite good otherwise. Gary Oldman is cast against type and he doesn't do a bad job either. There is also some nudity and I don't object to having a glance at Demi Moore's beautiful body but it looks a little out of place in relation to the film. It looks rather like a means to draw a larger audience. Robert Duvall is irritating. Of the supporting cast only Joan Plowright stands out while the rest are caricatures. The background score adds to the melodrama and the cinematography is overdone. 'The Scarlet Letter' is average at best. Parts of it are entertaining but it does not have much to offer. "},{"Title":"New Age Feminist Sexpot stars in...The Scarlet Letter?!?","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the worst major-studio literary adaptations ever, and I've given it a 1 rating because it deserves to be in the IMDb bottom 100--though in terms of (unintentionally hilarious) entertainment value I'd give it a 6. Maybe even an 8. I'm no huge fan of Hawthorne--his novels are pretty dry, dull and moralistic, like much pre-20th-century American lit--but his whole story is outrageously skewed here to suit Demi Moore's ego. She was at the top of her stardom then. This, G.I. Jane and Striptease pretty much destroyed that status--and all because each of them was wrecked by the need to flatter her so much. She needs to be the toughest yet most sensitive, sexiest yet most spiritual, etc. etc. person on screen--which would be OK if she were playing an action heroine or female superhero, but was disastrous for these particular stories. G.I. Jane could have been a gritty look at women's military life, Striptease has considerable sequences--all without Demi--where it's a very funny retro screwball comedy. But her humorless image-sculpting ruined both. Then there's Scarlet Letter. Whoa. Roland Joffe is not a good director (despite having gotten praise for the fairly good Killing Fields and overrated The Mission--since then it's been all downhill). But the problem here is clearly that Demi wants to reshape Hester Prynne from Puritan victim of Puritanism into a hot ass-kicking, erotically supercharged mama who connects as a kindred soul with local Native Americans and hosts a sort of women's consciousness-raising/sewing group. In colonial New England. Uh-huh. I kinda love this movie--it's so slick yet incredibly wrongheaded, encouraging possibly the worst performances ever by some very good actors (Gary Oldman and Robert Duvall for starters), that it's frequently hilarious. It's one of those rare crazy monuments to a star's ego--at the expense of any fidelity or credibility--that results in an instant camp classic. "},{"Title":"Too Quick","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw adverts for this on sky i decided to investigate it further watch you tube and then record the film and I had expected so much but what i found was a bit of a disappointment. Im not saying the film was bad it was just not as good as I thought. Hester and Arthur meet about four times in the space of a few days and then about a week later they are declaring undying love for each other on a cliff and are prepared to risk their whole life for each other?? It happened to quickly. Once the film got going and it focused on Hesters struggle I found it intriguing but it still was too quick i felt for the main characters to have fallen in love. Gary Oldman was superb although Im not quite sure what accent he was trying to master and Demi Moore was surprisingly good in this role yet the whole thing lacked due to it being too quick. Overall I do not feel I wasted two hours of my life but I did record over the recording. "},{"Title":"Very underrated movie...I love it!","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I generally dislike movie critics because I have really liked many movies they pan and I've not liked some movies they extolled. I think all of performances in The Scarlet Letter were spot on. Demi's portrayal of a woman taking a stand against rigid moral codes and repression of women was very well done. She avoided being too strident trying to walk the hard line between the mores of the 1700's and following the demands of her heart and body in her love for Rev. Dimmesdale. Gary Oldman is one of my favorite actors and I've never seen him give a bad performance. The tight control he's trying to keep when he's so in love and lusting after Hester is a wonder to watch. The Reverend's place in his church, his community and his faith is turned upside down putting his life in jeopardy preventing him from doing what he knows is right in speaking up to defend his love and claim his child. The scene in the barn when Hester and Arthur finally consummate their love is one of the most sensual and beautifully filmed love scenes I've ever seen. Since I love happier endings, I'm glad they took poetic license and did not strictly adhere to the book. "},{"Title":"Beautiful sin","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie , Demi Moore's portrayal of Hawthorne's character. From his classic novel was excellent, as the woman who had committed the carnal sin of adultery. And was considered a harlot and a witch. For not only did she have an affair , brought on by feelings of lust and desire. But it was with a Holy man sworn to be loyal and faithful to only the Lord our savior. Which was considered forbidden , so as her punishment she was forced to wear the scarlet letter 'A'. Which stood for adulteress, But she when found out she was with child. And out of wedlock she had only two options , neither one was promising. In the end she had only 4 options be hung, burned , end her affair with the Priest (Oldman) which was forced to leave the church. And her final choice leave with her child and never comeback! Great move fantastic acting ! Due to certain controversial content this movie isn't for everyone! But for anyone who appreciates classic literature this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"Scarlett Letter amazes!","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Review This movie was a beautiful movie. I can't tell you how happy this movie made me. It was a love story beyond anything I could have ever asked for! There is a disclaimer&#x85;there is male and female nudity, and extreme gore, so this is not a family movie. Though there was some extreme gore for a movie like this&#x85;I was happy with it. I did close my eyes during the fighting scenes, because there were some over the top nasty scenes&#x85;but the fight scenes only lasted a few minutes, and wasn't a huge part of the story. The story was about a married woman in the 1600's who moved to America to build a new life with her husband&#x85;though her husband decided to stay behind in London and send her there alone, almost like he was trying to test her.After settling in, she begins to have feelings for another man in her husband's absence&#x85;but this man also is the minister of the town where they live. They both avoid each other, knowing that they both have strong feelings for the other, and if they were to do anything about it, they would both be hanged. They then get news that her husband's ship was attached by Indians, and no one was found alive&#x85;so they begin their love affair. She then becomes pregnant with what the town calls a bastard child&#x85;not knowing that it was their minister's child. He offers to give himself up in order for her to not be punished, but she forbids him to do so, because she loves him too much to see him hang for their love. She is put into prison until she has the child, and then is forced to wear a red A on her clothes everywhere she goes. Shortly after her release, she finds out her husband was not killed by the Indians, but captured, and returns home under an alias&#x85;only because he doesn't want the town to punish his wife&#x85;he wants to punish her by killing her lover. Still, no one knows that her lover is the minister&#x85;but her husband begins to investigate everyone, and soon suspects that her lover is the minister.I could seriously go on and on, and give you the climatic ending of the movie&#x85;but I won't&#x85;because you NEED to see this movie if you haven't. It was a brilliant work of art in the form of a movie. Demi Moore was charming and graceful as Hester, and Gary Oldman was almost a knight and shining armor as Minister Arthur. They did change up the story of the book&#x85;but this movie was just beautifully done. I will watch this movie again&#x85;very soon! "}{"Title":"Demi could have been a little more natural (may contain spoilers)","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Over all I thought the movie was good, yeah it was different from the book but they told us that at the very beginning of the movie. I thought Gary Oldman portrayed a wonderful Reverend Dimmesdale but Demi just didn't quite do it for me. I thought at many times in the movie that she just wasn't right, it's like she was very uncomfortable with her character and I thought that she totally messed up the love scene, God could she have sounded any more FAKE!! I've never even had sex I could have sounded better than that!! I think the casting directors totally screwed up in hiring her to play Hester. Although I wouldn't have minded being her for that particular movie, getting to see Gary Oldman naked up close and personal!!YUM!!! Oh yeah, can anyone explain to me why Mituba pleasured herself with the candle, I just don't get it.  "},{"Title":"Lusty, busty, but certainly not dusty!","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never read Nathaniel Hawthorne's 19th century novel, but apparently this is total rape and murder of it. Admittedly Demi Moore's Hester is extremely irritating, like all of the movie's strrrooong women, and celebration of adultery would make poor, Victorian Nathaniel turn scarlet too, but production values are lush and the film is not without entertainment value. Think, for example, the hysterical scene where Hester (or whoever this modern woman among Puritans is) puts wreath of flowers to her head and runs in the woods like 17th century hippie! She is free spirit in narrow-minded, bigoted society, get it? As filmed version of Historical Harlequin book this is not bad at all, as Hawthorne adaptation it is, of course, insulting travesty and understandably angered book's fans. "},{"Title":"The Scarlet Letter","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having studied the novel written by Nathaniel Hawthorne for my English as level i found this film a complete disappointment in keeping with the plot of the novel (at the start of the film it does state that it is 'freely adapted') if your reason for watching this film is to understand this book a little more i would strongly advise you to not to watch as it will totally confuse you, as it did me, my classmates and my teacher, but to be fair the acting isn't as bad as it is made out to be and if you've never read the book then you may enjoy this film and yes you do see Dem Moore semi naked but i don't bat for that side so it wasn't one of my highlights of the film but each to there own "},{"Title":"Unjustly maligned and certainly no turkey!","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I cannot understand why this film gets the bad press / reviews that it does. It does not follow the novel but SO WHAT? It is an enjoyable piece of entertainment which has beautiful locations / photography, good soundtrack and generally good acting. I wish people would stop critcising Demi Moore. It seems to me that she can do nothing right in the eyes of some people, when in fact in this film she is perfectly acceptable. OK, it may not be a classic piece of cinema, but for a romantic, escapist two hours it fits the bill. I recently saw Donny Darko, which always seems to get rave reviews, yet Scarlett Letter is classed as a turkey. Sorry folks but I must be missing something here. One is a boring, pretentious, unintelligible piece of cr*p, the other is an undemanding (and easy to follow) piece of harmless entertainment. Guess which I think is which! I suppose that people who write scathing reviews of The Scarlett Letter think the opposite. Go Demi! "},{"Title":"An unseen side of Gary Oldman.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I took the movie for what it was, having not read Hawthorne's book, and thoroughly enjoyed it.  I was enthralled by the beauty of the locations, the musical score and especially the initial chemistry between Oldman and Moore. If you like historical movies and have not read the book, as many of the negative commentors here have, you may find it worth seeing. "},{"Title":"not that bad.","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  the scarlet letter would have been better off if it totally ignored hawthorne's book at all and resigned itself to being a mediocre puritan melodrama, instead of dragging the name through the mud.  demi moore is definitely a good looking hester, but lacks any sort of real emotion.  Her portrayal consists of happy hester, defiant hester, and my favorite, proud self-righteous hester.  robert duvall's roger chillingworth is merely a scary bad guy who goes indian crazy in the end and scalps someone. chillingworth in the novel is truly scary through his slow psychological torture of dimmesdale; the fear lying in his lack of action and this film is anything but subtle.  i can't completely hate this film because gary oldham is brilliant.  despite the fact the filmmaker's attempted to make dimmesdale a more romantic hero, oldham still conveyed the torment of his sin and his conflicting emotions, in everything but the ending.  oldham's performance fails to redeem the movie because of the ridiculous plot twists, cramming in a witchcraft trial, the confession of his guilt, and an indian massacre all in one.  i don't recommend this film to anyone who has every read the book; however, i think it might be interesting to someone who has no idea what to expect. "},{"Title":"Who cares what the critics say?","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I maybe the only one to say this, but I loved this movie. I can't understand why so many people did not like it. If the whole, 'freely adapted' thing gets you, THAN DON'T WATCH IT. The score was fantastic, and so was the acting, Gary Oldman in particular. The storyline was great, and even though it deviated from the novel, I thought that it was a somewhat accurate view of life in the Puritan society despite a few minor details. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Done!!","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While this movie does not follow the original by the letter (no pun intended), it is a masterfully created panorama of love, lust & betrayal.  A pure lesson in courage, commitment and the absolute power of love, Demi's performance in this one is outstanding!!  I cried and cried... "},{"Title":"yummm must see gary oldman in this","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This tells a great story of how love survived the puritanical colony of The New World, Americas. I really do'nt wanna say much more because words can not describe the pure glory of love versus the brutality of the miss use of power. Very well done, lots to learn too.  "}]