[{"Title":"Beautifully crafted film!","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this film mainly to see Kenneth Branagh once again, but was totally surprised by the entire cast, especially Laurence Fishbourne who portrayed Othello brilliantly. The dignified, regal Fishbourne transforms Othello into a tragic figure with restraint, control and believability. It was also an added surprise to see two actors from Brahagh's Hamlet Michael Maloney and Nicholas Farrel. And any film with Nathaniel Parker is a pleasure. Branagh brought a depth to Iago that I hadn't seen before, especially during the scene on the beach when he and Othello hug. Iago in tears? And then again at the final scene. Iago was evil, yes, but for an actor to find a few moments to make him human -that's when the audience knows something extraordinary has happened on stage or screen. See this film.  "},{"Title":"Sir Laurence Fishburne? ;o)","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've always enjoyed Kenneth Branagh's versions of the Shakespeare classics, as he always does a very good job, but in this movie, the one who lifts the whole movie, is none other than the-always-great-actor Laurence Fishburne. Surely he has made some poor choices in films, even though he's a wonderful actor, but in this one we're truly given the real Othello the passion, the intensity of jealousy as it grows stronger alongside with Fishburne's well portrayed paranoia and, furthermore, we're finally given a black Othello!I don't think they could have chosen a better Othello. Who else could have given him that blend of sympathy/antipathy, love/hatred and, not to forget, those fiery eyes...? Branagh is good as always, but not at his peak, Iréne Jacob's Desdemona is fairly good but a bit bleak, whilst Laurence Fishburne truly lifts it and makes it a very interesting and enjoyable movie. Do watch it. "},{"Title":"Latest version of the Shakespeare play caters for modern tastes, but is undeniably well made.","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"   Director Oliver Parker wanted to make Othello a more pacy story, so he omitted quite a lot of the original text when writing this version for the screen. Luckily, the cuts and alterations that he has made do little damage to the old Shakesperean chestnut. I wouldn't say that any of the tweaks are particularly for the better, but the essence of Shakespeare's tale of envy, jealousy and deceit is so powerful that it would take a bungling fool - an Ed Wood wannabe, for instance - to rob it of its power. The weighty themes shine through as strongly as ever in this latest presentation. Laurence Fishburne plays the titular character, a renowned Moorish soldier. His courage has impressed young Venetian lady Desdemona (Irene Jacob) and the pair of them secretly marry. However, her father is displeased by this secret ceremony and he warns Othello that if she can deceive her own father then she may one day do the same to him. One of Othello's soldiers, Iago (Kenneth Branagh) fails to get a promotion of rank which he feels he deserves, and to gain revenge he engineers a series of lies and incidents designed to convince Othello that his wife is being disloyal to him by fornicating with another man. Inevitably, viewers may find themselves comparing this version with other productions. How does it rank alongside the 1952 Orson Welles version and the 1965 Laurence Olivier one? To be honest, it depends upon the viewer. Purists would probably opt for the Olivier offering, since it is only very slightly abridged and contains such strong performances that all four lead actors earned Oscar nominations. Film buffs might go for the Welles version, with its moody b&w lighting and a now-classic murder scene, not to mention the fact that the production history itself is as fascinating as the story. This version will undoubtedly find favour with viewers more inclined towards modern tastes. It has high production values, a sweeping score, accessible delivery of the lines, flashy photography, and cool stylistic touches (Fishburne's head tattoo, for instance). Personally, I feel the 1952 Othello will always be the benchmark, but this one is reasonably well made and it compares quite favourably with other versions. "},{"Title":"Branagh and Fishburne, highly impressive!!","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As my Shakespeare Professor had mentioned, the part of Othello is highly challenging, which is why many don't perfect it or intend to play it. Larry Fishburne however did a magnificent job!  He provided us an astonishing portrayal of how even a noble, righteous and even intelligent man, can succumb to the green eyed monster.  The calculatingly evil Iago was FLAWLESSLY portrayed by veteran Shakespearian actor Kenneth Branagh, who occasionally stared into the eyes of the camera itself, explaining his dark plans and expectations.     "},{"Title":"Simply the best","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"17 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For me, the Lawrence Fishbourne version of Othello is the best ever put on film. His performance is excellent, while not overpowering the villainous Iago. And the title role is played by a black man, as it should be, rather than a white man with boot-polish on his face. The film's marginal eroticism has been criticised, but isn't eroticism at the very heart of the story? Olivier's Othello was essentially a film of the stage production, and for me the Orson Welles version was a failure, despite Welles' star performance, because most of the other actors were almost devoid of charisma. How could Desdemona possibly have been interested in a slob like Welles' Cassio?I have always found the original play unconvincing, for several reasons. Iago's motive, resentment of Cassio's promotion, seems too trivial for the tragedy it precipitates. At risk of committing heresy, I found the Verdi opera more convincing, with the soliloquy by Iago explaining his innate determination to commit evil.Also, given the closeness of Othello's friendship with Iago, his decision to bypass him in favour of Cassio makes little sense. Likewise, Othello's readiness to believe the worst of Desdemona, and the ease with which Iago leads him on to murder, makes the title character look quite pathetic, almost simple-minded.In this film, the cutting of the text to the absolute minimum helps to hide the play's inherent faults and tighten the action, and Fishbourne's wordless suffering speaks volumes that more than make up for the loss of Shakespeare's lines. I couldn't help comparing this film with Kenneth Brannagh's Hamlet, the longest and most tedious of his self-advertisements, in which every long-winded speech was preserved intact. Here Brannagh's Iago is almost as good as Fishbourne's Othello, and he makes the most of the lines he has.To sum up, ten out of ten. I can only regret that Fishbourne is not offered more roles of this quality. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare would have been pleased","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" While maintaining the location and time period of the original play, this film gives us a much clearer insight into Othello as a character and as a story than many of the supposedly more important versions. The dialogue is trimmed to what is essential, the settings are atmospheric, and the cast is great. You will never forget the story after you see this version.  "},{"Title":"shakespeare rules","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  shakespeare's plays have a way of transcending time.  The language somehow breaks the time barrier.  but perhaps it is the actors who really do that.after the disappointment in Romeo and Juliet (the version with Claire Danes and Leonardo DiCaprio), was hesitant take on another modern rendition of Shakespeare.  To my surprise Othello was great!Iago's character was played so well by the Kenneth fellow!  even thoough Iago is really evil and despicable, the character was played so well that it does what shakespeare intended for the charater to be, a pleasure for the audience to hate.  i have to say that fishburne's performance here was really good as well.i recommend this for shakespeare scholars and lazy students (who refuse to read the book) alike.   "},{"Title":"Just when you thought Kenneth Branagh couldn't get any better","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Othello, the classic Shakespearen story of love, betrayal, lies, and tragedy. I remember studying this story in high school, actually I found Othello to be probably my favorite Shakespeare story due to the fact of how fascinating it was, the fact that Shakespeare captured the feeling of friendship, love, and racism perfectly. I mean, when you really do study this story, you could go into so many philosophies on why Othello went insane with jealousy in the blink of an eye. But later on for my report I also watched this version of Othello and I have to say that it was absolutely brilliant. Lawerance and Kenneth just capture the story so well and understood it's darkness.Othello is the big time soldier in his city, he is loved by everyone, including the king. But when the king finds out that Othello snuck off with his daughter, Desdemona, the king is infuriated, but excepts it. Othello is welcome in the city and makes his best friend, Cassio, his side man instead of Iago, who has stood by Othello. Due to his insane jealousy, he's out for revenge. Still pretending to be Othello's best friend, he just mearly hints at Othello that Desdemona is cheating on him with Cassio, never says that they are, just makes Othello think that it's happening. Othello is driven insane and doesn't have pleasant plans for Desdemona or Cassio and Iago is more than happy to help him out.Othello is an incredible story, I highly recommend that you read it. It's an incredible story that keeps you thinking after you've read it. Othello the movie is also great and once again I recommend it, it captured the story perfectly and has a big tearjerker type of feel, or you could just be in utter shock of what happens between Othello and Desdemona, how quickly he believes that his true love would betray him. This is a terrific movie, great acting, good sets, and good direction, this is what Shakespeare meant when he wrote the story.10/10 "},{"Title":"Shakespeare for beginners","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I like the full versions of Shakespeare on film and will happily put in the effort for the reward.  However I do like the cut versions (Richard III, Romeo & Juliet etc), yes they are for the short of attention MTV generation, but is that a bad thing?It's good to get a new generation into these plays. In this version Brannagh gives an effortless performance (he can do shakespeare in his sleep) and Fishburne is great as the main character tortured by the betrayal and lack of honour of those around him.(although at times i was listening for the Shaft theme song - he did play it a bit street-tuff at time!).A cut version yes, but it looks beautiful and is more accesible than other versions. "},{"Title":"Dark, Tragic, and Beautifully Shot","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You do not get more dark or tragic than Othello and this movie captures the play fairly well, with outstanding performances by Lawrence Fishburne and Irene Jacob.  Fishburne's expresses to the viewer Othello's torment as he falls prey to Iago's lies very convincingly, even providing a realistic epileptic episode.  Jacob is the loving and loyal wife who becomes either the instrument of Iago's revenge against Othello, or the object of his wrath (it is not clear which since no motive for Iago's behavior is offered).  Although Kenneth Brannagh (sp?) displays his usual talent for Shakespeare in this movie, he is somewhat marginalized.  The characters of Cassio and Emilia also wander in and out of scenes even though they, like Iago, seem more crucial to the plot.  I have not checked the movie against the play to see how many lines were cut out, but I know that Shakespeare tends to develop his characters, even the seemingly unimportant ones, very well.If I had any criticism of the movie it would be that the story unfolds too quickly, and that the relationships between some of the characters are not laid out more.  The director had a great cast, and no one offered a bad performance.  The relationship between Cassio and Othello and that between Emilia and Desdemona need to be further developed earlier in the film.  I have a feeling that they were closer to each other than the movie suggests, although you get a sense of this very late into the movie.  Also, Othello and Desdemona need more time together.  Although their anguish is convincing, the amount of interaction they have with each other makes it seem like they just met.  On the other hand, maybe the did just meet---like Romeo and Juliet.In brief good performances, too short. "}{"Title":"Language","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Possibly nothing is more fun than filmed Shakespeare, because few things offer as many paths for reflection. Shakespeare himself invented the reflective human in the first place, and the play itself has power. But anyone looking for this power doesn't go to the movies, they read the play. There's just too much engagement and too many levels to appreciate without the magical space that reading creates.No, we go to the movies to see what people have done with these opportunities. Its a metatext of sorts. Engineering a film like this is a matter of tradeoffs and (in the best case) commitments to a world view that because of the richness of the plays can be as rich themselves. Olivier did not understand this because he never understood film. But Branagh does. In his films, he does not make the choices one would expect centering on the actor and emphasizing the language. Instead, he focuses on the space between the film and our minds and engages in an internal dialog about being and representation. He's chosen the few plays that work well with this.But Branagh is only a player here, and the decisions have been made by Parker. Parker is a smart artist who takes a wholly different approach; he's done it here and with the Wilde projects afterwards. In this world, the language is the center not the metaphoric abstractions, embellishments and introspections but the language as a dramatic citizen. That language is imbued with force. Around this force, everything moves.Fishburne is a good choice for this strategy. I know of no other black actor who works with the language this way. Its a particular challenge for african-americans because the use of language takes on a personal identity in that `culture' and most black actors leverage their identity as a tool in addressing a role. Not Fishburne, he's a real actor in the sense that he understands the difference between who he his and what his instrument is.Branagh is given a strange task to do here. His special strength is the ability to create that abstract metalayer, put it between us and keep it alive. But Parker will have none of that. Instead, all the metastuff is pushed into the more direct method of Iago's looking at and speaking to the camera. Its not very satisfying, but one can see why it is done.Similarly, Desdemona and all the other woman are treated by Parker the same way he did with his Wilde adaptations they are secondclass beings, existing only as marks for the movement. Demoting her thus was necessary for the strategy I suppose. But it is a major loss, transforming the play into being about Othello alone, instead of the rich confabulation of conflicting forces of life in the `real' play. She has her erotic moments instead, but this is like the Branagh camera-glances -- a pale substitute for her richer life of sense and passion.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully dark and full of intrigue...","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I studied Othello for my English Lit A-Level last year, and found it simply one of the most wonderful plays I've ever read - painfully compelling, in that the story is so terrible and tragic that it hurts to read it, yet you just cannot put it down. The language is some of Shakespeare's most complex, yet when understood, also some of the most eloquent and beautiful ever written.The film had a lot to live up to.(This may contain plot spoilers.)In my opinion, Fishburne was an excellent Othello - brooding, jealous, suspicious, in anguish - everything I expected. He spoke the lines well and had great presence. Irene Jacob as Desdemona wasn't such a powerful character, but then was never intended to be - even in the play she was depicted as weak, although she does have her stronger characteristics, she is inherently not one of the most important or complex characters.No, for me it was, as always, Branagh, who stole the show. A wonderfully chilling performance, which left me convinced that Iago was possibly the most evil villain I have come across in any of Shakespeare's works. He shows no remorse, no emotion, but simply calculation and cruelty. He plots evil for evil's sake, and Branagh portrayed this very well. If you watch it, it's in his eyes, the way he looks at the others and at the camera - it ranges from impassivity to pure, unadulterated evil. Iago is not simply a baddie - he is a demi-devil, fuelled by nothing more than the desire to harm others. Iago seems to have no real motive, although several are given (jealousy of Othello and Desdemona, racism, hatred of Othello, anger of being passed over for promotion etc etc), but I believe that he is not intended to have a motive - he is evil simply because that is his way, and he needs no motive.Some people have criticised the film for not showing enough of Desdemona and Othello together, or that it seems odd that Iago has so much hatred for Othello and that his plan culminates so quickly. This is from the Shakespeare, where the concept of double time is used. There are two time frames, it seems, in the play, which is hard to put across in a film, but which I think worked well enough that I wasn't bothered by it. It all happens in a few days, in one time frame, but we get the impression that it takes far longer than this. This is difficult to get your head around, but it does make some kind of sense. ) Anyway, they couldn't have added bits in without adding to Shakespeare's lines, and I'd rather they didn't do that. )Overall, a very good film adaptation of a wonderfully moving and disturbing play. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Brannagh in yet another brilliant performance","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a very big fan of Shakespeare - being an actor it almost comes with the territory, but i am not a fan of Shakespeare being cut - It should be performed as it was written. But this version by Oliver Parker seems to pull it off.Being a touch put off by the fact that he had cast Laurence Fishburne as the moor, I watched it for the mere fact that Brannagh was playing Iago. Brannagh is the man who knows when it comes to the Bard, and being a slightly different part to play for him (and he wasn't directing it) it seemed very interesting. And he pulled off the character wonderfully.He managed to play Iago with just enough flourish without making everything obvious. If I didn't already know the story I may have though he was telling the truth half of the time.Fishburne himself actually gives in a good if somewhat restrained performance and Irene Jacob as Desdemona is convincing, but it is the boy from Belfast, Brannagh, who steals the show.There are many excellent minor performances in the movie also, Michael Maloney as Rodrigo and Anna Patrick as Emilia to name but two.Parker's direction of the piece is also very good, especially visually, the love scenes with the black/white skin are a bit obvious, but still a nice touch.The bottom line for me, would be if you enjoy Shakespeare and Othello isn't on at your local Theatre - rent the video, or go to the cinema to see this version - you won't be disappointed. If you don't enjoy Shakespeare - watch it and be converted. "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"27 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" but could have been better. First of all, I would like to say that Laurence Fishburne's performance as Othello did not impress me. Although he is good, I think he maintains a bit too much dignity at the end of the film, making his tragedy less tragic. However, Keeth Branagh is amazing in this film. Like Glenn Close as the Marquise de Merteuil, but better, he makes Iago human, but still very sadistic. The beginning of the film is perfect. We see everything from the point of view of Iago, making us his accomplices in many ways, as he talks directly to us. Then, at the end, we lose him and Oliver Parker makes the great ending of the play way too long and we quickly get bored and annoyed at the melodrama of the last scene. Until the end, it is a great Shakespearian film. It is almost as if the same director as The Merchant of Venice (2004) made this. This is because both Parker and Redford adapt Shakespeare, not to make auteur films, like Orson Welles did, but to make them as Shakespeare would have were he alive at the time of cinema. Therefore, it would be a flawed but very good Shakespeare, but a worse auteur film. "},{"Title":"An impressive update on a timeless classic","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Price's 1995 version of Shakespeare's 'Othello' keeps the viewer's interest while staying true to the story. Although shortened and slightly modified, the action never stops, so that even restless audiences will enjoy and appreciate the genius that is Shakespeare. Desdemona is played to near perfection, and the actress portraying Emilia really appears to understand the different shades of such a deep character. When my acting 11/12 class viewed the film, we were so involved that one girl actually screamed at the screen. It was an enjoyable, tragic, comedic two hours that I would definitely watch again.  "},{"Title":"Good, but maybe too erotic.","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was especially delighted that in this movie Othello himself was dark-skinned and Desdemona didn't have fair hair like almost always. The cast played very well, too, and I liked the script following Shakespeare's original text so faithfully. But I must say some scenes were acted too erotically for such a character as Desdemona. I have always thought she is very modest, and that's why it is not proper at all to show her in bed with Cassio - although it was happening only in Othello's imagination. At first, I was a little surprised even that a love scene between Othello and Desdemona was shown so openly. But as a whole, I liked the film and especially Desdemona crying in the dying scene. "},{"Title":"Is it my imagination....","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ... or was Honest Iago actually smirking at the end, as he died?Loved how the Bard's iambic pentameter just rolled of Fishburne's tongue, with excellent clarity and emotion.And how Branagh made Honest Iago seem to celebrate his own evilness...This is a wonderful film.I have often thought that Shakespeare is inherently not film-friendly He uses words to create pictures in our minds, which creates a perennial battle with the camera, which only knows to show us what we need to think and feel. Every effort to film Shakespeare ought really to be celebrated. It is not an easy thing to do. "},{"Title":"Fishburne is Excellent","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't pretend to be an authority on actors who have played Othello, but I've never witnessed a performance of the play, on film or on stage, wherein Othello was portrayed with more humanity and authenticity.According to the biographical notes, Fishburne never received any professional training as an actor. Perhaps this explains why his acting, in this beautifully edited film, comes over as so believable and so powerful. Instead of chewing the scenery in the approved fashion for such high-powered roles, Fishburne's portrayal is focused more on Othello's love for his wife, and on his profound sadness at her supposed betrayal, than on violence and vengeance. In a word, the performance is understated, and made far more impressive by Fishburne's extremely intelligent interpretation than it otherwise would have been.The acting throughout is superb, and the (abridged) speeches gain grace from their light editing. (Even Shakesspeare, after all, can be improved upon, now and again -- and if that be treason, make the most of it! "},{"Title":"Not what I expected, but still interesting...","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This adaptation was wonderful, but a bit different from what I expected! The scenery and lighting was wonderful, if a bit ostentatious at times.  Being a purist, of course, I objected to the cuts, but they had to do something with it - the length is a bit much.What really made this work, though, was the acting.  Fishburne was wonderful as Othello - played him as a military man par excellence, and with great credibility.  Desdemona was oddly overlooked; she didn't seem to do much but sit around (lie around) and smile, but Emilia's complex and appealing character came across wonderfully.  Branagh is, as always, a wonderful Shakespearean actor; he played Iago's insecurity very well - but it was rather jarring for some reason to see a blond, square-jawed, and blue-eyed Iago. That's probably a bad reflex, though. Altogether, an amazing production, although not perfect.(And the guy at the end who played Lodovico was cute. Who was that?) "},{"Title":"...Absolutely amazing...","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw Othello in my english class. I'll admit I'm a big Shakespeare fan, but this movie just amazed me. I absolutely loved the acting, and how easily the words rolled off the tongues of the actors. I loved the dark lighting in the start, the boats, and the mask. It gave the spooky affect, that set the movie. Absolutely wonderful. "}{"Title":"A mixed bag","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Laurence Fishburne is a fine actor, and deserves respect for trying this, but he is not in a class with the great Shakespeareans like Olivier and Welles; and he further suffers from Kenneth Branagh.  This Irishman, always brilliant, cleanly steals the show away.  Olivier recognized that potential in his production, and cast Iago with someone he knew he could upstage.  I didn't nearly realize the possibilities of Iago, Shakespeare's most evil character, but Branagh shows us the depths.  Nice to see the views of Venice, too. "},{"Title":"Good acting, but too much removed.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Branagh and Fishburne deliver excellent performances in this version of the Shakespeare classic. Branagh plays Iago better than I've seen the character played in film or on stage. Some might say this film is overly Iago-centric, but I disagree. Fishburne, the first black Othello in film history ironically, delivers a powerful performance. Fishburne has always been a good actor, but this performance as the Moor of Venice may be one of his best. The one problem I have with this film, is the simple subtraction of a number of important scenes. Desdemona's character is given far less depth than she has in the play. In this film, she might as well not be added at all. One of the worst cuts made by Branagh in this film, was the subtraction of a conversation between Iago and Desdemona at the beginning of the second act. This part of the play shows that Desdemona may not be the innocent child she is portrayed as in this film. There were a number of subtractions that hurt the integrity of this film. However, if you have not read the play, or seen a film version of Othello before, I recommend this movie. The story, cut or not, is still incredibly enthralling. The acting, as stated previously, is very good. If some important scenes had been added, and Desdemona's character been prioritized a bit further, this would be a great movie. As it stands, it's still an admirable version of the original. I give it a marginal recommendation. "},{"Title":"Not the best OTHELLO.","Date":"28 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Othello in fast forward ! No softer moments, no time to savor the dialouge and very little real emotion. Branagh is in fine form and lifts the production beyond the mediocre. Fishburne is a good actor but illicits no sympathy for his Othello and Irene Jacob is a total waste as Desdemona  she did not even seem to know what she was saying!) Oliver Parker redeemed himself with IDEAL HUSBAND  but Othello is a take it or leave it adaptation.  "},{"Title":"Othello","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Oliver Parker directed the 1995 version of William Shakespeare's Othello starring Laurence Fishburne in the titular role. This version also boasts the acting talent of Kenneth Branagh as the antagonist. Enraged that he has been passed over for a promotion, Iago develops an elaborate plan to strike revenge against the man who passed him over, Othello. Presenting the danger of isolation as a master manipulator takes advantage of another man, Othello plays out a cautionary tale of power and struggle.Iago (Kenneth Branagh) is furious that his loyalty and civility has been overshadowed by another, and he instantly begins devising an elaborate plot to seek revenge against Othello and bring about his downfall. Becoming obsessed with his master plot, Iago develops a narcissistic addiction to bringing about Othello's downfall.The highlight of this film is the acting of Kenneth Branagh's Iago. He plays the role in a deliberate calculating method, just as the character begs to be played. Laurence Fishburne's turn in the titular role was excellent as well. the action is centered around Fishburne, but he is a secondary character to that of the manipulator Iago. Fishburne plays this distinction well and the film prospers from his lead role.Days ago after my initial viewing of this film, I thought it was wonderful; after taking some time to process it, however, I think it was pretty forgettable. Initially, I thought the wall-breaking of Branagh was a fun way to engage the audience, but otherwise, I wasn't much engaged. As good as Branagh's Iago was, it was played differently than I imagined from the Shakespeare original. He was much closer to the Desdemona (Irène Jacob) character than I ever thought he was in the play. This may be the most faithful adaptation of Othello, but the characterization was different than I ever expected. "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" not only for acting or script. but for the perfect tone of story. for the wise measure for use of the details. for the expected Othello. and for the right choice for Iago. a film who becomes more than an inspired adaptation. but a kind of trip in the heart of emotions , impressions, light, darkness, shadows of the first meeting with the Shakespeare's play. because it is not Olivier, not Verdi, not Welles. in a sort of measure, not Shakespeare. but a living mixture of passion and desire, angry and vulnerability, one of the magnificent Laurence Fishburne 's roles. a film about the force of feelings and the roots of fundamental decisions. result- an impressive tragedy. who preserves the legacy of different images of the lead character for be itself. "},{"Title":"Performances lift otherwise pedestrian 'Othello'","Date":"9 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Scheming, seduction passion and betrayal. All of the elements of Shakespeare's classic tragedy are here, but they add up to only a rather tepid melodrama thanks to a bland leading lady, a flat supporting cast and the ham-fisted and uninspired direction of Oliver Parker.Thankfully, there's Lawrence Fishburne and Kenneth Branagh. The former skillfully portrays the Moor's decent from charming hero to jealous madman, while the latter deliciously steals the show as the plotting and treacherous Iago. This may not be the best version of 'Othello' put on film, but it's worth watching thanks to the performances of its two leads. "},{"Title":"An excellent and very recommendable Othello","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Having loved Shakespeare's play since my third year at secondary school, and also the Welles and Olivier films, I heard much about this film. And I was very impressed; I am not sure whether I can add much to the other wonderful reviews here but I'll try.Some people may find this is not their most ideal Othello, some may despair at the cuts and the short length, but on its own and as a introduction to Shakespeare films it is very impressive. Just for the record, the Olivier film is perhaps the one I recommend the most for its amazing performances especially, though the Welles film is also superbly made, atmospheric and Welles himself directs and acts Othello in an extraordinary fashion.This Othello, this being said, is a very well made film, with beautiful locations and cinematography, and the score is suitably sweeping. The story even with the cuts is still the incredible, complex story that I fell in love with. The love scenes have such a haunting and erotic quality to them especially. The very final scene is perhaps a tad too drawn out but it is also very beautifully played especially by Fishburne and the last moments are moving. The dialogue is wonderful as you would expect, it is not always the Shakespearean language but it is still intelligent and thought-provoking with a lot of complexity.Oliver Parker brings an assured and efficient touch to his direction, and the acting is superb. Michael Maloney, Nicholas Farrell, Nathaniel Parker and especially Anna Patrick are excellent in support, but the standouts were Laurence Fishburne's brilliant and very powerful yet restrained Othello and Kenneth Branagh in a literally seething albeit sometimes human account of the evil-incarnate character of Iago. Irene Jacob wasn't quite as good, Desdemona is a very delicate and poignant character, and while Jacob does what she can looking suitably delicate and beautiful her performance was a little on the dull side for me.I also have to agree on a side note that those into opera should see or hear Verdi's Otello, the music is phenomenal and Iago's Credo is living proof in my opinion that the original source material can be improved upon as you see much more of Iago's villainy. Overall though for this 1995 Othello, this is an excellent film and while not my favourite I do recommend it. 8.5-9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Only gets a 10 because you should see Branagh","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched the full length version of the play, televised by BBC in 1981 with Anthony Hopkins in the title role of Othello and Bob Hoskins playing Iago. It made me realize just how much the Fishburne/Branagh version from 1995 suffers by being cut to ribbons to fit in a much shorter time slot. The director finds time for sex scenes but leaves out scenes that are vital to fully understanding the background and the relationships and what is going on.The film is good, but should have been longer. Laurence Fishburne is good in the title role but not incredible, and again, he is missing some of his best lines due to editing. Irene Jacob is a bit weak as Desdemona and I do think it may have to do with English not being her native tongue. Kenneth Branagh as Iago virtually steals every scene he is in. He is just delicious. Fortunately he is in most of the scenes. He is evil even when he is about to make love to his wife, perhaps not in a way that she would like at all, from what I could tell.See it but then see one of the versions that does not have so much text cut out. "},{"Title":"The First Version Of Othello In Which It Really Made Me Weep","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Students often ask me why I choose this version of Othello. Shakespeare's text is strongly truncated and the film contains material which earned it an R rating.I have several reasons for using this production First, I had not seen a depiction of the Moor that actually made me sympathetic to Othello until I saw Fishburne play him. I saw James Earl Jones and Christopher Plummer play Othello and Iago on Broadway, and it was wonderful. Plummer's energy was especially noticeable. But in spite of Jone's incredible presence both physically and vocally, the character he played just seemed too passive to illicit from me a complete emotional purgation in the Aristotelian sense. Jones, in fact, affirmed what I felt when in an interview he noted that he had played Othello as passive--seeing Iago as basically doing him over. Unfortunately this sapped my grief for the character destruction. Thus, I felt sympathy for Jone's Moor but not the horror over his corruption by an evil man. In contrast, Fishburne's Othello is a strong and vigorous figure familiar with taking action. Thus, Iago's temptation to actively deal with what is presented to Othello as his wife's unfaithfulness is a perversion of the general's positive quality to be active not passive.1 The horror of the story is that this good quality in Othello becomes perverted. Fishburne's depiction is therefore classically tragic.Second, Fishburne is the first black actor to play Othello in a film. Both Orsen Wells and Anthony Hopkins did fine film versions, but they were white men in black face.2 Why is this important? Why should a Black actor be the Black man on the stage?3 Certainly in Shakespeare's day they used black face just as they used boys to make girls. Perhaps then, the reason is the same. Female actors bring a special quality to female roles on the Shakespearian stage because they understand best what Shakespeare's genius was trying to present. A gifted black actor should play the moor because his experience in a white dominated culture is vital to understanding what Shakespeare's genius recognized the pain of being marginalized because of race. An important theme in Othello is isolation caused by racism. Although it is a mistake to insert American racism into a Shakespearian play, there can be little doubt that racism is still working among the characters. Many, including Desdimona's father, think that a union between a Venetian white Christian woman and a North African black Christian man is UNNATURAL.Third, Shakespeare was never G rated. He never has been. His stage productions were always typified by violence and strong language. But Shakespeare's genius uses these elements not as sensationialism but for artistic honesty. "},{"Title":"very good adaptation","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think this is a excellent adaptation. The scenery's wonderful (Cala Violina is a magnificent place and that's why the film was familiar to me because I go there often on holiday and the rock Othello's sat on is the one on which I used to catch crabs when I was younger... ^^), the actors, especially Branagh, are superb and I even was surprised by Laurence Fishburne's performance... Well everything's good, I think (although I don't like Othello saying 'Amen' like 'Hey men' instead of 'aaah men', and the place where Desdemona is in Venice is not the rights place, but those are details...) So, it's a very good film you Shakespearians should know. Welles' Othello possibly remains the best one because of its script. The ending's better because it's quicker but the text got much changed from the play. Also, the music of Othello (1995 version) composed by Charlie Mole is very beautiful I think. "}{"Title":"excellent rendition","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Laurence Fishburne is awesome in this excellent rendition of Shakespeare's tragedy.  Very well done, I definitely enjoyed it, and would recommend it to anyone looking for a good traditional enactment of Othello.  Of course, like any Shakespearean tragedy you can expect everybody to die at the end (if that ruined the story for you, then you haven't seen enough Shakespeare). However, the framing, colors, and very presence of the actors was well played out, and I give it an A+, five stars. "},{"Title":"An entertaining 80 minutes","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  It was a richly entertaining movie. It kept me captivated throughout the entire film. A famous play turned into a romantic thrill ride.By the end I found myself yelling in frustration at the characters on the television screen. I highly recommend it to any Shakespear fan. "},{"Title":"Respectable new movie of a classic tragedy.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I applaud Oliver Parker's (first film?) adaptation of Othello for being clear and imaginative with the story and text; not an easy task.  His film brought out colors I had never noticed or considered.  Great handling of Roderigo.  (I wonder if some of this was due to the smart Kenneth Branagh.) For me the film suffers by not having a classically tragic scope.  It looks nice, but it is missing the momentum of a tragedy ordained by the gods, moving inexorably to its conclusion, which is so apparent in Welles' over-wrought production.  Fishburne is a good actor, and I found his Othello very moving, though missing a touch of the stuff myths are made of. Branagh is certainly Olivier's heir  dazzlingly brilliant, but missing the surprise of emotional spontaneity.  Though I admire Irene Jacob, I would have preferred an actress with a stronger command of English.  I think this Othello is a very worthy film, however.  I enjoyed it and recommend it.  "},{"Title":"A Great Modern Version of Shakespeare's Classic","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" My college professor says that Othello may be Shakespeare's finest drama. I don't know if I agree with him yet. I bought this video version of the film. First I love Kenneth BRanagh as Iago, he was perfectly complicated and worked very well in this adaptation. SUrprisingly, he didn't direct it but played a role. Lawrence Fishburne shows that American actors can play Shakespeare just as well as British actors can do. not that there was a British vs. American issue about it. In fact, if we all work together then Shakespeare can reach the masses which it richly deserves to do. Apart from other Shakespeare tragedies, this is dealt with the issue of race. Something that has existed since the beginning of time. The relationship between Iago and Emilia could have been better and shown the complicatedness of their union together. While Othello loves Desdemona with all his heart, he is weak for jealousy and fears losing her to a non-Moorish man like Cassio. It's quite a great scene at the end of the film but I won't reveal the ending. IT's just worth watching. I think they edited much of the lines to 2 hours but they always edit Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"Brilliant adaptation of Shakespeare's classic tale of crookedness and jealousy","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I claim no matter how hard I seek I'll never find a better movie version of Othello. If you love Kenneth Branagh's magnificent masterpieces Much ado about nothing (1993) and Hamlet (1996) as much as I do I'm dead certain you'll also find Oliver Parker's Othello irresistible. Laurence Fishburne has been in a various splendid roles during his career. He was quite terrific in Boys n the hood (1991) - I've always considered his amusing role of Furious Styles as his very greatest achievement. That was, of course, way before I saw this.He plays the part of Othello and he is probably in the most challenging role of his whole career but he does a brilliant, fantastic job. Irène Jacob is absolutely charming Desdemona and Kenneth Branagh is just simply phenomenal in a most fascinating role of the story's crooked, manipulate villain Iago. Marvelous Othello is part of the absolute elite among Shakespeare's ingenious works. It deals with his favorite topics crookedness, envy, deceitfulness and jealousy. This movie adaptation is certainly one of the finest films I've seen that's based on William Shakespeare's plays. "},{"Title":"Laurence Fishburne is Othello","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Who else could bring Othello to our screens? Laurence Olivier blacking up in the 60's in 'Khartoum' was an offence to the black community. Surely Sidney Poitier could have played that role. Laurence Fishburne becomes the quintessential Othello, and despite the fact that he is not a university graduate, he is now accepted as a classical actor. "},{"Title":"Good quality film","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think every Shakespeare movie had great qualities through the years (except the ugly Romeo & Juliet with DiCaprio). It's normal! He's William Shakespeare, after all! I like the idea that this was the first movie by Oliver Parker and that mister Fishburne was the first Black man to play Othello. For me, the Orson Welles movie was much better, but a bit too theatrical. This one is just a very good quality film and a good way for an introduction to the world of W.S. Brannagh is solid too, but I think the excellent Irene Jacob could have a little more place, like Suzanne Cloutier did in the Welles version. "},{"Title":"Madness portrayed","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, Shakespeare would indeed have been proud. Laurence Fishburne was not at his best but certainly not bad. Kenneth Brannagh on the other hand was brilliant. His scheming was wonderful as was his toying with the audience. Very nice work.There were at times too little drama where more would have been expected. Cassio's slaying, for instance, was a bit clouded by too much happening to far apart, causing the spectator to twist his head to grasp it all.Did I mention Michael Maloney? His madness striken Roderigo was unusual; annoying even.If you haven't seen Othello before, see this. If you haven't read Othello, see this. If you haven't heard Othello, see this. You do, on the other hand, do yourself a favour by reading it, seeing it acted onstage and hearing it sung too.  "},{"Title":"KEN STEALS IT","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Working with one of the best Shakespeare sources, this film manages to be creditable to it's source, whilst still appealing to a wider audience.Branagh steals the film from under Fishburne's nose, and there's a talented cast on good form.    "},{"Title":"Beethoven","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ludwig van Beethoven composed great works by just imagining the music in his mind and then trying to duplicate it on paper.  The problem, of course, was that he was deaf and thus couldn't understand the basis of day-to-day life.  Either a genius or a lunatic, you decide.Translating Shakespeare into the context of film (a good 300 years apart) takes  a degree of Beethoven acting itself.  The production must turn a blind eye to the world itself and be obsessed with their work in order to make a satisfactory Shakespeare adaptation.  I am tough on Shakespeare versions for this very reason, if the producers have the guts to make one, it better be great.Othello is an interesting combination of teen ideas set in the adult world.  For once, a director with some sort of vision is put in charge, and we get a better movie.  It's too bad that Oliver Parker hasn't done anything similar because he understands the film and context better than Olivier or Branagh.Laurence Fishburne is particularly interesting as Othello, I find it insulting that he degraded himself with Matrix Reloaded.  He knows the rhythm of Shakespeare, so his dialog is better than everyone else.  There is Iago (Kenneth Branagh actually doing something constructive with the source material! SHOCKING!), the scurvy friend with too much time to himself.  His asides are no different than Matthew Broderick in Ferris Bueller's Day Off, and almost as witty.  Unfortunately, the rest of the cast (once again) don't get any sympathies from me.The camera is once again blank, torn between wanting to search for something interesting and being bound to the rules of the film world.  How many films since The Terminator have used the (in)famous clenched hands during sex shot?Overall, a better film version of the Bard.  More worthwhile than most, 3 out of 5 stars.  "}{"Title":"off-notes from the strumpet section","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jealousy and treachery. Othello, through the devious machinations of Iago, is very concerned that his bee-yotch hasn't been faithful. In terms of Shakespearian tragedies Othello is a paradox, Bill's vivid, limber language comes from the mouths of characters who obstinately refuse to communicate directly; strung up as they dance around topics and answer both charges and questions obliquely - suffering a major point Othello never confirms his conclusions with the suspect (Desdemona). In gravitas and and enacting jealous fits, Fishburne gives an absolutely absurd performance. Yah-GO! On the other hand, as Amelia (Mrs. Iago) is sublime. She has a low voice that is gracious and weary, pitying the priveleged dummies who provide her livelihood. I have no thoughts whatsoever about Branagh except that this has the feel of him ticking another role off his Shakespeare checklist. The story arc here is plodding and not particularly engaging.Although Roger Ebert has mocked Charlie Moles score, the melody he provides for the Willow song is transcendent. "},{"Title":"Shakespaere without toil","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How to transform one of the masterpieces of literature into a standard Hollywood movie  first cut-off the text so that it is not too long for the average public (even if major scenes disappear); add some postcard views of Venice; add some sex (which does not even fit with the story) and sprinkle with blood... A missed opportunity which is regrettable because it is nice to see the Moor played by a real black, and Fishbourne and Branagh are quite good. "},{"Title":"not enough","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is violent, prurient, and exploitative.  It is unjust. It is needed that a great actor should be Iago, but here in this perfect performance from Kenneth Branagh, we are abused.  We are shorted our Othello.  The camera lingers on handsome Iago, catches his every thought - but the Moor is more a distant spectacle, meted more thriftily the camera's time and the microphone's.  We see him feast, dance, fight, consummate his vows, but we don't get the Promethean heat. Our hero is tormented by salacious visions, unnecessary, over-long, and ineffective.  Fishburne is obviously comfortable with Shakespeare and capable of the range of emotions, but he stays too aloof, too formal. He is most tormented by the mere idea of Desi's disloyalty, tbe matter of proof and of her more incriminating acts are de-emphasized, and doubt (of Iago) holds no place.   All pathos is Desdemona's and much of hers taken, too. The music is quite good, including Iago's and Desi's songs.  Roderigo and Cassio well done.  Desdemona has an annoying accent and too much of a single look - very young and innocent.  Emilia quite good.  The whole doesn't hold together.  I love Branagh, I think Fishburne could do better, but Orson Welles is still the standard for Othello, piteous, subtle, a man driven by irresistible suggestion, whereas Fishburne seems willingly to go along, and kills more violently than gently and regretfully.  Perhaps it is an unwhitewashed Othello...  "},{"Title":"Cowboy Curtis, What Have You Done!!","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An okay movie. Branaugh wasn't as good as this as he was in his Henry V. Fishbourne wasn't as good in this as he was in Pee Wee's Playhouse. Instead of Lawrence Fishbourne (A.K.A. Cowboy Curtis), they should've gotten O.J. Simpson to play the lead. I'd play money to see that! "},{"Title":"Despite Branagh, one of the best; a must-see!!!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Dark and moody, this adaptation of Shakespeare's tale of betrayal and revenge is a must-see for those who think Shakespeare is dated and inaccessible to today's film.  They should be proven wrong with this endeavour.  Oliver Parker's vision of homoeroticism and the trappings of masculinity transfers easily on-screen, with the help of the wonderful Laurence Fishburne as one of filmdom's best Othellos.After watching Welles and Olivier in their performances as a black-faced Moor, Fishburne is a breath of fresh air, and comes across as the first actor who has ever portrayed Othello's truth on-screen.  Fishburne plays subtext wonderfully, playing out the very real human flaws that are rooted in ego and pride that make Othello a haunting and complex character.  Irene Jacob is Desdemona as a sensual force drawn into a powerful sexual relationship with a dangerous man. The love scenes between Othello and Desdemona - scenes Shakespeare could only fantasize about - are haunting with their near-mysticism and erotica.  Very effective.One of the hidden gems of this film is Anna Patrick's very powerful performance as Iago's wife Emilia.  This wonderful actress gives Emilia the power and complexity of personality that it needs to encourage examination of Shakespeare's commentary on women in this play.The only downside to this wonderful film is the casting of Kenneth Branagh in the role of Iago.  If anyone imagines Shakespeare's ultimate villain as a dark and serpentine presence, they will be disappointed in Branagh's performance.  Fair-haired and playing British-boarding-school-mommy's-boy, Branagh is a strange choice for the role of Iago.  His sporadic asides with the audience are more satirical than serious, forced than innovative.  His handling of Shakespearian dialogue is characteristically academic and not personable enough.  Fishburne is living the part, whereas Branagh reads it. However, if you want to consider Iago as an effeminate and baby-faced schemer who has major issues about his masculinity, then Branagh is your man.An erotic and dark rendering of one of Shakespeare's most famous works, Oliver Parker's OTHELLO is definitely worth the time for its direction, its unique interpretation, and Laurence Fishburne, who makes Othello into one of the most dangerous and masculine sexual presences on film.  "},{"Title":"Shakespeare would NOT be pleased","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What about this Othello? Fishbourne seems a macho man from a blaxploitation movie (with all respect to this kind of movies, but we're talking about the Bard) and he definitely doesn't know how to act. Even Branagh is not at his best, even the other great actor Branagh uses to work with. This movie is a videoclip, nothing to do with the great version by Orson Welles, nothing to do with Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"Othello","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It wasn't actually my choice to watch this film based on the story by William Shakespeare, it was part of a study in Secondary School. It wasn't directed by him, but I really like Kenneth Branagh in this film. Basically in the old days of England, black people weren't liked that much and were mostly slaves, and Othello (The Matrix's Laurence Fishburne) was a black man who tried to possibly become hero or king, whichever, of Denmark. At the same time, with his villainous lying skills, the nasty bastard servant Iago (the very well cast Branagh) tried to become king himself, and get people against each other. There are some good bloody moments, and good acting, I suppose I would want to see this again for my own purposes. Worth watching! "}]