[{"Title":"What a cast!  A shockingly good film.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"88 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Religion has always been a clouded issue to me. There is absolutely no evidence that there is a God or an afterlife. But that hasn't stopped me ( and billions of people ) from believing in something. And I have always been taught that if there is good, then there is also the bad. If there is a heaven, there has to be a hell. The Prophecy tells us that there is, but it is not necessarily that cut and dried. The ruler of hell in this film is more like a character in a Martin Scorsese film. He is evil ( he has to be, he is Lucifer ) but he is not necessarily here to make God's life miserable. He is not necessarily good, but he is in a self serving kind of way.The Prophecy is a very confusing and convoluted but brilliant film. The story ( bear with me here, it's been a while since I've seen this film ) is about a war between angels. Some angels became jealous when God decided he loved humans more than them. They become bitter and decide to start a war in heaven with the angels that are loyal to God. Their theory is that if the angels that oppose them are gone, they can take over certain things and hopefully get God's love back. To do this, they must steal the soul of the most heinous person that ever lived. We meet Gabriel, the lead angel in this crusade, and played by Christopher Walken, he is one of the most entertaining characters I have ever seen in the history of film. He has a sense of humour, he is vicious and he uses humans as slaves to do his dirty work. He catches them just before they are about to die and uses them with the promise that he will kill them once their job is finished. Here we meet Jerry, as his human monkey,and the only reason I mention this is because it is one of Adam Goldberg's early roles. He was Upham in Saving Private Ryan and watching this you could tell he had talent and that he would go places. He is fantastic in this film.Elias Koteas plays Thomas, the only one who may have an insight into what is going on. He was a former priest who understands how religion is playing a part in all of this.Eric Stoltz plays Simon, one of the good angels that is trying to save the world from Gabriel and he is very affective here as well.But the star of this film is absolutely Walken. He is perfect as Gabriel. He has a sense of humour and he is evil at the same time. And in some ways you are rooting for him to win. That is until the very end when Satan shows up, because he steals every scene he is in as well.Satan is played with wicked slickness by Viggo Mortensen. When he speaks he almost slithers and creeps his words onto the screen. He makes a dark scene darker and he keeps you glued to the screen. And his role in this film is one that epitomizes convolution. He is awesome.This film is one that should not be missed. If you don't understand everything about it the first time, watch it again and again. You'll learn something new every time. And you'll enjoy it more and more. This is one hell of a film!! "},{"Title":"Worth a watch","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"56 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have watched this film several times and have enjoyed it every time. Christopher Walken is excellent as Gabriel, as he has a presence on screen that just cannot be beaten.  The theological side of the story is much more interesting than angels being fluffy creatures most people believe in, and are closer to the angels described in older scripts and texts.  You can enjoy this film without being pulled in by beliefs and religion so don't be frightened of it, enjoy the film and another sterling performance by Walken. "},{"Title":"A very impressive and inventive film about angels","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"49 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I first saw this film on TNT some months ago (and, of course, it was edited for content) and my aunt got me this movie for Christmas. And as with the television version, I was entertained.The Prophecy is about the Archangel Gabriel (Christopher Walken) who, believing that his Heavenly Master favors humans more than angels, decides to start a war in Heaven. He goes in search of an evil soul to carry out his dirty work, and Gabriel sets his sights on the spirit of Colonel Hawthorne, a Korean War vet. Gabriel, accompanied by his human lackey Jerry (Adam Goldberg), heads out to the Arizona desert where he digs up Hawthorne's remains, only to find that his soul has been stolen by Simon (Eric Stolz), another angel determined to stop the coming war. Gabriel soon discovers that Simon has hidden Hawthorne's soul inside a little girl named Mary (Moriah Snyder). Soon, it's up to police detective Thomas Daggett (Elias Koteas) and schoolteacher Catherine (Virginia Madsen) to stop Gabriel from obtaining Hawthorne's soul, and things get a bit complicated when Lucifer (Viggo Mortensen) gets into the mix.I really enjoyed this film, mainly because of Walken and his enjoyably off-kilter portrayal as a dark, evil version of the Archangel Gabriel, who, in the Holy Bible, was one of the good guys. (I wonder what the real Gabriel thinks!) In many ways, his performance is brilliant, yet at times, dare I say, laughter-provoking even though it doesn't mean to. All of the other performances by Elias Koteas, Virginia Madsen, Adam Goldberg, and Eric Stolz are just plain fine (but not at all bad), but Viggo Mortensen gives one of the most accurate on-screen portrayals of the Prince of Darkness aside from Al Pacino in The Devil's Advocate. All in all, The Prophecy is an entertaining and sometimes humorous apocalyptic thriller with an inventive (though what some very conservative Christians would probably call unholy) concept about angels and God.I give this film a 10 out of 10 on a scale of 1-10 in my humble opinion. "},{"Title":"The best depiction of angels","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"53 out of 75 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I absolutely LOVE this movie, I have watched it over 10 times now and love it every time.Christopher Walken is brilliant as Gabriel, you could not have had a better person for that role. All the actors in the movie played their part just superbly, and even though Viggo Mortensen who played Lucifer only had a small part. Boy did he play it well.Brilliant movie, watch it and just totally enjoy it as its meant to be. Awesome... "},{"Title":"Just as good as you've been told!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Did you friends tell you how great this movie is? And you wondered what they'd been smoking? Well, give it a chance and watch it for yourself--it's brilliant.The casting is what really *makes* this movie. Christopher Walken is just the correct amount over the top to make Gabriel larger-than-life, as he must be, and not just a human villain. Eric Stoltz is tragic as his counterpart Simon, who has remained loyal to his god through the two wars in heaven, and now has only his duty to sustain him. Elias Koteas brings real feeling to a role that could have been cookie-cutter--the once-almost-priest who now must save the world from evil. And Viggo Mortensen, in his brief on-screen time as Lucifer, is absolutely electrifying in showing that the dark angel is indeed the most beautiful of all. "},{"Title":"The 23rd chapter of the St John's revelations........","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" .......and there rose a second war in heaven.Gabriel is a rogue angel intent on capturing the black soul of a recently deceased war criminal general. Standing in his way is the good angel Simon, who hides the soul in a child, a couple of honest citizens, and Lucifer himself, who has his own vested interest in proceedings.Largely ignored on release, and badly marketed as a horror film, The Prophecy, in this day and age of torture porn and slasher overkill, is crying out to be seen more by a jaded horror audience. For it be a film that has an interesting theological heart, that matches its daring and deeply provocative ideas. Here is a film that adds another chapter to the bible, the result being a battle for a soul on Earth that will have major repercussions for both heaven and hell. Gabriel (Christopher Walken) is even (poignantly some might say) using would-be-suicides as his unwilling helpers, their paths to peace blocked by Gabriel in his cunningly crafted intentions-yes this is pretty tight stuff indeed.Flecked with the odd bit of humour (zip code wise cracks for heaven and hell), Gregory Widen's film perhaps is guilty of not fully realising end of the world promise. But this is a minor itch come the finale, because really the picture should be judged as one complete and intelligent whole. Cast wise you will search in vain for a weak link, because there simply isn't one. Walken is suitably gargoyle like, slick black hair and pasty faced, he induces fear whilst simultaneously charming the beejesus out of the humans, re talking monkeys. Elias Koteas (a candidate for most undervalued actor of his generation), Virginia Madsen, Adam Goldberg (suicide Jerry), Amanda Plummer (suicide Rachael), Eric Stoltz (Simon) and Viggo Mortensen (Lucifer), all deliver top line performances to ensure the piece lives up to its billing as one of the best acted cult films from the 90s.It had enough support to warrant a direct to video franchise, with mixed results following each subsequent sequel. But it's here where it matters, a fine film that deserves far better than the bad reputation it gets from those who expected a straight out horror film. I urge anyone who hasn't seen it to give it a go, open your mind and hope Gabriel doesn't come a wandering in. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Unique","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Movies based on religious themes often tend to bore me quite severely. But this movie somehow did the trick. I guess it was the fact that it picked the right pieces from religious context and added the rest as it saw fit.There is a war in heaven between the angels. A stalemate has lasted for a long time and angels now come to earth to search for the soul that can end the stalemate and bring peace to heaven once again. Since the war began no souls have been let into either heaven or hell, so when the war ends these souls may finally find peace.The story here is quite insane really. Christopher Walken and Eric Stoltz are both angels who come to earth to look for a soul. Gabriel hates the humans because they are now gods favorites, not the angels. And Christopher Walken is quite magnificent as the dissatisfied angel. And the big reason that this movie works is the acting which is good throughout. Something that is not exactly a given thing in a movie like this.I guess this would by many people be called a b-movie. But i think the original plot and the acting lifts this quite a few notches. So watch this for something quite unique, but please stay away from the sequels that are not worth your trouble. I rate this 6/10. "},{"Title":"If you are a Christian fundie, don't watch this film!","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" You will most likely be offended since this movie plays around with biblical storytelling and fundies always hate that kinda stuff. Stick to bad Christian B-movies and you will be fine.Now, if you want entertainment, love Christopher Walken's awesome acting, and want a very interesting movie that will give you the creeps, pop this video in your DVD player and enjoy.There is very little SFX and it really doesn't need it. Walken carries the movie through sheer force of talent. Mortensen and Stoltz do admirable jobs with their characters, and for some reason this whole movie is unsettling...but in a good cinematic way. Mortensen gets in a classic last word which will make you consider using a night light from that point on. Walken is downright hardcore...and you will never think about angels in the same way ever again.A gem of a low budget film with good acting making up for lack of explosions, gore, and CGI. "},{"Title":"Beaten Up By an Angel!  ;=8)","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Clunky but effective cult thriller about a lost chapter in the Book of Revelations which describes a second war in heaven, in which the arch angle Gabriel (Walken) gets cast out.  Gabriel & his minons hate humans because of God's special treatment for humanity, and decides to hatch a sinister, and somewhat bizzare, plot to regain his place.  The plot twists are uneven, but an interesting story lies at the core.  Walken is wonderful as the anti-hero Gabriel, and Viggio Mortensen is a total hoot as Satan, Gabriel's rival.  Eric Stoltz's character is underdeveloped, as is the relationship between Elias Koteas and Virginia Madsen.    Director Widen gives his angels a refreshing cyberpunk/goth feel, rather like Tim Broadstreet's Vampire drawings - it is effectively disturbing to watch angels dressed like they belong to the Shotgun Mafia, instead of white sheets and feathered wings, but some will be put off by the contrast.  This moovie spawned a less-effective sequel, and rumor has it a third one is in the making!  You can tell Christopher Walken had a blast with this character, and that alone keeps the moovie interesting and effective.  MooCow says if ya don't mind the silly bits, go for it! &#141;  "},{"Title":"Walken Makes This Preposterous Story Fun","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was a different kind of horror movie with bad angels as the main attraction. Actually, the main attraction is Christopher Walken in the role of Gabriel. He's extremely entertaining with his mixture of humor and evil. He admonishes people for profanity! Of course, the theology in this movie is so preposterous it's hilarious. In movies like this (actually almost all movies) you aren't going to get Biblically-based stories, just a lot of mumbo-jumbo passed on as such. At least in the end, the hero of the film correctly identifies the warring angel as one doing so strictly out of jealously for God. That's Bibically accurate, but the rest of the theology here is totally bogus. You just hope people aren't gullible to believe this stuff. However, a lot of people probably don't know there are such things as bad angels, so that part is true.Theology-aside, this is a very entertaining movie. The language is tame but beware there are a couple of very gory scenes that might offend. The special- effects are good. Walken is a trip to watch and Virginia Madsen looks beautiful. "}{"Title":"Cool supernatural thriller. Atmospheric and original.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Strangely enough being an atheist I am fascinated by supernatural thrillers, especially of the apocalyptic or eschatological variety. 'The Prophecy' is one of the smartest and most effective of this small genre, helped by a first rate cast. Thomas Daggett, a priest turned cop  (Elias Koteas - 'Crash', 'Exotica'), stumbles across the corpse of an angel and a Bible with an extra chapter to the Book of Revelation, which mentions a war in heaven. Soon enough he becomes involved in a fight between the angels Gabriel (Christopher Walken in one of his best roles) and Simon (an impressive Eric Stoltz) over an evil man's soul. A fascinating, atmospheric movie packed with interesting ideas, scenes and performances. Writer/Director Gregory Widen (only previous work of note 'The Highlander'!) really comes up with the goods in this one, which nods to both Milton and Garth Ennis while adding several original touches. Also co-stars Virginia Madsen ('Dune', 'The Hot Spot'), Amanda Plummer ('Butterfly Kiss', and Walken and Stoltz' co-star in 'Pulp Fiction'), and a small but memorable appearance by Viggo Mortensen ('The Indian Runner', 'American Yakuza') as Lucifer! "},{"Title":"This film is one of my favourite videos and I have watched it at least 5 times.","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The fact that it was about angels and a war in Heaven made this movie so unusual and totally different from other horror films. Creepy, Christopher Walken was so right as Gabriel, this part was made for him and the lovely Viggo Mortensen as Lucifer left me wondering who this handsome guy was. The story was made more interesting by the way they depicted the angels and the scene that Thomas Daggett saw inside the cave was horrific, with angels impaled on spikes, as far as the eye could see. I thought the fight between Gabriel and Uziel was brilliant and the way that Gabriel told Thomas that the cleft above his lip was him putting his finger there and saying ssh. "},{"Title":"Heaven Goes To HELL...","Date":"5 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Detective Thomas Daggett (Elias Koteas of CRASH - the Cronenberg movie, NOT the other one) is a former priest who lost his faith. He had to leave the church, when he was tormented by horrific visions of angels warring with one another, tearing each other apart. Well, he asked for a sign from God, and that's what he got.And we all know what that means. Tom has the right information...he was just reading it wrong, because as it turns out, there IS a war going on in Heaven, he finally realizes. It seems that there's a faction of angels led by the archangel Gabriel (a dependably skeevy Christopher Walken) who aren't happy about the fact that The Big Guy has been showering favor upon human beings - giving them souls, allowing them into Heaven after they die...hey, WTF? Next He'll be giving them free frequent flyer miles! Well, Gabriel is right peeved about not being 'favored' anymore, and so are some of his closest buddies. Meanwhile, on the other side of the issue are the good angels, among whom Simon (Eric Stolz), Gabriel's ex-bud, counts himself. He's not happy about the situation, either, but he goes strictly by the book, literally he believes that what The Boss says, goes, and that's that, and Gabriel and his crew are in the wrong.So therefore, you have this War, which has been going on for some time when THE PROPHECY begins. To get the upper hand in the battle, Gabriel decides that what he needs to do is recruit the nastiest, vilest human soul that ever existed as a new general in the war...whose very entrance into Heaven will so upset the balance of power, it will result in not just Heaven and Hell flipping sides, but in the end of Mankind, which couldn't happen any faster for him.However, Simon gets to the soul before Gabriel does, and after a bloody struggle, hides it in the body of a little Indian girl named, ironically enough, Mary (Moriah Shining Dove Snyder), before he suffers a horrible death at his old friend's hands. Following some bizarre visions and leads of his own, Det. Daggett hooks up with Katherine Henley (Virginia Madsen), who is a teacher at the 'rez' grade school that Mary attends. Ta- dah! The stage is set for all kinds of weird stuff to happen, which of course it does, as Gabriel will stop at nothing to obtain the evil soul. Unless something or someone stops HIM. And that, kids, is an ending you will have to see to believe.Greg Widen (who co-wrote HIGHLANDER) has produced at the very least, a more original slant on the God-vs.-Satan/good-vs.-evil archetype than most movies have to offer. Since with this kind of material there's almost no such thing as going OTT, so Chris Walken is free to do more scenery-chewing than termites in a lumber yard, and he's great to watch. Ditto cameos by Adam Goldberg (SAVING PRIVATE RYAN) and Amanda Plummer, who both play - ready? - a reanimated suicide and a dying cancer victim, respectively, whom Gabriel uses to do his bidding. (Who knew that angels couldn't drive?)Koteas and Madsen do solid jobs, considering the whack jobs around them they have to deal with while preventing the advent of Armageddon. And thankfully, Snyder's Mary is a natural, not Linda-Blair'd to the point where the movie could've become an unintentional comedy.But the one thing you have to see is how and when the two heroes of the piece gain a very powerful, terrifying and unexpected ally against Gabriel and his plan. If you're sharp (and most of you are...like Jason's new machete), you'll know who it is. All I will say is that he's played to putrid perfection by Viggo Mortensen, in a special cameo he did way before THE RINGS TRILOGY and Peter Jackson blew his career up by nuclear proportions. It isn't often that somebody can out-creep Chris Walken as a very, very bad guy, but in this case Viggo delivers and then some, and it's a sight for sore (if not plucked-out) eyes!If you haven't had a crack at this one, I definitely recommend it. If you've seen it before but not in a while, why not pay THE PROPHECY another visit? Beats an idiotic remake any day... "},{"Title":"Slow down, everybody's dead.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was in the test audience in one of the original pre-release screenings in Seattle. A friend got me a ticket, and we went together.Well, I'm not a horror-movie freak, but free's free -- and it had Walken in it. I would watch the man in a dog-food commercial.The movie was billed as thoroughly chilling. But very soon, what with the snarky bit characters and the underlying current of grim humor...my friend and I began to giggle. Soon the whole audience was picking up on the grin.This movie is funny. In a sly, wicked way. Watch out for Slow down, everybody's dead. We loved this line so much we had t-shirts made. We thought it would be a good thing to keep in mind these days. The coroner who says it is a classic in the tradition of his forerunners in The Big Easy -- and of course, Gillian Anderson in her Pizza Yearning Over The Entrails moment in the X-files.Coroner lines (oh, so many!) Yeah, you can be impotent AND frigid at the same time. It must be the teacher's edition. The cop sergeant looking for eyeballs in the radiator grill.Walken's zombies (in Prophecy II You kept me alive because you don't do DOS!?). My favorite. Can't drive. And who but Walken could make HI! so terrifying and so incredibly funny at the same time? I can never watch the snot-moment.Viggo Mortensen -- you've never seen a man eat a rose-hip with such relish. Knowing how sour and bitter those things are -- and that Viggo actually crunched the thing up in his teeth without grimacing -- well, I was impressed. I'd never seen the actor before, but the soft breathy delivery was spot-on. He sounded as though he'd been breathing too much smoke.His devil lent a lovely commentary to the whole movie. You think I'm bad? These are the guys who kicked me out! The whole system is rotten I'm just the B team. Brings in the whole creeping terror of dark monolithic religion.Or, as Elias Koteas says You have to ask yourself -- do I ever really want to meet an angel? And yes I have my own copy.And watch it -- ahem -- religiously. "},{"Title":"Fun with theology","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Heaven's been closed for the past two thousand years because of a war between the angels, with Christopher Walken's Archangel Gabriel leading those eager to do away with the talking monkeys who have supplanted them in God's affections, and now the War in Heaven has spilled out onto Earth. These angels aren't the benign, mournfully watchful figures of Wings of Desire or City of Angels, let alone the make-a-wish do-gooders of Touched by an Angel. These are God's hit men, creatures that spend their whole existence praising God with one wing dipped in blood. They don't grant wishes, they don't make things better and you really, REALLY wouldn't want to see one. But, experienced as they are in laying waste to whole nations, they lack man's capacity for true evil and need to find the darkest human soul to show them the way to win. Viggo Mortensen's Lucifer isn't too keen on the situation, fearing a victory for Gabriel's side will result in Heaven becoming another Hell - and two Hells is one Hell too many for him. Stuck in the middle is Elias Koteas' priest-turned-cop, who lost his faith not because Heaven showed him too little but because it showed him too much.The similarities to writer-director Gregory Widen's Highlander screenplay are apparent, although this boasts a much lower budget but infinitely superior direction, a good visual sense and some great locations. Much of the film's strength is in its ideas and its dialogue the plotting is at times perfunctory, Virginia Madsen's schoolteacher takes little convincing of the Angelic threat and Walken probably has a little TOO much fun as Gabe, whether letting schoolchildren blow his horn or gleefully explaining I'm an angel. I kill firstborns while their mamas watch. I turn cities into salt. I even, when I feel like it, rip the souls from little girls, and from now till kingdom come, the only thing you can count on in your existence is never understanding why. The ending too is more than a little awkward. But the good points outweigh the bad. "},{"Title":"Through the eyes of the dead","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The prophecy is amazing. Christopher Walken does a great job acting, and everything about this movie is amazing. I think the movie was well planned out, although, i hate how Eric Stoltz dies so early in the movie. I think the concept of the movie was great, a war in heaven. I like the quotes used throughout the movie, and one of my favorite bands Through the Eyes of the Dead, uses them in all of their songs. I watch this movie every chance i get, and i recommend that you do the same. From the very beginning with the dead angel, and the story of the prophecy until the very end, the movie is full of suspense, and mystery. This is one movie, that my collection cant go without. "},{"Title":"Religion gets a comic book makeover!","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Religion based horror movies have long been one of cinema's staples, and while that sub-genre is massively overpopulated; The Prophecy represents a more than decent entry in the cycle. The film reunites Pulp Fiction cast members Christopher Walken, Amanda Plummer and Eric Stoltz, and that's quite apt as this film is like a pulp fiction bible story. I dread to think what god fearing folk make of this movie, as we have popular bible figures such as Gabriel and Lucifer spitting out crass one liners and getting involved in punch-ups. Things like this make the film hard to take seriously, but it's also deliriously entertaining and the plot offers more than enough thought-provoking elements to keep the film ticking over nicely. The story follows a war in heaven, which was kicked off by the way that God decided to give souls to humans and not angels. The soul of an evil war general is the Holy Grail, and the Angel Gabriel has come to Earth in order to claim it. However, fellow angel Simon has had other ideas and has taken it upon himself to hide the soul from Gabriel.The cast is the film's main strongpoint. I'm not a big fan of films like this, but I had to see this one simply because it has Christopher Walken playing Gabriel. Walken plays the character a lot like he would a mob boss and it really works rather well as he ensures that every moment he is on screen is a treat, and of course, his screen presence is immense. The talented Virginia Madsen takes a lead role and finds herself paired up with the weak link of the cast, Elias Koteas who is flat and hard to like in his starring role. A pre-fame Viggo Mortensen delivers a memorable performance in the coveted role of the Devil and the central cast is rounded off by the charismatic Eric Stoltz. The story moves well, and it's real strongpoint is the way that it gives you enough to think about during the less exciting scenes by way of it's many plot points. The situation is brought to the screen well, and Gregory Widen's screenplay is good enough to ensure that every character is given enough screen time for us to get to know who they are. The special effects are fine and the film is well directed by Widen in his only feature film director's role. This film is, perhaps, not for everyone; but its good enough entertainment and I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Has Cult Movie written all over it.","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Prophecy is a dark fantasy straight out of Clive Barker. Once you get past that this is about Angels - no, not the kind who come from Los Angeles and go around on Harley Davidsons but real, expelled from Heaven Angels, this becomes an enjoyable and compelling little film. With such notables as Virgina Madsen, Christopher Walken, Viggo Mortensen, Eric Stoltz and Amanda Plummer, this is the sort of thing that used to show up on Alex Cox's late lamented Moviedrome series in the UK.The story concerns a failed priest who is now a cop; which comes in really handy when he stumbles upon a murdered guy who just might come from up there. Soul transference, Angels that use the almost-departed as near dead servants, questions of faith, Indian exorcism rituals and an appearance by the head honcho himself, Lucifer. This is not your average popcorn flick! Surprisingly it all kinda works. apart from a bit of dodgy CGI near the end. Walken is excellent as Gabriel - he even has a scene teaching some children to blow his horn, causing a window in the nearby school house to shatter. During this moment he's actually searching for a soul he believes to be hidden in one of the children! If you're looking for something different, this might fit the bill. You might even consider it a sort of sequel to Paradise Lost! "},{"Title":"two names Christopher Walken and Viggo Mortensen... actually, there's more","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Filmmaker Gregory Widen learned a little, I think, from his previous outing with Highlander it's not enough to get Sean Connery and have ridiculous immortals and beheadings. You need some fresh ideas that can live past their shelf life of the 1980s without going into complete repetitive mode. With the Prophecy he has a sturdy script chronicling the lapse of faith with an ex-priest played by Elias Koetas and how he comes into the investigation of a series of crimes involving burnt up dead people and lots of signs pointing to a prophecy of thins involving the word dark.On the side of themes, things are fine. But he knew that his script needed some uplift and, as with Highlander, needed a star to carry it over past the genre fans. Christopher Walken was his key, and it's one of his true-blue Walken-iest performances. He's playing a supernatural creature of the underworld in the guise of himself, so he knows it's time to go to town, and he does. I can imagine Widen smiling to himself as he wrote such lines as Study your Math, kids, wherein Walken could sink his teeth in and make it an awesome nutbar of a performance. He still brings the creepiness when he needs (in this case all he needs to do as Gabriel is to stare), but it's the superfluous sense of humor, a timing that might be deadpan if it weren't for the evil angle, and it works wonderfully.The rest of the film is good, I should still say. This is one of those underrated 90s movies that has people who like it or don't, which is the way it goes sometimes (at the least, I would imagine, the first film has a better rep than the sequels, filling up a trilogy which is slightly inexplicable given the ending of this film). Actors like Virginia Madsen, Eric Stoltz, Adam Goldberg and Amanda Plummer take up very good space for what they need to do, but it's Viggo Mortensen who comes out on top as the most inspired casting after Walken. His scenes as Lucifer are tense but calm, if that makes sense, and he has that quality that one may have seen in De Niro in Angel Heart. He's so convincing as him that he makes his own a character that's been repeated countless times - and not just because of the Mother's feces line. He notches up the rank of a solid genre piece like the Prophecy into something of a kind of minor must-see - at least for those of us that will dig Mortensen in almost anything. "},{"Title":"not necessarily prophetic, but certainly cool","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Whenever a movie stars Christopher Walken, I pretty much suspect that even if the movie itself isn't the greatest, then Walken will almost certainly play a really neat role. Such is the case with The Prophecy. The somewhat confusing plot centers on the second war in Heaven between the angels loyal to God and those angry and the big G for giving humans special treatment. One such angel is malevolent Gabriel (Walken), coming to earth to stir up trouble and anger enemy Lucifer (Viggo Mortensen). Only former priest Thomas Daggett (Elias Koteas) really has a clue what's going on.Like I said, Walken makes the movie more than your average devil-themed flick. He turns Gabriel into a nasty but cool character, and it looks like Walken is having fun with the role. As it is, the movie wouldn't even need the rest of the cast, or any more dimensions to the plot; this is Walken's movie all the way. I recommend it, but understand that - despite the religious content - this isn't the sort of movie that's supposed to give you a religious experience. It's intended as a less-than-serious movie, and comes out very enjoyable because of that. Also starring Virginia Madsen and Eric Stoltz. A movie that you might want to watch along with this is Lord of Illusions (they came out around the same time, and I derived some similarities between the two).I wonder why religion-themed horror films always seem to focus on Roman Catholicism. "}{"Title":"Interesting take on angels, good or bad.","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Prophecy is an interesting take on angels, who are either good or bad.  The movie is about angels, many of whom at war with each other and the main focus is concentrated on two angels Simon (Eric Stoltz), who is good and sweet-natured and Gabriel (Christopher Walken), who is basically bad to the bone.  The two angels know that there's a soul that can break the long-lasting stalemate and Simon gets to it before Gabriel does and hides it in a young Native American girl.  This also draws two humans into the battle, Thomas Dagget (Elias Koteas), an ex-seminary student who is now a homicide detective and Catherine (Virginia Madsen), a schoolteacher.  Viggo Mortensen is wicked as Lucifer.  This movie marks the directing debut of screenwriter Gregory Widen, who wrote the film's screenplay that has an amusing sense of humor.  The film's best move is casting Walken as Gabriel and it payoffs bigtime. "},{"Title":"This trilogy is intelligent, chilling, and hauntingly beautiful.","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is the first movie of a trilogy.  Rarely have sequels meshed so perfectly.  Each begins a short while after the previous.  The story flows seamlessly.  Walken is incredible as Gabriel.  He manages to be totally otherworldly and still ultimately believable. He exudes strength, and confidence, and his own unique brand of dry humour.  The premise of the movie does not in any way contradict the Christian Bible, or belittle religion, yet it still manages to be profoundly disturbing on a subconscious level.  There is no clear bad guy or good guy, only the shades of conflict we see in real people everyday.  If you're looking for Mr. Hero versus Boris Badinoff with a happy ending, you're looking at the wrong movie.  In the end end, I wanted to weep for Gabriel, I could sympathize with the devil, and could mirror the confusion and crisis of faith that Thomas was going through.  This not a movie for children, or for the intolerant.  I would recommend that anyone watching this one, watch all three back to back. You won't regret the time.  Whether you like it or not, you'll walk away looking at things just a little differently.  "},{"Title":"Would you ever really want to meet an angel?","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this film for many reasons, one being the unique way this picture presents angels. Director Gregory Widen was willing to portray them as what they probably are, the henchmen of God. The highly religious will most likely hate this film for the same reason I love it, but if you can, try to at least see why they are painted this way in the film. Whenever God needed someone killed, he sent an angel, a life of devotion with one wing dipped in blood. Christopher Walken was perfectly cast as the angel Gabriel, searching for a soul to turn the tide of the war in heaven. The philosophies in this film are very good, as is the plot, acting, script and camerawork. A brilliant film for all to see, except maybe the overly religious, but give it a go, it deserves it. "},{"Title":"An atmospheric and provocative amalgam of faith and thrill.","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A deeply atmospheric and stylish, yet at the same time provocative and, yes, disturbing tale of lost beliefs, search for faith, and the ultimate fight. The movie poses a question similar to that asked by a poet Zbigniew Herbert is the absolute, heavenly perfection the actual aim of God? Would a mere human being be able to confront the angelic perfection or live with it?If ancient gods were too human-like in their minor and major vices, the angels here are free of everything that can be considered human. Human - but also humane. They are _too_ superior for a human's view; they are relentlessly and mercilessly _perfect_. Too perfect to feel the way that human heart does.This may be why God ultimately choses people and not his first children, the angels. To the people He gives His love. The angels, however, will not accept that so easily...This is not a movie for children or infantile adults. They will never understand it and will only see a movie about angels thinking and behaving like street punks. To fully understand and appreciate God's Army - or Prophecy, as it is referred to in USA - one needs to possess knowledge of quite many subjects, as well as have a very specific model of soul and mind. To understand and enjoy this movie is a reason to feel proud of yourself, as you truly are what God intended you to be.  "},{"Title":"An original and meaningful movie","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It was a modern movie with a different view of angels. It was not correct that some people said it did not contain detailed description of angels. Take Gabriel for instance, how many people actually did research on this great angel? How many people knew Gabriel once was excluded from Holy Curtain? So I think it was very appropriate that the authur decide to use Gabriel as  the captain of the rebellious angels. In the movie, there was a lot of meaningful and profound sentences, the cast -Christopher Walken and Eric Stoltz were just simply superb. As an audience, I could sense the faith and loyalty in Simon when he said'...that's who we are.' to Gabriel and felt sympathy for the fallen Gabriel when he said '...because He doesn't talk to me anymore.' 'The Prophecy' sure is a very successful film and deserves a lot of credits. "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Prophecy is an excellent movie and is one of deepest films that I have seen. I won't give any info about the film except that the performance Christopher Walken was awesome! Plus other good performances by Elias Koteas and Virginia Madsen! Adam Goldberg and Amanda Plummer was OK.Eric Stoltz was great and his angel character is so likable.Viggo Mortensen was  absolutely terrific!The music is very good!The Prophecy is a great film and has two other sequels but in My opinion they  are nothing like this. I recommend every to see this film!  "},{"Title":"Quirky 'angels on earth' outing","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" THE PROPHECY, the first in a series of films about fallen angels warring on Earth, is a hoot. It features some truly zany scenes, usually involving 'good' angel Eric Stoltz fighting against the forces of evil, and a stand-out performance from Christopher Walken who toplines as the angel Gabriel.Walken is one weird guy, and he's never been weirder than in this film. Writer/director Gregory Widen gives Walken some great dialogue to play with, which adds immeasurably to the fun. The storyline is all over the place really, mixing in some police procedural stuff with De Niro-lookalike cop Elias Koteas, a cameo for Lucifer himself (Viggo Mortensen, raising his profile) and a superfluous appearance for CANDYMAN's Virginia Madsen.Despite the film's sometimes slightly aimless feel, for the most part it works. The storyline is punctuated by moments of creepiness and graphic violence and for the most part it feels fresh and original. In fact, it did so well that sequels followed... "},{"Title":"The cast of Pulp Fiction makes this a MASTERPIECE","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Prophecy, by its story alone, is an unforgettably provocative tale of angels & arrogance. In a nutshell, it presents the idea of a second war in heaven which is all about... you guessed it... us humans. I'm not sure of its religious accuracy, but from a general mythological standpoint, it's entirely believable... like straight out of the pages of Homer. Beyond that I won't say anything because it's best to figure it out for yourself as the movie progresses.If this film were made with a bunch of forgettable actors, it would still be highly enjoyable. Like I said, the story is compelling, the suspense is thick, the soundtrack is cool, and the cinematography is majestic.But what makes this film positively PRICELESS is the all-star cast that breathe life, quirkiness and comedy into the flick. I'm not just talking about the incomparable Christopher Walken (whom we'll get to later) but also other veterans from Pulp Fiction made the year before Eric Stoltz (Lance in Pulp Fiction, Simon in The Prophecy), Amanda Plummer (Honey Bunny in PF, Rachel in Prophecy). Then there's Steve Hytner whom you might recognize as the lovably annoying Kenny Bania on Seinfeld (That's GOLD Jerry, GOLD!). And in his best role ever, there's Adam Goldberg (Chandler's psycho roommate on Friends) playing the role of Christopher Walken's suicidally-depressed, oozing sidekick Jerry.The entire film The Prophecy is like a who's who of the 1990s. And of course there's Viggo Mortensen (Aragorn from Lord of the Rings) who does a suave version of Lucifer. Seriously, these people didn't even need a script, they could've just sat in a room talking about sweet potato pie and it would be awesome.OK, back to Chris Walken. Simply HIS BEST ROLE EVER! I've seen him in everything from Deer Hunter to Dead Zone to Puss in Boots to Wedding Crashers, and I tell you he was born to play this role of Gabriel the Angel of Death. In his performance he brings that sinister Walken charm combined with flat-out riotous comedy and even spots of childhood innocence as only he can do (who would've guessed Archangel Gabriel can't drive a car). Walken carries us not only through this film but also through the two sequels with impeccable style. I mentioned how great the cast is, how great the story is, and how great the cinematography is, but really Christopher Walken was all it took to make me a believer.So don't hesitate to see this movie. I remember watching it in theaters when it first came out... it blew the audience away. And now 17 years later it's even better. What's great about this film is that each character is so freakin cool you gotta love each one, whether they're good or evil.The 1990s was THE DECADE for religious thrillers. After you watch The Prophecy, don't miss Exorcist III which has the same gritty vibe with spots of brilliant humor. Other films I'd compare this to are The Usual Suspects and another excellent Walken flick Suicide Kings. "},{"Title":"Walken rules but this film would still be great without him.","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I myself am an atheist but for some reason I love it when filmmakers explore the scope of religious works, even more if they manipulate it subtly to meet the needs of their story.Thomas (Elias Koteas) is about to be ordained a Priest, only for some reason he loses the plot at the swearing in ceremony and abruptly leaves the church altogether to join the police force.Some time later he is visited by Simon (Eric Stoltz), who claims he is an angel. Thomas is you could say a tad sceptical and says as much to Simon. Shortly after this meeting Simon is attacked by someone who jumps through the window of his first floor flat. During the scuffle Simon pushes the assailant back out the window to the street below, where the unfortunate is immediately hit by a car.Now bear with me here! Our car accident victim buddy has the triple whammy. Not only has he just been thrown out of a first floor window, but he is also then hit by a speeding car. Thennnnn, he is squooshed against a wall by the car to add injury to injury, to injury.My question is this. Let's play Devil's advocate here and say that in ordinary circumstances that this wasn't the 0.000000000000000001% of the time that a guy would happen to be falling from that window. That being the case that car was just going to smash into the wall anyway? (Very much like the recent Edge of Darkness where the lady steps out of the car onto a quiet road to be instantaneously cleaned up by another speeding car. Based upon normal probabilities there is an infantessimal chance that these things could be organised even if you tried.) Unless it is movie magic, so let's just agree that it was movie magic and move on you say? Done. You'll never guess who is called in to investigate the crime scene Thomas, that's who. Another digression You know it is a niche market when the force employs an angel specialist. You think he had many cases? Unless the TV show Touched by an Angel was far more literal a title than we thought all these years.Back to the crime scene. Thomas is a little surprised to find the victim lost his eyes, and not in the crash, he never had them. Also the hotel room has been trashed and when dusted for prints not one is uncovered, but Thomas's book on Angels is.Curioser and curioser.We cut to a remote school with a small group of students, Catherine (Virginia Madsen) seems to be the only teacher of the one class covering all ages and grades. Simon is now hiding out in a run down and unused part of the buildings.This town is where the bulk of the rest of the story takes place. To fast track matters Simon is now holding onto something that is much sought after by his yet unnamed rivals, and they want it. Bad.As every good film requires conflict we immediately get to meet the other interested party, his name is Gabriel and he was once the right hand man to God himself.Gabriel desperately wants what Simon holds, as he feels it will tip the balance in an Angelic war that has been waged for countless years in his favour. In Gabriel's eyes humans are no more than talking monkeys, and he detests us for how we are apparently viewed by God, feeling that angels have somehow received a bad rap.(Gabriel ends up coming into contact with almost every other main character and Walken seems to relish the chance to ham it up, after all no-one can say exactly how an angel should act can they? He spits out lines casually but is always menacing, and in fact some of his throwaway responses are actually hilarious.) Expanding on the simple premise above would result in much complication, none of which is necessary here, but know first that The Prophecy intertwines an intricately crafted backstory into what many believe, and does it very well. There are some great standalone scenes, minimum BOO! scares a powerful ending.Whether you believe in this stuff or not probably will have a bearing on what you think of the film. If you are already a believer the odds are that you will hate this or at least just take it as a fantasy story, I can't see why this would create anger in the religious community.If, like me you think this is all a work of fiction then you may find a lot to like here. Again I am an absolute sucker for theological elements in film so I lapped this up. I thought everyone in was effective, most notably Christopher Walken as a perfectly pasty and dare I say it otherworldly Gabriel, and Viggo Mortensen stole the finale with a bit part that veered close to parody but ended up suiting the tone of the film.The only negative I can throw at The Prophecy is that Gabriel and his undead lackeys were used to attempt to add some levity, only it felt quite out of place at times. Gabriel is perfectly amusing with most of his dialogue without forcing the issue with cartoony stuff.Final Rating - 9 / 10. One of my personal favourites. I just wish they didn't make 4 unnecessary sequels.If you liked this review (or even if you didn't) check out oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Never Trust A Fu**ing Angel","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Say what you will about Gregory Widen's 1995 offering, The Prophecy (not to be confused with John Frankenheimer's 1979 film, Prophecy), you've got to give it credit for originality. This loopy theological horror flick would have us believe that after the first war in heaven--the one that resulted in the angel Lucifer getting demoted and kicked downstairs--a second war was started, and continues to this day. In this war, Gabriel leads a band of renegade angels who are jealous of God's favoring the talking monkeys of Earth (that would be us), and is now planning to steal the soul of a psychotic, cannibalistic, Korean War colonel to fight on their side. Fortunately for us chattering simians, an ex-seminarian, now a homicide cop, and a pretty Arizona schoolteacher decide to make things tough on ol' Gabe.... Described by the coworker who recommended this picture to me as a guilty pleasure flick, The Prophecy is actually a highly imaginative, beautifully shot film laced with humor and featuring some first-rate performances. Elias Koteas and a young (and surprisingly brunette) Virginia Madsen are just fine as Thomas the cop and Katherine the schoolmarm, and Eric Stoltz (as the good angel Simon), Viggo Mortensen (as the foul-mouthed Lucifer; sorry, Mick, but I had no sympathy for this devil), Adam Goldberg (who many Friends fans will recall as Chandler's roommate from, uh, hell) as Gabriel's cat's-paw, and Steve Hytner (aka Seinfeld's Kenny Bania) as a very amusing coroner are all top-notch, as well. But it is Christopher Walken as the crazed Gabriel, of course, who steals the show here. By turns maniacal, funny, violent and charming, his is surely a performance to cherish. I just love the scene in which he brings the dying Amanda Plummer back to life in her hospital bed and greets her with a cheery Hi! How much less of a film this would be without his whacky, over-the-top thesping. As it turns out, bad boys Max Zorin and Frank White, the king of New York, had nothing over this little angel! "}{"Title":"the first of a an original trilogy","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" as far as biblical/religious themed films goes,i found this to be one of the better ones.this particular one is the first of what was originally a trilogy.it's well acted by all involved.but Christopher Walken steals every scenes he is in,as he has a habit of doing,in whatever project he's involved in.the characters were also interesting.i also liked the pace. of the film.it's not too fast,and not too slow.without giving too much away,there's a war of epic proportion being waged,the outcome of which will have far reaching and potential devastating consequence.the story has been done before,but the acting,and the characters make the difference here.for me,The Prophecy is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good Idea But A Little Confusing","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie is about a war angels have waged amongst themselves. It turns out there is a bit of jealously about God placing humans in the same esteem as angels. So the angel, Gabriel, decides to lead an army of angels against God.The story sounds pretty good at this point. Gabriel is played by Christopher Walken and Eric Stoltz plays the angel Simon. Other stars are Virginia Madsen as a schoolteacher and Viggo Mortensen (Lord of the Rings) as Lucifer. All of them play a great part in showing the relationship between angels, man, and god. Where things get a bit confusing is in Gabriel's search for the most evil human soul. Apparently this can act as some weapon against God, ultimately giving Gabriel his vengeance. The story behind the WHY or HOW of all of this really isn't given. The story just plays along showing the humans protecting the soul, which is hidden in the body of a little girl. The soul's location does well to get the audience to sympathize. Yet the whole possessed bit in the film feels off and a little weird.Otherwise, it's not a bad idea for a movie and certainly creative. And a great cast is there to deliver the goods. I just think the director maybe got a little carried away with an already-fine story. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Fluffy is for bunnies, not angels","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I know a lot of people who don't like this movie, but to be honest, I can't fathom why. I wouldn't say the movie is perfect, of course; there are a few instances of over-acting, and a couple plot flow problems. Despite these flaws, however, this remains one of my favorite movies.The truth is, I hate the way angels are frequently portrayed in popular media fluffy, kind, humanity-loving, protective, distant-but-kindly or emotional-yet-always-mature, perfect, powerful beings who completely understand humanity and enjoy its little quirks. This movie does not do this. The angels in this movie -are- powerful, and that's fine. But they're also slightly alien, do not necessarily much care for humans or understand them, are quite willing to use them for their own ends, and are not at all perfect. It's revealed that some angels quite resent humanity -- which I think would be obviously the case. Even the angels that want to protect humanity do not necessarily do so out of any great love, but rather it's because what God says to do.Thomas Dagget, in the movie, has a little speech that about sums up how I feel on this topic that ends Would you ever really want to see an angel?I like this movie not because it's perfectly executed or brilliantly filmed or amazingly well-acted, but because despite its flaws and its somewhat deus ex machina ending it portrays something I feel is far more realistic about what angels might really be like than most other movies on this topic. I like it for the darkness, for the moments of humor (and there are some really funny one-liners), for the moments where you have to stop and think, and for the notion that even in the midst of darkness, there are moments of hope and faith that can carry one through.  "},{"Title":"Interesting concept for a movie, but undermined by unnecessary elements","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A movie with an interesting concept--a second angelic war in heaven, brought down to earth--but bogged down with unnecessary elements. First, the idea that the offending angels needed a particularly dark human soul in order to win their war--and, further, that this soul turn out to be an unknown Korean War veteran living in a tiny western town--is ludicrous. The movie would have been better served had the soul searching been replaced with a more unique gimmick. Second, the film would also have benefited with the absence of the Indian exorcists, who did nothing but shake feathers, chant mantras, and talk in that slow-paced, no-contraction English that Hollywood always has Native American actors speak in. And the possessed girl was totally unconvincing.The angel characters were all excellent. But Lucifer could have done without his diminutive, hooded, white-faced imp-assistant, who, apparently offended his boss in some fashion at one point, and became the object of a short but ferocious growl. It gave Lucifer a chance to flex, but hey, why cart along a trouble-making imp? But apart from little Baron von Imp, ole Lucifer really helped this movie. At one point he informs the main character, a priest turned cop, that he, Lucifer, really WAS under his bed sometimes! And Walken was excellent as a bad angel.But the ending, oh, the ending--not good! A regular god-in-the-machine cop-out. Watch the movie and count all the missed opportunities for good horror.  "},{"Title":"Worth watching, and original","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I first saw this movie a couple of years ago, and again recently on TV. Although often overlooked this movie is definately worth seeing.  The main reason is Christopher Walken.  Known for his macabre acting, he personifies the fallen angel Gabriel.  The story is a bit confusing overall, and the lead character is rather drab and forgettable.  I guess it is best to say that this is a movie full of good scenes, and interesting points of philosophy.  Like would you really want to meet an angel? the angels that god sends to kill first born children, destroys towns, unleash plagues? "},{"Title":"Have you ever seen an angel?","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ever wanted to see an angel? Ever wondered what an angel is like? Well, according to this movie you don't wanna know. The most interesting thing about the Prophecy is how everything is put upside down without, at any moment, being absurd.Quite a change it is from the exceeding sweetness of movies like City of Angels. After all, what makes you think that angels are benign creatures? Another strength of this film is, of course, Christopher Walken who seems to enjoy himself in the role of Gabriel. Although sometimes the flick plunges into unbelievable seriousness, most of the time it is quite funny (or at least ironic). The story line is a little confusing and it might require a second viewing to understand what exactly is going on and why (although, as Walken so nicely put it, the only thing that you can count on...is never understanding why). Yes. Some parameters of the story remain obscure no matter how many times you watch the film. For example how exactly is Gabriel planning to use  that soul? The movie has another flaw the pathetically unconvincing Elias Koteas and Virginia Madsen. The other secondary characters are, however, absolutely brilliant Eric Stolz is great in his role as Simon (and you actually feel sorry for him), Viggo Mortensen is a more than believable Lucifer and almost all the others are great too. To make a long critique short,the Prophecy is quite  a good movie with an interesting idea, a powerful atmosphere and it's fun to watch into the bargain. A must see if you're a Chris Walken fan.  "},{"Title":"Clever, scary and witty","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  While it's not the Citizen Kane of our generation, this is a very nicely done movie. The plot is satisfying and holds together and the action is quick and not too overwhelming. Christopher Walken is in fine form as a wicked, witty and monkey (human) hating Archangel Garbiel, not a little tounge-in-cheek, by far the best part of the film. The visuals are good and it's certainly one of the best of the PseudoBiblical Horror film sub-category (also try its sequel Prophecy II, not quite as good but still fun and the Exorcist III for a similar feel) "},{"Title":"Very impressive.","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best movies in years. Christopher Walken and Eric Stoltz are amazing. The plot is more than interesting, it's an shocking idea. Two big thumbs up! "},{"Title":"One of the best horror films of all time, period...","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Almost 20 years after his explosive debut in Deerhunter (if you have not see it, SEE IT) Walken (who by this stage of his career had become something of a caricature and was a popular subject for comic impressionists doing standup) takes the role of an angry angel looking to get payback for God's decision to honor monkeys (humans) above his original creations (angels). Walken is mesmerizing. If they gave Academy Awards for horror movies (and I think they do ... IN AN ALTERNATE UNIVERSE!) he would have taken one. His portrayal is unforgettable. All we needed was a strong script and a good supporting cast to make this a winner ... and LO! we got them both. The story moves smartly. The viewer is engaged. Elias Koteas is excellent, and gives the audience a character to empathize with. Ironically, the hallmark of a major film these days is the number of awkward and successively weaker sequels it generates. This one hit the trifecta -- one mainstream sequel and a final entry produced in Canada -- which is where good franchises go to die. A must see for horror fans. "},{"Title":"not enough good religious movies","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is a welcome surprise.Good casting is the number 1 reason i love this movie. Christoper Walken has the presence to play an angel like Gabriel. Very fun to watch. Viggo makes a good Satan.The next best thing is the dark world the angels live in. It's not all light and clouds. They fight for the salvation or damnation of this world.The story is interesting. I like the idea of the devil needing something more evil than even him... a man. Because it's in men where true evil exists.I can't say that the story is perfect, or that the characters are terribly engaging. But the world of the movie is something i very much enjoyed watching. "}{"Title":"Cool Movie, But I wish They would get their facts right.","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This feature is an interesting concept in the Angels/Fallen Angels story line and the actors did a superb job in their Characters. But let's get our Demonology correct please. Angels are classified as a form of Demons in both the Jewish Kabala and the Persian source material. According to such sources Gabriel was the herald of Heaven, and the voice of God. Uriel was the Angel of death, and is the fourth angel invoked when setting protective wards. He is the angel that guards in the west. Michael was the commander of the Angelic host in the battle of the angels. Lucifer was the first Son of God, and the most beautiful of the angels of Heaven. The Archangels were all Seraphim, Identified by six pairs of wings of gold, and always in the presence of God. Lucifer was initially above these. None the less this was a good thrilling film, and readily worth a watch for those who like this kind of horror film, with religious implications. "},{"Title":"Ambitious and entertaining film with fascinating performances.","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one ambitious movie. Not only does it cover some seriously controversial territory, it does so with style and an abundance of talented actors. I recall the first time I saw the movie back in the nineties and just how fascinated I was by the whole thing. Watching it now in a more critical way, I realise that it is certainly not without flaws, but nothing can take away just how interesting the plot is, nor how wonderful a couple of the performances are.Angels come to Earth to continue a war that has been raging in Heaven. The angel Gabriel seeks a soul that he will use to end the war and subsequently open a new Hell. The angel Simon also seeks the soul, but with the purpose of hiding it from Gabriel. It's not surprising that humans become entangled in this battle and it is left to a former priest and a little girl to stop Gabriel, with some help from the least expected of beings, Lucifer himself.This may all sound fairly ridiculous, and if you really study it, I guess it kinda is. But the style of the movie and the performances make it work. The angels are fascinating creatures. Their way of perching on top of things like a bird is such a simple way of distinguishing them and immediately marks them as different to the humanity surrounding. While the flashes of the war in Heaven may not look as amazing as a bigger budget may have allowed, it certainly gives the viewer an idea of the horror involved, with screaming angels dying upon massive spears.There is no doubt that Christopher Walken makes this film! He gives Gabriel such an amazing amount of charisma along with such a threatening persona. His regular sniffs, licks and head tilts are both disturbing and fascinating and every piece of dialogue that omits from his mouth is given life and importance. It's just a stunning portrayal of a powerful being and displays why he is such sought after villain these days. Eric Stoltz is also very good as Simon, yet he simply doesn't have the presence of Walken. Viggo Mortenson on the other hand displays his scene stealing abilities that would become even more prevalent as Arigorn years later. It's not often that an actor would get the chance to play the angel of darkness, and even less often that the character would be fighting on the same side as the movie's heroes. It's inspired writing combined with inspired casting.Although I obviously thoroughly enjoy The Prophecy, there are certain aspects that stop me from calling it a classic movie. I do feel the creators of the film did wonderfully well with the budget they had, but a movie of this scale could so easily have been made monumental with a bit more money for special effects and sets. Most of the film is situated in the desert, which is a rather strange setting for such a dark film. I can't help imagining how effective this plot would have been had it been located within a major city, with the heavenly battle breaking out into the lives of a large population. But that's being greedy.Some of the writing also could have been better. The occasionally dodgy dialogue is generally saved by the performances, but there are also quite a few plot holes and lack of explanation that stop the film from rising above being a very good B movie. But I don't want to nit pick The Prophecy too much, because it's a thoroughly entertaining and ambitious horror movie, sprinkled with comedy and action. If you're a fan of religious context horror or Christopher Walken, then this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Green Eyes like Jade, your very special character","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Why are Christopher Walken's eyes Green on the cover of this film. The producer who cast him in Sleepy Hollow as the headless horseman made a special effort to give him Blue eyes. Is green the preferred color of the lords dark angel? Or maybe Colleen Atwood is God, at least for the duration of the filming of Sleepy Hollow. Strange how there is the necessity of religion and little girls surrounding both themes or plots. What is it with the directors of these films. Does Christopher Walken have any say how these children are being treated while filming? It seems like the little girls are really giving him a hard time during the film and their plots. They always seem to be his down fall. "},{"Title":"The Days of Humanity are Numbered","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Praise the lord for his holidays, and for the bible. Christian folk ore is still popular among the common man, and his probably the first real fiction book ever printed. The creator of Highlander gave in this picture his own interpretation of devine matters.The plot pretty much is simple, the third war in heaven is raging on, for it happened again. Angels coming to a rebellion in heaven about us damn humans, and they start the third war in heaven. Leading the revolution, is this time the archangel Gabriel. He needs to seek the darkest soul on earth in order to win his war in heaven. However this is stopped by the angel Simon, who get's the soul before Gabriel does. Billions of people on this planet calls earth and as the angel Simon is dying he hides the soul in a human, as a last resort. Now a angry archangel Gabriel has come to earth to seek this soul, and will do anything to get it.I will say this is not the best picture about the subject ever made. Not even the most entertaining one, however it has something about it, it has a mood which you can't escape. The angels in this picture with their black eyes and dark coats look crimson and dreadful. The cast is not all that bad. Although Virginea Madsen and Elias Coteas are very average in their performance. The ones lifting up this picture are Eric Stolz, Christopher Walken, and Viggo Mortensen. Eric Stolz is not an A-performer, but he does what he is supposed to do, he is supporting. Although his character Simon hasn't much depth, he gives the role enough to let us see an angel who still treasures the morals of god. He plays in line, for he knows he is not the one pulling this movie, and his role isn't suppose to be pulling this movie. It is Walken who is pulling this, with his performance. Some will say this is his worst role, I would say, it is not his best. He is stereotyped, but who ever said that stereotyping doesn't work. Walken is believable as the crimson angel who has gone amok, that is what counts, and that is why he is pulling this movie, and is doing a good job. Not a 100% evil, but surely willing to erase human kind from this earth without remorse. Although in a very brief role, Viggo Mortensen pulls an almost brilliant Lucifer. He is almost pathetic, as he does in his actions (no poor acting though). Mortensen kind of creates a very humanistic Lucifer, not an evil demon lord, or monster type ruler, but a desperate angel trying to get recognition for his actions and existence.What is left is a mediumistic direction, not very impressive camera work, a low key production design, but some good special effects and on some parts art direction. All in all, 7, not brilliant, but this is just one you must have seen, for it's good intentions and efforts. "},{"Title":"Bad a**ed Angels, Bad a**ed Film.","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" No actor has more sinister eyes then Christopher Walken. If it wasn't for the fact that he has hysterical one-liners, he would be down right terrifying. I saw The Prophecy at the theater, back in 95 and I was completely blown away by the story and more importantly, the actor's performances. Every character in the film is essential to the story, and how they landed the talent is beyond me. Besides Walken, Elias Koteas is brilliant as Thomas Dagget, as is Adam Goldberg as Jerry. It seems like with each scene, an A-list actor was introduced, (even in the smaller rolls), Viggo Mortensen as Lucifer, wow, you have to see it to believe it. The story is well written, there is to be a third war in heaven, Gabriel (Walken) comes to earth to steel the blackest soul from a newly departed Nazi. Simon (Eric Stoltz) is trying to hide it. Gabriel brings his closest henchman with him in the likes of Uziel (Jeff Cadiente)and likes to use near dead people as his personal slaves. The film is never slow, and builds to an epic end, thrills, chills, and Walken to boot, The Prophecy aims to please and delivers on every level. You'll have to watch it a few times to catch everything, but it just gets better... A must own for any Walken Fan. "},{"Title":"Very good.","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" CHRISTOPHER WALKEN who is always fun to watch on screen, stars as a good angel gone bad named GABRIEL, who seeks the most evil soul on earth to start another heavenly war or something like that, unless a former priest turned cop & a school teacher can stop him, but as time moves on they realize that besides various other angels who may or may not be bad, none other than Satan himself has also landed on earth & is up to no good as well. THE PROPHECY was a very well written & very entertaining supernatural thriller. Rather than relying on some weird supernatural going on's, rituals & loads of deaths & gore, THE PROPHECY simply tells it's story without either of those mentioned & manages to come up with a pretty decent flick. The actors were really good too & made their characters believable thanks to their talent & Director GREGORY WIDEN proves to be a very good director & writer. What a shame he hasn't gotten to write & direct very many movies, he's very talented & much better than most directors working in the field that are directing Hollywood blockbusters today. Followed by four direct to video sequels, the first of which is THE PROPHECY 2 **** stars "},{"Title":"War of the winged ones.","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Prophecy is yet another vehicle in which Walken can do what he does best, be evil. As he can do it as almost no one can (Gary Oldman can smoke him in the evil department), his presence here is enough to make it an enjoyable experience. Very quotable. I rented this for a Halloween movie marathon this year and it failed to disappoint. An interesting point to take note of is the fact that three actors from Pulp Fiction make an appearance here. Eric Stoltz is fairly convincing in his role as one of the good angels, Simon. Also, Viggo Mortensen plays an excellently slick Lucifer complete with a Gothic gimp sidekick. If there is a personified devil, he must be Mortensen. The concept of a second war in Heaven fought over the fact that humans have souls is fairly amusing. Angels opening up cans on each other has never been so cool. The idea is for Gabriel (Walken) to find the blackest soul on Earth to win the second war in Heaven, which he started, but there are others who are trying to get to it first to prevent his victory. There are also a few tinges of humor thrown in there and there, mostly from Walken. Dark humor at it's best. I must admit though, without Walken this is a below average to average form of entertainment....however, since he is such a joy to watch, it chalks itself up to the average to slightly above average level. A must see for Walken fans. I suppose 7/10 would be quite right. "},{"Title":"Strange and interesting","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Prophecy is more of a violent grim comedy than a horror story, but it carries off its bizarre sense of humor very well. Walken himself was an excellent choice as the agitated, driven, and thoroughly insane angel Gabriel. His character was very obviously mentally disturbed, a real sociopath with no understanding of what is right or wrong, or the possible consequences of his actions. Viggo Mortensen's Lucifer is an excellent counterpoint smooth, slick, and plotting evil, compared to Gabriel's more chaotic, spastic, and uncaring vileness. The heroes' roles are almost nothing in comparison. Koteas's Thomas Daggett seems to almost too-easily accept the nature of the situation he's found himself caught in, though his background in the seminary and the visions that drove him from the priesthood make his acceptance of it much more believable.Walken's delivery of the character of Gabriel really dominates the movie, for the most part. He's energetic, and both hilarious and disturbing. His approach to acquiring and retaining his human aid can produce the most nervous of laughter, as he is personally very amusing, but he causes extreme suffering.Then Lucifer comes along, and really does steal the show. Mortensen sets the tone perfectly for the ending, because once all the laughter is over, there still is the matter of the homicidal Gabriel who refuses to stop chasing Daggett and his companions. Mortensen is oily and slick, a subtle Devil who breaks out foul threats and vile comments only when his composure is broken. He is a true anti-hero, providing the means to defeat Gabriel but only for his own reasons, and always ready to cause trouble himself once any alliance is no longer needed. "},{"Title":"Even now in heaven there were angels carrying savage weapons.","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ~Spoiler~The Prophecy is Gregory Widen's biblical horror film about an age-old battle of good vs. evil.  The good guys angels.  The bad guys also angels.  It seems battle lines have been drawn over the existence of Man and some feel that God was wrong when he declared Man his new favorite.  The others think God is infallible and that's the set-up.  Not quite what you were expecting is it?  You were probably expecting, um...Satan.  Don't worry, Satan does make an appearance, albeit a late one.  He's not exactly the villain of the film, however.  That role belongs to one Christopher Walken.  Walken, leading an all-star cast, is superbly wicked and just a little bit mean.  His foe is played by Eric Stoltz, who gives a memorable performance with his little screen time.  Caught in the middle are a cop, Elias Koteas, and a teacher, Virginia Madsen.  And Viggo Mortensen rounds out the cast as Lucifer.  The angels have come to earth searching for the one soul that can help either side win the war in heaven a vile, possibly insane military officer who more than reminds me of Apocalypse Now's Col. Kurtz.  It's a damn good idea for a movie and it's certainly entertaining.  Widen seems to have brought every bit as much mythology to this story as he did his Highlander saga.  I would qualify this as a good little movie to watch on a rainy night.  The sequels are inferior in every way. "},{"Title":"Not a great film, but held my interest throughout","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I kept expectations rather low before starting this film, which certainly made it a better film than it would have been if I had high expectations, obviously.  It has a great, violent start, and remains interesting throughout, despite all of the slow spots.  Most of the characters arent very well developed, but thats OK in a film of this type.  Its certainly not for all tastes, nor a great film, but if you like supernatural horror films or anything about angels, you may enjoy it.  Just dont expect to be blown away by it.  6.7/10. "}{"Title":"not perfect but enjoyable--might contain minor spoilers","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i think it was an original concept..the idea that the angels would become jealous of man. With the onslaught of subpar religio-horror movies that followed the (un)holy trinity of the genre, namely the Omen, Exorcist and Rosemary's baby..it would be easy to dismiss one as yet another weak imitator. But Christopher Walken is mesmerizing (I love when he says I will NOT allow some talking monkeys to take my place!)  I think Elias Koteas and V Madsen are very competent in their parts, as is the little girl who plays Mary.  We even get a surprise appearance by the always delightfully insane Amanda Plummer, and an early look at LOTR star Viggo M in an odd twist as Satan helping the heroes. And like pulp fiction's infamous Ezekial quote, it does a good job of passing off a made up biblical verse as the real thing "},{"Title":"first of the best 3 movies about angels","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  it is necessary to watch them 3, to understand it all...as always, WALKEN is a master in such personas...the most important part of it, to learn about angels...this is quite gnostic, and should be learned as well...I will write more comments about the 3 movies next week.  "},{"Title":"They Ain't Your Grandma's Angels...","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I agree with Andy that this is a very interesting film and very well acted. The script is clever and well thought out. Angel characters appear in many films of the 1930s and 1940s. They are seen less and less in modern times. If one was raised close to the Bible and, expecially, if one was raised a Roman Catholic, this movie has some especially poignant moments. Christopher Walken is, indeed, wonderful. He is so weird looking that I had no trouble suspending my disbelief in regarding him as the Arc Angel Gabriel. However, the writer is the real hero here. Some of the lines are brilliant. This is not a spook movie. It has some real depth and asks some difficult questions about faith and the nature of God. Two of the four Arc Angels are represented here. Lucifer gets a lot of play in the movies. Gabriel with his trumpet is probably the next most popular although he usually appears with wings, a white robe and looks and sounds like Satchamo.  Too bad Rafael and Michael did not have a role. Maybe the sequel? "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite my reservations about the theological fundamentals on which this movie is based (angels being capable of free thought and having wings like those of birds, and Lucifer being an angel at some point), I found this movie particularly entertaining.Christopher Walken fits into his role as a corrupt angel like a glove. He was practically made for this role and is beautifully casted as Gabriel. His acting, the way he says his lines, the way he carries himself, although natural (he has his trademark ways of doing all these things I mention) appear absolutely perfect for his role in this movie.Elias Koteas also plays his role nicely, as well as Viggo Mortensen's short but essential role towards the end of the movie, but Walken definitely steals the show from both these excellent actors.The use of audio and simple visual effects to make the angels appear powerful and intelligent combine well with the superb acting to permeate the atmosphere with a sense of unseen power. I particularly love the way Gabriel (Walken) shuts people up by putting one hand on their chest and another on his lip and uttering a simple shhh! as they collapse in a heap. What a concept!What I found particularly interesting was Gabriel's referring to humans as talking monkeys. Interesting how the makers of the movie seek to unite religion and science in an amiable blend of truth. Although I, personally, am not much of a fan of evolution, I think unity between science and religion is a very nice thing, and something worth striving for.In any case, despite the blasphemy (with respect to my faith and beliefs) contained within the underlying concepts on which this movie is based, it is wonderfully made and very entertaining. I watched it many times and each time I enjoyed it. I certainly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Just me acclaiming one of my favorite movies!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After seeing half of Prophecy II, and all of Prophecy III, I maddingly searched when the first one was going to come on. Fortunately, soon. After watching Prophecy for the first time, I fell in love with the movie. I waited a whole week until it came on again to tape it. Now I watch the tape every single day. This movie may not have the best FX(whaddya expect from a '95 movie?), but everything else is really good. Christopher Walken(one of my fave actors) performed...perfectly. He naturally has the ability to play evil characters, so he would be my first choice for the role. This movie really IS the best movie about angels of all time. I don't know what else to say, except If you haven't seen it yet GO SEE IT! If you have, GO SEE IT AGAIN! "},{"Title":"Decent way to kill an hour and a half","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Borders a bit on the edge of MST3K territory, but the cast and the dialogue balance out some logistical holes in the plot, slow pace at times and technical goofs (typical outdoor gaffe in horror/thriller movies it's dark, now it's light, now it's dark again...you get the picture).To have the powers Angels are credited with they obviously aren't Mr. Rogers with wings. Walken, Stoltz and Mortensen are all potentially lethal and powerful in their roles; Elias Koteas and Virginia Madsen do a nice job as well.The subject matter fascinates me (being raised as a Roman Catholic I had all the Angels and Saints on trading cards - let me get Gabriel's ERA from the middle ages for you), so that contributes to my attitude. In conclusion, kind of a 1950's B movie equivalent, but pretty good humor and fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Funny movie, isnt it?","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Its really not a very scary film but its worth watching only because of a cool and sexy (and very funny) Christopher Walken. I dont know whats the final sense of the movie (maybe God is winning, evils losing??); but forget the rest (particularly the ending) and concentrate on Christopher...  "},{"Title":"This movie is good G.O.O.D","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have heard alot of mixed reviews on this movie. Basically the acting is superb. Walken is even more enjoyable than usual(Anyone who has seen more than one of his films knows what I mean). And the movie offers great thoeries on the hoax that is religion. SEE IT!. "},{"Title":"Very Dark and Scary!","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After watching this, I thought the movie was cool.  Christopher gave a good performance as Gabriel who had decided to choose his own path instead of God's.  I'd recommend this flick to anyone who liked End of Days Stigmata The Exorcist if you're a big fan on good against evil flicks. "},{"Title":"It wasn't THAT bad","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, I'll admit, there were some unredeeming qualities about this movie, but you have to admit, there hasn't really been a movie like this before. Mabye we just don't have anything to compare it to.  And when I say that, I mean in 1995.  Since then, other movies in the Prophecy's genre have come out, better, but this one was one of the earlier ones that was good for its time. "}{"Title":"An easy movie to hate","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Prophecy draws a picture of heaven that many viewers will NOT like, perhaps because it conflicts with the teachings of childhood.Before viewing the film, look up the definition of angel in any good dictionary and then pay attention to the contrasting image of angel as drawn by Christopher Walken. I enjoyed the contrasting imagery, though I can guarantee that many folks will not.If you like dark suspense tales and are able to not get stuck in the iconoclastic imagery of heaven and angels, I think you will like this film. "},{"Title":"T-Ball Hit for Walken","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought that The Prophecy was a solid movie. It was most definantly an environment for Cristopher Walken to flex his acting capabilities, as in the director giving him a wide margin of creative liberty. Walkens role was practically written for him, and he did a great job. This movie is a 'must buy' for any Walken fan. I enjoyed the acting as well as the visual settings, which were very appropriate for the films content. "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was great.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really like this movie. I thought it was imaginative and creative. Though it is a movie for people with open minds who wont get offended by new ideas. Some people would call this movie controversial but some of the greatest movies have been called so. "},{"Title":"Critic Loathed, Viewer Approved","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  First and foremost, if you fancy yourself at all a critic, don't watch this movie.  You WILL get hung up on the strangenesses of it...However, if you like surreal movies, I recommend seeing this.  The soundtrack is incredible, doing wonders for the already very deep ambiance of the movie.  The dialogue, which some find inappropriately modern, and action have a 'cool factor' that comes in as a nice second or third to Pulp Fiction.  Also, a wonderful job was done with the character of the Devil.Wise man say, 'the elder Hamlet's script, was written in the vulgar argot of the time. "},{"Title":"Very INTERESTING point of view, I do love this movie","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  EVERYTHING in life must be seen in different points of view. This one is an interesting one, we don't know what is really happening up there until it's too late, maybe we are living in a stalemate too. Maybe they're waiting for us to fail as human beings. We must learn from our mistakes before it's too late. This movie show me that, what about you... "},{"Title":"The War In Heaven Is No Joke!!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is phat!  Jealous angels wanting to get rid of humans and the faithful ones stayed by the Lords side to stop them.  It was cool for Lucifer to jump in because Cool Chris tried to get evil on us.  That's Lucifer department.  This is a good movie and everyone should check it out.  "},{"Title":"thought provoking, brilliant performances","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great movie. Walken is brilliant (as always), but Viggio Mortensen steals the show as Lucifer. Most of all, I love the film's methodical pace. I find the negative comments amusing, they're so passionate, they have that fandom flare. "},{"Title":"Christopher Walken rules the universe...","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The film is based upon a subject which enchants all of us who are interested in supernatural things. Unfortunately, the film ain't as good as the idea behind it. However, the film is rescued by a brilliant Walken, as the archangel Gabriel. Another performance which impressed me deeply is Eric Stoltzs. He, who usually play the part of a weak romantic fool, portraits the good guy-angel in a great way. "},{"Title":"somewhat peculiar and definitely worth the money","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  saw this one many times, great christopher walken (never mind his  make-up, tho) wonderful performance by viggo mortensen. great visuals, locations and lighting give the movie this wonderful, peculiar gothic atmosphere. more mortensen please!   "},{"Title":"My cup of tea.","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was excellent. The story was one of the most intriguing ever. I like the idea of a war in heaven, for a film that is. Christopher Walken gives you his absolute best as he usually does. Even Eric Stoltz, who I normally dont like, makes a good impression here.  "}{"Title":"Strange, Thoughtful, Questioning","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is not what they told you in sunday school about angels. A strange and disturbing movie movie about a war raging in heaven brought to earth. Though it doesn't fall in with the standard christain belief of god and his angels it does bring some very disturbing questions to light.  Do you really want to see an angel if an angel is of this variety? Christopher Walken is his very cool bad self in this film and the whole of the film seems to be determined to make you rethink the whole concept of faith. It's worth a look if you don't mind having your religious views shattered.  "},{"Title":"IF ONLY......","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The general idea was excellent, but if only they spent more time to cut the B.S of the script and fine tune it.  Also if only they spent more money on photography and actually making the movie look really classy, it would have been a very successful movie (certainly would have grossed more in the box office).But I've got to hand it to them - the fact that they didn't freak out with the computer effects. They had few, simple but very very effective fx (for example, I love the way they did the angels' eyes when they died, black and hollow, or the shadows of the angels flying through the clouds.  But thumbs down on the way they chose to have the angels detect each other, (what's with the sniffing of the air like dogs or something ?) They could have made it more like the immortals when they realise each others presence in the movie Highlander, or something at least. I'll give this movie (taking all aspects into consideration) a respectable 7/10    "},{"Title":"Symbolism.","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is quite good. The special effects completely suck but the story makes this one a big movie. I myself am an atheistic man but found the story intriguing how there can't be two satans in this universe, how angels are soulless, etc. Lucifer is an excellent character in the movie. What I recommend is that a)if you're catholic don't watch the movie; and b)never ever watch The Prophecy II. "},{"Title":"Magnificent movie. Walken is legendary as Gabriel.","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't remember how many times I have actually seen this movie, but every time I watch it I enjoy it even more! Christopher Walken is at his absolute best and plays the role of Gabriel with extreme gusto. His use of one liners and dark demeanour make this his best work to date in my mind. The rest of the casting is very strong also, with all the actors seeming to enjoy their roles. Definitely a great movie for inciting religious debate, bringing up taboo subjects such as angels turning against God.... Best movie of its type ever....What else can I say? "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Considering the script was doomed from the beginning, the actors played it off fabulously, this movie kicked, and I can't wait to get it so I can watch it every day!!! "},{"Title":"A great premise, a great film","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Prophecy is a great film. It's occasionally cheesy but if you forgive it that it's fantastic. It's got a great cast, all doing themselves justice particularly Walken and Koteas.I think Halverson has kind of missed the point of the film. Have you ever thought what a creature like that would be like?It's occasionally violent, occasionally funny but always interesting. We'll forgive it its cheese.  "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the best movies I've seen.  Elias Koteas stars as Tom Daggett, a former deacon in the Catholic Church who lost his faith on the day of his ordaining.  He is now a police officer, investigating the murder of an angel.  He learns of a war in heaven, being fought because some angels resented the fact that God loved humans more than they.  These angels are led by the archangel Gabriel (Christopher Walken), and their goal is to destroy the human race.  Now he must stop them before they fulfill a prophecy that would mean the destruction of the human race. "},{"Title":"If you like REAL Angel Movies...","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is not Michael.  This is real.  This is what Angels would be like if they appeared at your door with their own motivations and feelings and fears.  Christopher Walken is incredible in the part of Gabriel, an Archangel who not only hates humans but plans to circumvent the Holy Plan.Other cameos in the film are well played, and as with any well written and performed film, there is no unneeded humor or silliness thrown in.  From the Catholic themes to the Native American finale, the film is extremely well put together.Avoid the sequel!!! "},{"Title":"great movie, if you like angels","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  OK, so the plot is so far out of the realm of reality it's insane.  However, this movie has several good qualities.  First off, it's hilarious.  A truly funny, and often ironic film.  Walken is a great villain, as always.  Eric Stolz is great.  Elias Koteas could use a little more depth but Viggo Mortenson is so cool as the devil it's too good to pass up.  don't expect a realistic movie, expect a comedy with intelligence and class.  Worth a good grade and at least a viewing. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, BAD ending","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Overall, I would have to say that I enjoyed this movie very much, although it did leave quite a bit to be desired in some areas.  A Second Angel War in Heaven, the lost chapter in the Bible -- excellent ideas, but the movie didn't use their full potential.  And the ENDING?!?!  Come on.  I almost barfed.  I haven't seen an ending like that since the theater version of Bladerunner.  You can almost see them saying, Well, the ending is really great, but the mindless American crowds can't think for themselves, so we gotta TELL them what the consequences would be, rather than just leave it to their own interpretation.  Don't get me wrong.  Like I said, I do enjoy the movie.  I just stop the tape five minutes before the movie ends.  "}{"Title":"a REALLY great way of looking at angels","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I think that this has a  GREAT storyline and a fasinating way of looking at angels. The way they make Gabriel out to be is great, and when he kisses his fingers and points them at the angel corpse and it bursts into flames, I reckon that's great. The only down side to this movie is the acting of the little girl, she wasn't exactly what I'd call a good little actress. I'm fascinated with angels, and I was still thinking about the story weeks after I watched it. I think that the undead side kicks of Gabriel are really funny, literally dying to be killed. The filming of it is fantastic, and I love the music. If you like anything that'll make you think for a while about life after the movie , SEE IT.  "},{"Title":"After you saw this, you wouldn't like to go to heaven!","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I liked this film a lot. Christopher Walken was at his best. The story is very original. It's just one of the best films I ever saw! "},{"Title":"The Gospel according to James Ellroy","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A disenchanted priest turned homicide detective stumbles across civil war in Heaven as a faction of rebellious angels try to break away from God and set up for themselves. Christopher Walken stars as the Angel Gabriel - perhaps the greatest casting coup of the year. Elias Koteas is the priest turned policeman, Viggo Mortenson plays Satan. The film is written and directed by Gregory Widen, who scripted Highlander, so if you liked that, then you'll like this. Scary, surprising and frequently funny - Gabriel has to recruit a chauffeur from among recent suicides because he's never learnt to drive, this is a film with lines and images which will remain with you. Angels perch like birds on chairbacks, a novice priest has visions of war in heaven and Christopher Walken strolls through it all confirming that he is the most watchable actor around. "},{"Title":"I LOVE CHRISTOPHER WALKEN!!!","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok Bill. I don't really care what you think ok? The Prophecy was a GREAT movie. I love Christopher Walken. I love the way he acts. His demeanor is so......enticing somehow. I thought this movie was great along with the Prophecy II. I love his little kiss his fingers and you're in flames thing. That is cool. "},{"Title":"Christopher Walken steals interesting horror fantasy...","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" CHRISTOPHER WALKEN makes the most of his meaty role at the center of THE PROPHECY, an offbeat horror fantasy about good and bad angels and a war in heaven that involves Walken's desperate search for a dark soul on earth.VIRGINIA MADSEN is effective as a schoolteacher protecting a girl who inadvertently has the dark soul implanted in her by a stranger she trusts. ELIAS KOTEAS is the intense young man who abandoned his plans for the priesthood and has become a detective on the hunt for a killer of souls. VIGGO MORTENSEN does a sinister job as Lucifer, whispering his lines with a rasping intensity and making a vivid impression in a brief role.Like THE DA VINCI CODE, it takes religious elements and weaves them into a story of good vs. evil using angels in a way that is seldom ever done and making an intriguing tale of suspense based on the darkness of the human soul.CHRISTOPHER WALKEN has a great time as the Archangel Gabriel, ruling over everyone with a number of nasty lines and knowing winks, with overtones of humor throughout his devilish performance.Strictly for horror fans who want their imagination to turn on a different sort of fantasy with religious motifs--the sort of horror film that some will find offensive and other will enjoy tremendously.Summing up Good, intense performances from the entire cast. "},{"Title":"A Serious Occult Movie About Angels and The Devil","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Singularly, this movie has one of most intriguing angelic performances, rivaling Meet Joe Black, (1998) and City of Angels (1998) that came out three years later.  The sometimes nauseating comic, dry performance of Christopher Walken along with Eric Stoltz and Viggo Mortensen (of Lord of the Rings fame as Aragon) act out some of the most intriguing and cleverly contrived inhuman angel characters (unlike Dogma 1999 that portrayed angels more like unusual human beings without consciences).  This serious endeavor brings Native American spirituality along with a no nonsense inhuman presence, avoiding the typical romantic, sex angle that literal all over occult movies inevitably lower themselves to.  Mr. Walken has some of the most brilliant lines while his typical antics however become a little tiresome and worn out - but his presence along with his other colleague performances are memorable.  Seven out of Ten Stars.  "},{"Title":"So-so film with actors worth watching","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Um, it's a while since I saw this on TV, so my recollection of the film is a bit hazy.The ideas and the story are good, but the execution is a bit lame - it could have been so much more freaky and outstanding.  Two reasons why I gave it a slightly higher than average grading (7) - Christopher Walken always worth watching, and this is the highly creepy, unearthly character he was made to play - & Eric Stoltz - a beautiful redhead and good actor. "},{"Title":"This movie was great","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How can you not like this movie!  The premise of a second angel war in Heaven, Christopher Walken as the Arch-Angel Gabriel and Satan helping man to save his Hell.  This movie kicked!  "},{"Title":"Your either gonna love or hate it with this movie.","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It'll offend hard core Christians up the wall.  I say hard core in the sense that they believe that they are saved and they are sinless.  Hence the Right Wing Christian Conservative will be crying out with a blood curdling scream that he's seen God.  And he hates this movie.Me on the other hand is the unperfect Christian that thinks this movie has alot of merit.  I liked this movie.  It is a little gross.  So what..its gross.  Not really scary though.  And I love it when that happens.  It's got the qualities of an aging turd, but it's got merit.  Hence it's always fun when Chris acts.  So here goes another kewl movie in the bin.6/10Quality 4/10 Entertainment 10/10 Replayable 10/10 "},{"Title":"Feels like it was written by angels","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is dark, gritty and original. I remember first seeing it as a 7 y.o. kid and it was really scary for me then. I gave it a second try now, 20 years later, and it is...quite a mix. The best part about this movie is the acting. Walken and Mortensen are amazing in this. The direction is OK, but the writing... It just feels like the writer (and the director) had some good ideas but didn't really want to put any time into their development. Even though I love overall concept and some characters, I'd really love to see more quality dialogue and character development. When it comes to dialogue and character interactions it feels like it was written by a 5 y.o. Sometimes characters react in a really bizarre way and talk nonsense, at times the story just feels all over the place. Movie also features 5-10 minutes of pointless scenes that go nowhere and some really hard cuts. Some of the practical effects doesn't hold up either. I still enjoyed it, but I doubt I'm ready to give the sequels a try. "}{"Title":"Super fun chiller","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Prophecy is the epitome of the dimension films 90's craze of wicked horror fantasy crossovers. The pure spooky atmosphere and delicious lead performance on display here is enough to forgive the film it's setbacks, of which it has a few. It doesn't fully explain or flesh out its mythology, and gets a bit hazy. But it compensates with a vividly drawn tale of the heavens and the underworld at war on earth, in an ambient style punctuated by eccentric character beats and an overall tone of a well spun campfire tale. Christopher Walken is scary intense as the Angel Gabriel, tossed out of heaven and deposited on earth like a castaway, forced to dwell among us monkeys and meat suits. He has a vague plan (like I said, the writing could have harnessed the plot together a bit more) to find the most evil soul in human history, implant it in the body of a specific child, and incite another unholy war between angels and demons to rock the universe to its foundations. A big city cop (Elias Koteas) catches wind of the otherworldy plot and pursues. He's led to a backwater New Mexico town that Gabriel has turned his attention too. It's a muddy, convoluted yarn, but don't get me wrong, I freakin love it. Walken seems to Emory the weirdness and wild, 'scream at the stars' anger of the jaded cherub perfectly, giving him a heart of evil obsidian glass and a mind to carry out his plan no matter how many races he has to decimate to do so. Virginia Madsen fills the female lead nicely, and there's supporting work from Amanda Plummer, Glenn Danzyg, Eric Stoltz, and a brief but wickedly memorable turn from Viggo Mortensen, playing Lucifer. He owns his cameo with repulsive, terrifying gusto. It's not a perfect film, but in the long run of similar outings (Legion, Constantine etc.) it's one of the best. The alluring air of mystery and fantastical elements always get me. As for the sequels, the first two are cool because they still have Walken... but avoid the last two, they're awful. "},{"Title":"Great Apocalyptic Film","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The angel Gabriel (Christopher Walken) comes to Earth to collect a soul which will end the stalemated war in Heaven, and only a former priest and a little girl can stop him.It can be challenging to make a good religious horror film. Especially when you are trying to create a new mythology without destroying the classic or traditional views. This film is among the best in the genre, and it is no surprise it received multiple sequels. The idea of an ongoing angel war, backed up by a holy book? Clever.Of course, you also get some good actors involved and that helps. Walken is among the best (or at least he was), and Elias Koteas is vastly underrated. He is not a household name but should be. "},{"Title":"The Prophecy is a great film with some great performances that is hauntingly beautiful at the same time.","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The angel Gabriel comes to Earth to collect a soul which will end the stalemated war in Heaven, and only a former priest and a little girl can stop him. Angels come to Earth to find a human soul that can end the war in heaven. Humans are caught up in this battle and must find a way to stop the angel Gabriel before he takes the soul back from where the angel Simon has hidden it. A fascinating, atmospheric movie packed with interesting ideas, scenes and performances. I would recommend that anyone watching this one, watch all three back to back. The Prophecy is a great film with some great performances that is hauntingly beautiful at the same time. "},{"Title":"I Kept Watching and I Wound Up Liking It","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't like how Gabriel was portrayed in this movie as being more like a murderous thug as opposed to being the Bright and Morning Star of Nebadon, this being my belief as a student of The Urantia Papers. Of all the names of angels they had to choose from when picking their bad guy who wears the black hat (in this case, the bad angel with greasy black hair), I couldn't help but wonder why the writer selected the name of Gabriel, our local universe's chief executive and the personal rep of the Sovereign Son known best in our planetary neck of the woods by the name given at birth in Bethlehem, Jesus. The Lucifer Rebellion began around 200,000 earth years ago and it was certainly no exaggeration when they referenced this as being a war in heaven where angels needed to listen to both sides of the argument as presented by Gabriel vs. Lucifer before making a final decision as to which side of the proverbial fence of Good vs. Evil they wholeheartedly desired to wind up on. But Gabriel is the mighty and steadfast Warrior representing God who exposed The Lucifer Manifesto for what it really is, a treacherous pack of lies. When I read a detailed account of Lucifer's ludicrous propositions as spelled out in his unholy declaration of war against God, I was amazed that one who was created a few levels above our paygrade could sink to such lowly depths of depravity even sparing not the Jerusem kids in the probationary nursery on the finaliter's world (those precious little ones from planets like ours who died too soon) from being exposed to his repulsively repugnant pitch of death deceptively disguised as something else. But once I started taking my attention away from the names of characters, I wound up being more than just entertained by the acting and the over-acting. In the end, I realized that The Prophecy tells a story about faith where men and women and angels are free to determine their individual destinies by the faith-filled or faith-deficient choices they make. "},{"Title":"So-So...","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The angel Gabriel comes to earth wanting to take a soul to end the ongoing war in heaven, however when confronting the person he wants he finds out that he has transferred the soul into a little girl, with this information he goes and looks for her, however a Police Officer and a teacher are protecting her and refuse to let Gabriel take her.This film starred Christopher Walken, Elias Koteas & Virginia MadsenThe Prophecy was released in 1995 and is an OK film, I was expecting more however it is a film I hate and I could watch it again, I have the 3 films, and I am yet to see 2 & 3, however I don't have two 2005 spin off films because they are a waste of time and money. Recommended because although I was let down this is still an interesting film.***/***** Could be worse. "},{"Title":"A Great Cast Makes This One Soar With the Angels","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Earth has become a battleground of warring angels; some loyal to God and others angry that he has chosen to share His love with the 'talking monkeys' known as man. Leading the fight to keep mankind from the kingdom of Heaven is the acerbic, witty angel Gabriel (played beautifully by Christopher Walken; exuding equal measures of charm and menace). There's a whole lot of nonsense thrown into the mix including demonic possession, ancient Indian mysticism and Terminator style action but the exceptional cast grounds it. Virginia (Candyman) Madsen, Viggo (Lord of the Rings) Morteson, Eric (Mask) Stoltz, Ellias (Crash) Coteas and of course Christopher Walken all shine in their roles. The Prophecy is very appealing and fun no matter how far fetched and ridiculous it gets. Followed by four sequels. "},{"Title":"Could have been truly terrible but it isn't!!  AT ALL!!","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Years and years ago when I first fell in love with horror films, this is a series (I think there were only three at the time) that I discovered and remembered being decent. So I'm going to go through it again. The Prophecy walks a seriously thin line between campy horror and twisted story that could have fell flat on its face. The amazing thing is that it works and works so incredibly well. It turns in the type of film that was likely instantly a cult classic. There are some incredible and truly quotable lines in the film and scenes that will stay with you (hauntingly so) for a long time after that. There are some cheesy moments and yet the film is so dark and twisted that the cheese somehow blends in together and provides you with an eye opening and unique horror flick that I really enjoyed. I think great horror/thrillers can come out of Christian theology (some of Stephen King's most brilliant stuff certainly does) and The Prophecy does an incredible job of spinning this yarn around that and laying the groundwork for a series. The casting works so well and everything in this puzzle just fits together right. It is one of those films I think that you can't necessarily pinpoint why it works but it just does.Christopher Walken is a legend in his own right so I will start with him. Is he a great actor? Honestly, no I don't think that he is. But you cannot deny his unbelievable on screen charisma. He seems just a perfect fit to play this almost campy and yet dark and twisted evil Angel. This is probably one of his most memorable roles to me and for good reason. Walken is very Walken in the role and it works really well. Under-rated character actor Elias Koteas is disgraced Priest turned cop Thomas. This character is just fantastic. He is the perfect hero and Koteas does this brooding cop who is having the ultimate crisis of faith. His dialogue in the film is so well written and this script is shockingly smart at times. Koteas and Walken have this awesome rivalry that really drives this film. Virginia Madsen plays a character that is both necessary to the story and yet I felt she got in the way in some ways. She doesn't give as strong of a performance as everyone else but I understand why she's there. She doesn't really stand out though. Eric Stoltz, Viggo Mortensen, Adam Goldberg and Moriah Snyder deserve mention amongst the supporting cast. Stoltz and Mortensen border on being amazing and yet their roles are painfully small and not to be repeated by them in future instalments of the series.The one thing I took from The Prophecy more than anything else was the imagery. My God! Writer and director Gregory Widen had some messed up vision for this film and it translates onto the screen and gets under your skin. Whether its the tortured angels, the death scenes, the war, or the transferring of souls...the metaphorical imagery is deeply disturbing and effective. I'm shocked Widen didn't have more of a directing career after or before this and even more shocked that a writer actually managed to translate this into something really great. I have no doubt the series will gradually fall apart with future parts but I am going to stick with all of them and review each one because I thought this first one was just excellent and will absolutely remain high on my list of horror classics. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great Cast & Story = Under rated 90's Horror Movie","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" There is a war going on in heaven between the angels. One group is led by the arch angel Gabriel (Walken), who is jealous of humans because God favors them. The other angels want God's will to be done and the battle is being fought on earth. Thomas Dagget (Koteas) is a cop who wanted to be a priest and gets caught up in the battle. An incredibly evil soul that could tip the battle in Gabriel's advantage is stolen by angel Simon (Stoltz) and hid in the body of a young girl (Moriah 'Shining Dove' Snyder). Gabriel is fast on its trail as Dagget and the girls' school teacher (Madsen) do their best to protect her. This very original horror film from Writer / Director Gregory Widen is a serious tale that is quite a fun ride to take. Widen fills his story with adult characters and real stakes are at cost. The film has a great look and a subtle sense of humor that helps. Walken as the fast talking Gabriel is perfect and is quite humorous at times but can be truly scary and menacing in the next minute. Eric Stoltz as Simon the good angel is solid and Elias Koteas as Thomas is the backbone of the movie. The always under rated Virginia Madsen brings her usual spunk to the role of the protective school teacher, and Viggo Mortensen as Lucifer himself is memorable in a small but spicy role. Widen keeps the movie interesting and at a good pace so the audience is engaged with the characters and a few chills are delivered along the way. The film is light on traditional in your face scares and gore but the great cast and fun story keeps you watching and the movie scores well in the entertaining department. I still like the original title of this film which was God's Army. "},{"Title":"Twisted fun","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thomas(Koteas, determined) was going to be a priest, but he saw a horrifying vision(I won't give it away here), and became a homicide detective instead. But he might still cross paths with the divine. Simon(Stoltz, kind) hides something important from fellow angel Gabriel(Walken, as usual letting loose and stealing the show). And he wants it back... can our lead stop him, perhaps aided by a young girl(Snyder, brave - one of the numerous funny aspects, and I won't give away why) and a small-town teacher(Madsen, gutsy)?This is immensely creepy. That atmosphere engulfs it from start to finish. The darkly comic elements fit well within that, allowing us to laugh without breaking the gloom. The dialog is where a lot of the humor comes in. This has a warped ruleset that builds upon its religion, such as using someone recently deceased as a right hand man(abusing him all the while) by not allowing them to actually die, blasphemy being the worst thing(ever), etc. The effects vary some but tend to be pretty good. This is 90 minutes not counting the end credits, and 94 with them.There is a lot of disturbing, bloody, violent content in this. The DVD comes with trailers for this, Seduction, Children of Corn IV and Split Second. I recommend this to fans of thrillers. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Awful lead actors ruined the movie","Date":"24 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Supporting actors Christopher Walken, Viggo Mortensen and Eric Stoltz pretty much are the only reasons for this movie not to fall utter garbage category. Lead actors Elias Koteas and Virginia Madsen are extremely wooden card board cuts with no emotion, no charisma, no nothing. Where did they find these nobodies makes me wonder? Koteas has the same dumb face for the whole movie no matter whether he finds a box full of human faces or tries to pray for God in a desperate and sentimental act. Madsen has a same monotonous repertoire for emotions and expression. Lady schoolteacher finds a burned dead human body from their schools attic and what is her reaction? Nothing. Just like she would have found a dead rat. Or maybe burned homeless people are so common in the states and have no human value that you can just shrug your shoulders and continue with your daily chores. That was just a one example. Sure, you can also blame the script but for some reason, I don't think Walken had any better script and he managed to improvise the hell out of his role.While the story was interesting, it was pretty weak and there wasn't much more into this except brilliant performances from supporting actors. What a waste of a good fantasy/thriller movie. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Not amazing but an enjoyable hour and 40 minutes","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was like one of those movies that you see when randomly flicking through the channels looking for something to watch then find yourself getting sucked in by the story. Despite being made in the mid-90s it felt like an 80s movie in terms of style and setting - reminded me of Children of the Corn or The Lost Boys in terms of where it was set. The cast was pretty decent with the likes of Walken, Mortensen, Stoltz, Koteas, Goldberg and Madsen all doing a good job, but not amazing, and overall it was more enjoyable than I expected. In terms of an overall rating I would say about a 7.5 but as halves aren't available on here I've marked it as 7/10. "},{"Title":"Reasonably enjoyable religious nonsense.","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" While trying to discover the identity of a mysterious corpse, former priest turned policeman Thomas Dagget (Elias Koteas) learns of a war raging in heaven, angel Gabriel (Christopher Walken) leading an army of rebels who are jealous of the favour God has shown towards man.For a film about warring angels, The Prophecy is surprisingly devoid of spectacle, with very little in the way of battles between winged beings and a hugely disappointing climax; thank heavens, then, for the great cast, who somehow make this biblical nonsense pretty entertaining. Walken as Gabriel is the film's strongest suit, giving a quirky performance that adds a touch of humour to the otherwise rather sober proceedings; Virginia Madsen, as a schoolteacher caught in the middle of the war, is simply gorgeous, adding the glamour factor; Viggo Mortensen makes for a surprisingly creepy Lucifer; and Eric Stoltz delivers a solid performance as good angel Simon. Amanda Plummer and Adam Goldberg are also good, but their roles add little to the movie as a whole.All in all, The Prophecy is a reasonably decent piece of religious horror, albeit not a particularly memorable one. "},{"Title":"Two Hells is one too many, says the Devil","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Are you saying we have a dead angel on ice?Saw this without any knowledge, but saw the cast, Christopher Walken, Viggo Mortensen and Eric Stolz, which I all admire for their work, and was immediately quite amazed by the tone and excitement. This is dark, compelling, chilling and quite shocking. I would say that most things work. It's so damned we'll played by all, not only the above mentioned. Maybe this is both Walken and Stolz best roles ever! Walken is simply astonishing chilling in his role as arch angel. An absolute must-see!We meet a cop, which formerly tried to become a priest, but fail at the final blessing. After giving up religion, and becoming a detective, he has an encounter with might be an angel. And then what also seems to be an angel, according to ancient scripts, also is an angel, dead after a violent fight. Are we seeing a war of angels?Based on old biblical writings this is way more exciting than any of Dan Brown's stuff. Don't let this mislead you into thinking this is something rubbish. It's scary and worst of all quite believable. Kept in a realistic everyday style, it still gives chill after chill in meeting with the angels, among them the great arch angel Gabriel.I also love the make up effects made for this film. Nasty, well done stuff. Filming is great. Just like some of the best films I saw back in the 70'ies, 80'ies and 90'ies. The feel I get the same good movie feeling I had a long time ago, and reminds me of the classics like The Exorcist, Rosemary's baby, Name of the rose, which all are themed similarly or the dark filming work of Deliverance, Whatever happened to Baby-Jane, Duel and The Marathon man. Yeah, it's really that good, and that well done, but even darker! If you liked the chills in those, you'll like this. It's good story telling, which makes this a hidden classic.Maybe the end is too abrupt and positive. The weakest part is the final minutes, but then again this is a story that needs such an ending.The music score is out of this world. Not only this. The dialog is exquisite and the quotes you can get from this are epic. Do yourself a favor, if you haven't seen this! Get hold of it! I just discovered a hidden gem! "},{"Title":"Angels and Angles","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A second war in heaven has broken out with the archangel Gabriel (Christopher Walken) leading a rebellion against God in an attempt to pressure him into renouncing the human race. To that end, Gabriel desperately needs the dark soul to help break the stalemate between his army and that of the archangel Michael. With that in mind, Thomas Dagget (Elias Koteas) has been studying to become a priest but because of disturbing visions renounces his calling at the last minute and ends up as a police detective instead. As luck would have it, he and an elementary school teacher named Katherine (Virginia Madsen) are thrown into the war of the angels as they seek to protect a young girl named Mary (Moriah Snyder) who unwittingly harbors the dark soul. Anyway, what transpires is a bizarre hide-and-seek story with all sorts of Biblical names and references (of questionable origin) thrown in. For example, Thomas relates that he is disturbed by a Biblical passage in which St. Paul states, Even now in heaven there were angels carrying savage weapons. And he should be disturbed&#x97;because there is no such quote in the Bible. Fortunately, his bewilderment is dissipated after he stumbles upon a book containing the 23rd chapter of the Book of Revelation which pretty much explains everything. As it should, obviously, since Revelation normally ends at chapter 22. Naturally, there are other angels and angles thrown in as well. In any case, both Elias Koteas and Christopher Walken put on excellent performances and there were some decent action scenes thrown in for good measure. Be that as it may, even the best acting can't make up for the extremely ludicrous pseudo-religious drivel the story is based upon. Quite embarrassing, actually. As such, I feel compelled to rate it accordingly. "},{"Title":"While Heaven May Be Closed I Am Always Open, Even On Christmas ...","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Thomas Dagget is an LA detective with a deeply Catholic background who is brought in to investigate when a dead John Doe turns up with an ancient Bible in his pocket. Things get stranger when a mysterious figure called Gabriel appears, and the trail leads to a little girl called Mary living in rural Arizona. What in Heaven's name is going on ?This is a great little scary movie, a production from the always interesting Dimension Films company, brilliantly written and directed by Widen with wit, originality and loads of good ideas. Okay, it may be more than a little crazy, but who cares - it's so interesting, great fun and an almost perfect balance of religious parable, goofy comedy and action mystery. The depiction of the angels in particular is spectacular; their bird-like perching, olfactory capabilities and curious limitations (they can't drive) are both intriguing and funny. Walken takes these ideas and runs with them, turning in an amazing, unforgettable performance, but the whole cast really get into it, and Koteas as the Doubting Thomas investigator somehow manages to make sense of the increasingly bizarre events. The film has some low budget limitations - the effects are imaginative but struggle to convey the scale of the story - but it has so much going for it it doesn't matter. If you think about it, angels almost always make for good cinema, whether it's A Matter Of Life And Death, It's A Wonderful Life, Wings Of Desire, The Crow, Dogma, even Michael or City Of Angels - I can't think of a boring movie about angels. Theological ideas often come over well in films, whether it's because of special effects or character contrast I'm not sure, but they are endlessly fascinating figures and this film particularly paints them in a wholly unique light. Just to be complicated, this movie has spawned four direct sequels (the first two of which also feature Walken) and should not be confused with the (bad, but fun) 1979 John Frankenheimer movie Prophecy. Unfortunately, this is Widen's only directorial effort; a shame given how much talent he obviously has - he also wrote Highlander (great story) and Backdraft (rubbish story). We live in a religiously dynamic and diverse world, yet the concepts rarely find their way into mainstream cinema. Horror movies on the other hand have a long, rich and continuous thirst for matters Divine, and this is one of the best and most enjoyable such pictures. A great film from Widen, shot in evocative desert locations in Gila County, Arizona. And remember kids - study your maths ! "},{"Title":"Very good religious movie but not really horror","Date":"26 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" One of the most intelligent religion movies i've ever seen. Walken did great acting, so did others, no stupid voice-changes like in some exorcism stuff...But yes really good script and all. I'm not religious dude but I like watching some movies like this style. Viggo Mortensen seemed like a child abuser at one point but wasn't .. I think, great acting anyway (why the fuc**ng hell he always gets this types of roles).Only minus for me was this length and it wasn't truly any kinda of horror for me. Anyway brilliant for the genre, something new, even this is so old and I missed just seen this. Worth to watch for movie PPL who like this kind of movies.No spooky stuff anywhere I think and great story. Lot more interesting than many others with angel-thingy.9/10 "},{"Title":"Gabriel...when did you lose your Grace?","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A rambunctious Movie with a lot of appeal and a very wide stellar cast not usually seen in this type of semi-low-budget affair. It is quite a clever and remarkable effort that has a swirling pace and is never boring.The dense plot sometimes gets in the way of this entertaining entry in the Horror/Supernatural genre but the performances and the witty script help elevate the overall brazen, if sometimes soggy story. There is some striking and unsettling imagery and the Cinematography is excellent.It has a strong creepiness factor and the rather successful effect of the whole Film is tethered to an unforgettable, black-humored performance from Chris Walken as Gabriel. Most of the films quotable lines come from his striking study of a powerful and befuddled Angel.This is an offbeat Movie that gains reputation with each passing year, having been mostly ignored upon release. A true Cult Movie that has grown in stature by word of mouth and rabid fans of crazy concepts and intelligent execution. If the Film has a strong weakness it is the ending that seems a little too Hollywood and little too hokey. But up until the final scene or two, this is one of those that has been misunderstood and overlooked. The sequels are not in the same league as this gem and can be avoided without penance. "},{"Title":"The characters are crisp and fresh, and the cast depicts them with an eerie sense of reality.","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After his incredible success with the Highlander franchise, Gregory Widen wrote and directed this incredible eerie tale of suspense and horror. The characters are crisp and fresh, and the cast depicts them with an eerie sense of reality. Elias Koteas is incredibly adept at his role, portraying the disillusioned Dagget with a humanity we can all associate with. Eric Stoltz is adept at his role as Simon, the angel from the forces loyal to God's will concerning man. Christopher Walken is the perfect Gabriel, smiling and deceptive, treating us talking monkeys with the same sort of casual disdain as one may treat a retarded child. Virginia Madsen plays the lone teacher for what remains of an abandoned mining town, and she portrays the role in such a manner as to have us believing she has taught school for years. While the remainder of the cast is proficient and talented in their roles, special mention has to be made of Viggo Mortensen as Lucifer. He delivers his lines with such precision of depth and directness, you can believe he is the devil incarnate. Rated R for violence, gore and language, this is truly a work of art. Collectible as the first in a series of five films, or by itself as just an incredible work of fiction and the imagination of Gregory Widen. "},{"Title":"At first I thought it was OK but the end was awesome!","Date":"21 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" To be honest for the first hour or so I wasn't too impressed I thought it was OK but I was starting to wonder if this movie was really worth the watch. I thought the actors did a good job and the story idea was awesome but for some reason it didn't really seem to click the way it should have. But starting with the first scene with Lucifer (Viggo Mortenson)I definitely started to get a whole lot more into it. After that every scene in the movie was dynamite and I think they did an excellent job. Props to Viggo in this movie, he brought just the right amount of creepiness and evilness to it and by the end of the movie I was pretty impressed. Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie was recommended to me and to my surprise and shock it was....mediocre. The story just seemed rushed and condensed, it was boring at times with below average affects. I was disappointed by this movie. Christopher Walken is the main reason this movie has a 50&. He was basically able to make this movie seem somewhat interesting. His performance was decent, to me it felt like he was trying for this movie to at least seem adequate. It shares some history from the Bible and among other things Angels. The methods that the Angels performed were disturbing, it just did not make any sense. The whole basis of the plot is, there is a man on this earth who was in the Vietnam war, he possesses the blackest soul on the face of the Earth. In order for the Angel Gabriel (Walken) to win this battle, he must take possession of this soul. However this event is intervened when another Angel seeks to end this war by protecting this soul. He then places it in a young girl named Mary. At this point the action begins. The actions scenes are small and hardly seem worth it. They are rushed and fast paced. It becomes difficult to realize what had just happened. The talking scenes are drawn out as well, you soon become bored easily. There really is no feel or atmosphere at all to this flick. As soon as you get somewhat interested in it, the movie ends leaving you feel left out. The ending was the part that bothered me the most. It just seemed like the director did not care one bit and slapped this ending on last minute. It really bothered me because of the lack of action and information. Overall this movie is decent, but not worth the time. If your a Christopher Walken fan, you will probably enjoy it, but if not chances are it will just be a miss on the awesome movie scale. So 50% for the squandered cast this movie has and for the dry action scenes. "}{"Title":"Half-way decent with some large nagging problems","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Prophecy is pretty decent enough, if only a little hard to understand.**SPOILERS**Years after losing his faith, Detective Thomas Daggett, (Elias Koteas) is assigned to a murder case where the victim is almost unrecognizable. Finding an ancient bible among the victim's belongings, he begins to translate it and finds that it contains a previously-unknown chapter detailing a second war in Heaven among angels. On an Indian Reservation in Arizona, teacher Katherine Henley, (Virginia Madsen) thinks that something's wrong with her children, and it leads Det. Daggett to the area. Also racing to the area is Gabriel, (Christopher Walken) a renegade angel wanting to restore Heaven to it's former past. Investigating the appearance of the angel and the sudden chaos in the town, they band together to stop the renegade angel from unleashing a war on Earth that will tear apart Heaven above.The Good News This one is pretty decent. One of the film's best attributes is that it has some really fresh and creative ideas that are, for once, interesting and memorable. The notion of what angels actually are, with one memorable line of dialog in particular summing up what they're actual purpose is for that is one of the most distinctive and important parts of the film. The originality of it makes it so important, as it's a side that seems like it would've been interpreted as such much earlier, as it's logical but also clever and it earns big points for being so. The back and forth nature of the story keeps the suspense pretty high, allowing for some really good action scenes. The fight in the apartment room is a big highlight, and a really good car chase is the icing on the cake to it's conclusion, a climactic showdown in a ceremonial Indian hut that is quite gory and never loses any of it's punch. The gore here is quite nice, with several hearts ripped violently out of the chest, a charred skull that keeps on talking, glass shards stuck into throats, a huge slew of gunshot wounds, and more. This is quite violent and gory, which is in perfect keeping with the method of disposal needed for the participants in the war. The scenes depicting the war, showing angels being impaled on row after row of spikes by the thousands, blood drenching the ground and more fighting above them, are effectively haunting and quite creepy, and their periodic use throughout is used to it's benefit, making the images clearly there to freak out, and the purpose is handled greatly. This one is quite nice overall.The Bad News This does have a few problems. It is a rare thing that a horror film is conducted with literacy and intelligence, but this one suffers from being too smart for it's own good. There's such a large amount of plot-holes and goofs here that it is quite a headache trying to piece everything together. The storyline defies logic, as if Gabriel is God's appointed angel of war, why would he need the darkest soul on earth to aid him? Why not simply use his own power and influence to wreck havoc, especially since he also has the power to resurrect dead humans as zombies who are forced to follow him? It was never said what Gabriel needed the colonel's soul for. These are just a few of the film's many headache-inducing questions that don't get answered. There's also a big pacing problem, as it is certainly a film that asks patience of an audience. It is a good half-hour into the film before the often wilfully cryptic plot strands begin to coalesce and one begins to properly understand what is going on, and even then, the plot has one or two strands that are left unwound. Scenes are often left going on far too long, with an encounter in a school-house basement being the prime example. Others are simply there for no reason, as it's not exactly necessary for the plot to have an angel conversing with people inside a diner. These bring the film down from what it could've been.The Final Verdict I can't vouch for how accurate it is, but it's still a mildly entertaining film with a few good ideas and a few that shouldn't have been there. With a little more thought put into an already over-thought film, this would be a better film, but it's hard not to be entertained by it. Give it a shot if it sounds interesting.Rated R Graphic Violence, Language, Brief Nudity and intense religious themes "},{"Title":"Original, cool and clever film!","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Gregory Widen may be better known as the writer of the famous fantasy movie Highlander, where he introduced us to a wide universe so rich that has expanded to many different kinds of media and is now a classic of the genre. Now on the director's chair, Widen attempts to create a similar experience mixing horror and fantasy in The Prophecy, giving us a world where Angels and Demons fight a war that has been going for the destiny of mankind.The Prophecy is the tale of the second war in heaven, a war that has been going on for centuries. Unlike the first war that happened when Lucifer (Viggo Mortensen) attempted to become God, this one is led by Gabriel (Christopher Walken), whose only wish is to destroy mankind so angels can be again God's favorite creations. While the war has been balanced for centuries, now Gabriel has the chance to have the upper hand in the conflict as he discovers in Earth the most evil human soul ever created. The angel Simon (Eric Stoltz) discovers this and decides to find the soul first, for this he'll need the help of Detective Thomas Dagget (Elias Koteas), a former priest turned cop. Now the battle is on Earth.Widen once again proves he has a talent for fantasy as he takes a familiar concept and expands its many possibilities. The concept of a war between angels is very interesting and Widen takes full advantage of the Judaic and Christian religious symbols to tell his story. While the plot is probably not as polished as his Highlander, Gregory Widen makes up for it with a collection of interesting and original twists to familiar biblical characters that together make a very enjoyable ride.On the director's position, Widen looks a bit unexperienced, although this is natural as his only previous job as a director was a Tales from the Crypt episode. Sadly, this takes its toll on the movie, as at times it has the looks of a straight to TV movie and this hurts the quality script he had developed. However, it is worth to recognize that Widen did a good job with his relative low-budget, and many of the special effects still look convincing despite its age.As many have pointed out, the film strongest point is the amazing cast. Christopher Walken does wonders with this pulp novel version of the archangel Gabriel. He completely creates a character that is both charming and frightening, with his suave persona owning the screen. Eric Stoltz is also wonderful as Simon, and his expressive face says more than the few lines his character has. The weakest link is definitely Elias Koteas, who ends up a bit flat and wooden, although in his favor one can say that Widen underdeveloped his character in comparison with the angels. Viggo Mortensen, Virginia Madsen and a wonderful Adam Goldberg complete the terrific cast that has earned the movie a cult-status.Despite all this, The Prophecy is not without problems, and the most notorious is the lack of experience of the director. While his story is considerably good and for his fortune, the cast does wonders with the material; his directing style is non-existent and very simplistic, very much like an episode of a typical TV series in the vein of the X-Files. Still, one can overlook said flaw due to the many other wonders this film has to offer.While it doesn't have the massive appealing of Highlander, this movie is a terrific addition to the fantasy/horror sub genre and another prove of the very imaginative mind of Gregory Widen. On a word of advice, the sequels are not as good as the first one although if you enjoy this one the rest will be very attractive as Widen's new world seems very appealing. Definitely worth a rent. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Very good movie...","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   I'm not really a big believer in Christianity or the Bible, but I found this movie to be very good. Christopher Walken, Eric Stolz, and Elias Koteas gave especially good performances. Walken plays Gabriel. The notorious angel of death who goes against god when he becomes afraid of getting replaced by talking monkeys. He opposed Lucifer once, but now seems doomed to become just like him. Despite being the killer of first borns, he does have a tender side. When it all comes down to it, he only wants his creator's love and he'll do whatever it takes to be the one loved above all. Selfish, but for good reason.  Our heroes are Simon Stolz) and Thomas Dagget (Koteas). One of them is a good angel who opposes Gabriel, even though they were good friends before the war. The other, Dagget, is a failed priest-turned-homicide detective who has lost his faith in the word. Rounding it out, we have a school teacher, possessed native american child, and a suicide victim being kept from his death.    The upsides to the Prophecy is a fast paced story where a lot of things happen. The characters are all good. The film is well directed. The score has it's cool points. It has a lot of good humor. And it has a moral to the story that could possibly turn someone back on to Christianity....not me, but probably someone else. For a religious person, this film could be either offensive or a senti-mental favorite. We also have Lucifer appearing...the best version of Lucifer I've seen on film. Pacino comes close. The downsides is that the film is unbalanced. Much happens in the first half, but the second half seems to drag. The score has it's annoying parts, among the good ones. There is some cheesy dialouge that never ceases to get on your nerves. The ending could've been better.Overall, the good outweighs the bad. The Prophecy is a must-see. If you like this, I suggest you check out the two sequels that followed.  "},{"Title":"May contain what some consider spoiler material!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When you rent a movie by a no-name studio (who's heard of New Look, anyway?) who has only a low-to-no budget to work with, you need to be forgiving. Once you get by the mediocre sets, the lack of (flashy) fashion in the wardrobe and so forth, The Prophecy is a very enjoyable film, giving the viewer a different perspective of the image of what people perceive as sweet, benevolent angels. Look for charachter Thomas Daggat's comments on what an angel really is, and *think*. The crux of this movie (and it's strength), is that it's thought fodder, not eyecandy. If a movie can make even a non-christian think about heavenly states of affairs, it has *some* redeeming quality, yes? Watch it for yourself, as this is one film that some people will rave about and others will shun. It's a matter of perspective... "},{"Title":"Truly amazing","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  An excellent new film addition for an old genre. A second angel war in heaven over us little humans. Gabriel, played by Christopher Walken, is on a mission and wants nothing less than the destruction of mankind. Walken is awesome as this good bad angel. Eric Stolz is very good as Simon, lending a very real feel to the character. Vigo Mortenson makes satan seem almost nice. Almost. But he does add to already substansial creepiness of this movie. And who can forget Jeff Cadiente as Uziel? His short but very energized part of this movie couldn't have been done better. I haven't seen a death scene as bloody or gory in a long time. I really think he could have survived if not for that car turning him into an angel sandwich with the wall. Overall a must see for any film buff. "},{"Title":"The Prophecy has a very interesting view of angels.","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Prophecy is a very cool movie with both an original script idea and good eerie setting.  Christopher Walken is great as Gabriel, constantly entertaining with his monotone delivery of even the most humorous of his lines.  There are many memorable quotes from this movie. This movie is one of my favorites.  "},{"Title":"a cleaver film","Date":"27 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm not going to go into too much about the plot! but i found the film strangely addictive and have watched it in excess of 100 times, i think this is for the interaction between all the films actors at different times throughout the movie, Daggart and the mortician, Simon and Mary, Simon and daggart, Gabriel and Daggart, daggart and Virgina Madison, but mainly i think it has to be Viggo playing the devil in such a way that it shows that 1 Gabriel is purely evil and that the devil isn't just evil its more than that.i've found that the more you watch his performance the more you cant stop looking at him so watch it it's a total gem for what good acting can produce if given time to breath, it's not all about big over the top performances it's more the subtle interaction and this is why it works on every level enjoy please do time and time again "},{"Title":"Tolerable balderdash","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Prophecy is B movie hokum with an A-list cast.The basic premise - a civil war in heaven spilling over into the mortal world - isn't bad (it was quite good enough to be recycled into the recent Legion), but something has gone a bit wrong.Perhaps it is that the battleground (a little girl temporarily housing a wicked soul) is a bit remote and limited in scale - doesn't a war between rival angelic hosts sound as if it ought to be a little bit grander? And the scenery surrounding the Indian village is undoubtedly spectacular but, again, not really the location where we would expect to see what turns out to be a disappointingly small scale showdown.What has gone right, however, is Christopher Walken playing Gabriel as some sort of supernatural Mafia thug. Walken is playing according to type, of course, but it is still tremendously entertaining to watch him do it. And it was clearly an entertaining enough turn for Walken to reprise it in a couple of sequels.Oh, and I greatly enjoyed the way that the angels perched, notwithstanding the absence of wings. "},{"Title":"It's like Highlander for angels","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Writer/director Gregory Widen came up with a fascinating and intriguing story about angels for this film, but he screwed it up by adding in too many human beings.Thomas Dagget (Elias Koteas) once studied for the priesthood, but fled that life when he saw terrible visions on the day of his ordination. Now he's a detective who gets called in on a murder case when a copy of his priestly thesis on angels is found at the scene. Thomas finds a body that has no eyes, both sets of sex organs, blood like a fetus and bones unlike any living thing on Earth. He also finds a handwritten bible from the 2nd century that has an extra chapter of Revelations, one that tells of a terrible war in Heaven where angels rebelled over God's love of Man.His investigation leads Thomas to a dying town in Arizona, where a choir teacher named Katherine Hammond (Virginia Madsen) is worried about a little girl named Mary (Moriah Shining Dove Snyder), who's been sick ever since she met a strange man named Simon (Eric Stoltz). Except, Simon isn't a man. He's an angel and he's trying to keep the Archangel Gabriel (Christopher Walken) from finding something he needs to win the war in Heaven and displace Man as God's favorite creation. With help from an unlikely source, Thomas and Katherine have to protect Mary and end the angelic war.The best way to describe The Prophecy is to say that the stuff in this movie that works, really works, but there's a lot of stuff in the film that doesn't work at all. Widen creates an amazingly textured angel mythology that doesn't just deal with what they are but how they act, think and feel. What George Romero did with zombies, that's what Widen does with angels. There's a bit in the story about how Gabriel finds dying people and keeps them alive to serve him doing dumb monkey work like driving a car which Gabriel feels is beneath him. It's a little detail in this story, but you could make an entire movie out of that idea. That's the level of care and attention that Widen brings to that element of the movie.Christopher Walken, Eric Stoltz and Viggo Mortensen also do excellent jobs playing characters that are both more and less than human. Walken is particularly outstanding with a role that's always balanced on the edge of self-parody. He embraces the excessive aspects of Gabriel and channels them in a way that keeps the audience on its toes.This is also a good looking film. It's very stylish without looking stylized. From the angels on Earth in their long coats to Heaven's fields of the dead to the simple image of an old man standing behind a young girl, Widen has a distinct vision that is appealing without becoming labored or overwhelming.Unfortunately, things go wrong when Widen crams into the story two human characters that neither he nor the viewer really care about. There's nothing wrong with Elias Koteas or Virginia Madsen, but the characters of Thomas and Katherine are non-entities. They never do anything and aren't needed. This movie could have focused entirely on the angels and it would have been fine, but either Widen or his producers obviously thought there had to be some normal characters for the audience to identify with. It's hard to identify with characters that stand around while stuff happens around them.The Prophecy has one of the dumber endings you'll see, as well. The story poses a lot of compelling moral, ethical and theological questions, then resolves them by hitting a guy in the head with a crowbar over and over. It's like they ran out of time to come up with something, so they borrowed the ending they saw on an episode of the A-Team the night before filming the final scene.The Prophecy is a lot like Highlander. There are things in this movie you will absolutely love and there are things that wither and die on screen like a plague victim. This is one of those films that was made for DVD, so you can get watch the good bits and forget about the rest. "},{"Title":"The Army of Angels is all here... But where's God when you need him?","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Prophecy is one of the better and undoubtedly one of the most ambitiously plotted horror movies of the 1990's. In a decade where most horror movies were mere uninspired imitations and/or sequels in franchises that already outstayed their welcome, writer/director Gregory Widen (co-creator of the original Highlander) comes up with a uniquely original and complex religious thriller dealing with fallen angels, the Second War in heaven, soul-sucking, angel autopsies and former priests turned cop slowly regaining the lost faith. The atmosphere of the film is pitch black and sinister and, even though there are copious opportunities to revert to a simple occult horror movie with a lot of gory killings and nasty images, Widen always makes sure the emphasis remains on coherent storytelling and characterizations. When inspector Thomas Daggett is called to the morgue to look at a super-human corpse, little does he know he's about to become involved in the greatest spiritual showdown in history. The Second War of Heaven has moved down to earth, with the ultra-malignant (but ber-cool) fallen archangel Gabriel hunting down the evil soul of a deceased war criminal. If he takes possession of this soul, Gabriel is destined to win the battle upstairs, so the good angel Simon tries to prevent this by hiding the soul elsewhere. The plot, albeit obviously very fantastic and far-fetched, is intriguing and there are enough twists to keep you alert at all times. The character drawings are detailed and very well done, as you feel like you know enough about the evil characters as well as the good ones. Most amusing aspects about The Prophecy, however, are the really ingenious parts/gimmicks of the screenplay that aren't even that essential to the main story lines. For example, Gabriel requires a human assistant to drive him around and stuff, and for this job he uses suicide victims that are about to step into the light. This often leads to very funny situations. Another highlight is the appearance of no one less than Lucifer himself near the end of the movie. You see, there are a whole lot of angels &#150; good or bad &#150; present here; the only party guest missing is God himself. The cast is overall splendid with terrific roles for Elias Koteas, Virginia Madsen, Eric Stoltz, Adam Goldberg and Viggo Mortensen. The absolute star of the entire Prophecy franchise, and especially this first and superior installment in particular, naturally is Christopher Walken. He's stupendous as Gabriel and continuously balances between blackly comical and genuinely petrifying. Walken is probably one of the only actors who can make you laugh and shiver with fear at the same time. Some of his one-liners here are simply priceless. Example; when someone condemns him to hell, he arrogantly replies with It's heaven&#133; The least you could do is getting the zip-code right. Followed by two inferior sequels also starring Christopher Walken and two more that I haven't bothered to see yet. "}{"Title":"Mostly a very entertaining film but..........","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is an entertaining film. I would put it on a par with the Omen for entertainment value. The film does, however throw up a few interesting ideas about God. First that he would love humans more than angels (seems a bit of a stretch) Of course we are not sure if this includes all humans or just the Christians, probably just Christians as it does seem to be based around the Bible. Second that God allows a war to go on in heaven between angels. Why would this be and how exactly do you kill an angel anyway? Third that while the war goes on heaven is closed but hell is open. Now the devil explains that while heaven is closed all the people that would have gone there remain rotting in their graves, but the Bible tells us that we will remain in our graves until the second coming when we will be called to judgement. Now after watching the movie I don't know what to think. "},{"Title":"excellent  overall account of what could happen","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I would like to know in what book the passage from Genesis was read concerning the relations between angels and women, and the name that was given to their offspring (Nefrihelm??). I was trying 2 find this passage and ran into a lot of other literature. It seems I ran across another story many years ago that tells of a cave which a small aircraft and misdirected pilot had flown onto that housed what seemed to be remains of some very very tall angels. I forget where the location is but the story is still going around among the elder people in my family. I come from a very religious family that practice old bible teachings (casting out demons - faith healing - speaking in unknown communications - prophecy tellings) I have seen things with my own eyes that would scare Steven King to death. There are forces here that the logical world would not acknowledge as truth but surely exist. "},{"Title":"Lord knows I have a soft spot for Lucifer","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched LEATHERFACE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE III last night and was noticing just how great Viggo Mortensen really is as an actor. LORD OF THE RINGS series is my favourite films and therefore thought I'd look into other Viggo movies. I am glad I did this.I looked on IMDB and noticed he was on THE PROPHECY. I have all three of these movies on my shelf and had never watched them before. I like Christopher Walken, but never thought I'd like this film. It didnt look like a horror movie and I didn't really know what to expect. 'What kind of film is it' is still a good question, genre wise anyway. My answer to this question would be simply that it's a great movie.It's not slow on action, but slow on explination. I could not easily begin to explain it right now, but it's easy to understand while you're watching it. I am agnostic and don't like movies that deal with religion, but it is often interesting to see it on film and how different people view it.possible spoilers...This is not your basic good versus evil type of film. It deals with a storyline that is completley original. Neither good nor evil is good nor is either of them evil. Hard to explain what I am saying, but watch the movie and you will understand. God's angels are wicked and Lucifer himself saves the world from damnation.The cast is brilliant I loved all these actors here. Walken was perfect for his role and I could not imagine my king Aragorn as Lucifer but Viggo as Lucifer now is one of my favourite movie characters of all time. It was perfect, when I think of Lucifer, I do think he is wicked evil, but at the same time I dont see him as being this monster people make him out to be. If god and heaven exsists, Lucifer was no different than the next guy, just maybe he didn't like the ways of God. I don't know - there's so many different views of religion in this world. I am not a follower, but peace and love to those who are, faith is a good thing, I like how Lucifer in this movie felt that too, it was positive.9 out of 10 stars. Original, great effects, great acting, scenery, and worth a watch if you like a good film. Still not sure what genre it is, but who cares as long as it entertains - labels suck any damn way! "},{"Title":"Angels deserve better than this","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Prophecy is about angels, a much-misunderstood race of beings who were enjoying a brief pop-culture vogue at the time of the film's release. Typically, the movies either sentimentalize angels (as in It's a Wonderful Life), or trivialize them (as in The Kid with the Broken Halo), or both (as in Date with an Angel). But angels are powerful beings and alarming presences in the Bible, they often have to introduce themselves with an admonition not to be afraid of them, and a siege of Jerusalem was lifted when 185,000 Assyrian soldiers were killed by a single angel in a single night.The Prophecy depicts human-looking angels who are powerful, inscrutable, dangerous... and hostile to the human race, whom they refer to as talking monkeys.  It's hard to tell the angels from the fallen angels here. Christopher Walken looks like cadaverous drag queen as Gabriel, inaccurately identified as the angel of death.Nor is that the only inaccuracy.  Early in the flick, our hero, a NYC cop and former candidate for the priesthood, says that of all the Gospels he remembers most clearly, it's where St. Paul says that the angels in heaven still carry savage weapons.  In fact, Paul neither wrote any of the four canonized Gospels, nor appears in them, nor is quoted in them; he doesn't turn up until the Book of Acts.  Nor is there any reference to savage weapons in any of the Gospels, nor in any of Paul's letters, nor anywhere else in the New Testament.Next, a Bible turns up which is carbon-dated to the 2nd century AD. Problem it's in Latin.  St. Jerome didn't translate the Bible into Latin (the Vulgate) until the 4th century.  But there was, in the 2nd century, an Old Latin translation, so I'll cut them some slack on the Latin.  But not on the fact that it's a book, and not a scroll.  Nor on the fact that, in the 2nd century, the canon hadn't yet been agreed upon, so The Bible, as such, didn't yet exist.  Nor on the fact that the illumination in the book is distinctively Celtic, a la the Book of Kells, whereas Ireland wasn't Christianized until several centuries later.  Finally, our cop translates an apocryphal 23rd chapter of the Book of Revelation, coming up with such non-Johannine words as Lucifer and references to eating souls.  In a word, BS.The scripter unfortunately also needed to do his homework about the basics of screenwriting.  The Prophecy is plodding, talky, and ultimately boring, with attempts at dark humor that are just forced.  The unlikely story centers around the effort by Gabriel to retrieve (for incoherent reasons) the soul of recently-deceased old soldier.  This man was supposedly--and unconvincingly--the worst person in the universe for having committed atrocities in Korea years earlier.  The purloined soul has been stashed into a little American Indian girl, to the befuddlement of the local medicine man, and Gabe has to retrieve it at any cost.  Satan puts in an appearance as well, looking like a biker with clean hair.  What a mess.Not content with being convoluted, The Prophecy is also cheesy what could have been spectacular vistas of battles in the war in Heaven simply fail to materialize, and one vision of a host of impaled angels is a static, amateurish painting!  All told, the movie is frustrating, a dull, shabby handling of what could have been a better-researched and better-written story. "},{"Title":"Commenting on the actors","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Fallen angels and their struggle on earth for the discovery of the one worst soul ever that would lead the War in heaven. Walken is indeed one of my favourite male artists. Still, I think that even if I had never heard of him before, after this movie he would have become one of my favourites anyhow. In the role of Gabriel, Walken performs just amazingly, almost as if playing naturaly. Koteas gives a rather nice performance as the priest who lost his faith (with the carefully chosen name, Thomas), Madsen just manages to stay unnoticed under the names of Walken, Koteas, Mortensen and Stoltz and both Mortensen and Stoltz absolutely rock in their respective roles as Lucifer and Simon. If you've watched the other two parts of the trilogy and thought it sucked I wouldnt blame you. Do watch this one though and the fame will be restored. "},{"Title":"Vastly Underrated Film","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Prophecy is one of those films that has a cult following,Taking the idea of angels and doing for them what Interview with the Vampire did for vampires,Elias Koteas acting sometimes leaves something to be desired, an actor of the caliber of Nicholas Cage would have made the movie. But the Role of Gabriel seems to be what Christopher Walken was made to do, he is frankly brilliant in this,The storyline is truly original, although I would suspect that its one of those movies you either adore and love, or hate and loathe. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the other fools, This movie Rocks","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The second war in heaven!?! Christopher Walken is evil crystalized. Elias Koteas and Virginia Madsen race to save a young girl from the Arch Angel Gabriel (Walken). This girl is hiding the blackest soul on earth from the b-a-d angels who need this dark soul to swing the balance of this second war that never ended. Kudos to Viggo Mortensen (GI Jane) as the devil. I had to leave these comments after reading another person's critical comments. What can I say? He's probably still is bummed that they took Fame off the air! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully crafted, stylish horror film.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of my all time favourite horror films, and in fact one of my all time favourite movies, period. Stylishly dark and moody, this movie utilizes the judeao-christian angel mythology very effectively...there are several very powerful images used throughout (the way End of Days COULD of been). All the actors perform very well throughout, especially Christopher Walken as the Archangel Gabriel. This movie also has an undercurrent of humour just beneath its somber and serious exterior which it makes just that much more entertaining to watch. Anyone who enjoys horror movies, will love The Prophecy. "},{"Title":"Read the Book of Enoch then see this movie.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a practising psychic, I love this movie.It has one of the truest depictions of the relationship between humanity and angels that I have ever seen in popular culture mixed with some pretty clever dialogue. "},{"Title":"Horror for the mind","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I picked this up at the video store because I love Christopher Walken. I've thought he was an amazing actor since I saw him in Dead Zone years ago.  I was expecting some hack and slash, gruesome horror flick that I would sit through so that I could see a few random good bits with Walken.  I couldn't have been more wrong about this film.  Admittedly, it did have gore, but it was secondary to the plot.  I will gladly put up with some fake blood for such an intriguing discussion of the meaning and power of faith.I thought the way in which the angels were portrayed was brilliant.  It was very clear that these weren't men.  Christopher Walken, in particular, did a great job of it.  I loved how, even though we didn't see them with wings, they all seemed to perch and land when they moved.  The neutral nature of the angels was also an interesting view.  Even though some were doing horrific things, none of the angels were truly evil.  They were just lost.If you want a film that will make you think and you are willing to be open minded, then this is an excellent film for you to rent.  I would highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"A pretty good film, worth seeing several times !","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It is a long time since i saw this film but it made an good impression on me. I am a Christopher Walken fan, and he was outstanding in this film. he plays the angel in a very stylish and special way. The religious sub text strenghtend the film. If they had had a larger budget they might have put in more angelic effects, but those in there now are fine. The atmosphere and portrayal of the angels is something i still remember. I cant really think of any other film resembling this. So check it out, and preferably see it several times. They did well with a small budget.But I also have to say that you should avoid the sequel. It lacks the atmosphere and even Walken cant save it.All in all i give The Prophecy 8/10. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The story was great, the suspense enthralling. Only one bad part about this movie it ended. There's gonna be nothing like it to go back and see it again. "},{"Title":"Waste of time watching this film","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is my first IMDb movie review so bare with me!I had very high hopes for this film as two of my favourite actors (Christopher Walken and Viggo Mortensen) star in it and also because even though I am an atheist, I enjoy movies with a religious context to them especially if they are of the horror or thriller genre.By the synopsis, this film sounded okay, nothing great but nothing terrible. The film starts off slow and I kept waiting for it to pick up but it never did. It fell flat on every scene. I was bored rigid watching it which isn't like me watching a film. I can usually find something riveting while watching a movie.The actors done their best with a weak script but it wasn't enough to make this movie entertaining.I'm usually quite generous with films. I know that most of the films I watch will never be amazing or memorable, they will be average and passable. Sadly, this one doesn't even cut to average.I wouldn't recommend this film to anyone unless its on the TV one day and you have nothing to watch while you sit and text your friends and don't actually pay attention to what its on the TV, you just have it on in the background. "},{"Title":"Original but murky","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Film about the angel Gabriel (Christopher Walken) descending to Earth to collect a soul that will end some war in Heaven (or something). Out to stop him are former priest Thomas Dagget (Elias Koteas) and a school teacher (Virginia Madsen).This is certainly an original religious horror film but I wasn't too impressed. The story is murky at best and there are annoying lapses in logic--if Gabriel is so powerful why does he need all these human helpers? He also has multiple chances to take the soul throughout the movie but never takes them. The story completely derails at the end when they throw in Indian mysticism. Acting helps a little. Koteas is excellent in his role and Walken (who I never really liked) is actually pretty funny as Gabriel. Surprisingly Madsen (a wonderful actress) walks through her role. There's also small roles filled by a number of familiar faces--Eric Stoltz, Adam Goldberg, Amanda Plummer and Viggo Mortensen (who's just great as Lucifer).An interesting film that, ultimately, just doesn't work. I give it a 6. "},{"Title":"I Expected something Different","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie last weekend, Well, I Don't know what to think of this movie at the moment,well it's didn't feel like a real horror movie, I am not saying that movie bad or anything.I didn't seem to find scary however I did find the movie very entertaining from start to the end, there, shocks in and there in the movieThere few shock moment in this movie,some thinks were just little bit odd in good way!The acting was really good from the whole cast, the ending was very good! The effect in this movie wasn't too bad, I enjoyed those scenes. I not sure what to rate at the moment! "},{"Title":"A fresh original plot and great acting makes this a classic film.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I bought the Prophecy box set now it's is one of my favourite films of all time, Christopher Walken does a entertaining performance as the archangel Gabriel. the plot to this film is so fresh and never been done before. Angels becoming jealous of mankind which starts a second war in Heaven against the loyal Angels. written and directed by Gregory Widen The Prophecy is a heart ripping good film that shouldn't be missed. The Prophecy II and The Phophecy 3 The Ascent are also good.The Prophecy Uprsing and The Prophecy Forsaken add something new to the series so look out for them too. "},{"Title":"THAT LUCIFER WAS WONDERFUL","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I really like this movie, Christopher Walken was wonderful and the concept its more than some idealistic pure everything is rosy world. The angels are dark and lost, not cutesy which is a good thing. Then there is the wonderful portrayal by Viggo Mortensen as Lucifer. I just fell in love with that man in that role. His appearance at the end makes this movie worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Interesting, but gross. Unnecessarily so.","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I could have fallen in love with this movie and watched it over and over again, so sucked in by the plot and the performances. I didn't. You know why? Half the time I was cowering behind a T.V. guide during truly disgusting sequences.I mean, sure, maybe when they were in the cave and (MAJOR SPOILER) * * * * * * saw the field of dead angels on stakes, I could have lived with that. It's important to the story. and maybe even Lucifer cutting out Gabriel's heart, but the rest of the stuff? Like half-burnt Simon and Uziel's very bad death and cremation? It was unecessary and kind of cheesy, but it made my stomach churn. We didn't need that crap. * * * * (SPOILERS OVER)Other then that I pretty much enjoyed it. Walken was hilarious, Don't start on me again? Don't start! or Mortensen as Lucifer. He was entrancing, and so was little Mary as she gave her gruesome, chilling speech.Watch it, and if you have the stomach for it, watch it again. "},{"Title":"Not very good.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *1/2 out of ****There isn't anything worth mentioning about this low grade thriller, except that it isn't very good. The acting, writing, directing, and special effects are all average at best. If you need your fix of over the top Christopher Walken, you'll find it here, but there's better over the top Walken to be had. "},{"Title":"A Little Slow","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Could be some spoilers, but no promises.  First of all, I've seen this movie a dozen or more times.  It's about angels returning in human form for a second war.  There's an investigation into what's going on, led by a man who nearly became a priest.  This is not a bad piece of work, but it seems to drag along at times and makes the mistake of including Catholicism.It seems that most Bible-inspired movies involve man-made Catholic traditions.  The implication from Hollywood is that Catholicism is most legitimate (because of the Church's size?), which seems so far from the truth in my opinion.  Movies with man-made Catholic traditions appear to be pure fiction to me.  They lack credibility in my eyes.  As a Christian, I took no offense to this movie because it is as far out there as Superman.To those who dislike this purely because it involves Christianity and the Bible, I fail to understand the complaint.  Many non-Bible-inspired stories involve whole new universes, with different beliefs, values, etc.  I don't hear anyone complaining about those.  For example, you don't have to believe in the story behind the Lord of the Rings to enjoy the books.Our world of about six billion people has about two billion Christians.  That is 1/3 of the world's population!  It's the largest religion on the planet.  You should expect to see some Christian-based movies every now and then.  If you don't believe any of it, treat it like you would Lord of the Rings, Star Wars, or any other piece of fiction. "}{"Title":"Interesting Stuff!!","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  One of the most bizarre things is that no one has commented on the fact that this is written (and directed) by Gregory Widen ie the guy who wrote Highlander.  Like Highlander this is a great idea that makes you question belief and faith, mortality etc.  Those people who are complaining that it doesn't portray angels right...what planet are you on...by that I mean...there are complaints that it shows angels to be violent and dangerous and this isn't right as Angels are pure etc etc...excuse me Christian faith (as it is Christians who seem to bitch about this the most...oh and I am one ;) is based on the fact that Lucifer was capable of this...and so were his minions.  The notion of a second war is really cool imo.  Lucifer's sin was Pride and Gabriel's is Envy...I thought you could potentially go through the 7 deadly sins and have numerous wars...could be many interesting movies here...ok Sloth would be dull...but the sequel could have been Wraith...against man, god and Lucifer...or perhaps Greed...this time with Lucifer as the main Villan...wanting more angels and tempting them with other sins perhaps...I don't know...but all in all I really enjoyed this movie...saw the first sequel this weekend and it was pretty dull!!! "},{"Title":"Great concept, shabby delivery","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like others have pointed out, this movie is based on a wonderful concept but the delivery is just poor. I'd say the best part about it was the casting... maybe. But misidentifying the archangel Gabriel as the angel of death? Come on now, most christians can see that one. Not to mention a celtic bible from the 2nd century, sure. And to add to the other flaws pointed out, the characters were just so NOT human that it was boring. I just saw satan. It wouldn't have surprised me if she added Wow, he was scary. Phew! "},{"Title":"The Desire For Power In Excess...","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  made angels  fall...This movie seems to have been inspired by that line by Francis Bacon.Very refreshing when it came out because it expanded horror movie mythology in the way out back to the old testament. The direction is not tops as the movie does lag when it turns to Christopher Walken's attempts to find human acolytes, but the cinematography is great and the acting is ok to very good. Great cast with (Virginia Madsen, Viggo Mortensen, Christopher Walken, Eric Stolz, Amanda Plummer) helps things along. The great theme song at the end by Sebastian (Skid Row) is good too, but seems a bit tagged on to the end. (There is a really cool music video, lots of graveyards and stuff.) Certainly a nice change to boring teen horror movies of the eighties, and the sequels weren't that great for me. Some truly scary moments. "},{"Title":"Victim of it's own greatness...","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  (Possible spoiler)Yes, the movie is very original and the story is great. Yes, everyone did a great job and everything. Only one problemChristopher Walken as Gabriel.Why the problem (he is perfect for the role, and what a role)? The problem is that in the story, he's brought down by Satan (with a little help from Thomas), so in order for that scene to work, whoever plays Satan has to outdo Walken's Gabriel in creepiness and sheer evil, AND NO ONE ALIVE CAN DO THAT!!! Please, Walken is (as he said himself in True Romance) pure evil personified, and Viggo (Satan) is great, but simply is out of his league (like everyone else) in the evil department against Walken.The only living person who could do Satan here and convincingly take down Walken's Gabriel is Robert De Niro (his Satan in Angel Heart was evil itself, the only possible match against Walken), but this being a low budget film, most likely cannot possibly get both Walken and De Niro, so has to settle for one, and since Gabriel is the true villain (Satan has 5 minutes of screen time at most), the director did the best he could (be better if Thomas had taken down Gabriel himself, by not having Satan and Gabriel share the screen, Viggo would appear much more evil simply as and advisor to Catherine and Thomas)And one last thing Viggo should've being aged like 20 years, since in the film the older looking angels are more powerful than the younger looking ones (Gabriel is the oldest looking, therefore the most powerful, except for Satan), so that Satan should've looked older than Gabriel, implying he's above Gabriel, since he really is.  "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  MILD SPOILERS INCLUDEDThere are some movies, most movies in fact, that don't achieve anything really very good, nor really very bad.  They hit the quality bell curve somewhere in the middle--solid two star movies.  Prophecy is entirely different--it achieves both very good and very bad--long stretches of the movie really are outstanding, especially Viggo Mortensen and, of course, Christopher Walken.  But there are other parts which are dreadful, and elements which make absolutely no sense, and the evolution of the story (so to speak) is miserable.  Christopher Walken plays Gabriel with a kind of sinister grace that is perfect for the role, after all this is an angel that resents God for giving humans souls and favoring them over his kind.  Put be plainly, right near the beginning, explicitly rejects Lucifer's route, something along the lines of We don't want to be God, we want it to be like it was.  The way Walken hunches over in places, squatting like a gargoyle on a medieval cathedral is interesting in and of itself.  What the second war in heaven really is all about, and how it is waged, and why God doesn't do anything about it, is left largely unexplained, but they give enough info to make the general plot line entertaining.  Virginia Madsen as a teacher who's student is used as a vehicle for an evil soul, the one that will tip the balance in the war, is the weakest of the cast.  She's not given much to do, and nothing much to say.  The best parts of this movie are such things as when Lucifer explains his position in the whole situation, a reasonably complex one as well.  The worst parts are things like the obvious plot hole that allows Christopher Walken to immediately render humans unconscious or dead just by waving his hand, but then he's not able to do the same to the hero of the movie at certain times--just not very well explained why he's allowing the failed priest/homocide detective get away half what allows.  Some might view the movie as offensive, though I really don't know why; the closest thing to a real attack is when Gabriel says to the cop something like And you were raised Catholic, you should be on MY side.  Apart from that, the essence of the movie comes more one line that comes near the end where the same homocide cop says to Lucifer I have my soul, and my faith, what do you have?  Or when Lucifer expalins that hell is not the presence of burning oil or streams of ice, but rather an absence of God's grace.  Actually some very interesting takes on God and religion. It's just too bad that it's matched with such a botched ending, and such awful hackneyed elements like mystic Indian ceremonies and the forced love interest.  It seems to be a relatively low budget affair, and one seriously in need of re-editing.  Still well worth a look.   "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, good acting.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of those movies that want to scare you by playing on what you don't know. At times it works, and at other times it is not as successful. I won't go into the story, as it could very well destroy some of the surprises that this movie is filled with. These are my reasons as to why you should see this movie 1 The plotline is interesting. It might not be perfect, but good enough. 2 Cristopher Walken has always been one of my favorites, and in this movie he is simply excellent. Viggo Mortensen is certainly also worth mentioning (just wait for the scene where he is talking to the main character Thomas Dagget while picking the petals off a rose). 3 There are scenes that really managed to send a chill down my spine with the excellent cinematography combined with divine cruelty. 4 My dark sense of humor was really satisfied in certain scenes, especially in the first scene between Gabriel (Christopher Walken) and Jerry (Adam Goldberg). All in all I would call this a movie well worth seeing, though not exactly a masterpiece 7/10. "},{"Title":"a film based on Christian and Catholic myths","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The subject matter of this film is combat between two opposing forces of angels..those who sided with the trinity and those who did not and sided with Lucifer during the great war in heaven. The film also comments somewhat on the guardian angel/demon myth tied in with the occult and Christian circles. Being a Chrisitan I was not offended by this film which was a fantasy set up in a big city and on an indian reservation. The film was a interesting premise and was a good small film. The man who wrote and directed this film conceived HIGHLANDER, another great fantasy film which was almost high art visually. Both this film and HIGHLANDER were original concepts and not boring. This film had a small draw theatrically but scored a hit at the box office. (at least in my area) "},{"Title":"Walken at his best, as the unforgiving Archangel Gabriel...","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  We god loves and protects us, but what about the Angels, are they just as nice as their lord and master? Perhaps you might think so, and in a way you're right, but while some of them accepts us, some of them hates us. Once they were his most beloved creations, now we are. Archangel Gabriel (Christopher Walken) and a army of Angels has turned from god and the other angels. If god can not see them for the Money-men, the best way to change this is by destroying them. "},{"Title":"An Awesome movie!! 10/10","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the coolest movies i have every seen.  Christopher Walkens, Eric stoltz, Viggo Mortenson gave great performences. I watch this movie all the time and is one of my top ten movies.  One of the few movies that acknowledges God, and angels of the christian faith.  Believe it or not this movie rekindled my christian faith. A must see. Dont miss this movie "},{"Title":"Acommentary on spiritual confusion and warfare..flawed but a great movie.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  THE PROPHECY is possibly a commentary on a old system. The amgel on my left shoulder, devil on my right shoulder in which a unsuspecting human gets tempted by lucifer himself. The film deals with a former catholic boy named THOMAS DAGGETT who is a cop who gets caught up in strange happenings in the big city which ultimately tie in with a CIVIL WAR IN HEAVEN in which satan lost. The story stikes a cord with me. Daggett as a boy had visions and dreamed dreams, there is the hint of a nervous collapse in the story. This reminds me of a old childhood friend who had a similar gift but fell into the hands of a son of man duahgter of man cult aka the cult of the one.This is a secualr movie and has faulty theology, yet, it is a secular film so who gives a rip. The writer uses protestant and catholic scools of thought to weave a incredibly well told story. The plot revolves around angels on earth and the civil war in heaven and is possibly a metaphor archangel michael worship. ( A teain of thought FORBIDDEN in chrisitan and catholic systems) The film takes much creative liberties but is a FICTION movie, therefore I have no problem with this. The film was bold and daring and unusual for it's time. The man responsible for creating HIGHLANDER and BACKDRAFT wrote this one. HIGHLANDER is a personal favorite of mine. THE PROPHECY deals with those who add to or take away from the bible in a cinema metaphor. The film is a morality tale of sorts. This film is meant to be enjoyed as a entertaining piece of fiction, nothing more.  "}{"Title":"Christopher Walken rules!!!","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I remember renting this movie with my friends without knowing what to expect and what I saw was nothing short of awesome!!.  Then I saw it again and got more of the plot and little things, it incorporated a lot of neat religious stuff that I never saw the first time. Lets face it, Christopher Walken is just plain freaky and he plays Gabriel the archangel that went against God as he calls humans monkeys.  If you love Christopher Walken's work definately go see this and Prophecy 2 "},{"Title":"See this NOW!!","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Do NOT miss this movie! It's almost a cult classic.  Christopher Walken does an amazingly entertaining job as the sarcastic, quipping angel Gabriel. The story is very original and good and the movie doesn't get carried away with itself or special effects. The acting is quite good and there are numerous great scenes.I would give this 8/10. You really should see it, you know you want to! "},{"Title":"Impressive, given the topic","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A lot of people are bound to find this film offensive, or will hate it because it touches on delicate subjects. But, if you can get past the initial shock of things like impaled angels and stuff, then there is a wonderful film underneath. Perhaps some of the subjects are unnecessary, (paedophilia, Hitler), but they are mostly dealt with in good taste and are well justified. Christopher Walken is, as always, a treat to watch, and the part of Gabriel was almost certainly written for him. Eric Stoltz is equally amazing, although the character gets killed off far too early in the film. Oh, and casting Elias Koteas in the lead role was a stroke of pure genius. The making of this movie took nearly three years because of budgeting problems and other assorted obstacles, but it is hard to notice in the finished article. The narrative is good, the characters solid and the overall atmosphere is almost blinding. In my opinion, however, the film suffers slightly from the director. They should have gotten either Alex Proyas for the mood, or Michael Bay for his sheer brilliance. "},{"Title":"This is a pretty good horror movie. Some negative user comments are misleading","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just want to react to the user's comment that calls the movie BAD, and to other than one can access at the top of the comments as of 5/2000. Admittedly it is not a masterpiece, but it is scary and works fine for a genre picture. The story has a solid theological background and a very original spin to it. Walken is superb, one can only regret he will be cast forever in such roles. If you don't like gore this is not for you, if you feel any interpretation of the bible that portrays a war between evil and good angels is heretic, then you don't know what art is.  "},{"Title":"MUST SEE!!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is not at all factual but definitely worth wile entertainment that makes you think. Walken was apparently born for the part of the arc angel Gabriel. He is so naturally smooth that it is easily conceived he is of a higher power. Elias Koteas (Spelling) is a highly unique and often overlooked actor. There is so much to explain about this movie just see it once if you are open minded you'll not be let down.CURSED MONKEYS! "},{"Title":"A insightful view of heaven and angels in general","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first watched this movie I was blown away.  Widen's view of both heaven and angels is by far the most refreshing and creative one I have seen by far.  He shows a darker, somewhat more realistic portrayal of the divinity than I think anyone has before.  Walken's character of Gabriel has the qualities of true evil but at the same time a deep love for God.  The movie in essence deals with a war going on in heaven between angels loyal to God and those who felt they have become second choice to man.  Stolz plays an angel who is trying to give man one last chance to survive, all the while Walken's Gabriel is on his tail.  Koteas delivers a powerful role as a priest who has lost his faith but perhaps has found salvation in being a cop.  All in all I highly recommend this title as it shows a darker and insightful side to what heaven and angels may be like.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What can I say about this movie that has not already been said? It is, without a doubt, one of the most stylish, funny and exciting movies I have ever seen. Christopher Walken is amazing as Gabriel, quite possibly one of the best portrayals of an Angel anywhere in film or TV. And Viggo as Lucifer? I nearly fell down and worshipped at his feet when I saw this... "},{"Title":"Great film - heavy spiritual message.","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I had to override the B.A.D. comment. This film is only Bad in the cool sense of the word. Recognizing the battle between good and evil in this film makes it a must for those on a spiritual journey. One need not be Christian to feel the vibes of the eternal God vs. Satan message in this great film. Chris Walken does an excellent job as the evil(?) angel Gabriel. See Prophecy 2 for a beautiful surprise ending. "},{"Title":"this movie was good, and i don't like religion!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was awesome, it had a great story line, the acting was cool, and the powers given to the angels were inventive. I think it was cool that they took a different perspective in the horror genre. There are not many movies like this one. I do admit there were dumb parts, but the movie was pretty solid. Now, do they really need two more sequels? That we will have to see. (How many times do they need to kill Gabriel?) "},{"Title":"An amazing theological thriller","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A brilliantly researched and intelligent movie, The Prophecy will leave you in a state of awe if you have the ability to think.  Good Ol' Chris Walken plays a badass Archangel on a mission.  Recommended to people who love some great action and a good story to back it up. "}{"Title":"WHAHOO!!!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If you don't enjoy an outrageous horror film that, unlike most today, has a sense of humor, then you don't know what you're missing. The Prophecy is tons of fun- very quirky in that been there, done that sort of sense. The religious stuff heightens the effects. (OOh Viggo is soooo creepy.) And what is this stuff about this being B-A-D BAD. Uh-uh, no siree. Ooh- Eric Stolz is a little too adorable to be a fierce angel, but hey, I can buy that Simon thing. And Christopher Walken, whoa. Man- if he had stolen the show anymore I don't think anybody else would be listed on the cast. That man is such a hoot.I love the way he entered some scenes kind of perched above(magnifique!). "},{"Title":"And then, there was light.","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can not see how some people fail to see the aww that is sent out by this movie.  It is my opinion the only people that didn't enjoy this movies are the realists, those who can't enjoy a fictitious story line that draws a new perspective on Angels and christianity. "},{"Title":"A hidden pearl","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a cult classic. The story is original and thought provoking, the script original, and the appearance of Viggo Mortensen at the end of the movie nothing short of brilliant.A movie that has gotten an undeserved standing in comparison to so many films without the originality and intelligence of this hidden pearl. "},{"Title":"** out of ****","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was boring.  Sure, it had a few clever moments such as when Gabriel had the little kids playing the trumpet to see if any of them had that guy's soul in them, but the movie couldn't hold my attention.  It just wasn't interesting.  Slow moving, uninspired film that was a surprisingly bad waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Meh","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First of all, I'm a big Christopher Walken fan. I can honestly say this is one of his worst films, both in terms of his acting and in terms of the quality of this film.Second, this is clearly a movie that those who hate the bible, or are unfamiliar with it, may like. Those who know the bible well will likely dislike this film. I consider myself fairly knowledgeable regarding the bible. This film conveniently twists significant aspects of the Bible to make it fit the direction the writer wanted the plot to go.So, as a concept, it's very creative. However, the script drifts so far from it's foundation that it must be taken with a HUGE grain of salt. In short, if you watch this movie, don't think you know know what the Bible is all about. Even if you view the Bible as pure mythology, the mythology this movie portrays is incorrect.It begins interestingly enough, then wanders aimlessly for 60 minutes, dragging out a small Outer Limits plot well beyond it's lifespan. The only notable performance is by Vigo Mortenson. Otherwise, you have to endure Elias Koteas and Virginia Madsen mumbling through 90 minutes.Summary Tepid acting, lifeless script, and a seriously annoying, pointless, sidekick toadie to ... Gabriel the Archangel? *yawn* "},{"Title":"God is God","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Christopher Walken IS Gabriel "},{"Title":"definitely B movie class","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First separate the story from the film. The story about a second continuing war in heaven is good, very good. Religious themed films aren't the main choice for a lot of people but angels at war is. I really loved the story, and some of the imagery provided to back it up like the field of angels on spikes....awesome imagery. The actual film though was just poor, i can't find any reason for the main character - the priest-cum-cop being in there at all. The lead female also...no reason to be there, the main characters dialogue was just empty, it had no substance, the story could have been told well without them. Now, some sterling performances did feature, Walken, Stoltz and Mortensen pulled off some wingers, though their scenes were mostly with the lifeless leads.One other thing i am not getting from this film is why it features native American rituals to purge the dark soul. The child that carries it is clearly of native American origin but apart from the end scenario there is nothing that connects here with that heritage. The plot concerning the dark soul itself it barely told, odd considering that the dark soul is the driver for the whole premise of the film. The back story of its original owner (the colonel) is briefly touched but not enough to allow understanding as to why its his soul that is the special one.I cannot find a justification for the scrolling scenery shots in this film either, several of the plains around 'chimney rock'. I get the feeling they had a helicopter and wanted to make the most of it as none of the shots have any relevance, nor are they in keeping with the mood -> Horror. The film falls into the sci-fi category more than it does horror. There was no real shock or scare scenes, some mild gore and blood but no fear element.So, aside from 3 roles played damn well this film is a big ole' dud. Unfortunately the dud factor outweighs the good acting factor, just too many weekend actors. "},{"Title":"Interesting premise, flawed execution.","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  If this movie had been tweaked in the right spots, it could've been really creepy.  Christopher Walken I'll admit, was good as the Archangel Gabriel, but apart from that, there's nothing else redeeming about this movie.  I expected some thrills and chills that are standard for this genre. Instead, I got my butt numbed by sitting in a movie seat for two hours, waiting for something of interest to happen.  You want to see a good Christopher Walken film?  Watch The Dead Zone, but only watch this one if you can't live without your Chris Walken fix. "},{"Title":"Cool because Christopher Walken's in it","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yeah, I got this film coz of its star, the legendary Christopher Walken. And to be honest I'm not much of a sci-fi guy, and didn't understand most of it, but whenever Chris was around the film became enjoyable and worth watching.Though no, it wasn't scary at all. Eric Stoltz kicked ass as usual in a supporting role as rival angel Simon to Walken's menacing Gabriel, and hey, Viggo's in there too. Not bad stuff, really. Elias Koteas plays a weirdo cop who opposes Gabriel. He's okay, nothing too memorable but suited the part.It was a fun hour and 40 minutes, Gabriel's lines kicked ass, always nice to see some black humour in there.The Prophecy had 2 straight-to-video sequels, The Prophecy II and The Prophecy III The Ascent. Read me on their pages soon! "},{"Title":"Interesting movie, week ending","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Prophecy is an interesting movie. I thought the depiction of the angels is unique and stylish, but these are definitely not the angels I learned from Sunday school. They were more like aliens with human souls. For some reasons they reminded me of the characters in Blade Runners. The acting is excellent across the board. But Viggo Mortensen definitely stole the show. The story line is weird and funny, with enough biblical references and gore thrown in to make it a decent horror flick. However, the ending was a little bit tame. I was expecting the humans and the angels and the devil all crash into a spectacular ending. In stead, it just kind of ends with a little bang. Anyway, The Prophecy is definitely worth a rental.  "}{"Title":"not bad","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  not that bad of a flick is kind of stylish well made and acted but it is slow paced but watchable all the same Christopher Walken is awesome as Gabriel and he made it fun to watch almost so i recommend this as a rental but it is nothing special **1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Prophetic, at best.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is the only one I have seen that actually depicts an angel in the proper physical proportions. One scene during which the clouds open and 3 or 4 angels fly overhead is particularly accurate.  The wingspan needed for them is about 20 feet per wing, thats a total wingspan of 40 feet, the film came close with about 17 feet on either side, closest I have ever seen. (20 feet based on smallish human with lightweight bones and wings)  Also the powers that the angels had are strickingly close to those they possess in the bible, which seems to give the movie more truth and meaning.  eg. the spontaneous combustion of the dead angel in the morgue by Gabriel (christopher walken), or the raising of the dead, again gabriel.  My favorite one though is the containment of a soul within himself by Simon, though passing it presents the problem of having to kiss the recipient of the soul, also as shwon with this movie, if the soul happens to be particularly evil or good, it can have side effects upon the container, namely Simon.My favorite character over all is Lucifer (Viggo Mortensen).  He seems to just charismatically be satan.  His consumption of gabriel's heart is truly disgusting, but you cant seem to take your eyes off it.  Although I don't now who that weird follow was.  The deformed blind or whatever guy next to him.  His words I can love oyu more than Jesus!(vehement whisper) scared me senseless.Oh just as a side ntoe to spook you a bit.  Ironically enough Lucifer is the firstborn of God, making him Jesus' older brother.  The other angels were created, Lucifer was born. "},{"Title":"good fantasy film","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The Prophecy is a good movie. Walken was a good angel. He did a good job acting. The plot was good. I like these kind of movies. This is a movie I would like to watch over and over. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good fantasy movie, that has to do with angels. "},{"Title":"It Has The Potential","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ***Possible Spoilers***First of all, I want to make it perfectly clear that I like this film to a certain degree, but even with films I like there are still minor problems. Here's a list...- Film is too short - All the actors have American accents prompting the question, 'Are Angels American?' - Elias Koteas is too wooden in this role - Amanda Plummer is underused - What is the point of Adam Goldberg's character? - Viggo Mortensen in one of his worst roles - Virginia Madsen doesn't deliver the goods in her post-'Candyman' role - Christopher Walken is more comic-book scary than 'I am the Angel of Death, behold my flaming sword which destroys nations'-scary - The character study of Col. Hawthorne doesn't have much depth - The death of Uziel, why would a car be driving 70mph+, without stopping, down a dead-end alleyway? - Why would the Sioux Indians play a part in the exorcism of Mary's evil spirit when the spirit itself isn't of Sioux origin? - The relationship between Simon and Mary, and the questions about their relationship, aren't very realistic - The dialogue and exposition is some of the worst I've ever seen, lots of plot holes, essentially - The score plays a much too prominent role - The film clearly takes its premise from 'The Paradise Lost' by John Milton yet never makes reference of this - It was made into a franchiseApart from these problems, the film itself isn't that bad and the idea of the film is quite good and original. Not many films draw attention to the idea that was set about in 'The Paradise Lost', about how the Christian God cast out the angels because they were jealous of his devotion to the creation of mankind. As I mentioned, one of the problems with this film is that it never says in the titles or in the credits that it was an interpretation of John Milton's literary masterpiece yet it is clear that the film takes influence from it. Without 'The Paradise Lost', this film wouldn't exist, and I think the filmmakers are in the wrong for not making light of this. The visuals are quite good and the matte paintings are beautiful, the production and sound is also quite good, and some of the sequences (the dying angels particularly) are hauntingly astonishing. A sequence that sticks out in my mind is the death of the angel Uziel, and the following set-piece (an autopsy), something which is truly horrific, though this itself is not without film-making error. I am quite harsh on Viggo Mortensen by saying this is one of his worst roles - his role as Lucifer is actually quite good but not without fault. As with Christopher Walken's character, Viggo plays Lucifer in a more comic-book villain way as opposed to a deeply horrendous and truly scary way, something which you would expect of such a noteworthy villain. My interpretation of Satan would be cold, he would be calculated and he would be meticulous, he wouldn't be pro-active, he wouldn't be running around like a maniac, his words would do far more damage than his physical actions, which is why half of his performance is quite good, particularly the 'introduction of Lucifer' sequence where he says 'I can lay you out and fill your mouth with your mother's faeces or we can talk' to Virginia Madsen who plays Catherine. Obviously, given such a script, Viggo has little to work with so it's not entirely his fault.The film also features Eric Stoltz in one of his better performances, slightly more subdued than what you'd usually see him as (take 'Pulp Fiction' or 'Killing Zoe' for example), playing the good angel Simon. The role also required Eric to kiss passionately both a grown man and a small, female child, something which you wouldn't see Tom Cruise or any other A-list mega-star doing in the future, but don't let these two things shroud the other noteworthy performances that Eric makes in this film.The main problem with this film, I find, is the character study of Col. Hawthorne. What we learn about Hawthorne is that he was a Colonel during the Korean War and that he was responsible for various inhumane acts of cruelty against the Koreans in the town of Chozin, but we never go into depth with this. We also learn that the same spirit that possessed Hawthorne has been transported via Simon into Mary, but we never learn that much about the spirit. What would have made this film all the more interesting is if we'd have had a full analysis of Hawthorne's presence and the significance he plays in the war between the rogue angels and the humans. After all, we see in Thomas' dream Hawthorne standing behind Mary, why? This is never really explained and the story leaves a very large plot-hole that goes unsolved.But anyway, overall I'd say this film is not bad and it's worth watching if you have and hour and thirty minutes to spare.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Thin line","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There is a thin line between exploring new fields, and simple trash. The prophecy is moving on this line, and it doesn't decide itself for none of both sides. It isn't trash because of the interesting theological question (how can we love god if he is absent?) and the strong appearance of Christopher Walken and Viggo Mortensen; it isn't convincing either because of the non-development of the supposed main character, the unsatisfying end and the absolutely not convincing nexus between celestial and secular business. "},{"Title":"Good humoured, but has nothing to sell","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Prophecy has a running length of about ninety minutes, which is average for a b-movie in this genre. But when you get to the end, you feel like you've only been watching for about half that time. Just when it looks like the movie is gonna get epic, you realize that it's all over, and that The Prophecy has never truly gotten of the ground.This motion picture is disappointing not because it is silly (which it is) but because it has nothing to offer. It has no story to work with and no resources to provide flair or presentation, which would have been nice. Anything which concerns a war with god, probably sounds epic as an elevator pitch, but the question is how well can it translate to the screen. This production is striped to the bone of any possible adventure, thrill, spectacle, and credibility. It has taken me a while to consider it, but is anybody else bothered by the fact that angels or demons take on human form at times when it is unnecessary? By staying in human form, the angel Gabriel (who is evil in this movie) is far more vulnerable to the possibility of having his butt kicked than if he sprouted wings. His power is restricted to death by touch, (or life). It reads well but it doesn't look well. As another example, watching Elias Kortea confront Lucifer is no more intimidating than standing face to face with a mullet head dressed in black. The only part of the Prophecy which stands out is Christopher Walken. With his line delivery, he brings a dose of satire to the movie. Perhaps this was the director's intention, but then again, a byproduct of Christopher Walken is that the guy comes programmed with an inability to take anything seriously. If satire WAS the director's original intention, it would certainly explain the attempt to have the Lucifer character be equally self-mocking. Unfortunately, Viggo Mortensen, mistakes overacting for humour. It feels unnatural and ineffective. When all is said and done, The Prophecy, though not impossible to watch, is pretty much a waste of time. It needs a greater depth and scope, and stronger climax, more adrenaline, and a larger brain. "},{"Title":"Not great, not repugnant","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Despite what the main details page, this is a horrible depiction ofangels. It is weird and messed up. Despite the fact that Hollywoodhas put a murderous and vindictive spirit in all the angels, Walkendoes a great job.The plot is good, but the movie falls in. Walken does a great joband is the only good part of this move.See it if you find it in the street or on TV. 6/10 "},{"Title":"INTENTIONS GOOD, BUT MIRED DOWN WITH GORE AND SILLINESS","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ANGELS HAVING A WAR IN HEAVEN AND TICKED OFF WITH HUMANS? SOUNDS PROMISING, DOESN'T IT? MAYBE IF IT WAS STRICTLY A COMEDY, IT MIGHT HAVE WENT SOMEWHERE, BUT THE IDEA THAT THIS IS A HORROR FILM BOTHERS ME IN ITSELF. BEING A CHRISTIAN MYSELF, I AM OFFENDED WITH EVEN THE SUGGESTION OF SUCH AN IDEA COMING TO LIGHT IN HORRIFIC PROPORTIONS. THE BIGGER JOKE IS THIS IS NOT EVEN STARTLING; IT ACTUALLY LOOKS FOOLISH. IT'S A SHAME THAT CHRISTOPHER WALKEN, A FABULOUS ACTOR IN MANY RESPECTS, HAS TO SUCCUMB TO SUCH TORMENT WITH A FILM LIKE THIS. HE HAS THE FOUNDATIONS OF A GOOD CHARACTER HERE, BUT IS MAJORLY DAMAGED BY THE POORLY CONCEIVED SCRIPT AND DIM-WITTED SUPPORTING PLAYERS. THE ONLY THING I REALLY LIKED ABOUT THIS FILM IS THE FACT THAT THE ENDING DOES PROMOTE REAL MORAL SYMPATHY, CHRISTIAN OR OTHERWISE. WE ARE DISTINCTLY HUMAN BECAUSE WE HAVE A SOUL TO STAND ON. TOO BAD THIS WONDERFUL VALUE COULD NOT HAVE REPRESENTED WITH A BETTER FLICK. "},{"Title":"Average religious supernatural nonsense.","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Prophecy starts several years after wannabe priest Thomas Daggett (Elias Koteas) had lost his faith & now working as a homicide detective is assigned to the murder of an eyeless, ageless & hermaphroditic dead man who was pushed out of an apartment buildings window. The only clue on his body is an ancient handwritten bible which leads Daggett to a small US town in search of the grave of a Korean war Colonel accused of human sacrifice & into a battle between warring Angels some of whom feel resentment towards the human race because of God's affection for them & one in particular, Gabriel (Christopher Walken), wants to steal the Colonel's soul in order to destroy the human race (not sure how) but it has been transfered into schoolgirl Mary (Moriah Shining Dove Snyder) & Daggett sets out to protect her from Gabriel & hopefully save the human race from total destruction. All in a days work I suppose.Written & directed by Gregory Widen this very religious themed supernatural horror flick is an OK way to pass the time I suppose but I have to say apart from the always watchable Christopher Walken & some nice cinematography I didn't think that much of it overall. Personally I think the biggest problem I had with The Prophecy was that it spends far too much time on obscure religious themes & ideas which never really pay-off, it tries to take conventional ideas & accepted belief's & twist them around a bit by actually making Angels evil rather than the whiter than white portrayals seen elsewhere but to my eyes Gabriel just looked like an ordinary guy & therefore this distinction was somewhat lost on me & not being religious in the slightest also didn't help me get the most of The Prophecy. There one or two decent sequences & the initial detective mystery thriller vibe going on as Daggett investigates the murder is quite cool but once it switches to the small town setting things just play out in rather standard horror fantasy film fashion. I am not saying The Prophecy is a bad film or that it's not worth watching but I just thought it got bogged down in a lot of unconvincing religious nonsense that I personally found a bit dull. The character's are alright, while the Angels are given all sorts of silly sounding dialogue to have fun with the two main leads are actually a bit flat & don't have much personality.I must say that the photography for The Prophecy is rather nice with some nicely lit & tinted scenes, this certainly has a little bit of style about it. There's not much in the way of gore, there's some blood splatter, people are seen impaled on spikes during a flashback, there's a dead mutilated body seen on an autopsy table & a ripped out heart at the end. The Prophecy takes itself extremely seriously & the tone is very bleak.With a supposed budget of about $8,000,000 this actually had a lot of money spent on it & while it did make it's money back at the box-office it was not a major hit although it has spawned quite a few direct-to-video/DVD sequels. Filmed in Arizona. There's a good cast here including Christopher Walken who is always very intense, Virginia Madsen, Viggo Mortensen & Amanda Plummer. Oh, & Eric Stoltz is also in it.The Prophecy is an OK supernatural horror fantasy thriller with heavy religious overtones that I thought was alright but not much more. Followed by The Prophecy II (1998), The Prophecy 3 The Ascent (2000), The Prophecy Uprising (2005) & The Prophecy Forsaken (2005) all of which went straight-to-video/DVD. "},{"Title":"Incredibly bad movie gets uplifted by its performances.","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In all fairness, this is one totally bad straight-to-video looking B-flick, that gets only made worthwhile by its amazing cast and performances.This movie is a good example of how not to tell a story. Halve way through the movie we still have no idea of what's going on and what the main plot line is and who wants what. And while the first halve of the movie focuses mainly on Elias Koteas, the second halve is all about Christopher Walken, Christopher Walken and Christopher Walken. Not that I mind though, it just makes the storytelling pretty incoherent.On top of that it's not like the story itself is also actually much special. Like I said, it takes too long for things to finally really start off and when it does it's just mostly disappointing. I mean, it's about the second battle in heaven but yet all we get to see is Christopher Walken against occasionally a different angel. You can say that this movie is a bit of a lackluster.All the more reason why this is obviously a B-movie. Also thing with this movie is, is that it's really made as a B-movie, so with bad and predictable editing and camera-work. And director Gregory Widen must have really counted his blessings when he learned that all those fine actors agreed to appear in this movie, since he himself obviously is not the most talented director around.So the movie gets only mainly purely uplifted by its actors. I just can't believe how many fine actors there are in this movie. This is of course one big fun role from Christoper Walken, who plays the fallen angel Gabriel. It's a delicious fun villainous role, with which he obviously can go over the top with at times. I'm not really accustomed to seeing Elias Koteas play a big role but he is a capable actors so he definitely pulls it off alright. Besides that the movie also features Virginia Madsen, Eric Stoltz, Viggo Mortensen, Amanda Plummer and Adam Goldberg. What a cast list! Although yes it's true that most of them at the time were still fairly much unknown actors but that doesn't make them any less good to watch in this movie.I can't really say that the The Prophecy is a recommendable movie, although when you watch it you'll probably enjoy it for its acting. I can't believe they made 4 more sequels for this movie!5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"At best mediocre, but overall below that.","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Take one priest, who has lost his faith a couple of angels and child. This usually gives you a premises for a supernatural horror/thriller.So in 'God's Army', or 'The Prophecy' as it's also known, you have your fallen priest, who has turned into a cop, Thomas (Elias Koetas) who is called in a crime scene, that has some religious markings in it. Soon he finds himself from a small, dying mining town, trying to figure out why angel Gabriel (Christopher Walken) is running around, harassing children.As a movie 'God's Army' is a disappointment. The story itself is good, but the script itself is very lacking. The actors do their best with the material they have, but especially Koetas is very poor in his role. The best roles are given to the angels, and as it usually is, Walken does a good role, but it actually is Viggo Mortensen, who as Lucifer steals the cake.Dialog is pretty painful throughout the film, especially when it's not in the angels mouths, but there are couple of pretty good lines all around. I must give a special notation about a cheesy voice overs, that make you cringe more than anything else. The direction is mediocre at best and despite the short length, the film seems at places far longer than it is. Apparently Widen was trying to paint the scenery and the characters, but in that he goes in the woods badly.The final nail is the music, which is to put it kindly, wrong for this movie it breaks the whole atmosphere and drains the movie more than it gives to it. "},{"Title":"Literate but unpleasant","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" B-flick, full of nastiness, trades in religious exposition for standard thriller clichs as fallen seminarian-turned-police detective becomes a pawn in a war of Heaven's angels. Christopher Walken has his usual sly time as Gabriel(with both a trumpet AND a chip on his shoulder), Viggo Mortensen is an unmemorable Devil. Grimy production at least dispatches solemn-faced Eric Stoltz early on(a plus right there), and some of the dialogue is well-written, but the direction is heavy-handed and the plot elements never quite come together. By the last half, it has become a formulaic thriller, a would-be slam-bang. There was potential here, but it goes unrealized. Makes The Seventh Sign look masterful by comparison. "},{"Title":"Eminently forgettable","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There are good movies and there are bad movies, but only a few movies are so nonsensical and without emotional impact as to vanish from thought almost the moment their credits roll. The Prophecy is one such movie. The only other movie that I can recollect that left me so unimpressed was Russell Mulcahy's The Shadow. In the case of both movies, I can only remember one or two scene snippets, and I usually can give complete summaries of plots for movies that I saw 20 years ago. Even looking over the cast and reading the quotes and comments pages for this movie fails to provoke even a glimmer of something humorous, insightful, or otherwise memorable from this movie. If you're thinking about renting this film, just turn off your TV and stare at the black screen for 98 minutes instead. "},{"Title":"Are you people on crack? This movie is cack!","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's pretentious, overblown twaddle. The acting is ludicrous. The plot hinges on a string of unlikely events and vacant characters. At one point, someone falls out of an upstairs window and is hit by a speeding car, which then has to slam on its brakes and stops just before a brick wall. No-one asks why a car was going so fast up a blind alley, or at exactly what point the driver was going to hit his brakes in the event that someone hadn't dropped in front of him. The movie is full of nonsensical setups like this. Gregory Widen has a Citizen Kane attitude, and a Plan 9 from Outer Space ability. "},{"Title":"Ludicrous","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Is this the best that talking monkeys could come up with? How could anybody possibly take this crap seriously? Whether you're a Christian or an atheist, this film has something to offend everybody.The only thing that saves this is Christopher Walken putting in perhaps his best performance ever. That's where the two extra stars came from.I was also attracted by a few more of my favourites; Amanda Plummer and Viggo Mortensen, but alas, they didn't have enough screen time to do them justice.Anyway, this isn't horror, it's not suspenseful, it's not frightening, but it is funny, the scenes with Walken in them, that is. "},{"Title":"Christoper Walken rules,the movie doesn't","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  There's not much to say about this film.It is a mediocre horror flick that only stands out when Christopher Walken appears.The other actors and actresses are really bad,except Viggo Mortensen who plays Lucifer.Walken is one of those actors who always seem to choose the wrong films and never get a fair change in a good movie.Sure he's played in some great films and he always is the best or second best actor in the scene,but he's never the big man in a movie.For that reason I compare him with Forest Whitaker.He deserves better than this,who wants to give him the big role he deserves?  5/10 "},{"Title":"Had Potentail","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A Movie about Angels angry with God for favouring Humans had without doubt, great potential. Christopher Walken is great in the role of the Angel Gabriel. However, what spoilt it for me was that the film concentrated too much on Christianity. Constant reference to Church, Jesus and the Bible meant that unless you happen to follow this faith, you will not get much satisfaction out of this.  "},{"Title":"Dull","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The movie has some great actors and actresses in it but it's just so dull and uninteresting that I couldn't stand it. It didn't make any sense either. I didn't understand why all the angels were jealous or if that guy at the end was an angel or demon. I didn't understand why an angel from god would want an evil soul. I didn't understand why there would be war in heaven when heaven is suppose to be a place of goodness and love. I didn't understand any of this movie at all. Plus, it was a very boring and slow moving movie but the actors and actresses didn't do a horrible job of acting. It was a boring, dull movie that I just didn't understand. "},{"Title":"Smart Concept, Stupid Execution","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was really excited to see this movie, given the unique theological concept amidst the horror trappings. I'm sorry, but I was disappointed, despite the excellent performances by Eric Stoltz and Christopher Walken, and the superior one by Viggo Mortenson.The unfocused script is all over the map. What I believe would have been better is for the ancient Bible to contain an ALTERNATE version of Revelation, in which Satan, not God won. But no, we get an errant Angel Gabriel (Christopher Walken) running all over the map looking for a soul. Some of these scenes are darkly funny, and Walken is a hoot, but they don't do a lot for suspense or clarity. Where the heck is Michael, the arkangel? Mortenson as Lucifer is mesmerizing. But, wouldn't the movie have been a lot more interesting if Michael were searching for a child WHO WOULD BECOME the greatest murderer of all time, and the ex-priest faced the dilemma of killing the child to save mankind or not committing the mortal sin of murder. Now, THAT would have been interesting.Sorry, a couple of fine performances just can't save The Prophecy. I give it a 5. "},{"Title":"Thumbs down - WAY down.","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the worst films I've seen.  The premise is interesting, but they failed to follow through.  There is some nifty camera work, but they should have spent less time on that and more time on the script and editing. The story is disjointed, and doesn't make sense in a few places.  The dialogue ranges from silly to stupid.  The acting is uninspired (except for Walken, who is the ONLY good thing about this film).  The biggest problem the film has is that it is INCREDIBLY BORING!  And it is supposed to be a horror film!  Only watch this film if you want insight into how a good premise can result in a horrible film. "}{"Title":"This movie is a complete time suck","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't believe that I wasted an hour or so of my life watching this god-awful movie. The acting is stilted and the dialogue is complete tripe. I tend to have a thing for these kinds of movies but I can't really say anything gracious about this movie. There have been some great concepts and ideas with respect to the legends and myths of the war in heaven. It's just a shame none of them managed to make it into this movie. I know that it was 1995 and Viggo and Christopher Walken have done some great work before and since and I'm clinging to the hope they they lost a bet and had to star in this thing as a community service or some other form of penance. "},{"Title":"Unbelievebly boring...","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...Oh, did I just use the word 'belief' ? Well, with movies one often has to suspend disbelief, but this one is different you have to adopt a complete set of belief angels, lucifer, heaven and all that stuff. In other words a perfect catholic movie, all approved I'm sure by the highest religious authorities. That could still be okay if the movie was interesting, but the short scenes of weird action are separated by long boring moments, with religious gospels or bible reading sessions.No the part that I really disliked is the politically correct 'Oh, but we know there are other religions on Earth, see we put some indians... Indians that we only see do useless handwaving, just to show how terribly inefficient they are compared to a great religion that has angels fighting each others in your backyards...I don't believe you need to see that movie...  "},{"Title":"A very weak supernatural thriller.","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This has a good cast but wastes them.The film never gets going, it stutters along without any real conviction or pace. The writing is poor with the characters motivations making no real sense.The main human characters have no personality, this is a bit of a problem since we should empathise with them but the feeble attempt at a back-story offers nothing of interest and its hard to care about them.Walken is clearly enjoying himself as the bad angel but, although he at least has some motivation, his actions don't always make sense and his powers are poorly defined. The character of Lucifer who is brought in seems is the weakest of the lot, his motivation makes no sense, his dialogue is dreadful and he is clearly just thrown in to plug a big plot hole.A very disappointing effort, not worth watching. "},{"Title":"angels with attitudes","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  christopher walken plays an angel with attitudes in a script from hell. maybe it's for i never read the bible, but it seems like this movie is in serious lack of a good plot. the special-effects look like the ones that wasted Children of the Corn 1, and the angels never seemed like angels to me. they miss that delicate touch.. they're too normal, and yet too cool to be normal. or at least, trying hard to be too cool.sorry, i didn't like this one too much. i liked kevin smith's 'dogma' better. "},{"Title":"Disgusting, pretentious religious horror junk","Date":"25 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Some people lose their faith because Heaven shows them too little, says Thomas Daggett. But how many people lose their faith because Heaven showed them too much? Daggett nearly became a priest; now he's a cop. He may want to put religion behind him, but one morning a weird, eyeless, hermaphroditic corpse turns up. Suddenly he is on a path that will put him right in the middle of a war in Heaven. And once again, Heaven will show him too much gore, blood, charred flesh, living corpses and much worse. Even more central to the heavenly war effort is a young girl. This American Indian child has something Gabriel (Christopher Walken) wants. And Gabriel is willing to kill her and anyone in his path&#x97;or even reanimate a corpse or two&#x97;to get it.The Prophecy is disgusting, sloppy, confusing, pretentious, ridiculous and&#x97;when it tries to be funny&#x97;unfunny. And then Viggo Mortensen shows up as a self-satisfied, singing Satan with coprophilia on his mind. Does it get worse? Probably. The movie has several sequels. "}]