[{"Title":"A Brilliant twist on the '90s Murphy formula!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In the 1980s, Eddie Murphy single-handedly recreated the Black Action hero, replacing the old murderous superstud of the 1970s with black characters who depended on their quick wits more than their big guns.  That formula was quickly run dry, however, both by Murphy himself and the imitators he inspired.So, Eddie intelligently decided that he needed to recreate a forgotten genre of comedy, one which Peter Sellars had mastered in the 60s, and which only Murphy could do today he would make movies in which he played multiple characters. The Genesis began with Coming to America, in which Murphy played not only the lead role, but also all the inhabitants of a Harlem barbershop. The sequences were short, but Murphy was building the road to becoming the most brilliant character actor of our day. Soon followed the Nutty Professor movies, Bowfinger, and his animated TV series, The PJ's. In all these Murphy played a multiplicity of roles, and played them all brilliantly (the Academy's disdain for streetwise comedies, and--well, lets just say it--their dismissal of black performers not playing slaves or pimps, are the only explanations possible for Murphy not owning an Oscar or two by now).With these projects, Eddie was not only playing different characters, but also honing a new Eddie Murphy genre raunchy, but intelligent; gross, but heartfelt; hilariously over the top in the particulars of plot, but firmly rooted in emotional reality. He has created or has been involved with, some of the arguably best comedies of the 1990's and onward--and has been responsible for inarguably the best comic performances of the era.So, in this era, Eddie decided to push the envelope by mixing the new Eddie Genre with the Horror films he loved as a kid. The result, A Vampire in Brooklyn, is unsettling to some because the lines between Eddie's wildly improvisational Black (or African American, if you insist) character comedy to straight vampire horror movie are so starkly drawn. There are very few instances where the comedy and horror overlap. This, I feel, is the brilliance of the film. There are no horror moments broken by a punchline or bad joke, and there are no comedy moments punctuated by some kind of sick horror gag (that has been done to death since John Landis' American Werewolf in London. Now its being beated to death by Buffy the Vampire Slayer). The funny parts are funny and the scary parts are truly scary.And Murphy also gets to shine in multiple well-defined character parts as well, as the shape-shifting African Vampire assumes the physical identity of several of his victims.Vampire failed at the box office not because it was a bad film--its definitely is not. But because it was too unusual a film for the limited abilities of the studio's marketing department to sell. Those going expecting to see a comedy were disappointed it contained so much pure horror, and those going to see it based on the publicity that painted it as a horror film were dissapointed it contained so much hilarious Murphy style comedy.It dies because of false expectations. Eddie's other films contained quick changes in tone as well--the shifts between bathroom comedy and pathos in the Nutty Professor films is no less abrupt than those between horror and comedy in Vampire.It's just that the choice of horror as the second element mixed with the comedy is a more daring and unusual one.Years from now, A Vampire in Brooklyn will be viewed as one of the highpoints of the second phase of the Eddie Murphy Genre. "},{"Title":"Somehow I Failed to Get This One.","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wes Craven directs LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT, controversy ensues. Wes Craven directs THESE HILLS HAVE EYES and maims his audience. Wes Craven directs A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET and revitalizes a genre with a super-bad villain. Wes Craven directs THE SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW, hit.Wes Craven directs A VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN?I don't know what to make of this one. It does have an interesting take on the vampire genre in a way that should have worked in the way he would spoof the horror genre in SCREAM, but where SCREAM had loads of in-jokes, references to other horror movies and a young cast of actors who were playing very self-conscious people who knew what to do and what not to do in a horror film, here the results just don't mix. Had he gotten a much more skilled team of writers who could come up with wicked pop-culture references to blaxploitation films (and why not make this an ultra-hip version of BLACULA?), had he nixed the fatalistic seriousness that comes through like leftovers from both BRAM STOKER'S Dracula and countless vampire films and turned this into an edgy satire a la FRIGHT NIGHT or something crazier like THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW, maybe it would have fared better. Actually I stand corrected it would have fared much better. But having Eddie Murphy play his role totally straight, having Angela Bassett who seems like she's in a whole other movie, and then having that totally ludicrous epilogue which seems straight out of the Friday franchise... I don't know where to make heads or tails from it. I just don't. "},{"Title":"I would love to have you for dinner","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Ever since I was a kid, I've loved vampires. My mom had introduced me to that part of horror movies when I was very young and I always found the vampire to be the most interesting of all monsters. They are the only one's that could appear human, they lure you in making it seem normal, but then before you know it, they turn on you. They're the most terrifying monsters if you really think about it. So Wes Craven, one of the masters of horror, who brought us amazing scary movies like A Nightmare on Elm Street, The Last House on the Left, The Hills have Eyes and Scream tried to take on the vampire genre. Interestingly enough as a mixture of horror and comedy. Not something that is brand new as we see with Love at first Bite, Fearless Vampire Killers and Dracula Dead and Loving it, but he seems to do an unbalanced job with Vampire in Brooklyn.An abandoned ship crashes into a dockyard in Brooklyn, New York, and the ship inspector, Silas, inspects it, finding it full of corpses. Elsewhere, Julius Jones, has a run-in with some Italian mobsters. Just as the two goons are about to kill Julius, Maximillian, a suave, mysterious vampire, intervenes and kills them. Soon after, Maximillian infects Julius with his vampiric blood, turning Julius into a decaying ghoul; he then explains that he has come to Brooklyn in search of the Dhampir daughter of a vampire from his native island in order to live beyond the night of the next full moon. Now he's in search of Rita, the woman he was meant to be with in Brooklyn, New York.The thing is, I still like this film despite it's flaws. I remember being obsessed with this movie when I was a kid. Growing up, I got the DVD, does it have it's problems? Yeah. Angela Bassett who is normally a great actress really overacts in this film to the point where her character becomes obnoxious. Eddie Murphy does a pretty decent job, he plays a number of characters as usual. Playing not only Maximillian, but the preacher and the crook. He seemed to have fun with the role and had a lot of charisma. I also thought the relationship and chemistry between Kadeem Hardison and John Witherspoon as Julius and Silas was not only great but absolutely hilarious. I couldn't catch my breath from laughing so much when Silas accidentally pulls Julius' arm off and Silas says Look at this! Now you the fugitive! and Julius keeps telling him to put it back on and how he needs his arm back. There are some genuine funny moments mainly between Julius and Silas. As for the scary, not so much; there are some good one's here and there, between Nikki's murder and Eddie Murphy's make up was pretty frightening. While it's a flawed film, I think it's still worth checking out over all, it's a good story that just needed a better cast and a little more thought. But I think you'll get a few good chuckles out of this film.6/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy is a good vampire.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I watched this movie thinking it would be like other eddie murphy movies- lots of humor and fun. I was wrong BUT I wasn't dissapointed. I mean, for once I enjoyed a horror movie. Usually I shy away from horror movies because of their incredibly stupid and repetitive plots and characters. This one was different however. I don't really know what it was that made me like this movie, but I have to say that Eddie Murphy makes a good vampire. His version of a vampire is cool but SO totally evil.And his sidekick Kadeem Hardison(also seen in the movie Drive) is funny.  In all a good movie. I guarantee that once you start watching this movie you'll be hooked and wont want to finish watching it until the end. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Eddie - Funny & Seductive!","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The only person who can give a fair commentary on this film would be a vampire lover, such as myself. As much as I love to laugh and adore Eddie Murphy's comedic talent, the genre of Vampires is my ultimate favourite topic. Some may say that I'm even slightly obsessed... So when it comes to this film I will say that I was pleasantly surprised. Yes, it was a touch cheesy and yes it was funny, but why can't a vampire film make you laugh too? I approached this film with a lot of reservation because I really didn't think Eddie Murphy was vampire material. But Eddie pulled it off. Yes- I feel that he truly did. He had that hypnotic stare and seductive movement that would've paralyzed me too if I was in his presence then too. So I give this movie the thumbs up and not just for vampire lovers and not just for Eddie Murphy fans- this is quite an entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Murphy Flick","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i read through some of the negative reviews, and felt I had to add one for the positives. I am a fan of Eddie Murphy, and have noticed that many of his films have pretty poor ratings here on IMDB, including this one, which has a shockingly low rating.I thought the film had very funny moments, and Murphy had a good rapport with his Ghoul. Also, the plotline was pretty interesting. I thought it worked very well, and I hope that the IMDB rating will improve. "},{"Title":"Not The Travesty Some Claim","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maximillian (Eddie Murphy) is the only survivor from a race of vampires on a Caribbean Island, and as a vampire, he must find a mate to keep the line from ending.Some have said this film is the worst for Murphy and for Wes Craven, with Murphy saying the wig he had to wear was a big part of the problem. Now, looking back almost twenty years later, the wig does not look bad, and this was far from rock bottom for Murphy. For Craven, it may not be his strongest film, but it may also not be his worst (Cursed is pretty bad).Seriously, this is not that bad of a film, even if the humor never hits exactly right. "},{"Title":"The Bottom of the Pit for Both the Star and Director","Date":"18 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Vampire in Brooklyn (1995) * (out of 4) They say sometimes great artists must hit an ultimate low before they can fully bounce back and that has never been more true for both director Wes Craven and star Eddie Murphy. In the film Murphy plays Maximillian, a Caribbean vampire who comes to Brooklyn in search of a woman to carry on his race. He finds the beautiful Rita (Angela Bassett) but his plan isn't going to be as simple as he thought. It's worth noting that Craven's next film was SCREAM and Murphy followed this up with THE NUTTY PROFESSOR so it's easy to see that both of them were just at the bottom of their careers here. The shocking thing revisiting this film for the first time since it was released is that it's actually gotten much, much worse. For the life of me I can't understand what the two were trying to do here but I'm guessing they wanted to take both of what they were great at and put it together but the end result is just a complete disaster. The comedy is so forced and uneven that it's never once funny. The horror elements are just so silly that they're never scary and when the gore does happen it just seems out of place. The entire film has a very ugly pacing and a lot of the blame has to go to Craven for not pulling the picture together but I'd still place more blame on Murphy, the producers, for hiring him. I'm not sure if Murphy and John Landis had a falling out on BEVERLY HILLS COP III but it's clear that he would have been much better with the (bad) material. The performances are all pretty weak with Murphy leading the way in an embarrassing piece of work. Allen Payne is wasted in his supporting role and Kadeem Hardison is just so in-your-face that the entire act just falls apart. VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN is a perfect example of something that has talent but it just never came together for anything. "},{"Title":"I wish Eddie Murphy never grew up.","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When Eddie Murphy did movies like Trading Places, and Beverly Hills Cop, he was cool because he was funny. With movies like this Murphy is trying to be cool before he is being funny. there is very little comedy in this movie, and if the movie is trying to be modern in vogue it really doesn't succeed at that either. Murphy does a fair job as a Caribbean vampire in Brooklyn looking for a soulmate. The movie does not have enough of his crazy characterizations, nutty characters, and all around goofy comedy. The movie was so disappointing because I thought this was going to be extremely funny. Why wouldn't Eddie Murphy make this movie like he did Beverly Hills Cop? Not take the movie so seriously? The movie had a very dark tone, and that would have worked, because it could make for more subtle Eddie Murphy comedy, but Murphy attempts so few jokes here, there is so little opportunity for him to try and be funny. The movie seems like a grand experiment that falls on it's face. But it was so easy to make this movie funny, just have his characterizations and good one liners applied to a very unusual vampire movie, don't worry about being cool. Movies used to be so natural for him in the eighties, but it was a different time. He was still funny then and he could be now. Angela Bassett does a pretty good job as a cop in search of Murphy, but really can't save this movie, it's just so awkward, it doesn't know whether it wants to be a horror flick a love story or a comedy. It tries to be all three and succeeds at none.But overall this movie was a disappointment, something that could have been great but was mediocre. Murphy overall struggled in the nineties, and this is a classic example why, instead of being funny in his movies he tries too hard to be cool and it doesn't work. Murphy needs to remember he was funny because he applied his unique sense of humor to films, he needs to have his own band of movie instead of trying to produce someone else's style of comedy. Stick with Beverly Hills Cop or 48 Hours, where he is at his best and he is Eddie Murphy, the one we all know and love. Hours to see Murphy at his best. "},{"Title":"Excellent hight class vampire movie!","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Contrary to IMDb grade of this movie and the many reviewers who appraised it as a low to mediocre movie piece i have only the highest praise for this movie.This is not a comedy but this is also not a horror movie.It is a mix of drama,horror and comedy.Eddie Murphys performance as a vampire was amazing and the special effects were awesome.This movie is definitely a classic and quite sure it is misunderstood by most.One of the best vampire movies ever made.10 out of 10 Keep this treasure alive! "}{"Title":"A horror comedy that's neither scary nor funny, a none starter really.","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Vampire in Brooklyn starts as a large boat crashes into a Brooklyn dock, on-board the whole crew are discovered murdered. They were murdered by Maximillian (Eddie Murphy) a Vampire from the Caribbean who happens to be the last of his kind & needs to mate with another Vampire & the closet thing left is half Vampire half human NYPD cop Detective Rita Veder (Angela Bassett) who doesn't yet know she's half Vampire, Maximillian has to convince her she is a Vampire & then to mate with her otherwise the Vampire race will die out...Directed by Wes Craven this is a romantic comedy horror with an almost entirely black cast that doesn't really work in any respect. The script by Charles Murphy (Eddie's brother), Michael Lucker & Chris Parker quite simply is a laugh free zone, hell I didn't even crack a smile during this. The film starts off very horror orientated then it becomes very comedic before romance takes over, none of these genres particularly go well together & the film feels very uneven, I suppose it moves along at a fair pace & the basic story is alright but it's a bit of a chore to sit through as nothing on screen works that well & a constant stream of profanity is not funny on it's own, is a very lazy way to write & starts to become annoying. The scene when Murphy impersonates the preacher is just plain embarrassing & I hated the ending as well.Director Craven had never made a comedy before & it show's as the comedy scenes just don't work, the horror & gore scenes are far more effective & it's a shame there's not more of them. By the time Craven teamed up with Murphy to make this both needed a hit after their careers both hit slumps, Vampire in Brooklyn was a poor choice of film although the story does have a happy ending as Craven went on to make the mega hit teen horror slasher Scream (1996) & Murphy made the successful children's comedy The Nutty Professor (1996) as their next films respectively. Angela Bassett's stunt double Sonya Davis died went a stunt went wrong where she was supposed to fall from a building onto an airbag but she actually hit her head on the solid ground. There's some gore here, there's a ripped out heart, various dead bodies with slit throats, some blood drinking & a stake through the heart although the special make-up effects on Murphy at the end look terrible.With a supposed budget of about $14,000,000 this had a decent amount of cash thrown at it, I don't think it flopped at the box-office but it didn't do that well either. It's well made with decent production values. The acting isn't that great & surprisingly Murphy is the only one who plays it straight which is very odd, Bassett is forgettable & Kadeem Hardison as the comedy relief ghoul is terrible.Vampire in Brooklyn is a horror film that isn't scary, a comedy that isn't funny & it's got a black cast directed by a white man brought in for his name & as a whole it just doesn't work on any level. One to avoid. "},{"Title":"Do I Look Like I Would Bite You?","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Eddie Murphy, Angela Bassett, Allen Payne, Zakes Mokae, Kadeem Hardison, John Witherspoon and Joanna Cassidy star in Wes Craven's 1995 horror comedy. Murphy (Beverly Hills Cop) plays Caribbean vampire, Maximillian who arrives in Brooklyn searching for a woman who is half vampire. Bassett (Waiting to Exhale) plays his interest, Rita who is a cop and he tries to seduce her, Payne (House of Payne) plays her partner, Justice who she finds romance with, the late, Mokae (The Serpent and the Rainbow) plays Zeko, an expert on vampires, Hardison (A Different World) plays Julius, a loser who becomes Max's ghoul, Witherspoon (Friday) plays boat watchman/landlord, Silas and Cassidy (Blade Runner) plays police captain, Dewey. This basically pays tribute and pokes fun at vampire flicks like Blacula. It's not bad, Murphy is great in it, he and Bassett have good chemistry, Rick Baker's make-up effects are terrific as usual and J. Peter Robinson's score is also great. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy as a vampire and it lacks the laughs that those words hint at","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Vampire in Brooklyn tends to be a stain in both Craven and Murphy's filmography. I haven't seen this movie in a long time, but Murphy as a vampire has promise. The end result is a movie that had potential to be a fun horror comedy, but lacked any true passion to help it along.Good The movie moves along quickly and it never gets boring. Angela Bassett actually turns in a good performance here as the lead. Murphy tries his best with his character and he gets some good scenes. The direction is solid with a nice Gothic style look to it in an urban setting.Bad The movie lacks any scares as it relies on dumb jump scares. The comedy side also fails since most of the jokes don't have much of a punch. It also goes on for too long as it feels like it has two endings attached to it.Overall, the movie feels like a work for hire. Nothing about it stands out with its comedy and horror being very weak. Nothing terrible, but it could have been much better. "},{"Title":"A really good Eddie Murphy film!","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I swear, he really took a big challenge in playing a Romanian vampire and you know what he killed it! His name 'Maxmillion' isn't really a good name to have it as a fake name. It just sounds too modern but it didn't bother me much!Man, I honestly loved how this movie was really well done in regarding the stunts, the funny scene's and everything involved with it! I was laughing my head off when Maxmillion lift the dog into the air and threw it into the river. I am an animal lover but that scene cracked me up like! With the cat, I was surprised he got shot, at least there wasn't any blood or guts around. At least the fur was better but still, it really did make me cringe when the cat died! I'm glad this is a different film that you could watch on a Halloween night! Seriously it's funny to look at but it can be gruesome at the same time! "},{"Title":"They all say-We don't know-Which way to go","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Unpleasant. Watching this movie was by no means the best part of my day. With a movie, you have the chance to tell a story in a way that shines in the darkness, literally shines in the darkness- don't believe me, turn off all the lights and watch a movie, is there not a lovely blue light? This movie bares meager light. Charlie Murphy gets two writing credits for this movie but his humor which is so obvious on the Chappelle Show, is not to be found in Vampire In Brooklyn. Billed as a horror/comedy the movie can deliver on neither. Wes Craven seems out of his element, handling Eddie Murphy and the movie's tone ineptly. Funny, this movie is an Eddie Murphy vehicle but the only time the movie works is when he's off screen. "},{"Title":"Not too bad.","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't know why it is but I can't help but love pretty much the majority of movies from Eddie Murphy's career from the 80's onwards. Beverly Hills Cop, The Golden Child, Coming To America, Nutty Professor, Daddy Day Care, Shrek...you get the drift. Maybe I just have a soft spot for his humour and work. Even though he maybe a jerk in real life I just can't help but like his acting talents. Vampire In Brooklyn is certainly not his best work but I found myself enjoying watching it. It shows the beginning of his transformation as a multi-character actor and shows him slowly turning into the guy he is today.So he's not going to win any awards for this movie but it was entertaining enough and a new take on the Vampire phenomenon that has been happening on and off for the last 30 or so years. "},{"Title":"Not an EDDIE MURPHY movie & certainly no WES CRAVEN one either!","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So just what type of film is this? I haven't a clue, the film seems to be unsure of this too, at moments we get some sheer comedy, while at other times we get a serious minded horror movie, however unlike most films such as IDLE HANDS & EVIL DEAD 2, where there was a perfect blend of comedy & horror, VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN's mix does not always work, it's like watching two separate versions of this tale all at once, while the actors, direction & special effects make-up were good, the film falls into a mediocre fare. The story goes that Murphy's vampire character comes to Brooklyn to find a bride, tagging along is a slave that was once human who has been turned into a zombie by Max the vampire & in several humorous moments (Though gross too) parts of him falls off as he slowly decays & when Max the vampire thinks he's found his bride in the form of police officer ANGELA BASSETT, her partner tries to rescue her from Max's clutches as she is slowly falling under Max's spell. A major problem concerning this film was in it's pre-production, Murphy who was a fan of Wes horror films like SERPENT & THE RAINBOW, had hoped to work with the director on a film that him & his brother Charlie wrote, Craven accepted the assignment & was more than happy to work with Murphy, the problem was, was that Wes had hoped to leave the horror genre (Which he has tried to do unsuccessfully for a few years now) & do a comedy with Murphy, but Murphy had hoped to do a horror film with Wes Craven, & Paramount pictures was determined to get a comedy from Murphy, after several re-writes in which the writers tried to please the Paramount execs, Murphy fans & Craven fans both, we have wound up with this, that is not really for Murphy or Craven fans, it's just a major mess, Murphy tries hard to give his best performance but it doesn't help. Not a total loss, but nothing worthwhile either, I say skip it & check out some of Craven's & Murphy's other works instead, since they are so much better than this movie, which unwisely leaves the door open for a sequel.** stars "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As You Think, But Not As Good As You Think, Either","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Vampire In Brooklyn is not as bad as everyone thinks it is. However, parts of it isn't as good, either. Maximillian (Eddie Murphy)is the last of his race and needs to find his mate or else the line ends. Rita (Angela Bassett)is the object of his desire. It seems that her mother had a fling with a vampire many years ago and Rita is the result. Knowing this, Max uses every mean at his disposal, including recruiting a hustler named Julius (Kadeem Hardison), to bring out Rita's vampire side. Some parts are funny (Julius constantly losing body parts), but others drag the film down (Murphy AGAIN playing multiple parts). The fact that a stunt woman lost her life while doing this film (At least they could have dedicated the film to her)brings the humor down a bit. Maybe this film is the reason why Murphy sticks to kid films, instead. "},{"Title":"sheer and utter torture","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I can't believe this film has gained so many positive IMDB reviews. It is one of the worst pieces of garbage I have ever seen. Eddie Murphy and Angela Bassett - what were you doing? Did you lose a bet or something? Shi**y premise, no pacing, no tension, terrible dialogue, and cliches exhausted well beyond the point of irony. Oh, and the comic relief was embarrassing. Shouting rapid-fire obscenities in a high-pitched voice does not make you funny. Anglea Bassett was gorgeous. That's the only thing I enjoyed about this waste of celluloid. "},{"Title":"crap any way you slice it","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I got bad news for any one who thinks prior expectations are what make this movie seem like junk. I watched it on a big screen in the health club having no idea what I was watching until I saw the great Angela Bassett reduced to melodramatic mugging and the normally wickedly hilarious and talented Eddie Murphy spouting campy crap. What a sad waste of resources! This is not funny, not dramatic, just nauseating in every way. "}{"Title":"Put a little heart into it......","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Maximillian is the only survivor from a race of vampires on a Caribbean Island, and as a vampire, he must find a mate to keep the line from ending.He knows that a child had been born to a woman who had a vampire father, and he searches for her in Brooklyn.Rita's mother, who has died in an asylum, was that woman, and Rita has nightmares that she does not understand.Not knowing that she is part vampire, Max woos her and attempts to bring her to her blood sucking destiny....The ironic thing about his dirge is that in the same year Craven and Murphy had the career resurgences that they both desperately needed.The big problem with this movie is that it cannot decide to be a horror,comedy or dark romance. And it fails on all three accounts. Murphy looks bored in his role, a cross between Blacula, Prince Akeem of Zamunda and a cachexic Barry White.The rest of the cast look wholly confused and put in risible performances. Hardison s the worse culprit, putting in a performance so hammy, you want to switch off wherever he appears (think Chris Tucker n anything, and your there).The first tn minutes, especially the boat heading toward the dock, is pure Craven and quite tense, but when Maximillian starts biting people, the whole movie fails on every account.It's a pity, because this movie had potential and it's aching to get out, but it's a dog of a movie, with only the beginning worth anything.Avoid. "},{"Title":"Murphys' Most Underrated Movie ( next to Distinguished Gentelman)","Date":"24 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So many Bad Reviews for such a Good Movie. Folks are taking this movie waay too serious. Its a Horror COMEDY. I Repeat...COMEDY. Its Classic Eddie Murphy at his best. This movie was ahead of its time in a lot of ways. Think about it. Without me giving away anything.. The whole Ghoul ,Zombie bit in a Comedy had never been done to this point. Ground Breaking if u ask me.. Now its common place. Kadeem Hardison is hilarious in this. The timing with him a Murphy is so good. Murphy is one of the most Versatile actors we have and we don't truly appreciate his genius. Bassett is is Bassett. Always Strong.John Witherspoon is maybe the funniest guy ever. Good Casting overall. Allen Payne ehhhh..take em or leave em..either way. It has a Craven feel to it in a lot of parts..its equal parts Murphy and Craven. Well done. Why this movie gets Butchered so much is beyond me. Im thinking its the Setting and all Black Casting maybe? Its definitely more of an Urban feeling movie. Most people today likely cant relate to this old Black 90's Formula. Soo many good movies came out of that era. This one is right on par with them. a Classic, very original film for the time especially. EVIL is GOOD -Preacher Pauly "},{"Title":"It was lame","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was going to be a comedy (or so I thought).  After all that's what Eddie Murphy does.  It was billed as, A comic tale of horror and seduction.  I thought it would be a great Eddie Murphy, the motormouth, spoof of vampire movies.  Rather, it turned out to be a drama, an authentic vampire story which was OK but not up to par with Dracula, Love At First Bite (George Hamilton), or Vampira (David Niven).  The only humor was the guy, Julius.  And even he wasn't very funny.  Overall, not worth renting. I'm glad we never got around to paying actual money to see it in a theater. "},{"Title":"Good vampire flick","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Vampire in Brooklyn is about a vampire named Maxmillian who searches, and finds, the half vampire female cop named Rita.  She doesnt know that until she meets him one night.  She becomes terrified of that fact alone. Eddie Murphy and Angela Bassett deliver good performances.  I liked the many characters Murphy plays.  They're all funny.  Unfortunately, there is another movie called Def by Temptation, which deals with men getting killed by a seducing succubus(Cynthia Bond).  If I had to pick between this one and Def by Temptation, Vampire in Brooklyn would win my vote everytime. ***1/2 stars.  (Paramount)   "},{"Title":"not so bad","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  it's become cool  to bash eddie murphy, but this movie was not as bad as the previous viewers comments suggest. see it for yourself and you might be entertained. it was funny and one should view it as a comedy with some thrills. "},{"Title":"underrated","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How pleasant it is to see a movie that you feel you won't like  and to your surprise you actually enjoyed it.  that was my experience watching vampire in brooklyn. On paper, Eddie Murphy as a vampire? What is this a remake of Blacula? or an on purpose career killer? What It is is a deft blend of horror and comedy. and eddie proves what snl only hinted at is that he's also an excellent actor. too bad the critics felt a need to bury this movie. I give it 3 out of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Neither fully a horror, a comedy nor a romance, this film lacks direction","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a comedy, this film is too serious, as a horror, it's too cheesy, and as a romance, Murphy is too busy being in love with himself.  Despite all that, the film is quite enjoyable so long as you have no preconceptions.  I'm glad I saw it, but I won't be watching this one again. "},{"Title":"Why, Wes???????????","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After the excellent Wes Craven's New Nightmare, I had high hopes for Wes' next movie. When I saw that Eddie Murphy stars and writes I lost my confidence. I was right. This is not only Wes Craven's worst movie. It's one of the most crappy films of all time. Eddie Murphy sucks, so does the film. Unfunny, unscary, ungory, uncinematic. All in all, pure ****. Giving this movie a 1 would be giving it too much credit. Luckily, when all hope was lost, Wes blessed us with his two best films Scream 1 and 2. "},{"Title":"This Movie Has No Bite","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Vampire In Brooklyn tried to continue the formula of putting vampire films in modern times. Two movies did that successfully, 1987's The Lost Boys and 1996's From Dusk Till Dawn. Vampire In Brooklyn, unfortunately, does not do that formula successfully. Eddie Murphy, Angela Bassett, and many other talented performers are wasted. This was a bad step for director Wes Craven, who has directed better movies than this. Murphy is much too smooth and funny to be cast as a vampire, and Bassett is too strong an actress to be cast in the role of a frightened detective.BURY THIS BOMB!!! "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy stars as a vampire from Egypt who is looking for a woman he believes is the last of his kind,","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was seriously hoping that this would be that good, campy kind of bad. But,really, it's just the bad kind of bad.The few jokes in it fall painfully, embarrassingly flat. The love story is incredibly shallow. Eddie has a jerri curl mullet, and Angela Basset realizes about half way through the movie that there is no Oscar to be had for this one and gives up. In fact, it seems like EVERYONE gives up at the halfway point, and the ending goes on for way, way to long. If you want a funny in that unintentional way vampire flick, watch Queen of the Damned. I can't believe someone paid money to have this made. "}{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Vampire In Brooklyn was, indeed, a good movie. Eddie Murphy's portrayal of an African vampire was very good. What makes this movie unique is that several of the actors had parts that you wouldn't expect them to have. Like, for example, Angela Bassett's character of Detective Rita Vedder. I, personally, wasn't expecting Bassett to play a tough hard-boiled policewoman. This was a really good movie. "},{"Title":"Not terrible but not very good either","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The last surviving vampire, Maximillian, sails into New York to find a half breed female to breed with.  The woman in question, Rita, doesn't know that she's a vampire.  With help from his unwilling ghoul Julius, Maximillian tires to woo Rita to join him, but it is Rita's choice as to where she will spend her eternity.This ranks as one of a series of lows in Eddie Murphy's career, although it isn't terrible &#150; just pretty poor and muddled.  The plot is OK on paper but in reality it lacks focus and isn't very involving.  The comedy doesn't really work and most of it isn't funny, even the characters written to be funny can barely manage to get a laugh.  Also it fails to be scary.  With Wes Craven and a big budget, you'd expect some scares &#150; even if they were average ones, but no, not a thing &#150; the `scary' scenes are just silly action scenes and there is no real horror (or tension) in this film.I like Eddie Murphy and I like his trend of playing multiple characters.  The problem is that this only works where the material is good or the film is funny (ie his `family' was the best thing about the Nutty Professor), however here his characters are not good &#150; and his main role is ineffective and silly. I always have time for Angela Bassett as she is not only beautiful but plays good characters (anyone who saw her carry Strange Days will know what I mean), but here she has little material &#150; but still manages to grab the attention.  She acts Murphy off the screen.  Hardison is not a good actor and his comedy role is not good at all, even reliable like Witherspoon and a few other familiar faces are wasted.Overall this just about passes the time &#150; but it manages to fail in almost every area it tries to work in.  Not funny and not scary and not dramatic and not romantic &#150; watchable but really has very little going for it. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst film I have ever seen. Avoid it!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is mind-numbingly awful. It does not even have unintentional humour to recommend it as do, for example, the films of Ed Wood.Travel great distances to avoid seeing it. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy is great!","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen all Eddie Murphy-movies, and I have not yet been disappointed by any of them (except for the 1984-catastrophy Best Defence). I cannot see why everyone feels such a need to constantly criticize him. He's the best comedian there is. OK, so maybe I exaggerated just a LITTLE bit, when I gave this movie a solid 9/10, but that's not the point. The point is, this movie isn't bad at all, it's quite funny actually. Tell me honestly that you didn't laugh your a** off, when Eddie said I just had Italian or something like that. I like this movie, so what, you can't kill me for it! Eddie, if you ever read this I just want to say Keep up the good work!  "},{"Title":"Horror fans won't like this movie because it's not funny, comedy fans won't like this movie because it isn't funny, and Eddie Murphy fans (all twenty of them!) won't like this movie because Eddie Murphy has","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Vampire in Brooklyn is about a Romanian-talking Vampire, who travels to Brooklyn, New York, in search of a half-vampire to be his bride and to continue the species of vampire with. Eddie Murphy is that vampire, fit with sharp teeth, glowing eyes and a Little Richard haircut. Murphy parades around with a forced and awful Romanian accent, trying to be funny and at the same time scary, but quite frankly it doesn't work. It's not funny, and it isn't scary, making it more of a stupid movie than anything else. The first ten minutes are clever. Watch as the film presents us with a solid opening that is both humorous and mysterious. Then watch as it soon dissipates, leaving some stupid plot about vampires hindering the film. I can only imagine how much better the film would have been if Murphy had put some more thought into the script when he co-wrote it with his real-life brother. If the entire movie was like the first five, ten minutes or so, I would recommend this film. But given that it instantly loses all originality, humor and interest, and suddenly resorts to stupid gags and darkness, I give this film a low rating. Horror fans won't like this movie because it's not funny, comedy fans won't like this movie because it isn't funny, and Eddie Murphy fans (all twenty of them!) won't like this movie because Eddie Murphy has better chances at winning the Mr. Olympia rather than convince us he is a Romanian vampire.I suspect that vampires must contain a kind of animal instinct. Murphy's vampire travels to Brooklyn in search of the last vampire to mate with, but the thought that this vampire might not be attracted to him never crosses his mind. What about courting? I guess vampires don't do that. They sleep, they drink blood, they mate, multiply, and die. This is what Murphy would like us to believe. But if this is true, then why does Murphy act like a human, walk, talk and sing like a human? Okay, he doesn't sing, it just rhymed. But this film's plot is as weak as a trampoline would be with a five-hundred-pound man bouncing on it.Okay, forgive and forget, I'll buy the idea of a vampire coming to Brookyn in search of a mate, okay, that's fine. But I won't buy the idea that Eddie Murphy is that vampire, that the vampire has a wicked streak of humor (after all, his instincts make him an animal, not one that takes himself and his surroundings lightly), and I definitely won't buy the movie.After the hour-point, the film starts getting really weird, really dark, and turns from an attempt at comedy to a serious film. Not even a horror film, but more of a religious film. Someone dies in the form of crucifixion. It is as if Murphy, realizing his script was not funny nor scary, started trying to go for symbolic religion in his film. He buried the end of his script in the ancient curses of vampires, and so on and so forth. Murphy contradicts himself so many times, and the script contradicts Murphy so many times, that the film just loses all credibility and, in the end, turns out neither funny, scary, nor entertaining. 2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"I still can't believe I made it through the end!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love vampires - I do like Eddie Murphy films, but both doesn't match! If they just have decided to let the vampire be either cruel or funny. Even though he looked cute and it was most likely he wanted to have the beautiful heroine by his side, it was presented rather stereotypical. And on the other hand I could understand for the first time why the girl wanted to get rid of the vampire. What horror spending eternity with this silly character.The story is basicly the same. Maybe I don't have the right feelings for the alternative background. I couldn't laugh and I never want to see it again! If you want to see a vampire/comedy watch subspecies, it wasn't meant this way, but it is for sure the most funniest series I have ever seen in the genre.  "},{"Title":"Great Eddie Murphy comedy","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the first place, you've got to have a sense of humor to like this film. Second, you need to be a die hard Eddie Murphy fan as well.I disagree with those that say Vampire&#133; just portrays racial stereotypes. Yes, Kadeem Hardison and John Witherspoon are stereotypical black low lifes, but so what? Angela Bassett and Allen Payne are just as stereotypical in their portrayals of honest, middle class blacks who work hard for a living. Not all Italians are Mafiosos, but by their own admission, all Mafiosos must be of Italian or Sicilian ancestry; their rules.How many times have you seen what appeared to be a different slant to the Dracula theme only to walk out of the theater feeling it was deja vous all over again? This film very sarcastically juxtaposes this timeless story onto the waterfront of Brooklyn and invades the seamy life of a small time bookie and his chiseling uncle. Somehow I don't think the film would have been quite as funny if it had been about yuppies in Connecticut (for that kind of supernatural thriller, see Wolf, with Jack Nicholson and Michelle Pheiffer).Eddie Murphy obviously doesn't see his various characters in this film, its plot, nor other supporting characters as racist. Racy yes; Racist, no. And if you go to an Eddie Murphy movie you need to expect raw language. After all, he's Gumby, d*** it! "},{"Title":"Avoid at all cost Don't even read my comments","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Avoid this movie at all cost If you are still reading my review of this movie you are spending too much time, So STOP IT. You should be paid to watch this movie, even if you watch it on television and didn't pay anything for it. A stupid plot with mediocre acting (although the actors have proven in the past that they are quite capable of acting, they don't prove that they have ANY talent here.) Just avoid this movie and watch almost anything other than this. I know it would be time well spent. Enjoy your night. "},{"Title":"Good for Haloween","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The directing job on this movie was good and so was the acting from Murphy and Basset.Murphy makes one of the best vampires ever yet.The problem here was the budget.The sets were cheap looking and the supporting actors were terrible.This movie however enterains and will be a Haloween favorite for TV.  "},{"Title":"How Stella got her Vamp back?  Not really...","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay so heads up, this is a black / African American film, and for those who didn't know that initially (such as myself) and just went into it for a free vamp movie might / aught to know this. It's Stella got her Boomerang and at a low budget and that about sums it up...That said (and again I'm mentioning this as I saw it for free) honestly it kind of sucked far as a vamp movie goes. the whole premise is to get the main girl which IMHO is kind of retarded to begin with far as a vamp movie goes. At any rate the movie is quite lack luster in the action department as well as the general story and the Kobe Bryant look alike Allen Payne doesn't do it any more justice. It fails as a vamp movie and I don't care if it's trying to be sarcastic or not it really doesn't sell on any level.So here's my advice, the rating is as it deserves. If you're up late one night with nothing else to watch and a few too many in you, then feel free, I was in such a case and still found it a mess honestly. There are better things to waste two hours of your life on (like sleep), but that's just my opinion, you be the judge... If anything the movie is out of date, not due to special effects nor music as it really doesn't have any but for characters and if nothing else lack of anything goodEddie, I like what you've done in the past, but damn... "}{"Title":"Murphy and Craven both try to win - the viewer is the loser.","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A Vampire in Brooklyn suffers primarily due to four main factors 1. / It is directed by Wes Craven, a successful horror director who truth be told has a track record that is extremely hit and miss.2. / It stars Eddie Murphy, already on the downslope after a scintillating run of success in the 80s and early 90s.3. / It sucks&#x85; 4. / Apparently Wes and Ed wrestled for control of the film, arguing over whether it should be a horror with comedic elements, or a comedy with horror elements.Neither man won &#x96; or more accurately &#x96; both lost.The end result is a half-hearted (excuse the pun) effort with smatterings of everything and lots of nothing. A film that has no idea what it wants to be and how it might go about getting there. A film bereft of laughs, scares, and ultimately viewer interest.Murphy plays Maximillian, a smooth undead vampire from the West Indies who must come to Brooklyn for one reason, some vampire poontang that legend has it will help prolong his lifespan.Upon arriving in the city Maximillian enlists Julian (Kadeem Hardison) as his zombified yet still yappy go-fer ghoul. Their repartee is supposed to provide much of what passes as humour in the film, in truth it is merely a series of lamentable puns (Put a little heart into it) and gross out sight gags that often seem out of place.Max's romantical target is an already half-vampire (due to some ancestral shenanigans) named Rita (Angela Bassett), a cop with a jealous partner named Justice (Allen Payne).Despite her instincts Rita finds herself drawn to this pimp looking pointy toothed sleaze merchant due to some unknown connection, but as the legend states that she must give herself to Max via dance the usual Holla at ya' Boi tactics aren't destined to work for Max.Cue the clumsy mix of bad horror, bad comedy and still more bad puns.The film uses the usual vampire rulebook of mirrors, sunlight, mist, crosses and garlic but awkwardly shoehorns jokes on the back of gore and vice versa.An overrated director and a fading comedian in a relationship doomed to failure, thankfully this genre confusing flop was their only offspring. A sequel was set up that thankfully never came, and Murphy fled back to more familiar territory of cop comedies (Metro) and fart gags (The Nutty Professor). Craven on the other hand started churning out Scream movies one after the other.Final Rating &#x96; 4 / 10. Too little of one thing or the other ends up culminating in not much of anything. A big budget smear on Murphy's resume. "},{"Title":"WHAT AN INCREDIBLE WASTE","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first heard Eddie Murphy was going to be starring in a Vampire comedy I thought to myself the possibilities would be endless.  Eddie Murphy was incredibly funny at the time and I thought he would do this movie perfectly.  I could not have been more wrong.  This movie was a waste of talent and energy, and Eddie Murphy is a terrible writer, and he proves it with this movie.Here Murphy plays a vampire from the Caribbean.  He comes to Brooklyn to find a wife.  Sounds good?  The problem is the movie can't decide if it wants to be a comedy or a serious horror movie.  It should have been a comedy, but it just comes off so bad.    The movie really has little to recommend in it because it does not know what it wants to be.The movie tries to be scary, and then the movie breaks into Eddie Murphy doing a James Brown impression as a preacher.  The jokes are so short too.  The movie really does not try to even tell jokes.  The movie really doesn't try to do anything it is just nothing really.  It is amazing that the man who starred in such comedies as Trading Places, Beverly Hills Cop and 48 Hours would star in this movie.  He does a good job but his script just falls apart.The supporting cast is somewhat interesting.  John Witherspoon and Kadeem Hardison are both in this movie.  They do good jobs, but their characters like many in the film just seem completely out of place in this overall pretty bad movie.  This is not one of Murphy's better efforts.  He really could do better, such a brilliant comedic mind has a tendency to miss his mark, as he did in Metro, the Nutty Professor 2 and a few others. The movie should have been a straight comedy.  There should have been none of this serious stuff; it should have been a straight comedy, not any of this trying to be a horror movie or a love story.  Murphy should have known better.  This might be one of the biggest disappointments I have ever seen.  I expected soooooo much out of this movie and got next to nothing.  This definitely was not Eddie Murphy's comeback.  "},{"Title":"Well","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When this movie came out. It was refreshing and entertaining. If you think it suppose to be a serious movie with Eddie Murphy. Come on! You bumped your head. The movie was hilarious. It's creative and one of them Negro movies you have to have along with Coming to America, Tales from the hood and Friday. So enjoy it. It's art, Thanks Wes Craven. Man i even like People under the stairs. I got all the Eddie Murphy movies.I don't want to spoil the movie. Of course it's 2014, so watching this movie would probably be too slow for you but....it has a build up and a twist. Give all the 80's and 90's movies a chance. Peace "},{"Title":"Blackula this is not","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Why oh why, oh why? This film is bad, very bad indeed with little to no redeeming features. I have read that Wes Craven had real problems with Eddie Murphy on set and am prepared to cut him some slack for the films he had previously and subsequently made, as for Mr. Murphy this man had had enough chances he should not be allowed near a screen again (even 'Donkey' in wearing thin). This 'urban' take on the classic Dracula story is lame with Murphy hogging the screen and showing the acting subtlety of a nuclear missile. One wonders what the very talented Angela Basset must have been thinking during the production of this movie. The supporting cast are such run of the mill black stereotypes with nothing to flesh out their characters and Murphy really does not understand his role. Avoid this like the plague. "},{"Title":"Bad...really Bad","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is pretty bad...Eddie Murphy looks like Nick Ashford from Ashford and Simpson. Angela Bassett looks wonderful but she doesnt have a lot to work with. One comical moment is Eddie as the preacher possessed by the vampire "},{"Title":"This movie bites!","Date":"14 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one Eddie Murphy movie that didn't get my goat. I've heard of Blackula, this movie doesn't amuse me that well. You got some multiple characters there There's this vampire from the Caribbean who was in a boat, that wiped out all the crew, and crashed somewhere in New York. This vampire goes to find a bride, who happens to be a cop(Angela Bassett). She's half-vampire. Kadeem Hardison from A Different World fame plays a servant, just like Dracula have only a little sillier. Some scenes in the movie were out of line, especially when the vampire came in form of a preacher. Just like all vampire lords, they go down the usual way, stake, sunlight, holy cross, or head cut off. Wes Craven gives this movie a try, since he's the horror master. However, this horror movie just didn't go for the jugular, it went for the funny bone. It didn't tickle mine though. Sorry! 1 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"A Real Low In Murphy's Career","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"14 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is reverse racism of the worst kind, a film where all the white people are the bad guys and the black people are the good guys. How come racially-biased films like this are politically correct even though they reek of prejudice? All the white people are killed, too. Does make things better? Does that help race relations?Add to that bigotry and very boring love story between Murphy and Angela Bassett and you have a film that was very disappointing. Murphy is a funny guy and someone whose films I usually enjoy....but this was ridiculous. This was a movie that didn't really know what it wanted to be comedy, romance or horror. A good mixture would have acceptable but none of the categories were represented well here.As other people point out, this started off strong but quickly lost itself and was a mess from that point. Where was the direction of this film? This was a real low in Murphy's career, which did plummet until recently. The once-box office star seems to have made a comeback, almost like rising from the dead. In that case, maybe NOW he should have played the vampire! "},{"Title":"A comedy/horror that fails to deliver much of either.","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Wes Craven is one of the most inconsistent directors in horror cinema when on top form, he is a genius, taking risks with unpredictable projects and as a result, often giving the genre a much needed shot in the arm, as proved by groundbreaking movies like Last House On The Left, A Nightmare on Elm Street and Scream; at his least inspired, he is a hack, delivering predictably dumb (but still surprisingly enjoyable) trash like Shocker, Deadly Friend and Cursed.Vampire in Brooklyn is something of an oddity in Craven's erratic career it's definitely not a predictable project for the director&#x97;a comedy/horror featuring a predominantly black cast&#x97;but it certainly is dumb. Written by Eddie Murphy (obviously having a bit of an off day), the script fails to deliver consistent laughs, and even some inspired imagery from Craven cannot prevent this one from being a somewhat disappointing title in the canon of both star and director.It's a shame, because Murphy can be hilarious and makes for a cool vampire, whilst we all know that Craven is capable of creating iconic scary moments; on this particular occasion, however, the magic just isn't there, and although the film cannot ever be accused of being dull, it is ultimately a forgettable flick that rabid Murphy fans might find enjoyable (the star hams it up to the max), but will probably only be of passing interest to horror fans.5.5 out of 10, rounded up to 6 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Bad and boring","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  - Vampire in Brooklyn 3/10One of Murphy's worst roles, as he plays one of two remaining vampires in this supposed comedy. I didn't laugh once. It fluctuated between being a comedy and being a horror. Didn't succeed at either too well. Murphy's acting isn't too bad in this, it's just that the script sucks. Boring movie with just a few decent moments. "},{"Title":"Uneven Craven/Murphy collaboration still manages to entertain","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm assuming this is supposed to be a dark comedy. No pun intended.But ...as a comedy, there aren't any...comedic elements; as a horror movie it's too...well h3ll's bells, the whole movie is nothing but pure camp, and it's not intended to be camp which disqualifies it as good camp; as a love story, it seems to me that the only person Eddie Murphy is in love with is possibly Eddie Murphy; and as a drama...it just isn't.Other than that, I found the characters to be horribly stereotyped, the dialog to be lacking in imagination and reality (where reality could have been an element without hurting the wannabe vampire element), the acting to be of the lowest class, and the zombie element to be nothing but pure ignorance.And yet, somehow, it still manages to entertain. Don't ask me why because I can't begin to explain it, but it strikes a chord.It rates a 4.4/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Glorious entrance, embarrassing retreat&#133;","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I always deliberately avoided watching Vampire in Brooklyn because, quite frankly, the idea of a collaboration between horror-director Wes Craven and comedy-actor Eddie Murphy sounds about as appealing as going on a picnic trip with a tribe of cannibals&#133; You just don't do that! But hey, every horror movie eventually deserves a fair chance &#150; especially when it airs on TV for free &#150; and, who knows, maybe all your prejudices might be proved wrong. Of course your instincts and premonitions are rarely ever wrong, and Vampire in Brooklyn definitely isn't what one would call a good film, but at least the opening sequences mislead me into believing it actually could have become one! The opening is simply terrific and honestly deserves to be part of a different and much better horror movie. Eddie Murphy literally makes a great entrance in the horror genre, but then inevitably ruins it himself by exaggeratedly trying to showcase his talents as a comedian and a master of disguise. After a brief voice-over intro, explaining Maximillian is the last survivor of a breed of vampires that emigrated to the Bermuda triangle who now needs to go to Brooklyn in search for a half-vampire woman, we witness an immense and rudderless ghost-vessel entering the harbor and wildly crushing several yachts like they're ordinary paper boats. Marvellous intro, but unfortunately the film immediately goes downhill after that. The plot still shows a lot of potential, since the half-blood Maximillian finds is an emotionally troubled cop, but lame and totally unnecessary comical sketches continuously interrupt the tension and substantial coherence. The absolute low-points are two overlong and dull scenes with Eddie Murphy transforming into a whiny preacher and an Italian gangster in order to get closer to his muse. Also, and as expected, Murphy isn't the least bit impressive as the supposedly fierce and charismatic vampire. Maybe it's because you automatically associate his face with a series of comedy movies, but as a horror character he's just lousy. Kadeem Hardison provides a couple of noteworthy moments as the ghoul assistant in a constant state of decomposition, but also his rattling and swearing quickly becomes irritating. Wes Craven's style and usual trademarks are hardly ever noticeable and I suspect Eddie Murphy pretty much behaved like he pleased on the shooting. I'm generously rating Vampire in Brooklyn four out of ten, and most of these points go to the great opening and the indescribably beautiful Angela Bassett. "},{"Title":"Swearing Does Not Equal Funny","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film starts with a ship sailing into harbour then before you can say  Motherf***er  VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN quickly sinks . Did you say  Motherf***er  ? Good because that seems to be about the only word the characters in this film can say especially the black characters who are forever speaking sentences like  What the f*** is that motherf***ing sh*t motherf***er ?  Is this funky dialogue supposed to be funny or something ? I thought I`d never start laughing and I didn`t I`m not politically correct or someone who agrees with the inverse fascism that is political correctness but I was greatly offended by the racial stereotypes portrayed in this film , blacks are jive talking dudes , Italians are gangsters and if there were any Arabs in it they`d no doubt be terrorists . Oh and everyone else has noticed VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN doesn`t work as a horror film , a comedy , or a romance . If you`ve got nothing better to do than watch this then maybe you should consider a whole new different lifestyle altogether "}]