[{"Title":"The second best movie ever made about librarians.","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie should be required viewing for all librarians or would-be librarians. All of the best lines are directly related to librarianship. The public library vs. academic library argument is a classic argument waged among librarians and library school students. It also breaks many librarian stereotypes. Librarians might even be capable of having fun -- even if they don't *usually* have sex in the romance languages section! (The best movie about librarians? Desk Set, with Katherine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy, of course.) "},{"Title":"Perfect Posey Fun!","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is a delightful, light hearted look at both sides of where the club kid rave scene blends with the New York art, music and performance art worlds (with a cameo by the omnipresent Miss Bunny). This is Torch Song Trilogy for the perky-post-teen girls. That Girl for our disaffected, affected millennium times.The dialogue is fast and funny, and Parker Posey's costumer deserves - if not an academy award, at least - a stadium wave of kudos.Of course, this film rests on the very stylish platform heels of Miss Posey, and she is perfectly cast. Like a lot of her acting work, it may not be very deep, it is often self-referential and, well, posey... but it all WORKS. She is a talented comedienne, an incredible entertainer, and this film entertains, she carries it on her shoulders like a faux leopard wrap, and never lets it drop to the floor.Mary is a superficial party fashionista who isn't above stealing designer clothing from a friend's closet or making out with someone else's boyfriend. On a deeper level, this is a story of a girl and her friends who are care-less in every sense of the word, including about other people; and the process of learning that caring is necessary to life. The script is beautifully crafted, witty, and the only performance that disappoints is the Aunt, in a role that was much too one-dimensional and heavy handed; a more nuanced performance from her, would have deepened the relationship between the two... but... hey... this is comedy. A surprisingly deep role, that gives this film some substance and world vision, is the fallafel selling boyfriend. We should all be so lucky... is he the one for Mary? or the one that gets away? I rate this as a 8 because it isn't a great moment of film history, it is not a classic, and it is not great art (all of which get deeper and richer on re-viewing). Like Desperately Seeking Susan it represents something very true about it's time period, but may become irrelevant with time. Still, it has everything an entertaining film needs, and is worth viewing several times for the clothes alone! "},{"Title":"Club hopping","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Party Girl capitalizes on the tremendous charm of Parker Posey. In fact, at times, the movie seems to be a vehicle in which Ms. Posey is allow to play herself, as she normally is in real life.The film, directed by Daisy Von Scherler Mayer, is a treat for Ms. Posey's fans. Ms. Von Scherler Mayer takes us on a wild trip into lower Manhattan to show us this aimless soul whose life is dedicated to have fun in the different clubs she constantly frequents. This is an era that still was more naive than what that area and the adjacent Meat Market districts became. At least, there are no pretensions in the films and we see down to earth people going about their lives in a normal way, if we can call it that way.Parker Posey makes an amazing Mary. It's because of Parker Posey we enjoy the movie more than if another actress would have played Mary. She is the whole picture. The rest of the cast is good. "},{"Title":"He-He-Hello","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Okay.  This has been a favourite since I was 14.  Granted, I don't watch it multiple times a year anymore, but... This is not a movie for an older generation who want a deeper meaning or some brilliant message.  This movie is FUN.  It's pretty dated, almost passe, but Parker Posey is so brilliant that it's unbelievable.  If you want to be charmed by a 90's Breakfast at Tiffany's, attended 90's raves, or love Parker, this movie is for you.  Otherwise, don't bother. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good movie","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember seeing this years ago when it first came out and I was floored by Parker Posey's performance. And the movie was pretty good also. For anyone who's spent a little too much time in the nightclub/after-hours scene, this movie will have a special charm for you. Not too serious, mostly funny, and Parker Posey definitely blazes her talented way through this indie gem.I especially liked the Diaz character (reminded me of every single struggling DJ I've ever known). And many other movies could take a cue from this movie on how to preach the virtue of responsibility without being boring and bland about it.Babaganoosh!  "},{"Title":"A trip back to the early rave days.","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Party Girl is one of my all time favorite movies.  The movie portrayed early 90's raving very well.  Raves became distorted in later movies and television shows trying to depict that era of clubbing.  The only show I can think of at the moment is Saved by the Bell The College Years where Zack, wearing all plaid, has an idea to have a rave on campus, decked out with black lights, horrible music, and whip-its.Party Girl set itself apart from these stereotypical rave-umentaries by showing how raves (true raves) were not glow-stick, lolly-sucking teenage rebellion-fests.  Posey, showing style and attitude, portrayed an over-the-top character who isn't necessarily perfect, but plays her part well.  The movie isn't all about drugs, like other genre movies such as Playing Mona Lisa.  Posey played a girl that I know many of.The movie epitomized the early 90's rave era.  Watch this movie at least once just for Posey's performance. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie! This girl is an idiot who criticizes this movie!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is brilliant. The comments made before is from someone who obviously doesn't get it. The movie is campy- yes! But it is uplifting and fun. This movie is an underground hit and brings comparisons to Absolutely Fabulous. It is a must see!  "},{"Title":"Clashing worlds","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie, and I am one of the older people who is not supposed to enjoy it, or so it seems. No, this movie is not deep -- who cares? These kinds of movies never are. But strangely, there is a message in it. It's that we each have the potential to be whatever we want to be.Parker Posey is great in this movie. I've always thought that she bears some resemblance facially to Katharine Hepburn. So, it's great to see that both Hepburn and Posey made movies about librarians (Hepburn's is The Desk Set). All librarians, especially those with a sense of humor, should see Party Girl.I gave this movie an 8. It is not by any means a great film by cinematic standards, although there are some nice shots in it. But it is incredibly charming and entertaining. "},{"Title":"I Wish Parker Posey Would Get More Star Vehicles Like This","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Parker Posey flashes her 1,000-kilowatt smile frequently in this film, and your enjoyment of the movie will rely primarily on how smitten you are by Posey's quirky charm.Count me as a follower. I think Posey is a hoot in everything she's in, incapable of giving an ordinary performance. I have a feeling that in Party Girl she plays a variation of herself, but that's just fine with me. She appears in virtually every frame of the film, but the movie isn't much of anything without her, so I welcomed the overdose of Posey.The script for Party Girl feels half-assed, though I did appreciate the existential crisis faced by Posey's character and the shelter she seeks in the Dewey Decimal System as a way of bringing order to her chaotic existence. I wish the screenwriters had taken clever hooks like that further. And the ending had a conventional, all-loose-ends-tied-up quality that would better suit a television sitcom than an out-there indie film.But none of these faults take anything away from Posey herself, so really, how serious can they be? Grade B "},{"Title":"Good Fun.....","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I liked this movie. I felt that the character of Mary was endearing, and so was her circle of friends. It also had some really great quotes. Well, anyway, I am always partial to Liev films, and this is no exception. I thought that he was outstanding. Hmmm...what else can I say? It's a charming little picture, and it was done before Parker did the horrid Scream 3...so savor her indie talent while you can...looks like she's moving to the mainstream.  "}{"Title":"This movie is a must for any librarian worthy of the profession","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Parker Posey gives new meaning the Dewey Decimal System. Embracing library life she shows that those who work in libraries are not all eye-glass wearing, bun in the hair, sensible shoe types. AND the sound track can't be beat. This one gets me dancing every single time! The story is sweet and fun. Posey is on target as a typical wild child avoiding work at all costs. Librarians around the world should have this movie in their personal collections for viewing anytime. A great pick me up! The stereotypes for librarians are out there - it is nice when mass media blows up those stereotypes (another place the stereotype was recently blasted was on the on the pages of BUST magazine in April 2004).  "},{"Title":"Put it back in the time capsule","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For anyone craving a remake of 1989's Slaves of New York. What are there, seven of you? Here it is... was.This undercooked movie has studiously vapid characters (Well they're club-kids, ya big jerk!) that are in holding patterns. The big question seems to be, just how long can a young adult remain juvenile? It took three people to write this 'story'? Good god, it was easier to come up with Citizen Kane. Rather than take viewers back, this movie should just embarrass anyone who was a scene-ster in the early 90s.The idea that a fifty year old woman envies a bunch of self-absorbed kids from a different era is the world as only self-absorbed, twenty-somethings could imagine it. The odd sidebar about library work is not the sub-plot one expects from the equivalent of Parker Posey's Breakin 2 Electric Bugaloo. Her I'm serious about graduate school! while a stripper grinds on her is hysterical. Posey's shtick is always amusing, but there are projects that are beneath her. I was asleep before it crossed the 40 minute mark. "},{"Title":"Parker Posey party","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Mary (Parker Posey) is a 23 year old party girl in NYC. She gets arrested for charging entry fees to her illegal party. She needs to ask her librarian godmother Judy Lindendorf for bail. When she's dismissed as being irresponsible like her mother, she takes a library clerk job. Her best friend Leo is trying to be a DJ. She falls for the falafel street vendor Mustafa. She doesn't even know the Dewey Decimal System but if they taught a monkey to do it, how hard could it be.Parker Posey is great. After her scene-stealing turn in Dazed and Confused, this was probably the next thing I saw her in. I love her. Interestingly, this also has an early Liev Schreiber performance. This indie has some fun unique lines but it's not that well shot. This needs a better director to bring out the quirky fun out of the screen. "},{"Title":"Parker Posey is perfect in the title role of Party Girl","Date":"10 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After 20 years of only hearing about this quirky comedy, I finally watched this on a DVD I borrowed from the, yes, library. Parker Posey is Mary-the title character who ends up working at the place where books are borrowed because a friend (her godmother who she calls by her first name, Judy) of her late mom is one of the employees there. But Mary, well, she's not always the most responsible of people. Still, she's quite charming especially when dancing or just wearing many of her stylish outfits either in the streets or at the dance clubs she frequents. Ms. Posey is funny and stunning throughout the movie. And her charms are multiplied every time she speaks. And I liked many of the mostly unknown supporting cast that's presented here. So on that note, I highly recommend Party Girl. "},{"Title":"Superb film!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of may all-time favourite films.  Parker Posey's character is over-the-top entertaining, and the librarian motif won't be lost on anyone who has ever worked in the books and stacks world.If you're a library student, RENT THIS.  Then buy the poster and hang it on your wall.  The soundtrack is highly recommendable too.  I've shown this film to more library friends than any other -- they all fall in love with it.   "},{"Title":"Parker Posey-Monell","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I like the way that rolls out... Parker Posey-Monell!  I loved this movie, and I am now on a quest to see all of my future fake bride's films.  I especially loved the dueling falafell stands.  Great stuff.  Finding your place in life is everyone's quest, I think.  This film explores that in a very cool way. "},{"Title":"He-He-Hello!","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  He-he-hello!! This is a really fun movie. Basically, in Party Girl, you have your fun-lovin', independent, early 90's New Yorker chick. Along with  her party friends, she meets a mature Turkish Vendor.  It is a comming of age story for those new adults who are searching for what they want to do. It is comforting to see a female slacker develop into a mature woman. Hope is given to all of us slackers who might feel like their only skills are being able to maintain while hammered and a nack for throwing good parties.On a side note, Parker Posey makes this movie great. I have never been a great fan of her, but this movie makes me just want to watch all of her movies. There are subtle manerisms that perfected her character. If you want good laughs and a fun time, make sure to watch this movie. Repeated viewings are a must. "},{"Title":"It's a party in the stacks","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Being a librarian I really appreciated this movie- because we do have fun on our off hours.  Parker Posey reminded me of a 90's holly golightly...and next time I'm in the romance language section of the stacks I'll think of mary and mustafa... a light movie with some good dancing music... fun...her aunt was a human- the menopause scene was great--- and someone did their research for all the titles mentioned in reference questions do exist.....  "},{"Title":"This movie rocked!Parker rocked!","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great movie for any Parker Posey fan. I saw it like some years ago and I still remember how great it was. It was great. It made you feel good. It makes librarians look great. Parker Posey was the best. I would see any movie with her in it. Im glad I saw Party Girl. I watched it thousands of times before I returned it, and it never got boring. I loved the club scences. Everyone needs to see this movie! "},{"Title":"I disagree. I think it's great fun AND a quality piece of cinema!","Date":"9 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Strange, avant-garde, campy, AND feel-good. This movie walks a delicate line. Parker Posey is phenomenal, but so is the writing and directing which crams every moment and every character with witty humor. It's a cool, sly type of humor, for example a librarian yells out I've already got you on the list for the new Danielle Steele. Then we see that she's talking to a young black man who gives a confused look. Young black males are not Danielle Steele's targeted demographic, so is this a unique man who is embarrassed by being outed as a Steele fan or has the librarian confused him with someone else. That moment causes us to question our stereotypes and gives us a laugh at the same time. But that is one miniscule joke in a movie that has thousands of such bits. It's thoughtful, intelligent and a bit emotional when it comes to the main character's search for herself and her full potential. Bravo! "}{"Title":"What a blast!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was such a blast!  It has that feel-good, yet totally in your face attitude that draws me to a movie.  It has a good message (party girl decides she needs a real job) yet she doesn't completely lose all sense of fun.  I recommend this movie for anyone who needs some humor, but is also a thinker!  ) "},{"Title":"Great flick!","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Myself and my groovadelic 20-something pals just can't get enough of this awesome Parker Posey CLASSIC! I tried renting this on DVD, but can't seem to find it - too bad, as I'm sure the features would be extra special !! ) We all highly recommend this uber-cool comedy flickerino for a date, or even just a cozy night home alone! This would also be the purr-fect type of movie to watch with your cat, or even throw a party based on, like a Party Girl party, just like the one in the movie that the lovable, huggable, squeezable Parker Posey goes to at the end. Oh, and be on the lookout for a gripping and HILARIOUS surprise ending... move aside, The Sixth Sense, you've just been outdone by a way radder movie! Sorry, no offense, just calling it like it is! Take it from an old flick lover, comedy just doesn't get better than Party Girl with Parker P! Feel it! Yours, Ronald Marie MacDougall (aka DJ Cyber-Rap) "},{"Title":"a good idea poorly imagined, underwritten, visually dull","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is a good (short) movie in here somewhere, and I guess some people will respond to what this movie wanted to be, but I don't think it achieves much.  The characters are one dimensional, the story is stretched too far, the visuals look like a mediocre film student with one camera and one lens took one take.I did like watching Parker Posey prance around in pretty clothes, but that doesn't make a movie.  I also like the library jokes, but they weren't presented well.Maybe with some better writing and a much better director, this would have been a good film.  "},{"Title":"Latter-day Breakfast at Tiffany's","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Parker Posey has enough talent to carry this terrific movie, and the plot twists and colorful characters make the movie very memorable.  Several lines are laugh-out-loud.  You will love this movie if you give it a chance. "},{"Title":"An Insightful, often hysterical and silly at times movie!","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember Parker Posey on As The World Turns before she became the Queen of the Independent movies. In this film, Posey shows her potential as a top fledged actress. In this film with supporting cast that includes Omar Townsend as Moustafa, a Lebanese immigrant who works as a falafel salesman on the street, who aspires to become a teacher. The supporting cast features a wonderful actress who plays her godmother and only family relative as Judy, the librarian who is old fashioned, dedicated and menopausal. Posey as Mary learns that she has to grow up and mature. Losing her librarian clerk position makes her realize how much she misses it as a place in her life. Mary's life is surrounded by friends in the Lower East Side Village of New York City before it became gentrified with yuppies. This film is quite good for an independent and I have come to enjoy Parker Posey as Mary as well as other characters in other films. "},{"Title":"Posey is yet again fab!","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" A great 90's flick! Parker Posey is fabulous in this story about the nightlife in Manhattan that requires so much cash. Posey gives an amazing performance as a librarian and a night crawler. This is a good, light movie for Saturday night before you go out. The soundtrack rocks, the outfits are out of this world, the script is funny and the actors do a great job. The redeeming value  you can make it in this world if you try, just find your niche. I believe Parker Posey is the PERFECT actress for this kind of character young, fabulous and broke. (You must look up the movie Clockwatchers ). If you watch Party Girl you are bound to have a good time. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"sisyphus, anyone?","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" am i the only one who saw the connection between the discussion of camus 'the myth of sisyphus' and mary's life? in camus version a man is condemned to spend his eternity with a giant boulder that he must roll up a hill. unfortunately every time he reaches the top the boulder slips and ends up back at the bottom for him to start. there may have been a buzzard pecking at his eyes, i'm not sure right now. in the movie mary spends her life struggling to get her life together, unfortunately every time she gains any footing she falls and loses everything. case in point would be the party she throws where she gets intoxicated, offends her falafel lover, and is practically attacked by liev schrieber. in case you question this theory, note how this scene ends with her attempting to climb a flight of stars while books fall from nowhere impeding her progress until ultimately she passes out. the next morning when she awakens she is still on the stairs, never having reached the top. "},{"Title":"nice clothes","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a cute movie, but what's even cuter about it are the clothes Posey gets to wear.Great clothes, cute love interest, funky camera angles and an uplifting ending make for a fun under-dog story. "},{"Title":"Behind the fun it's aweful.","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Party Girl's basically a movie about how your friend's superficial, mean-spirited, disenchanted mom got to be that way. It's a fun movie with good music that will have you saying he-he-hellooo for days.  But it's also a sadly confused tale full of stupid decisions and wrong assumptions; bad ideas masquerading as big life lessons.Mary's a natural people-person and a reckless party girl. Her nightclub friends straddle that goofy fun and out-of-control divide as if written by someone in the know. She's tired of never having the rent though, and wants to grow up. She looks to her godmother for guidance a terminally unhappy and out-of-shape woman who lives in stability as a librarian. The woman's an unpleasant toad who never learns jack, and yet she still somehow represents an ideal of responsibility and good life choices. Wacky.So Mary decides to toss her social skills, erase her personality, and pursue a career she cares nothing about. Hey, who needs event co-ordinators and creative directors when we can have librarians who don't read?  It's hard work, but it pays off. She becomes an achiever.  She even sets her sights on a certain hunky guy, and totally lands her man! Turns out they absolutely nothing in common, but it's Love. Of course she'll have to stay in line if she wants to keep him. There's some necessary turmoil around the corner.I'd like this movie if it was just a bunch of funny stuff, but it's not. I'd like it if it was a win some/loose some character examination, but it's not that either. It's really a movie where characters are supposed to grow and learn something; instead they just go after prizes. The nightlife setting pokes fun at itself in believable ways, but then falls through as a plot element because no superior lifestyle is presented. It might as well be an office story. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is not really good. It is addicting though, maybe because it's always on cable like Empire Records. Anyhow, this raver-girl in New York gets a job at a library and falls in love with a hot dog vendor. Yes, it's king of the cheese. But for some reason I watch it everytime it's on. Parker Posey plays the lead, maybe that's it. She's on-screen the entire movie and is really great to watch. Yeah, that's must be it. If this movie had anyone else playing the lead I probablly wouldn't even remembered the title. "}{"Title":"Boring, boring...","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Besides being boring, the scenes were oppressive and dark.  The movie tried to portray some kind of moral, but fell flat with its message.  What were the redeeming qualities??  On top of that, I don't think it could make librarians look any more unglamorous than it did. "},{"Title":"A pocket full of Posey","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Party Girl is all about Posey, tossed like a salad with a load of inconsequential side characters, as she labors to breathe  life into her character; a shallow party animal who tries to get unshallow. This flick bears the scars of cost cutting, doesn't managed to conjure any reasonable semblance of a story, and wanders drunkenly with a make-it-up-as-you-go feel as it manages a few comic moments, a skosh of poignancy, and little else. The bottom line here is If you like Posey, you may like this film. If you don't like Posey, you probably should pass on Party Girl. (C+)Note - If you check the stats for this film you'll see a pretty obvious bell curve (Normal Gaussian distribution) with one obvious anomaly The big spike at the 10 point mark. Since no one in their right mind could equate this dinky little indie to the best films ever made, one can assume the anomaly is either ballot box stuffing or the result of cultists or both. I only mention this because this is often seen on this website and can be misleading. "},{"Title":"Fingernails-on-chalkboard irritating.","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A waste of time. Posey plays a young slacker who doesn't want to do anything else but what the title implies. She recruits herself as a librarian but without the proper skills things don't work out as they should, so she gets back to her rave lifestyle. Sundance accepted this stinker simply because it was low budget and has actors familiar to the low-budget/Indy movie consortium. Independent does not mean good.  "},{"Title":"Good cast, good idea, badly done","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I work in a library and expected to like this movie when it came out 5 years ago.  Well I liked Parker Posey a lot (she's a wonderful actress) and Omar Townsend was really cute as her boyfriend (he couldn't act but when you look like him who cares?) but the movie was bad.  It wasn't funny or cute or much of anything.  Posey kept the movie afloat with her energy.  But she learned the Dewey Decimal system OVERNIGHT and then shelves tons of books to the beat of music??!!!!???  Come on!  Also I did have a problem with the way she looked when she became a full-fledged librarian at the end--hair in a bun, glasses, no sense of humor--can we let that stereotype go please?  Worth seeing for Posey and Townsend but that's about it.  The TV series was much better. "}]