[{"Title":"Respectful to the the genre.","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  FREAKING LOVED IT!This (to me) is a perfect flick for what it's aiming at. Seven people and a drifter named Braker are trapped inside a old church/ new motel while the super cool COLLECTER (Billy Zane, in a role that was meant for him) and his group of nipple pierced, glow in the dark green eyes, cloven hooved, goatee sporting, slimy demons trick and mangle the cast in order to get a relic key that hold the power of darkness from taking over the world.Ernest Dickerson does well in the directing seat. The horror,comedy, and drama all combined nicely and never went over with the drama or comedy. None of it felt forced. As for the characters, I really warmed up to them (even the asshole Roach), all of the actors brought a little something special to their rather thin roles. I'll always remember the sad prostitute Cordelia, the no bulls*** Irene, or the funny need a drink hobo Uncle Willie. THE COLLECTOR is the main highlight of this movie. Excellent delivery by Zane. The man is too cool for TITANIC. I loved the way he persuaded some of the residents into selling there soul, it was more then just having the demons come in. The idea of the blood in the key and being able to make barriers of not letting in the demons was pretty slick too. William Sadler and Jada Pinkett brought a lot of drama and humanity to the movie, they served their characters well. The gore is also kick ass and works well (all about that arm getting ripped off, and hand punching through a face) and the demons looked pretty sickMy only complaint is the whole shooting the demons in the eyes to kill them was kinda blah, but Billy Zane has fun with even that (I SHOULD KNOW, WHO MAKES UP ALL THESE RULES). This is one cool movie, stands on its own two feet and pays respect to a lot of past horror movies, any true HORROR fan will appreciate THIS. ROCK ON CRYPT KEEPER!!!... thanx for all those hot babes that flash their stuff, it went well with the movie and never felt sleazy.DEMON KNIGHT ***1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"A fun pastiche of EC Comics pulp","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was a big fan of the Tales from the Crypt TV show. Thus, I am a fan of this movie. It feels a lot like one of the Creepshow movies but has enough gore, humor and OTT carnage but it just doesn't have enough scope to brake away from the TV show and stand alone as a big screen movie.Brayker (William Sadler) is a drifter who stumbles upon a lonely desert town after an explosive confrontation with The Collector (Billy Zane), a supremely evil being with Satanical powers who is desperate to get his hands on Brayker's mysterious talisman. Brayker spends the night in a shabby motel but The Collector soon turns up and unleashes hell upon the motel and it's inhabitants.This is where the fun really kicks in. The Collector has fun enticing the residents (made up of Dick Miller, Charles Fleisher, Thomas Haden Church, Brenda Bakke, Jada Pinkett-Smith and CCH Pounder) to join him on his dark quest and steal the talisman from Brayker. Director Ernest Dickerson (who also did Surviving the Game) does not hold back on the gore as he spoofs 1950's B-movies, honor's the TV show and pays brilliant homage to the Tales From The Crypt comic book legacy. It may be nothing more than a cheap, horror comedy with no artistic integrity but Dickerson still successfully pulls of a movie that will satisfy and entertain anyone who watches it. Half of the movie's appeal lies with Billy Zane who acts out the role of The Collector with such wicked charm and delightful evil. You can tell he's having a great time and he makes a counterpoint villain for Sadler's dishevelled hero. They could have made more Tales From The Crypt movies, but producers Robert Zemeckis, Gilbert Adler and Joel Silver (Walter Hill and David Giler ducked out) went on to found Dark Castle, the production company behind House on Haunted Hill, Thir13en Ghosts and Ghost Ship. "},{"Title":"Billy Zane steals the show","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Billy Zane raises what would be a decent horror/action movie to a higher plane. His deadpan delivery and funny quips are surprising in a character that is supposed to be the quintessential evil demon. If there was any justice in the world Zane would've been considered for an award. His performance is that good. The special effects look dated now, but that doesn't hurt the movie significantly. The characters are sufficiently fleshed out (pun intended) making them a little more than meat for the rampaging demons. The story, while interesting, doesn't make a lot of sense, at least not the back story. God created the Earth but the demons were already there and had 7 keys which gave them power over the cosmos? Huh? That aside, the movie is well done and Zane's performance is not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"Hope you weren't expecting a series episode...","Date":"3 September 1998","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" ...because Demon Knight delivers as a theatrical release.  Billy Zane gives an incredible performance, but so does practically everyone in this here.  There seem to be few good supernatural horror movies out there in this, the mid-late 90's, but Demon Knight is one of the best.  It presents an interesting mythology and setup, and you're left to wonder who will get out , and what will be left of them.  There's some nice misleading, as we're not really sure what Zane's character's role is in the proceedings until...well , let's say he gives the Sheriff a hand.  The framing device of Tales from the Crypt itself is mildly annoying, but it's pretty much gone and over with. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" one of the best films of recent years... on a budget that is. yes the acting is happy at times (and brilliant in others, William Sadler really showing his skill as the old man tired of running) and the sets are filmsy, the special effects range from mediocre to terrible but the shining diamond here is the script and story. having studied both philosophy and theology i read so much more into this film and truly mark it out as one of the best horror films ever. depth, great concept, brilliant script, wonderful set pieces, and a film that sets up the rules and refuses to break them. if only it hadn't been made with that damn crypt keeper!!! "},{"Title":"Very gory and enjoyable","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A man named Brayker (William Sandler) is being pursued by the evil Collector (Billy Zane).  He holes up in an isolated hotel with typical stock characters and they all try to make it through the night against Zane and his demon army.  The first theatrical off-shoot of HBO's excellent Tales from the Crypt series.  The story is ridiculous, but the acting is good.  Jada Pinkett is very good as one of the residents of the hotel and Billy Zane is excellent as the Collector.  He's obviously enjoying himself, his character is constantly joking and it rubs off on the audience.  Also the film has VERY extreme gore--I'm surprised it got an R rating.  And there's the obligatory, gratuitous female nudity.  Unfortunately, there's not enough plot for a 90 minute movie.  There's lots of padding and it slows the movie down.  Still, it's funny, has great gory moments and Zane's performance.  Worth catching--especially for horror fans.  Avoid at ALL costs, the second (and last) theatrical Tales movie Bordello of Blood.  "},{"Title":"Billy Zane should have won an Oscar","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*The Collector, (Billy Zane), wants his key. William Sadler has it and won't give it back. Sadler escapes to a motel in the middle of nowhere. The main man Zane follows in hot pursuit. Soon the humans will have to do battle against Demon Knight Zane and his hordes of undead ghoulies. Blood, guts and green ooze spurt out in abundance.Billy Zane is hilarious as the Collector. It is surely one of the finest portrayals ever of a demon from Hades. He is as cool as cool can get. He should consider playing a vampire in some future Zane adventure. Count Zane. I can see it. How the Academy overlooked this performance is a mystery.Demon Knight is a great horror/action flick. The Crypt Keeper shows up to bookend the simple story of a motel overrun by green eyed demons. The gore is plentiful and gruesome. Every part of the human body is violated. Arms, eyes, hearts and other important organs are punctured with demonic glee. It's demons vs. humans with Zane trying to seduce everybody. Can anyone resist Zane's satanic power? Only the pure of heart will survive.One last thing, keep an eye out for a familiar face among the party babes in Uncle Willy's seduction scene. Porno superstar Chasey Lain shows up to help push Uncle Willy over to the dark side. Her demonic topless power was too much for any mortal man to resist.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Cool Creatures, Extreme Scenes and part of a cool collection!!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This Movie Rocks, it is definately a movie you should go see if you call yourself a real horror genere fan, because with this movie youll have fun and see a great spectacle of special effects, performances and ghouls, Tales from the Crypt deliver again with this great movie, This is the definitive Tales Movie because it´s next installment Bordello of Blood was not near as good as this one, hope you do rent it and add it to your collection as I did to mine, I have its official big movie poster on my room and love it very much, Thank you. Ill give it a terrific 10 out of 10 on Dark Comedic cool Horror. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good camp kitsch!","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I can't claim to have seen much of the TV show 'Tales from the Crypt', but I saw Bordello of Blood on TV a few years back and found it to be an enjoyably silly piece of camp. I was expecting similar from this film, and that's pretty much what I got - although Demon Knight is clearly better than Bordello of Blood. The film never takes itself too seriously, and that ensures that it is put across to the audience in the right way. Plots similar to the one featured in this film have been the basis for serious horror films in the past, but the fact that this film has a bit of fun with it is definitely in it's favour. The mythology behind the plot is actually quite good, and follows the idea of a 'collector' who is on the trail of a key bearer. The key he seeks contains the blood of Christ, and there are seven scattered across the globe. This is the last one, and if the collector gets his hands on it could spell the end of the world...the final battle is about to take place, only it happens to be in a motel with a motley crew of different characters.One of the most surprising things about this film is the cast list! The film features performances from two stars who have received praise recently; Jada Pinkett Smith and Thomas Haiden Church. CCH Pounder, who starred in the critically-acclaimed Baghdad Cafe, appears also, while Dick Miller ensures that there's an ounce of cult status among the cast. The lead roles are taken by William Sadler and Billy Zane. Sadler is good enough, but it's Zane who really makes this film what it is. He gets to enjoy himself entertaining the audience as the lead villain, and ensures that every scene he's in is a lot of fun. For an inexpensive film, the effects are also rather good. They do look cheap, but the demons look more realistic than most computer generated effects. The way that the film pans out reminded me a lot of the Robert Rodriguez/Quentin Tarantino flick, From Dusk Till Dawn in that we've got 'the good guys' trapped with some monsters, and we watch as they get picked off one by one. Overall, this isn't a great film; but its lots of fun, and anyone that enjoys silly horror comedies will be right at home with it. "},{"Title":"Severely UNDERRATED!!...6.3?? HA!..This film was EXCELLENT!","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm gonna keep this short & simple,this film is grrrrreat FUN..from start to finish it has just the right mix of action,adventure,horror,suspense,some comedy,great gore etc. It was riveting & fast paced with ZERO boring moments & it's DEFINITELY going to keep you glued to the screen.The cast was perfect & every single person played their part well.I heard the budget wasn't a big one but you won't notice cause the special effects are pretty decent.The 6.3 rating on here doesn't do this kick @ss film justice at all! Buy it, rent it whatever but SEE it,it's an hour & a half well spent! 10 out of 10 stars! "}{"Title":"All guts and real gory!","Date":"2 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" During the opening credits, we see a low key car chase over the gloomy tones of Filter's Hey Man Nice Shot, which sets the pace for the gore fest before us. Still clueless as to who's the bad guy, we find the guilty looking Brayker (William Sadler), stumble into a whore house in the middle of a desert, on a stormy night. Soon to follow, is The Collector (Billy Zane), with a kind hearted southern drawl, and his squeaky clean smile. Brayker is trying to hide something, and we don't know what it is, but The Collector want's it pretty bad. By the time The town sheriff arrives to sort things out, we're quite certain that Brayker is the villain. It's not until The Collector punches a hole through the sheriff's head that we begin to see what the film has to offer. The next hour and a half is filled with enough blood and gore to make even the pickiest horror fan stand and salute. Billy Zane is awesome as a mid level demon trying to move up (or down) the ladder and William Sadler, who normally plays smaller rolls, is a believable hero and carries the film to it's gruesome end. I am a horror fan, and this film has consistently remained in my top five since it's release. "},{"Title":"Ready for your deadtime story?","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was excellent. The story is great and truly lives up to the EC comics and tv series. All the actors give impressive performances, especially Billy Zane. Zane's character is both threatening and humorous. Like the show, the movie is filled with surprises from beginning to end. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Creepy Classic","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What made this so creepy was that the scenario was in the bad guys favor.Demons have been trying to recover 7 keys for evil intentions. They've already found 6 keys and now they're after the last one.Billy Zane played the collector demon in perhaps the most underrated bad guy role ever. He was twisted yet so funny. Superb acting especially by William Sadler(as always).The demons can be killed by anything destroying their eyes or blood from a previous demon knight. Gore, blood and a weird sex scene included also. This movie went all out and broke boundaries.This is a pass the torch movie and its surprising to see who becomes the new demon knight. "},{"Title":"A fun horror-comedy that should be higher than a 6.0.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Demon Knights-Jada Pinkett, William Sadler, Billy Zane, Thomas Haden Church, Dick Miller, CCH Pounder, Brenda Bakke, Gary Farmer, Charles Fleischer and John Kassir(voice).This film is great. It opens and ends with the Cryptkeeper who is very amusing as always, but that's nothing. The film itself is great. Billy Zane is a demon who is trying to get his key back from William Sadler, who lives forever as long as he has that key, which stops hell from coming to Earth. Sadler meets Dick Miller who shows him a hotel, that ends where everyone is trapped in because of Zane and friends, but Zane cannot get in. He seduces the people with the thing they want the most (respect, naked women, beer etc.) It's great and a good use of 82 minutes of your life.4/5 stars. rated R for some gory violence, brief language and two scenes of topless women. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time around 13 years ago, I was just a kid. Back in the day me and my dad went to Videoland every 2 weeks or so and rented 10 flicks at a time for a week, VHS off course. For my age ( around 10 ) I was interested in very different movies then my classmates or friends. I always picked out action, ninja and horror movies, like Commando, Gremlins, Highway to Hell etc. This time I picked Demon Knight, as well as 9 other movies which off course I can't remember. But the funny thing is, I never watched a single one of them. Yes people, for 7 days straight I was sucked into Demon Knight. I was so impressed by this movie back then, that I watched it like 15 times in 1 week. For me this movie is a cult classic and is one of my favorite movies of all time. I grew older, so I know a good movie is something like Godfather or the Dark Knight ( generally speaking ) but the memories from this movie from when I was a kid are still engraved into my mind and I can watch it anytime with full enjoyment. Sorry for the small back story but I really wanted to try and tell why I love this freaking movie.This movie starts off with a drifter named Brayker ( William Sadler ) trying to get away from a cowboy-like dude called The Collector, which is a role meant to be played by Billy Zane. This guy just nails it, and is definitely the star in this movie. After a car crash with a big bang, Sadler makes a run for an old church converted into a bar. This will be set piece for the whole movie. We find out that Sadler has a mysterious Relic and Zane is a demon working as a collector trying to get the relic back to his masters. Because before the earth was created it was ruled by demons, and they had 7 keys to keep the planet in darkness. Then god came along and divided the keys and drove off the demons. The key Sadler holds is the last one they need to bring back eternal darkness. I know it sounds cheesy and it is, but it doesn't really matter. Inside the key is blood, which can be used to seal doors and windows to create a blood barricade so the demons can't enter, this idea always fascinated me and I remember playing as a kid with colored water to replicate this tool.This movie has it all. 8 People stuck in a bar getting attacked by the demons of darkness. You got your typical asshole Roach, the friendly old uncle Willy, local prostitute Cordelia, nerdy type guy Wally, big momma Irene and the young Jada Pinkett Smith adding some drama to this movie. But Billy Zane is king as the collector, an evil character with a laid back style and lots of twisted humor. After the first dull 15 minutes, sh!t will hit the fan when Zane just punches right through a police officer's head, Classic ! And it gets better, we even see an arm getting ripped off, brilliant. Zane brings out some demon sidekicks, really ugly looking bastards, but they look cool, to get into the hotel and attack. The lame thing is, that you need to shoot 'em in the eyes to kill them, I've seen that before. What I also liked about this flick was how Zane tries to bribe everyone in change for their souls. Uncle Willy for example got into a dream-like scene where he was surrounded by dozens of women, topless ! Awe-some movie people. Zane as star, and Sadler respectively second playing a believable character on the run for his life and that off the entire world. We see fists through face punches, arms getting ripped off, explosions, blood, demons, boobies. This is a classic ! "},{"Title":"What a surprise!","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When my friends and I rented this movie out, we were expecting the usual tales from the crypt trash. But after the stupid host is out of the way, the movie is class. The actors turn in excellent performances, particularly Billy Zane. The story is excellent and actually scary. Not for all tastes though, especially young children. It is a pure horror movie, so if you don't like that stuff, stay away. Definitely a surprise hit, one of the best horrors of the 90's. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!  And I don't even like horror films!","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales From the Crypt Demon Knight from 1995 is an awesome movie. I bought it because I'm a Billy Zane fan and had heard and read so many reviews about his performance in this film. And boy, where they right! I'm not even a fan of horror films, but this one is so cheesy and campy and silly and fun! And Im not a fan of gore either, but surprisingly I was able to handle the gore. I guess because most of it was green goo! Billy Zane plays The Collector, a demon who is in forever pursuit of Brayker (William Sadler), because Brayker has a key that The Collector desperately wants to get ahold of. But Brayker won't give The Collector the key because then that would be the end of all man kind and The Collector and his horde of demons would rule the world. So The Collector chases Brayker to a run down hotel in a remote town and when Brayker refuses to give up the key The Collector summons his horde of demons to wreak havoc on the hotel's residents. So now Brayker has to get rid of all the demons and the residents must try and escape the seductively evil Collector's enticing offers to possess their souls and turn them into demons. And the only way to keep the demons from entering the hotel is to seal the doors and windows with the ancient blood that the key is filled with. This movie was so entertaining. I'm a fan of the TV series Tales From the Crypt, but this film version is so much better. I think most of the film's success has to do with the amazing performance from Billy Zane. He was so perfect as The Collector. He was deliciously creepy, sexy, funny, and scary all at once. At one moment you're falling in love with his intense stare and friendly smile, and then the next moment you're frightened of him by seeing the horrible things he does to the residents to get his key. Billy was perfectly cast and there is no other actor that comes to mind who would play The Collector better. William Sadler was equally as good as Brayker. You felt so much sympathy for him and his character was likable. Jada Pinkett was also outstanding in one of her early roles. She was funny and cute and likable too. She was a great heroine. The rest of cast, including Thomas Haden Church, CCH Pounder, Dick Miller and Brenda Bakke all did fine jobs as well. I don't' think there was any performance I didn't like. I love Demon Knight because it's a horror film that is scary, funny, sexy, and creepy all at once. There are so many funny scenes and funny memorable quotes in this film. There are hardly any boring moments in the film. Although I will admit that only the scenes that involve the Collector are the most entertaining ones. The Collector is one of those characters that you love to hate because he's so evil!! Demon Knight isn't one of the greatest movies ever made but it's certainly fun and classic and fans of horror shouldn't be disappointed. I'm sure glad I bought it!! Thanks for reading my review! ) ) ) "},{"Title":"They should have ended it  WITH THIS GEM!!!","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Great atmosphere,acting,and gore make this movie a MUST HAVE especially if you are a T.F.T.C. fan.BILLY ZANE gives an excellent performance,as do most of the cast members.Any movies that has you caring in any way for the characters weather they live or die is great,and this does not disappoint.The story is surprisingly unique even for a horror film,and Set up beautifully for multiple sequels.I was hopping this would end up like nightmare on elm street with like 5 sequels but alas.......Would have Been a FANTASTIC CONCLUSION to the series IF NOT FOR THE EASILY FORGETTABLE BORDELLO OF BLOOD.In all THE CRYPT KEEPER AT HIS FINEST!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Billy--Zane! Billy--Zane! Billy--Zane!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is a very good movie... personally, Billy Zane's best movies he has played in... Not like the show, Tales From The Crypt, this movie shows horror, drama, sadness, laughter, did i mention, for some of us sensitive people... a tear-jerker at the end... yes, i'll admit it...at the end, I cried, and that shows surprizingly, this movie does put emotions in here.Not your typical Tales From The Crypt! *This movie unlike the show, which occasionally is funny, when you consider that annoying, screeching Crypt Keeper as funny, places comedy in this movie Demon Knight. If I could name the top 3 horror movies, this would be one of them, (note The Rage, Carrie 2, and Species II are others) because, it's gory, yes, but it has the scary type of horror too, that makes you jump and scream...when things jump out of nowhere. Someone did a good job constructing what the demons looked like, too. All I have to say is... Go rent this movie! "},{"Title":"Love the movie love the show.","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is the first movie of Tales from the Crypt that was made and released. When I saw it I enjoyed it I am a big crypt fan and just love the show. I recommend seeing this movie if you are a big fan of the show or love horror movies this is a movie you will love if you fit the recommendations. The DVD was great you can buy it by itself or with bordello of blood. The movie has to be the best tales movie yet. The movie has great hactors. The movie has a well written plot and is a great movie to watch in the dark. It would be great TO WATCH IN October on Halloween knight.I hope you enjoyed my speech and i hope it was not a waste of your time thanks! "}{"Title":"The Cryptkeeper goes Hollywood.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I tell ya, after getting through the first scenes in the movie I thought this was going to be THE film. A new classic.Well, it just turned out to be an intro and had nothing to do with the actual movie. What we get to see is a story called 'Demon Knight'.  Billy Zane, is excellent, a funny yet bad demon who throughout time has been chasing Brayker (William Sadler). Brayker is the carrier of a relic which has been hidden from these demons since the beginning. So far, they have been successful at warding off the demons, but he is now trapped in this small town's seedy hotel.The movie started out great with an excellent car chase and an amazing soundtrack (Filter's Hey Man Nice Shot). It's one of the best soundtracks I have ever owned. Then the movie begins to fall into a lull. Stuck in a hotel, Sadler and the rest of the guests and staff defend the hotel from the inside...trying to keep the demons on the outside. Flashbacks throughout time like the death of Christ and one of the World Wars were great. But if only that could have been more used and developed.Still a pretty good horror movie, mainly the only drawback was the fact that it was relegated to a typical horror movie when it could have been something great.  "},{"Title":"My nipples are smoking!","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Fun horror comedy with lots of action and camp appeal. Billy Zane plays a demonic mystery man looking for a powerful artifact in the possession of a drifter holed up in a hotel in New Mexico with an odd group of people, including a very sexy-cute Jada Pinkett. The people in the hotel try to stay alive while Zane and his demons try to get in. It's the first theatrical film from the Tales from the Crypt TV series and features bookends with the Cryptkeeper. I thought the TV show was hit or miss but I enjoyed this movie a lot. In some ways it's yet another Sam Raimi clone but it's enjoyable for what it is. Billy Zane is lots of fun. Jada Pinkett, William Sadler, Thomas Haden Church, Brenda Bakke, CCH Pounder are all good. Dick Miller's in this! Oh and the soundtrack is really good if you like '90s metal. It's a fun movie that's better than it has any right being. "},{"Title":"Go Billy !","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie is a stand out production! Makes me miss the way movies were made before computers took over. The special effects in this movie are fun, adventurous and unbelievably funny. I looooooved this movie! It was a surprise, I though this would take me to a simple movie plot. It had an underlying subtext that made this so much more fun. Billy Zane in this movie, so cheeky brilliant, charismatic and loveably Evil. The creatures are to die for! Wow, special effects creature company grade A+ ! Real deamons are the best deamons* THe crypt keeper <3 <3 <3 Soundtrack, let me pass out now from great production and art. This team kicks ass! oh, and side note; this movie made me reminisce because my uncle worked on it and I watched the pre edited tapes as a child ) "},{"Title":"Tales from the Crypt Demon Knight","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Crypt Keeper has always looked pretty dodgy if you ask me, a pretty bad puppet but hey its not all about him. The actual set for his crypt always looks cool in a 'Munster/Addams' type way which is fun and kooky, nothing special though.So ye olde Crypt Keeper intro's the story which is a feature length plot and based around a group of people stuck in a building with a demon outside after their blood and a special key which one of them processes. Its kinda like a horror version of 'Assault on Precinct 13' with an 'Evil Dead' black comedy angle which does work pretty well I must admit. Billy Zane does a good job as the head demon hamming it up something huge and churning out some decent lines and visual gags. Up against him is William Sadler who, for once, plays the hero and the only one who can stop the demons.The action is good fun and chock full of decent makeup and prosthetics with lots of over the top blood n gore by the bucket full. The plot is actually quite deep revolving around demons dating back through the ages with 'chosen ones' being the only defenders etc...a bit more in depth than the usual Crypt tales.Bottom line though if you like 'Evil Dead' or 'From Dusk Till Dawn' or 'Feast' then I'm sure you will like this.6/10 "},{"Title":"HBO's Tales From the Crypt makes it to the big scream!","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anyone who grew up within 1989 to 1996 is familiar with HBO's original series based on EC's horror comics of the 1950's. Tales From The Crypt with the genre attitude and look and feel of the 1980's anthology classics together with John Kassir (the voice of the crypt keeper) and animatronics expert, Kevin Yagher and the talents of William Gaines, Walter Hill, Robert Zemeckis. This remarkable series was able to convince Universal Studios to invest in a full length motion picture episode entitled Demon Knight that would consist of Hollywood actors Billy Zane and Jada Pickett together with character actors such as William Sadler and Dick Miller.Sadler is a thief turned prophet/protector who must save the world from demon (Billy Zane) who is hellbent on collecting the final key to the possession of the universe in the form of an artifact that contains the blood of the holy savior that can inevitably keep him from turning the world into a reign of darkness and despair. It just so happens that Sadler is involved in a prophecy in which he must pass the key to the next chosen soul (Jada Pinckett) who subsequently inherits the task of saving the world from its inhuman downfall. Seven characters with distinct personalities are held up in a converted church/mine, and must fight the demons before they possess and take over everything.This moderate box office sensation sets the stage for a fast-paced comic style adventure in horror and humor as an excellent cast together with a coherent script and delightfully dark atmosphere pay homage to its origins as well as its evolution in the horror market. Billy Zane has a hell of a good time playing the demonic collector, and the rest of the cast plays it out with plenty of glory and gusto even know some of the action and screenplay are at times silly and exaggerated. Good cameos including Dan Larroquette and Sherrie Rose and a pleasing but forwarding ending highlight this tribute to the modern HBO series and classic comic books. This film will soon go on to inspire the Tarantino/Rodriguez smash hit From Dusk Till Dawn. Bordello of Blood will be the next full-length motion picture, and the Tales From The Crypt series will air for a full seven seasons. "},{"Title":"Good old fashioned horror fun","Date":"3 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales From The Crypt Demon Knight is a forgotten and underrated gem. From the outset, the movie sets it pace as all out and doesn't let up. Being a TFTC title, of course it is filled with camp, but at it's heart this is just classic, good old fashioned horror fun. Billy Zane's performance as The Collector is one of his best and shows his chops as something more than just another handsome guy. Also strong is William Sadler - here taking a break from his oft-played redneck roles and delivering a surprisingly deep character in Brayker. The entire ensemble is made up of terrific actors and, even in a campy horror movie, they give strong performances. the story itself felt different, and not simply a retread of other horror flicks. It has a certain cleverness and wit that I find is missing in many movies of it's type. If i were going to categorize this I'd place it closer to The Cabin In The Woods or From Duck 'Til Dawn than i would Dead Alive or the Saw films. One could say it was overdone in parts, or too campy, but they'd be missing the point. This is a Tales From The Crypt movie, after all, and a touch of the eccentric and camp is to be expected. There is more to this movie than meets the eye and, if one goes into with an open mind, they will be rewarded with one HELL of a ride. Overall, I thought TFTC Demon Knight was unorthodox in it's approach and handled well in terms of the balance between camp, horror, comedy, and drama. The acting and actors are strong and play sit straight, despite it's tone and topic. The effects are great, including some innovative design work, and the soundtrack is still good to this day. I recommend this one to any horror fan. "},{"Title":"A Fun B Movie That Shouldn't Be Missed","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Demon Knight is a B movie that shouldn't be underestimated.Taking its ques from the hit-or-miss HBO series Tales From the Crypt, Demon Knight is a horror movie that never takes itself too seriously and has a lot of positive going for it. As a horror movie, it is boiler plate, average, run of the mill. But, the self aware gags it has with itself, the decent effects, and the interesting development and pace it takes sets it above the crap you might expect.A masterpiece this is not, but it's fun, can be dark and serious, and has it's humor when needed. Also, this movie is worth the watch just for Billy Zane alone.And if you say Bordello of Blood is better than this movie, your sarcasm is appreciated. "},{"Title":"Great movie (with great actors) from beginning to end!","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my all time favorite movies, and it's the very first movie I saw more than twice while still in theaters. I was already a fan of Tales from the Crypt, and with this movie, there were constant thrills from beginning to end, and everyone was involved in causing those thrills. This was also the very first movie I ever saw Jada Pinkett in--I had never even heard of her before; I absolutely loved her part, and I was already a William Sadler fan from having seen him in Die Hard 2. From beginning to end, the action & suspense keeps you rolling right along on the edge of your seat! The bottom line is this is a movie that I absolutely love, & I have seen it more than 20 times already. The only thing that I did not like about this movie was that it took about 8-10 minutes or so for the actual movie to start. ) "},{"Title":"I am not going to hurt you... unless you make me.  Entertaining Tales from the Crypt big screen outing.","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Demon Knight starts with the usual Tales from the Crypt (1989 - 1996) intro & a few puns from the Crypt Keeper (voiced by John Kassir) as he introduces a tale called Demon Knight... A man named Frank Brayker (William Sadler) is driving along a lonely highway as a demon known as the Collector (Billy Zane) closely follows, Brayker's car runs out of fuel & he continues to run from the Collector on foot. Brayker ends up at a nearby town called Wormwood where he meets a guy named Willy (Dick Miller) who takes him to an old Church now used as a Motel owned by Irene (CCH Pounder) who lets him have a room for the night. Meanwhile the Collector & the local police, Sheriff Tupper (John Schuck) & Deputy Bob (Gary Farmer) get wind of where Brayker is & want to question him about an attempted car theft. Things don't go to plan & Brayker is in fact the keeper of a key, one key out of a set of seven that if the Collector gets his hands on will be able to unleash a horde of demons across the world. It's Brayker & the few remaining residents of the Motel against the Collector & his horde of demons who will stop at nothing to obtain the key...Directed by Ernest R. Dickerson (& Gilbert Adler who directed the Crypt Keeper sequences) Demon Knight was the first big budget big screen spin-off from the popular (& great) Tales from the Crypt TV series that was meant to be part of a trilogy, a second film Bordello of Blood (1996) was made but a third never materialised because Bordello did so badly at the box office it killed the idea & series, to date anyway. The script by Ethan Reiff, Cyrus Voris & Mark Bishop moves along at a great pace, is never boring or dull & has has a nice sense of fun about it as it never seems to take itself too seriously. From the cool opening & closing Crypt Keeper scenes (I always enjoyed these bits in the TV series) with plenty of bad puns to Wally's dirty fantasy full of naked women to the flamboyant, wise cracking & cocky villain the Collector. The character's are a bit clichéd but they're all quite likable & since the film entertains as whole it didn't bother me that much. There isn't much in the way of a story & there's not much boring exposition but sometimes you just want to turn your brain off, sit down & enjoy a dumb mindless piece of horror film-making such as Demon Knight that features plenty of gore, monsters, one liners, action, nudity & doesn't go on for what seems like hours. Better than one might expect & an all round good film.Director Dickerson does a good job, some of the horror sequences seem a bit choppy but maybe this was down to censorship reasons so it could play in theatres. The film has a nice style, he keeps things moving along at a nice pace, he seems to know what his intended audience wants & he delivers. There is some cool gore here, a ripped off arm, a melting face & skull, slimy demons, the Collector punches someone in the face & puts his hand right through their head, decapitations, blood spurting, stomachs & chests ripped open, exploding demon heads & various bits of human & demon carnage all achieved with some cool over-the-top splatter effects that thankfully doesn't use any crappy CGI.I have to admit that I was extremely surprised when I found out that Demon Knight had a budget of about $12,000,000 as I simply cannot see where the money went, there are no big name stars & a very small cast of character's, the special effects are of the rubbery latex actors in suits variety, there are no big action scenes & the entire film takes place in one location. Personally I'd expect a little bit more from 12 big ones. Demon Knight just doesn't do enough to distinguish itself from loads of other horror films that had far less lavished on them. The acting is pretty good, Zane makes for a memorable villain & Jada Pinkett Smith the future Mrs Will Smith has a leading role.Demon Knight is good fun & terrific entertainment especially if your a horror fan, such as myself. I think it's well worth a watch & not a bad way to mark my 700th IMDb review. "},{"Title":"Night of the Demons","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" **SPOILERS** They form a circle in the evening sky. A curtain seven stars come into a evil conjunction and when that happens it's called Demon Knight.Brayker, William Sadler, is on the run he's been running since May 1917 when he was a soldier on the Western Front. It was there that he was chosen to pick up the baton, or key, and he's been running with it ever since. After 78 years Demon Knight has come again in 1995 like it last did in 1917 and it was time for the Collector, Billy Zane, to make his collection from Brayker his key. A key that has the power to both stop and destroy him and the hoard of demons that he's in control of. Not the anthology that you would have expected from a film called Tales From the Crypt Demon Knight but an entire 90 minute movie that holds together as well as any four or five different stories in a like-wise horror anthology film. Running for his life from the collector Brayker ends up hiding in this converted church that's now a out-of-way hotel with the collector bearing down on him.Together with the people in the hotel Brayker uses the blood from his holy and magical key to keep The Collector and the demons, that he conjured up, at bay until the morning sunrise. But by then it's too late for Brayker and almost all the hotel guests and workers but one; the one who Brayker handed the key off to. That person, like Brayker, will be on the run and never have a day of peace for years until the next Demon Knight comes around. That's where he, or she, will finally turn the key over to another deserving soul to keep the cycle going; a cycle that's been going on since the days when Christ walked the Earth.Scary movie with a bit of comedy added on, especially in the acting of Billy Zane as the Collector. At first you don't know what Brayker is really all about, he seems to be a fugitive on the run from the law. But as it becomes obvious who he is and what he running from you as well as those in the hotel and the police pursuing him Sheriff Tupper and his deputy Bob Martel, John Schuck & Gary Farmer, finally realize that Brayker's an noble and innocent man trying to escape the jaws of hell. It's when the Collector in feeling that Brayker is getting away from him, when the two policemen start to take him away in their squad car to prison, makes himself and his motives known that you see who the bad guy in the movie Demon Knight really is. Were introduced to the Crypt Keeper, John Kassr, a the beginning of the movie who's now a film director making a horror, what else, film and it isn't until the end of Demon Knight that we realize that the movie that he was directing is non other then the movie that we just saw Tales from the Crypt Demon Knight. The Crypt Keeper did such a good job in directing the film that he was given by the film studio the right to have full control of what should be in, or not in, his movie; it's what's called in the motion picture industry Final Directors Cut! "}{"Title":"Zane is Brilliant!","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is hysterical.As usual, Billy Zane does an incredible job in this movie. Just as he did in Titanic because everyone else in that cast deserved to be brutally beaten with silverware. Now, back to Demon Knight. Demon Knight had all the classic elements of a good horror movie. It can make you laugh, it can on one or two occasions give you a jump, it can appease the male eye with naked women (sorry, but it's just the truth).Zane, as I said before, is brilliant as The Collector. He is wicked. He is funny, and I almost wanted him to succeed in getting the damn key, so we can move on with our lives. In the end, the rest of the cast was excellent, and I would recommend this to my youngest cousin because I'm just messed up like that.  "},{"Title":"One for the Vault!","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Back in 1995 I would have told you that Demon Knight was my favourite movie of all time.... and that horror doesnt get any better.... Suffice to say I have matured a lot since then! I was young and very impressionable.After gathering dust on a shelf in my collection I decided to pull this little baby out and expose my fiance to it. A lot has happened over the past few years in regards to CG effects and it is rare that a horror film using puppetry comes along. Demon Knight uses puppetry to it's advantage... and to it's disadvantage. I say disadvantage because there are a few shots in this movie that leave a lot to be desired. I refer to the sequences where two of thecharacters turn into over sized Demons.... their mouths open right up to reveal a gigantic tongue that flaps around like a slow motion garden hose. These two sequences alone let down the movie. I appriciate what was trying to be achieved but seriously? The rest of the film is so perfect.Anyhow.... those are my main qualms. The rest of the film really stands the test of time. It's both scary and halarious and it is hard to picture anyone but Billy Zane playing the Collector! If you're a fan of the series (which I am totally), then go out and rent this little sucker. It may not be the greatest horror of all time (I was young then) but it certainly is one for the vault. Pure Energy and Enjoyment!Long Live Puppetry In Horror!I give this one 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One helluva Soundtrack!!! Oh, and the movie rocked too...","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay, first off, any soundtrack that includes Megadeth, Pantera, Biohazard and Sepultura has got to rock... Cemetery Gates is one of the greatest Pantera songs ever. That said, let's talk about the movie.This movie would be on a top-five list of my all time favourite horror movies. Everyone pulled through with great performances, particularly Zane, who stole every scene he was in (who unfortunately went on to do Titanic which I had the displeasure to see). Great story, great performances, definitely lives up to the Tales From The Crypt name (better than Bordello of blood). So good it goes up to 11.11 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Original but trashy","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Mild SpoilersDemon Knight had a pretty cool premise a Keeper of Christ's blood must guard it from demons until he can find a protege. William Sadler put in yet another great performance as Brayker, and Billy Zane was perfect as the Collector, the demon after him.I thought the claustrophobic setup a la Night of the Living Dead was well played, with everyone stuck in the hotel and fighting each other as much as the demons.The demons looked kind of dumb, but were weird enough to work.Overall, it was a creepy B-Movie that worked well and had an inventive story. "},{"Title":"Let's here it for the demons!","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I must agree that this movie was better than the show.  Billy Zane, William Sadler, and Jada Pinkett give stunning performances!  I thought that the suspensfully fun story was done just right, and the special effects and music was awesome.  8.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Billy Zane chews the furniture like *nobody's* business!","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Watch the flick for Zane's unbelievably brilliant, over-the-top performance as The Collector, a powerful demon prone to swaggering, grandstanding, fly sunglasses and velvet-voiced suggestion.  The actor has SO much fun going over the top with the unavoidably cheesy script, he makes the film a cult classic.  From body language to sheer, towering charisma, Zane mines diamonds out of dross.  Watch, watch, watch.  It is so much fun!  "},{"Title":"Better than Bordello Of Blood.... (minor spoilers)","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this film at my local videostore, after having seen Bordello Of Blood, and I must say that this one is better. A a matter of fact I asked my videopusher if i could buy it. He said yes, because it was not a title there was being rented anymore. And I have never regreted that trade for a second. In this one you'll find everything you need Horror, action, black comedy and some sex. Not bad, huh?  Anyway, an unknown man named Brayker (William Sadler) is being hunted by the devil Collector (Hillarious played by Billy Zane), Brayker hiding in a little motel New Mexico, Unfortunenately Collector is right in his tail, and he also finds the motel and then begins the battle between Brayker and the other guests against Collector and his demons..... In my opinion this is one of the best horror films of the 90's "},{"Title":"A must see, I kid you not.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Demon Knight is an absolute must see movie! Billy Zane delivers yet another excellent performance as a nasty but sexy demon who with his charming persuasive personality, almost wants you to go to his side of the dark world. Too bad Jeryline (Jada Pinkett) decided to oppose him. It is a shame that a sequel wasn't made ... maybe someday they will consider. I just hope that cast Roach in the second one because his cynical sarcastic lines left me wanting to hear more.  "},{"Title":"Better than the show!!! spoilers","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I started to watch TALES FROM THE CRYPT PRESENTS DEMON KNIGHT on cable one night, but the power went out. Then a few days later I rented it from Blockbuster they didn't have the DVD so I had to get the VHS. I was expecting just a longer TALES FROM THE CRYPT episode and what I found out was this is nothing like the show. The movie starts out on the set of a horror movie that the Crypt Keeper voiced by John Kassir is directing. He introduces the story and then there is a long car chase scene while the opening credits role. After that chase scene, the movie slows down for a little while. We meet the characters, the plot is set up, and finally, the horror begins. Unlike the TALES FROM THE CRYPT television show, TALES FROM THE CRYPT PRESENTS DEMON KNIGHT is a fast-paced joy-ride with thrills, chills, a great performance by Billy Zane, some female nudity, unbelieveable special effects, lots of action, a little humor, and some of the best music I've ever heard. It's  actually even better than the show!  "},{"Title":"Good large edition of Tales from the crypt.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I've seen uncensored episodes of Tales from the crypt, with well-known actors like Joe Pesci, Tom Hanks, Michael J. Fox and so on that were extremely gory. I wonder if these episodes were ever shown on American television in these uncut versions. But they were great. And this is one of those kind of episodes. After seeing some (censored) episodes that were no more scary than an average Twilight Zone episode, that's a relief.A mysterious man is chased by demons into a house occupied with people and all hell breaks loose, literally. It's a slick version of Evil Dead with more advanced special effects and more professional acting, and everything is presented with tongue in cheek, especially the evil character played by Billy Zane, who looks like a cowboy drifter.A lot of fun for horror fans, but a bit forgettable as well. "}{"Title":"1 of the scariest movies ever","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie rules. I love both Crypt movies & hope that more be made soon. W. Sadler & B. Zane play good roles & do a fine good job, the rest of the cast is very good 2, especially Jada Pinkett, b4 she became Ms. Will Smith. This is 1 very graphic horror movies that doesn't use that stupid CGI crap. This is how horror movies should be made. This has graphic violence, language & nudity. A great horror film that shouldn't be missed followed by a funnier yet excellent horror film-Bordello of Blood. If, u havent seen both, why wait, make it a Blockbuster night. Like what the Crypt keeper said,Now that's entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Perkins, Nicholson, Hopkins...Zane.","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Initially unsure of what to expect, I admit to being surprised by the quality of Demon Knight.  Is it Camp? Is it Schlock? Absolutely, but it's well thought out schlock.  The plot  concept was actually very intriguing, and the cast was exceptional.The essential story is that the human race is living on borrowed time, and the fate of the world rests in the hands of the Demon Knight, a guy who has been losing a lot of sleep for a lot of years...Now, he must fight for his life and the lives of the others trapped in the hotel with him as he defends against the Collector, who is trying to steal back an  artifact that will overthrow the balance of power in the  universe.  Pretty heavy for schlock, hmm?   Rarely has a villain been played with more relish than Zane gives to The Collector...He's having too much of a good time, in a Hannibal Lecteresque way.  He's suave, persuasive, handsome, soothing, and just plain, well...as the politically correct would say, he has embraced his essential Evilness and is comfortable with his Demonic lifestyle. William Sadler lends his particular brand of manic intensity to Brayker, demonstrating his customary keen grasp of the part of the reluctant messenger or unlikely hero (as witnessed in The Shawshank Redemption left and the tv series Roswell). And, best of all, it's easy to give a damn about these people. The supporting cast includes some of the best character actors around, namely Jada Pinkett--Jeryline, the essentially good diva with a serious attitude, CCH Pounder(Millenium) who portrays Irene the seasoned, determined innkeeper, Thomas Haden Church (Ned & Stacey) whose character Roach makes you want to write yourself into the story just so you can slap him around, Brenda Bakke, our prostitute Cordelia who just wants to be loved, Dick Miller (What can be said about Dick Miller? The man has been everywhere!) and Charles Fleischer (most famous as Roger Rabbit, but who has appeared in nearly 30 features to date)whose character Wally is some sort of sympathetic psychopath. You have to feel for the poor guy...it's the old story, boy meets girl, girl seems to finally come around, and it all ends in disembowelment. Don't you just hate when that happens?The moral? Even good actors like a little schlock now and then.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  "},{"Title":"One Collector, One Demon Knight, One Load of Fun","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie long ago with my boyfriend, he liked it, I loved it! I've rented it several times since, and even bought it. Billy Zane portrays the most sensually evil character around, and true to 'The Tales From The Crypt ' origins, the film never takes itself too seriously. Not only do you get lots of gore and thrills, but there is always humour there to remind you that this should be fun, too.'Demon Knight' is a personal favorite of mine, though not everyone I have forced to watch it sees it to be as brilliant as I. I cannot emphasize enough the talented cast, and the amazingly good plot. Horror movies generally tend to rely more on special effects and skip the plot part, but 'Demon Knight' has a great story, and is also visually stunning.Rent it. Again and again!! "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  What a great movie. When i rented this movie my friends said oh great another cheesy tales from the crypt show. We had seen the tales from the crypt that was made back in the 70's and it was fairly laughable. But this was an awesome movie with great special effects and monsters and. And an interesting story.    "},{"Title":"Entertainingly cheesy film","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Tales from the Crypt Presents Demon Knight is a fun and funny addition to the genre.**SPOILERS**Trying to escape with a prized book, Brayker, (William Sadler) ends up at a motel run by Irene, (CCH Pounder) and fellow workers Uncle Willy, (Dick Miller) Cordelia, (Brenda Bakke) and Jeryline, (Jada Pinkett Smith) in the middle of nowhere. When The Collector, (Billy Zane) arrives at the motel, he reveals he is in fact a demon and unleashes an army of demons upon them. As the situation gets the best of them and they start getting on each other's nerves, they try various escape attempts which all end in disaster. As the slowly dwindling group are forced to fight, they have more to overcome than just the demons.The Good News There is a whole lot to really like in here. The film's best strength is it's outlandish goofiness gives it a really entertaining feel. The feel is attributed to many different aspects, from the pace, action, gore, setting, and acting. Zane is the standout in this, making it a cheesy good time whenever he's on. It brings up the campiness level seeing him. The pace is a great help, as everything here transpires here very quickly, never really letting up for any real significant amount of time. This is due to a really over-the-top series of action scenes. From an astounding car chase in the opening moments, a series of a shootouts and one attack after another, this has a constant setting for tons of exciting moments. There's really not a single set-piece that doesn't have any good moments. This features a ton of cool and gory special effects. There's a punch through a guy's head, a hand sliced open and out pours green pus, and a constant stream of exploding heads. There's lots of demon carnage too, as characters are ripped apart in a multitude of ways, a character has her arm ripped off, complete with a geyser of spurting blood. Setting it during one night in only two primary locations was another smart move, as it gives off an intense claustrophobic feeling that it is akin to the old siege films of the past. The demons themselves look quick nice, as more villainous Crypt-Keeper type creations that are quite realistically portrayed in the film. All of these come together with a general sense of fun involved and it's a really entertaining film on all accounts.The Bad News There is a few problems with the film. The film does feature an opening and closing wraparound piece with The Crypt-Keeper. While these segments are incredibly cheesy and are full of the usual puns, but they're relatively brief. It would've been much more fun to see them spread out a little more. It had a few good ideas spread throughout in a very complicated plot which makes little to no sense at all, and is filled with enough interesting ideas to really stand a chance at creativity. However, they're drowned in a sea of confusion that handles the whole affair rather lazily and it's a shame as it could've been much more.The Final Verdict This is a lot of fun and a really entertaining film. This contains just about everything in an ideal horror film, it has a whole lot to like and very few things that aren't so great. It's a fun, cheesy good time that hits the right buttons and is highly recommended to all.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity and off-screen sex sounds "},{"Title":"Pretty good; gory, bloody fun","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have never read any of the Tales from the Crypt comics, nor have I seen the series, or any other movies that has anything to do with Tales from the Crypt, apart from Bordello of Blood. Therefore, I'll say up front, that I have no idea how true this is to the source material; if it is, however, I might consider trying to to find some of the comics, or look for some form of release for the series. It's pretty entertaining, considering that it's a B-movie-like gore-packed bloody horror film, that can easily be classified as corny and maybe even lame. I heard someone comparing this to From Dusk Till Dawn; you could say that they are somewhat similar, but I think this has much more emphasis on the blood and gore than Rodriguez/Tarantino's film has, which has far more action and one-liners than actual violence(it barely has any violence in the first half, whereas this has violence about 15 minutes into the film). The plot is fairly good, for a film of this genre, and moves along damn fast; if you don't pay attention, you'll most likely miss something. Of course, that's just want the film wants your attention for 90 minutes of gory, bloody, violent fun; nothing more, nothing less. The acting and characters are about as good as they come for this genre(the little-to-no-point-apart-from-as-much-violence-in-as-little-time-as-possible genre). The effects are reasonably good, as is the gore. You probably won't be disappointed if you're into gory horror films. This film also marks one of Billy Zane's best acting jobs; the rest are so-so, though most of them are good enough to at least not detract attention from the blood and gore. I think John Kassir as the Crypt Keeper(or his voice, whatever) is great; chilling and disgusting. Not to mention the lame black humor puns he dishes out; great. All in all, an enjoyable little gory film to put on if you've got nothing else to do, and you need to kill 90 minutes without being bored. I recommend it to fans of gory horror films, and people who just want to be entertained for 90 minutes without having to think very much. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Schlock horror done right...","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Demon Knight, the first big screen outing of the popular HBO horror anthology series Tales From The Crypt is not only an extremely well made and entertaining horror yarn that proves that the Tales format can work just as well in the cinema as it did on tv, but it is in fact such a good film that it would have worked just as well without any need for any tie ins whatsoever. In fact overall it probably would have been better off without being linked to the Tales From The Crypt series altogether. One thing is for sure, it could definitely do without the cumbersome, extremely irritating and distinctly unfunny Cryptkeeper bookends that act as an intro and outro to the main story.The Cryptkeeper was irritating enough on the small screen, but there at least it had some purpose as the whole point was that it was an anthology show based on the old William M. Gaines pulp comics, but the makers really could have done with cutting him from intruding onto this big screen debut because due to the fact that there is only one story is being told (as is the fact with most other films) it is distinctly unnecessary to have a host introduce the story at all. However that is pretty much the only complaint that I can level at what is basically an extremely entertaining slice of schlock horror.The acting is very good all around, with a host of top predominantly 'b-movie' and character actors filling out the cast nicely. Billy Zane has a ball with his role, and is a hell of a lot of fun to watch doing his thing, while William Sadler plays his adversary perfectly understated in comparison to Zane's performance, and Jada Pinkett is also great fun as the spunky heroine of the piece. Dick Miller, Brenda Bakke and Thomas Haden Church also impress with their various supporting roles. Equally important to the film Ernest Dickerson's direction is superb and perfectly captures and conveys just the right atmosphere to carry everything off without fault, and while the occasional special effect may look a little cheezy it all just seems to add to the films loving homage to it's schlock horror origins and fits in with it's overall charm perfectly. Another thing of note is the fact that Demon Knight has quite a well written, genre savvy tongue in cheek script (by Ethan Reiff, Cyrus Voris & Mark Bishop) working in it's favour that elevates it a couple of notches above the usual standard for the genre.Apart from the annoying, and thankfully very short Cryptkeeper sections that detract slightly from the overall feeling of quality and entertainment this still remains highly recommended to anyone with even the slightest interest in the genre. Fun performances, great direction and a smart script all add up to provide what can only be described as schlock horror at it's very best.One man's opinion. 9/10 "},{"Title":"This is quite possibly the greatest motion picture in cinema history","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What, you think I'm joking? Every aspect of this movie is perfect. Every element that a serious cinema aficionado should look for in a movie is here Awesome soundtrack, competent direction, interesting and unpredictable (if sacrilegious) plot, quality actors, coolest villain in horror movie history (Billy Zane, in the role he was born to play), goofy old guy moping around complaining that he needs booze, topless women, hairy demons that explode if you poke them in the eyes, and slime. What else could a movie possible need??The only part that isn't top-notch is the backstory, a bunch of nonsense about demons and keys that doesn't make sense at all, but if the rest of the movie is so good, who cares? In all seriousness, the acting and directing is surprisingly professional for what would otherwise be a stupid B-movie, and it's great to see that they put such heart into it. This is what Creepshow wanted to be. This is what Tales from the Crypt SHOULD be. It's got horror, drama, suspense, and humor all packed into one wild roller coaster ride of a movie. Every horror movie fan should see this before they die.9/10 stars "},{"Title":"Freaktastic","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have loved TFTC since I was a kid. I have all the seasons of the 90's TV show on DVD, the first season of the little known and forgotten Tales From The Cryptkeeper cartoon show, the original 1970's version of Tales on blu ray, and both full length films, including this. (Forget the horrible mockery that is TFTC Presents Rituals). This is by far the best of the full lengths. Everything that any fan of Tales loves is in this movie. The horror. The scares. The black humor. The creepy monsters. The cast obviously had a blast making this movie, especially Billy Zane, who cuts it up as the demonic Collector. A must for any Crypt fan Billy Zane, who cits "},{"Title":"Billy Zane is brilliant.","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy Zane is unbelievable in this film. His performance is one of the most enjoyable displays of acting ability I've had the privilege to watch. If your a budding actor or drama student you should get a copy of this and study it. Very rare you get something as unique and brave as this character on film. Zane was made for this role and he is truly electrifying in every scene. This and Dead Calm are his best performances and I often wonder why he never made the really smash hit big budget movies the likes of Will Smith, DiCaprio, Keanu Reeves etc are accustomed to, as he's better than all of them. He nails every scene with indulging wit and seductive charm, taking a fundamentally nasty character and turning him into a very likable, unforgettable villain. Presumably because this is a Tales From the Crypt movie it was largely underrated at the time of release which is a shame. This is what acting is all about. "}{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"2 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" For 7 seasons, Tales From The Crypt was one of the most imaginative shows on cable. Fellow fans of the show will remember that it wasn't about the blood and gore, but the interest in the show came from it's unique characters and that amazing twist at the end, that is why I made Demon Knight my Halloween movie. The film start with an exciting chase and a mysterious man who shows up in a small New Mexico town. He is a protector against the dark forces that mean to take over the world. Once his location is discovered, he and his fellow halfway house residence are surrounded by demons and must survive the night. The shows was 30 minutes of pure intrigue, but the films, which are obviously longer, have been huge disappointments. While you still get those unique characters and stories, they still only have about 30 minutes worth of story to tell. That means they have to fill the rest of the film with a lot of gore, and trust me, it gets old in a hurry. The lead is played by veteran character actor, William Sadler, who has never really been a star. He's been in a ton of stuff, and everyone knows his face, but he's never had one character that you can really identify him with. He was pretty good in Demon Knight and most certainly fit the interesting character, but personally I felt he was a little too old for the role, as seen in many of the action sequences. Sadler has a ton of help from a large supporting cast, including a then unknown actress named Jada Pinkett. Demon Knight wasn't a bad film, but it's certainly not what I've come to expect from Tales From The Crypt. The film was much to straight forward and lacks that interesting story we've come to love over 7 seasons. If you're a die hard fan of the show, I'd recommend seeing Demon Knight, but if you're not, then you can really skip this one. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It's all starts of with Car chase and two people end up in the Some kind bar, when one of them is demon who after some Huge Key and other get stuck inside with person being chasing the person.This movie was a blast, I loved, it, I wasn't really sure at the start of the movie, where this movie was going but as this movie went on, it grab me and never let me go. There was some really great effect in this movie, I loved of Bloody gory effect in this movie, some were really gooey There were some really scary Scene that will make you really Jump, I jumped few times in this movie. Really well paced and I loved the way the movie ended! The acting in this movie was really good! 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great Horror Flick!","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Billy Zane, William Sadler, Jada Pinkett, Thomas Haden Church, Charles Fleischer, CCH Pounder, Brenda Bakke and Dick Miller star in this 1995 horror film based on the TV series and horror comics. This begins with the infamous, Crypt Keeper (Voiced by John Kassir) directing a cheesy horror film before presenting this tale. It takes place in Wormwood, New Mexico and Sadler (Die Hard 2) plays drifter, Brayker who is chased by a collector (Zane) searching for an ancient key he possesses. Brayker is able to get away from him for a short while and comes to a run-down motel where the residents are about to be trapped in a nightmare. Soon, a battle of good and evil occurs when the collector comes revealing himself as a demon and Brayker is revealed to be a Knight fighting against the forces of evil. Pinkett (Menace to Society) plays Jeryline, Fleischer (Who Framed Roger Rabbit?) plays square postman, Wally, Bakke (Hot Shots! Part Deux) plays prostitute, Cordelia who is also Wally's love-interest, Church (Spider-Man 3) plays her rotten boyfriend, Roach, Pounder (End Of Days) plays Irene, the owner of the motel and Miller (Gremlins) plays drunk, Willy. This is a great horror flick with a good cast, especially Zane and Sadler, good score and grotesque make-up effects. I recommend this to any horror fan. "},{"Title":"I'm Not Gonna Hurt You, Unless You Make Me.","Date":"24 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Demon Knight, the first film adaptation of the hit HBO series, Tales from the Crypt, finds a drifter (William Sadler) on the run from a clan of demons and their mysterious and maniacal ringleader (Billy Zane). Holed up in a sleazy, run-down hotel, the drifter joins forces with a mix of jerks, half-wits, under-achievers and hussies in an effort to stave off the evil forces at bay just outside their doorstep. In keeping with the series it's based off of, Demon Knight is quite simply a boatload of good gory horror fun. Filled to the rafters with over-the-top action, zany characters and colorful gore and special effects, it's a rare treat in the otherwise desolate wasteland that is 90's horror. The cast is really a big part of what carries the film, though. Billy Zane plays the charismatic bad guy superbly, while Sadler underplays his role a bit by comparison. Jada Pinkett has a noteworthy part as a Sarah Connor-type tough-girl who saves the day. Thomas Haden Church hams it up and gives Zane a run for his money with some of the film's most quotable lines. Director Ernest Dickerson puts on a dazzling show but knows well enough not to take the material too seriously and the film is all the better for it. Not only does the film look good, but it delivers exactly the type of thrills that horror fans who love a little humor thrown in the mix can appreciate. Unfortunately, the funhouse thrills wear off somewhere in the second half when the film attempts to expand its meager plot. Truth be told, the film is a lot more fun when we know next to nothing about the main characters or their motives. Even still, though, one can't help but be bowled over by the delightfully cheesy yet thrilling fun-fest that the film delivers. From its excellent and eclectic ensemble cast to its heavy metal soundtrack featuring the likes of Pantera and Filter, Demon Knight is an offer no fun-loving horror fan can refuse. "},{"Title":"to much demon knights","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well well, as I found the low rating for Bordello not right I now found the high rating for Demon Knight a bit exaggerated. first let me say that Billy Zane gave a big performance here but for me the movie is sometimes a bit boring. The first part is okay but when you start to know about the demons one after each other becomes a demon so you get used to it. it's part of the storyline because there is only one survivor of course. But it is a bit of the same whole the time. This film was never cut so you can buy it everywhere. Funny to see that people liked the nudity in this one, well there is less nudity here than in Bordello, I just can't understand people talking about it whole the time. The effects are well done as always with Tales From The Crypt especially when the youngster is reading a comic of Tales From the Crypt, what's in there happens, nicely done. Ther isn't any gore but no problem, the blood flows frequently but for me the film is missing something, sorry "},{"Title":"perhaps most underrated film of the era","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In fact, this film has two things written all over it. Blockbuster and Perfect. I could nit pick, but I'm not sure I can do that, either.It involves the greatest of movie gadgets isolation of a group of people, and it involves much more, which I won't give away. It combines elements of James Bond with elements of classic science fiction with elements of modern story telling. It is magnificent in the weaving.Two men are in a chase, a chaser, and a chasee. We know well enough from other movies to know which one is the real bad egg, and the movie doesn't try to taunt us with any mock suspense there. They know we know, and reveal the facts soon enough.The story unravels while characters bite the dust. Each character has a degree of dignity. What's more, the character of true evil displays what is Historically and literally written about him in his giving of rewards.There are some subplots that put this in with the old classic science fiction, too. This is truly a great work, and definitely hands down superior to the bordello of blood movie, which wasn't a bad movie, but nothing like this masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Pretty cool Knight","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This Knight kicks ass! Brayker, the sole protector of a sacred key that prevents the planet from being consumed by darkness, battles The Collector, a demon spawn that seeks the this last of seven keys to ensure that total darkness wins over.The stage is then set for one hell of a bloody night as The Collector (a wonderfully hammy Billy Zane) stops at nothing, and killing everyone he encounters in bloody ways, to get to that sacred key.Demon Knight is one of those rare horror/comedy blends that works all the way. It's bloody and gory as hell and the crazy good vs. evil battle is wonderfully set up and intriguing. It's well acted, pretty scary on occasions and morbidly funny as well.Plus those Crypt keeper segments are pretty funny as well. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A fun, silly, gory romp with a great cast","Date":"27 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Never having actually read or seen any Tales from the Crypt comics or episodes, this was a new experience for me. I was holding off watching it because the director, Ernest Dickerson, created the dreadful The V Word episode for the Masters of Horror series. But, I am always willing to give second chances and this time I am glad I did. Although this is not all perfect, it definitely is an entertaining movie for its short running time.Brayker (William Sadler) is running away from The Collector (Billy Zane), a man obsessed with stealing a key which has the potential to unleash demons upon the Earth. Brayker eventually makes it to a small country town, whereupon he holes up in an old hotel with the unknowing guests. When The Collector tracks him down, and unleashes a horde of hungry demons upon them, the hotel guests have to try and survive the night.The plot is not anything spectacular, but this does not matter when there is so much more on offer. The special effects are excellent, with some graphic gore on offer here (including exploding and melting bodies, severed arms and an awesome hand through head scene). It is over-the-top because the film never seems to take itself to seriously. There are the typically obvious one-liners and characters who you know will die.And the cast are great! William Sadler is good (as usual) and a strong lead. Billy Zane is very charismatic as the villain; he is charming and at the same time evil. Likewise, all the supporting actors are fantastic Jada Pinkett Smith, CCH Pounder and Thomas Haden Church put forward strong performances. Surprisingly, Dickerson's direction is solid, much more than the previously mentioned MOH episode.Demon Knight is by no means scary, or a breakthrough film, but the blend of gory, slapstick horror and comedy make for a fun movie.3½/5 "},{"Title":"A real wild and gory blast of a horror flick","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mysterious drifter Brayker (superbly played by William Sadler) possesses the last of seven ancient keys that the demonic, yet charismatic Collector (deliciously essayed with lip-smacking sardonic panache by Billy Zane) needs to acquire in order to destroy humanity. Brayker seeks refuge in a rundown motel. The Collector and his army of lethal, grotesquely ugly ghouls lay siege to the joint. Ably directed with considerable rip-snorting flair by Ernest Dickerson, with slick cinematography by Rick Bota, a handy helping of graphic gore (gruesome highlights include a fist punched through a head and an arm being ripped off), unusually well-drawn and engaging characters, a rousing score by Ed Shearmur, an admirably straight tone, and inspired touches of pitch-black gallows humor, this movie delivers a fast-paced package of fun and frights. Sadler and Zane are terrific in the leads; they receive excellent support from Jada Pinkett-Smith as spunky ex-con Jerryline, CCH Pounder as tough, cynical motel proprietor Irene, Brenda Bakke as forlorn prostitute Cordelia, Thomas Haden Church as sleazy abject coward Roach, Dick Miller as lovable old drunk Uncle Willie, John Schuck as ramrod Sheriff Tupper, Charles Fleischer as the meek Wally, and Gary Farmer as bumbling Deputy Bob Martel. A very solid and satisfying horror picture. "},{"Title":"De Moan Night","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'll say one thing for these Tales of the Crypt shows--they always had some pretty good female nudity. This feature version of the series is no exception. But sadly, neither is it exceptional.Instead its a tiresome story with Billy Zane as the bad guy, acting like he's auditioning for the part of a road show Lex Luther. He's in major scenery chewing mode. He's after the key with the blood of Jesus, captured at the Crucifixion and handed down from guardian to guardian. Now its William Sadler's turn to keep it away from the demons.In addition to Will Smith's wife to be, Jada Pinkett, the cast includes Thomas Hayden Church, Charles Fleischer and John Shuck. You can't really blame them for doing this I guess. It's a paycheck, and probably nobody will ever see this anyway.Just a note about the Cryptkeeper puppet--I never thought it was very impressive and it looks particularly bad here. I'll be curious to see the next (probably CGI) version of the Cryptkeeper. But let's forget about the remake of Demon Knight, okay? "}{"Title":"A Fun Story From The Usual Suspects","Date":"6 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A man with the blood of Jesus (in a vial, not his veins) is tracked down by a demon who wants the power for himself. The man hides out in a low-class hotel, bringing danger to everyone inside (cops, a prostitute and some other questionable people).The development of this film is interesting. The script started out as a spec script rather than something from the writers of the show and originally lacked the sort of comeuppance twist of the show. Along with other planned Tales movies, the connection between the films and the show was very, very loose.The producers picked Ernest Dickerson to direct. Dickerson was a good director to hire, as he grew up with and knew the comics that the show was loosely based around. So he understood the tone. Interestingly, he was not the director of the wraparound, so he was not filming the Cryptkeeper. His horror background was also strong, as he had previously worked on Tales From the Darkside, where he met George Romero regulars Michael Gornick and Greg Nicotero. Why the producers sought out Dickerson is unknown, but he was a great choice.This film is driven by two things the folks who have brought us Tales From the Crypt (a show that knows how to make something scary, original and twistedly funny). Thanks to some minor rewrites, you will find more of the same writing style here. And also the cast Billy Zane (Zoolander), horror staple Dick Miller (A Bucket of Blood, Gremlins, Chopping Mall, etc.), Thomas Haden Church (Wings, Sideways). Church and Miller easily hold their own, and Billy Zane (whom everyone seems to know but few know what he has actually appeared in) really makes the entire film. His charisma and character could have carried this film through another few hours (he is like the villain from The Stand with a better suit).A third thing that brings the film together is, of course, director Ernest Dickerson. My other experiences with him were less than thrilling (especially his lackluster Masters of Horror episode The V Word), but he really brings something to the table here. It maybe is not work that will be remembered or stands out as notable, but he made a solid movie. And really, what more can we ask of a guy? I could have done without the Jada Pinkett Smith, however. She still does nothing to amaze me (not even in the awesome Bulworth). Oh, well. It could have been worse (Ricki Lake from Skinner?).Some of the gore here is pretty decent. Nothing really extensive, but a nice decapitation and other such things. The sex is at a minimum (like none), which is strange given the material, but I did not notice until I thought about it later. Really, we just have one man protecting God and humanity against another man working for the devil. Woe to thee who get between them.As always, Scream Factory takes a good movie and makes it great with their Blu-ray loaded up with special features. The commentary with Dickerson is excellent, but that is only the beginning. We have a second commentary with the effects crew and my good friend Walter Phelan, who played an impressive demon. There is an extensive making-of with a wide variety of people, and even a panel discussion with none other than Dick Miller. The disc is worth buying for the extras alone. "},{"Title":"Great comic book/horror flick","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Very enjoyable of it's type, with William Sadler all that stands between humanity and everlasting darkness, represented here by Billy Zane in enjoyably hammy mode. Before you can say hey, haven't I've seen this set-up before? Sadler and a bunch of oddballs are being sieged in a broken down hotel by the forces of darkness.Most notable for some good gore effects, for a cast of B movie stalwarts (most notably Brenda Bakke, looking lovely, and Thomas Haden Church, working on the obnoxious persona he would later perfect in SIDEWAYS), and for some very smart and canny direction by the perpetually underrated Ernest Dickerson. He seems to make the best of his limited budget, and he very smartly hits just the right tone for this kind of thing, neither too earnest ala ELEKTRA or too stupid and giggly ala BORDELLO OF BLOOD (which actually had it's moments, but doesn't compare to this one). Also notable for one of the earliest looks we'd have at Jada Pinkett Smith, who should be a much bigger star.doug "},{"Title":"Perfect for the 'Tale' franchise","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a funny and creepy movie, perfect for the 'Tales of the Crypt' franchise.I loved Jada Pinkett in this, especially her scenes with Billy Zane. He proved that he wasn't just a serious actor, but also comedic. Both he and Jada have tremendous talent, but I always felt that they were overlooked and under appreciated. This movie helps show how versatile they really are.I enjoyed this film and and I would recommend it to anyone who appreciates a funny, creepy, cheesy movie. The ending will definitely have you begging for more... "},{"Title":"Have you had a humour bypass?","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anyone that hates this film must of had a sense of humour bypass! OK so its not the greatest horror flick ever made, but I don't think it intends to be. Its a 'Tales from the Crypt' film after all and I don't know about you but a rubber crypt keeper with a hand inside never scared me - its a bit of fun enjoy it! Billy Zane is wicked in this film (no pun intended) - just think of 'Dead Calm' cross 'Hellraiser'I love a great horror movie but I also like films that don't take themselves to seriously - and this one certainly does not! So if its a fright-fest your after then I wouldn't recommend this one, however if its a bit of mindless fun that keeps on going than give it a try. I personally really like it, but then I'm B-movie king! "},{"Title":"a good start","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The newest version of Tales from the Crypt launched their film franchise with this excellent comedic/thriller that promised a long run that sadly failed to materialize.Demon Knight told the story of a traveler who was being pursued through the desert, who holds the fate of the world in his hands. Character actor William Sadler gets a rare lead and makes the most of it as our hero who most protect a religious artifact from a emissary from hell played in a brilliant over the top fashion by the absurdly under-rated Billy Zane. As Sadler settles into a rooming house for a final fight with evil the locals are forced to choose sides and figure out how to survive the night.Like the television series, the film features a strong cast of actors including cult legend Dick Miller, a pre-respect Thomas Haden Church, the really cool named CCH Pounder and Ms. Fresh Prince Jada Pinkett Smith and director (and former Spike Lee Cinematographer) Ernest R. Dickerson gets strong performances out of them all.The special effects are great with the demons themselves having a unique look. Bloodshed is frequent and excessive as it should be in a movie like this. No caving in for a PG-13 rating, this movie is a hard R and delivers what is required by the genre. Well the effects are great the script is where this movie really separates itself from the crowd. Like the series, humour is used to strong effect and is used to keep the film from getting too heavy.Although not a blockbuster, this film did well enough in theaters and on video to rate a followup. The sequel which had been in development Fat Tuesday was struck down and Bordello of Blood was chosen. A mistake, as audiences ignored it and star Dennis Miller used the movie as a punchline for many jokes. No third movie was ever made. "},{"Title":"A stylish horror flick with lots of great moments","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If you don't mind a horror film that isn't, well, scary, this movie offers everything else to the viewing palate. Probably the most stylish and well-drawn-up horror film I've seen in years, Demon Night is in that rare category of horror movies with a great story throughout.The acting across the board is not too shabby, especially for a horror flick. Most impressive? That goes to Billy Zane, who shows a nice ability to inject charm and humor into the character of an evil demon.Horror film purists may find this film a little lacking, but for those looking for a rollicking good time in the tradition of the Tales from the Crypt series, this is a great midnight rental. "},{"Title":"Casca similarities","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Pretty good flick. Saw it for the first time last night. Has anyone else noticed the similarities to an old series of novels about Casca, the Roman soldier cursed to walk the earth by Christ on Golgotha? Written by Barry Sadler (William Sadler is ironically the lead in Demon Knight). It's been twenty years or so since I read the books, but I can offhand recall some major similarities. Golgotha figures prominently in both. Blood figures prominently in Casca (though I can't recall the details). There's some level of immortality granted in both. Casca was also a trench soldier in WWI, about which a whole book was written. There are bad guys in Casca (human, though) who follow Casca throughout the millennia. I'd have to revisit the books and maybe watch Demon Knight more closely, but either, 1) whoever wrote Demon Knight leaned heavily on Casca, or 2) both are based on the same source material, of which I am sure there there is plenty. "},{"Title":"A more than worthy CRYPT addition!","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" In the first installment of TALES FROM THE CRYPT features, an evil demon lord in the disguise of BILLY ZANE, resurrects a series of ugly demonic creatures from the earth, that eventually attack a small group of people (one of whom he was chasing earlier in the night) & a police officer. Their only hope for survival is a drifter with a challis filled special blood that can destroy the ugly creatures. I really enjoyed DEMON KNIGHT, it had all the necessary ingredients that make a good horror movie, lots of suspense, sick humor, gross special effects, interesting characters & villains, great acting & directing, moody atmosphere & great monster make-up all add up to a film that never lets up for a minute & always has something up it's bloody/slimy sleeve to keep you watching. The CRYPT KEEPER also makes an appearance in the wrap around segment of the film. Even if you're not a TALES FROM THE CRYPT fan, you should really enjoy this. So sad movies like this are a rarity these days. Followed by an unrelated TALES installment/sequel called, BORDELLO OF BLOOD **** stars "},{"Title":"It's bad, but it's so good!!!!","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I don't know if he'd thank me for this, but I reckon this is my favourite Billy Zane movie.  He was brilliant in Dead Calm, impressive in Titanic and marvellous in I woke Up Early..., but The Collector is just a fabulous character and I seriously doubt which other actor could have pulled off the inspired sadistc humour he gives the role.  It's the lines alongside those unique facial expressions that make the Demon, and then the film, a treat!Yes, it's Tales From the Crypt which are always hammy and cheese-ridden, but hey you watch them for what they are, and they don't get much better than this.When you don't want a film to stretch your grey matter, and you don't want a film to give you a life-changing message; you just want a film to watch as a witty piece of daft fun - this is it!This is Sadler's best Crypt role too and Mrs Will Smith shines as the female star. I could watch this over and over. Just for the hell of it!!! "},{"Title":"TALES FROM THE CRYPT FIRST SWEAT MOVIE","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Were do I start, if you liked the TALE FROM THE CRYPT you'll love DEMON KNIGHT. I loved this film it was great watching first I loved the plot, I used to read tales from the crypt comics when I was just a kid and from what I've seen, this is one of their best stories some people think that the crypt seen a kinda stupid but I personally think it gives a very cool edge. If your like me you'll love all the actor as you've never seen them before, Billy Zane, William Sadler, Jada Pinkett. Horror movie lovers I don't want to spoil the movie, but watch this film show this to your girl friends, wives family, make a church going dude watch it and scare the pants off him. This film is nothing but fun and excite for horror movie lovers, this one few movies I give a 10 to but I love this film. If you like this one I recommend TALE FROM THE CRYPT PRESENTS `BORDELLO OF BLOOD'....have fun "}{"Title":"a very good laugh","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  ok. demon knight is far from being a masterpiece in any genre, let alone in the overall movie industry. its plot is cheesy, predictable, dumb, and utterly useless. its characters (billy zane aside) are paper thin in the department of development, and on some occasions, paper thin is an overstatement. how can there be a good horror if the characters are hard to associate with? the directors must have thought that breaking bones and taking hearts out would do the job. of course, this notion is wrong. the movie could only get disgusting at some points, and nothin more. however, this movie IS NOT a wasted time. indeed, having sex would be much better spent evening, but in case you are alone for the period, you will get some good laughs from this flick. this is a hilarious one. billy zane is in shape, the dialogue is terrible enough, and some plot twists are so badly executed, you actually want to stay to see what other goofs will come along. overall, 4/10 as a movie and 7/10 as a fun product.  "},{"Title":"William Sadler kicks some ass!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A fun little film -- not great cinema, but genuinely creepy.  William Sadler shines as the unlikely hero.  I wasn't as impressed with Billy Zane -- I found him somewhat two-dimensional.  The Crypt-Keeper is fairly cheezy and the nudity serves no useful purpose, the the story Demon Knight is really very compelling. "},{"Title":"Unbeatable!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Demon Knight was a great film, worthy of the Tales From the Crypt title. It's unique storyline combined with great acting and entertaining special effects make this a wonderful watch if you're a fan of the show or not. Once the Cryptkeeper has finished his introduction, we are immediately brought into the action, with a high speed car chase. The front car driven by Brayker, the current Demon Knight, who is sworn to protect that last of seven keys, necessary for demons to take over the world, and take it back to the way everything was before the book of Genesis takes place. The pursuing car holds the Collector, a high ranking demon responsible for receiving the key. Brayker soon flees into a run down motel (ex-church) where he meets a cast of unusual characters, all stuck together, trying to stay alive. Losing the key would result in the demons taking over the world, so these few people hold the fate of the world in a pouch, hopefully able to escape from the Collector and a ensemble of demons. The film is amazing to watch. It's not a really frightening movie, but rather a blend of horror, humour, suspense, and mystery. The performances presented by the actors involved is fun to watch, especially Billy Zane, who plays a Devil like character, who we still feel compelled to adore. Sadler plays Brayker, the Demon Knight, an uptight, paranoid man, on the verge on insanity. A classic cat and mouse chase, the two men hate each other, without actually knowing the other man. The film's a blast to watch. Throughout it you'll have both and grinned and dropped your jaw so frequently that it will hurt. A fantastic film on all counts, 5/5.  "},{"Title":"The title says it all","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The title is retarded in itself. Except for Billy Zane (known as the collector) the others completley suck as far as everything else goes etc acting. There is some very good action movies, and the film a good horror, but other then that it just dosen't deliver as there are a few plot holes. But can that be forgiven and would i be able to watch it again? Or are the cracks too deep?4/10 at least Billy Zane did a good job! "},{"Title":"Like Kraft, cheesy, but good","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This has to be one of my all-time favorite cheesy horror movies.  The special effects are weak, but the story is original enough to help you live through it.  So sit back, watch Billy Zane cheese it up as a demon, and enjoy the camp of one of the best B horror movies around. "},{"Title":"it's a good read...","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Demon Knight has copped a lot of flack from hardcore Crypt fans, but having never seen an episode before seeing this movie, I found the series to be a disappointment. I think the movie is bloody awesome.The basic storyline is a protector of the last of a group of sacred keys (Brayker) is trapped in a hotel with a bunch of unsuspectings by a 'collector' and must stop him from getting the key before dawn or all types of ill sh#t will go down and biblical darkness will return (as in 'let there be light'). Not only does he have to deal with the collector and his risen demons trying to get in, he also has to deal with the lack of belief and strength of character from the other captives which for some brings about their own downfall.The best performances come from William Sadler (Brayker), Billy Zane (The Collector) and Jada Pinkett (Geryline), with Zane's performance as the charismatic and seductive 'Collector' having moments of brilliance on his part. "},{"Title":"Demon knight is a fair movie","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Seeing a great actor like Billy Zane Playing a weird and unusual role makes this a decent movie to watch. Demon Knight Is about a small town getting taken over by zombies.  Will they get taken over one by one?  Who cares Chasey Lane is in this movie if you spot her. So watch it  just for her.  "},{"Title":"More than just some zombie- siege late- night horror","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Demon Knight, spawned from the entertaining Tales from the Crypt TV series, is one hell of a film. Beginning with the fantastic Billy Zane hunting down the fleeing Brayker, we soon see zombies popping out of the ground, and sit back to enjoy another kill-the-zombies film. Ohh no. Not this film. Just exactly who Zane plays is an intirgeing question, but it isn't the Big S! The whole idea of who Brayker is, and all about the keys is fantastic, and elevates this film no end. The cast are brilliant in their roles, with the great CCH Pounder, and the shifting mood when Zane interacts with individual characters is amazing directing. Hell, I love this film.  "},{"Title":"not very bombastic","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have always been a fan of the Cryptkeeper, if I had been a woman i would have probably had a crush on him.  However, this was not nearly as good as I was expecting it to be.  The Soundtrack was great and quite well choosen, however, it just didn't work out well.  The peak of the plot was quite similar to Night of the Living Dead, in so far as there were a whole bunch of demons outside of the house trying to find ways in, as the people were trying to prevent them from coming in.  Except there were several things thrown in here, for one there was the devil like character played fairly well by Billy Zane.  As I said, this is similar to Night of the Living Dead, don't expect this to be as good because you will be in for a huge disappointment.  The acting was good, obviously the special fx was good also, the script and planning were excellent (They implied alot of stuff on a symbollic level), and that's the only things which saved this movie. Otherwise it would have been a complete failure, but with these elements intact it's almost impossible for a film to finish below par, this is no exception.  So yes, it is worth your rental dollars, but it isn't any Night of the Livin Dead (to say the least). "},{"Title":"No TV. episode but still bone chilling fun!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Demon Knight would make any horror fan proud. Though the film does not match the entertainment and enjoyment of a 30 minute Crypt episode,the movie still has the same ghoulish twist. Good acting by Bill Sadler and Bill Zane make the film enjoyable. So listen to your crypt keeper and watch! "}{"Title":"Cool homage/descendant of Night of the Living Dead","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Great first movie from the Tales from the Crypt series.  Billy Zane rocks as The Collector.  Dumb name, we know, but check it out.  It's got Dick Miller!  And Jada Pinket (whatever happened to her?)  Sort of another Night of the Living Dead type story with people trapped in a house by things.  Only one way to kill the things (demons, hence, the title), shott them in the eyes.  Image the ghouls from NOTLD being controlled by someone for a evil purpose and you get it.  Great ideal way to stop the demons from getting in.  So, Joseph of Aramathea was the first Demon Knight?  It's almost the same origin as the Holy Grail (no, no Monty Python).  It's a great saturday afternoon movie, so, sit back, wait until about thirty minutes before sundown and enjoy.   "},{"Title":"Everyone say cheese.","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A big-budget version of the TV series, Demon Knight delivers a good dose of schlock horror. The over-the-top gore is good for some laughs as well as some scares. Some of the writing is one-dimensional, and it's not exactly a stellar cast. However, Sadler's performance as the protagonist is solid, and the flashbacks to Christ's cruxcifixion are both surreal and darkly disturbing. The Exorcist it is not, but Demon Knight soars well above its sibling Bordello of Blood...a real pain in the neck. (** 1/2 out of ****) "},{"Title":"Best Horror Movie Ever. Period.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was awesome.  The characters, especially the Collector, are excellent actors and actresses despite there less than wide-spread fame. This is the only movie I've ever watched three times.  It is the type of movie that you can and should watch more than once.  The first time you are a bit shell-shocked and confused, but the second time everything fuses together.  One gripe not as typically Tales from the Crypt as Bordello of Blood is, but This is a much better movie.  Kick-Booty soundtrack too.  "},{"Title":"Excellent suspenseful horror movie","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Personally this is one of the best movies I've seen.  Billy Zane portrays the Collector perfectly, evil and loving it.  Jada Pinket is also quite convincing as the brave heroine.  Yes, the crypt keeper is rather annoying, but the few minutes at the beginning and end that he's in it is completely worth it just to see this masterpiece.   "},{"Title":"Excellent horror movie. Billy Zane gives a wonderful performance!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The begining and end with the Crypt Keeper is rather corny, but survivable and worth watching because Demon Knight is an excellent story.  The cast delivers a wonderful and believable performance.   This story isn't exactly predictable.  Billy Zane does great work as a bad guy you love to hate.  If you've seen Devil's Advocate, you'll understand what I mean when I say that he and Al  Pacino ought to get together and do a horror movie about demons, the devil and hell.  Very convincing.   "},{"Title":"One of the few good scary movies of this time","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is actually one of the very few scary movies that I've liked.  Billy Zane is the best perception of the devil that I've seen besides the red man in the fire.  Jada Pinkett is the strong hero who gives him a run for his money.  I don't believe I've seen a smarter or stronger female role in a horror movie.  She is woman, hear her roar.  I'm tired of the woman who is saved by her knight in shining armour close by.   The cheesy beginning with our loathed Crypt Keeper is the only setback along with the similar to Crypt Keeper-like demons that terrorize the inhabitants of this hotel.  "},{"Title":"functional horror B-movie","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Crypt Keeper has gone Hollywood and presents this movie Demon Knight. Brayker (William Sadler) is hunted by The Collector (Billy Zane). He barely escapes to the small town of Wormwood, New Mexico where he finds shelter in the church turned boarding house. The Collector convinces the sheriff to arrest Brayker and almost steals Brayker's artifact with the blood of Christ. The Collector reveals his true identity as a demon. He needs the artifact which is the last key to throw the universe into chaos. Brayker and the rest of the inhabitants must battle demons unleashed by the Collector.This is actually a good cast filled with some impressive actors. William Sadler is always good and Billy Zane is still a great villain at that point of his career. Jada Pinkett Smith, Thomas Haden Church and CCH Pounder fill out a solid cast. The production value is limited and this is more of a direct-to-DVD level. The special effects are not the best. Even the set is inferior. However it is still a functional horror. "},{"Title":"Extremely Enjoyable Junk Food","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" DEMON KNIGHT is a criminally underrated masterpiece of 1990s B-cinema; I argue that it stands with other genre siblings like THE PEOPLE UNDER THE STAIRS and DEAD ALIVE as an overlooked gem composed of everything enjoyable about the horror movie experience.DK is incredibly fun. Bloody, gory, goofy fun, but it's also quite surprising. It accepts its limitations, both financial and thematic (due to being a Tales From the Crypt project) and embraces them with all the enthusiasm and grandeur it deserves and some that it doesn't. It accepts that its premise is fundamentally far-fetched, but also accepts that to the characters, its nothing short of completely real, and so the story and the cast treats it as such and that is what sets it above other, disappointing kitsch horror films that stray into the meta or take themselves overwhelmingly seriously for an underwhelming concept.What sells this film more than anything else is the cast; it's a testament to the craft to watch them work here. They never wink to the audience or treat the material with disdain, but instead, give it all they have (without veering into parody or kabuki), and that sells the importance necessary to invest in the characters and care about their plight. Virtually everyone in this film except Dick Miller is cast against type, and given a character in stark contrast with the ones they are usually given in films and TV outside. The most notable is Thomas Haden Church, who devastates his charming, adorable iconic role of Lowell in Wings as the loathsome, irredeemable, belligerent Roach. Sadler in particular is affecting as Brayker, who is a character of such quiet dignity and resignation that I truly wonder why he hasn't been offered more roles like this since. The true standout, however, is Billy Zane, who has such unparalleled charisma and humor that had this film been recognized at its time for its greatness, Zane would be remembered for The Collector and not for TITANIC. Zane's performance as The Collector is nothing less than on par with Christoph Waltz's Landa in INGLORIOUS BASTERDS.If that sounds like hyperbole, then you have yet to see the evidence to the contrary.You really can't go wrong as a horror movie fan, casual or serious, with giving this film a go. Even if you don't find it to be your cup of tea, you'd be hard pressed to argue that it wasn't worth your time.DEMON KNIGHT is actually worthy of your time. Give it a shot. "},{"Title":"knight musn't fall","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Continuing with Tales from the Crypt's campy approach to everything, Demon Knight portrays an evil weirdo named The Collector (Billy Zane) chasing a guy (William Brayker) to an isolated hotel, where he unleashes a demon army on the inhabitants. They're clearly having fun with everything, especially with the arm scenes. Of course, any movie starring Dick Miller - he plays Uncle Willy here; you may recognize him from Roger Corman's and Joe Dante's movies - is bound to be really cool. I remember that when I first saw the movie, I recognized Billy Zane from The Phantom and Jada Pinkett Smith from The Nutty Professor. But even if you don't recognize any of the cast members, this flick is still a wonderful romp. It's a gross, silly film, and doesn't pretend to be anything else. And remember what the Cryptkeeper always tells us hee hee hee hee hee! That whole beginning sequence could have made a neat movie all on its own. Especially if they'd focused only on the woman in the bathtub. Hubba hubba... "},{"Title":"Billy Zane Is Hotter Than Hell ! 666","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" It is scary... to think that the world could be missing out on such a treasure and not even know what they're missing! I have the best taste in everything, and this movie tastes as good as a Jell-o pudding pop! Though the majority of people are not capable and worthy of such greatness. If you are one of those people, don't bother. This film is too good for your cookie cutter lameness.Billy Zane is the collector...of hearts. Because of this film, he has won both my evil twin cousin and my own heart. Could anyone else pull off an overactive fiery hard-on and so charmingly avoid the L word and still have the woman desperately wanting them? No way! Jada is the silliest girl in the world, her lack of Zane affection is just my gain. Ladies, even men- watch this movie alone and be not afraid to let yourself be secretly seduced. Billy Zane is magical, embrace his bald beautiful head and abundance of eye lashes and this movie will take you where no porno ever could.Whew...it's hot in here. "}{"Title":"Just a Much Longer Tale From the Crypt.","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Billy Zane (not quite the bad guy from Titanic yet) is the titled character, a crazed other-worldly monster bent on tracking down a man (William Sadler) who holds the last of seven keys which locks the blood of Christ away from evil hands. Sadler ends up getting trapped at a small hotel in the middle of nowhere with an odd cast of characters (which includes the super-hot Brenda Bakke and Jada Pinkett Smith) and now the entire group must find a way to save the universe from Zane's evil plan of domination. Demon Knight is a Tales From the Crypt theatrical product and it is clearly apparent throughout as the whacked dark comedy and striking stomach-churning images come at its audience like a bolt of lightning. The film does not have much substance and ends up being a gloomy, boring mess that only die-hard horror fans and supporters of the HBO series will get anything out of. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A demon known as The Collector has tracked down six of seven keys that contain Jesus' blood. In order for demons to rule the earth they must have all seven keys. The Collector has tracked down a man on the run with the seventh key to a local hotel. Now, it is an all out battle for the last key one dark stormy night. Fast paced, exciting thriller with a twisted sense of humor. The special effects have style. Billy Zane as The Collector is very menacing, yet very funny. The script while it may be gimmicky, is also smart and features a better then expected premise. And of course, the crypt keeper is fun as usual. Rated R; Extreme Violence, Profanity, Sexual Situations, Nudity.  "},{"Title":"Giddy ghoulish fun; perfect drive-in flick or late nite vid rental","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  TALES FROM THE CRYPT DEMON KNIGHT (1995) **1/2 William Sadler, Jada Pinkett, Billy Zane, CCH Pounder, Thomas Hayden Church, Brenda Bakke, Charles Fleischer, John Shuck.  Gore galore sprinkled with some ruefully morbid humor dominates this transition to the big screen of cable tv's successful Tales From the Crypt anthology series good vs. evil involving blood-thirsty zombies, the end of the world and a vial containing the blood of Christ makes for a better than average horror flick reminiscent of the B movies of the late Fifties. "},{"Title":"good guys vs demons(a real mess of a film) but i kind of enjoyed it","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" wow.this movie started out better than i expected,and then went downhill quickly.the makeup effects in this woofer were pretty pathetic,intentionally,i think.the demons were downright repugnant,to say the least.there is virtually no discernible plot.there were some name actors,although why they would sink so low,i have no idea.can you say Hollywood squares?anyway the movie very quickly degenerates into an orgy(literally)of blood and gore.people die in all kinds of sick disgusting ways.demons die,also in all kinds of sick disgusting ways and of course there is the obligatory scene with naked chicks galore. naturally,the chief demon baddie dies near the end of the film.surprisingly his death is less disgusting than the rest.anyway,a Saviour arises from all this.(actually she just takes over from the previous one,who of course dies in front of her before passing on the legacy)and bla bla bla,everyone lives happily ever after.for now. i'm ashamed to admit i kind of enjoyed this bomb.it is totally forgettable and has no merit i can think.but,it did kill 2 hours of my time.luckily i saw it on cable.it's not worth renting,but if you see it sometime on cable,it s worth diverting your attention for a couple of hours if you want some good laughs and you have nothing else to do. 4* out of 10 "},{"Title":"one of the best humans movies ever made","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I love demon knight ever since I was a young teen.It deals with mankind's good and evil mature.It's doesn't involve politics like V,XXX, FIST OF LEGEND,hero,and other movies.even thought it has a little religion in it,it good anyway.It's better than Chinatown crouching tiger hidden dragon,and lord of the rings.breaker is not like Cammy,mega man,spider-man, Buffy and other good guys.He doesn't judge anybody,Not into easy woman,anti-greedy,and stop any human or non-human from collecting the key.he represents human good,while roach represents human bitchy side. This doesn't involve human society rules but survival.this movie should of made 200 million. the movie is to short which is why I give it a nine. "},{"Title":"Kind of a B horror movie throwback.","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie works rather well.  I could have used a little more, but for what it was it was good.  Certainly better than most of the stories they showed on the television show.  This one is about a man who is being pursued by another mysterious man.  The mysterious man wants something from the other guy, a strange crucifix.  They end up at a hotel where we find out that the mysterious man is in fact a demon (hence the title) played very well by Billy Zane.  He ends up growing more demons and they begin to prey on the people who are trapped inside the hotel.  This movie is very good and very quick moving, but I think it should have moved a bit slower as the killings come a bit too rapidly and to many are killed off too soon.  Still though this one has some elements I like, such as the trapped in a house device.  I also like that it uses minimal locations and scenery it really does have a B movie feel to it.  This was also the last time I have seen Thomas Haden Church in anything since his days on the television show Wings.  Though not a super great horror movie, this one is still worth checking out...it also has some good death scenes in it. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Billy Zane is the only thing that makes this movie worth watching. Everything else is just really bad.They are going for pure gore in this movie, and it doesn't exactly work out.Terrible movie from the usually cool Tales From The Crypt. "},{"Title":"Oh dear, I actually LIKED this movie!","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  No two ways about it, this is a terrible movie. But I liked it-WHY??? If I had to pick one movie I was most likely NOT going to enjoy it would be this. This is gimmicky, gore through the whole movie, totally action paced, RELENTLESSLY grose-yet, I don't know it worked for me! I watched it with my then boyfriend and I don't think we spoke once through the movie-somehow it glues you to the screen-and also makes you REALLY embarrassed to admit it!!!!!!!!    I don't know if these somewhat odd statements make any sense or not but it just about sums up the movie-bad bad BAD!!!! And sadly enough totally engrossing!!! "},{"Title":"Thomas Haden Church At His Best!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've seen starring Thomas Haden Church. This was after Wings and before Ned and Stacey. It's cool to see Mr. Church post-Lowell Mather and pre-Ned Dorsey. He was really working that sarcastic, moody and deadpan attitude into his acting. Roach is a believable jerk. His nickname fits him (Does he have a real name?). He IS a Roach, infesting a run-down motel, mistreating the ladies and being very, very dirty. It's too bad that he doesn't last very long in the movie. The plus is that Thomas Haden Church gets to wear a cool outfit (but doesn't he always?). "},{"Title":"An Engineered Homage that Works","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Making a horror film has to be the hardest thing these days. Films are always about the films that went before and nowhere is that more true than in this genre. There are some novel approaches which play with this reference `Blair Witch,' and `The Ring.' But here, a particularly intelligent thing is done, and done well. Many fans of the genre know the TeeVee `tales of the Crypt' series. That is a particularly junky enterprise. And because it is contained in TeeVee, it can only set up one idea and to set it up without delay. Its very much in the mold of the `Twilight Zone.'So this film can refer to that, but have the time and cinematic latitude to exploit the reference. So they start with `Night of the Living Dead,' and lard it up with a fairly complex story about Jesus' blood and a cosmology of dark forces. In the normal context, this would be just another stupid project. But this is a `Tales' project, which means we go in expecting the simple setup and a predictable twist. And because we get a real movie, and because that movie is aware of making fun at the TeeVee show, and because it elaborates on `Night' so expertly, and because it has one good actor, we get thrilled.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}{"Title":"Nudity","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Whoever reviewed this movie did a horrible job, because they forget to mention all the nudity throughout the movie. Right away at the beginning, they show a woman's exposed bosoms when she's in the bathtub. Later on in an illusion scene, a man is surrounded around dozens of topless ladies. This was a really great movie and I enjoyed watching it. I had a huge problem with all the female nudity in the movie. I came to this site to see if this movie contained any nudity and I was lied to. The content review on this site only mentioned that this movie only showed the side of a woman's breast. There was a scene when that did happen, but the person who wrote the content review must have walked out the room when the real nudity was being shown. "},{"Title":"Way Over Rated","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I much preferred the original to these types of movies like House of the Demons (all) and Demons 1&2. This movie is a cheesy Hollywood ripoff. The originals didn't have some stupid item that stole the importance from its characters.Its much more fun watching the characters running around not knowing how to deal with the situation than some cheesy cross artifact that lands right in their lap every time they're in a bit of a tangle.Predictable? Yes to the extreme which is why the originals pour crapola all over this tasteless ripoff. I'm rating this down cause so many idiots don't know a good movie when they see it. "},{"Title":"This Film Sucks","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This Is Very, Very Bad.  DEMON KNIGHT SUCKS!!! This Is The Worst Film I Ever Seen. Sure It Delivers a good amount of special effects, and great Cryptkeeper moments, but the rest of the movie SUCKS! If You Want A Good Tales From The Crypt movie, Try the british Tales From The Crypt or the sequel The Vualt Of Horror or EVEN the second UNIVERSAL Release, BORDELLO OF BLOOD, at least that has humor. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies that I have ever seen. I am a HUGE horror film buff but this movie falls more under sci-fi than anything. Billy Zane is horrible as a leading man. Jada Pinkett is bad as usual. Church provides some decent comic relief but I really do not understand what Tales From the Crypt was thinking when they made this film. "}]