[{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable, intelligently-made period action/drama","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"99 out of 123 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" From the excellent acting of an extremely impressive cast, to the intelligently written (and very quotable) script, from the lavish cinematography to the beautiful music score by Carter Burwell, Rob Roy offers a rarity in movie going experiences one that is nigh impossible to find fault with in any area.There have been several comparisons made with Braveheart, which came out the same year. With all due credit to Mel Gibson, Braveheart struck me as too much of a self-conscious and preachy epic to rival Rob Roy as the kind of movie I would care to see more than once. While Braveheart works hard to be a serious epic, Rob Roy just grabs you and absorbs you into its tightly edited storytelling. Not a single scene is wasted.Rob Roy contains the perfect balance of dramatic tension, action and even occasional humor. The characters are well fleshed-out, perfectly conveying vernacular and mannerisms that anchor them in their authentic period setting.Further, they are not caricatures of good and evil as we all too often observe in even modern film.For example, while we hope the heroic Rob Roy prevails, we realize his predicaments are products of his own pride and sense of honor. Tim Roth plays one of the most hateful bad guys in the history of cinema, yet there are moments when we can understand how the events of his life have shaped him into becoming what he is. Rob Roy employs a level of character development that makes its story even more believable and gripping.Rob Roy is a delightful treasure, featuring one of the greatest sword fights ever choreographed and a climatic ending worthy of all the tense anticipation. "},{"Title":"True to the period","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"53 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  This is a strong movie from a historical and epic perspective.  While the story is simple it is pure and straightforward.  In truth, it is the standard story of a simple, honorable man whose honor comes into conflict with the more educated and wealthier men of the period.Poor vs. Rich, honorable vs. dishonorable, a classic but well-told tale without much of the glitz of hollywood stinking up the screen.Extra points just because you can almost smell the people on the screen. ) "},{"Title":"Neeson plays the title character with his usual hard-to-resist charm...","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Michael Caton-Jones's Scottish period piece bears little connection to the Sir Walter Scott novel of the same name...The film opens in the Scottish highlands, with Robert Roy McGregor and his men hunting down a bunch of cow thieves who have stolen several heads of His Lordship James Graham's cattle... The scene then switches to a sword-fighting contest attended by noblemen with longhair wigs, adorned shirts, soft colored coats, paleface make-up and conventional gestures...MacGregor lives under the protection of a local lord named Marquis of Montrose... When he enters an ill-advised trade agreement with Montrose, he innocently leaves himself exposed to the malicious plots of Montrose's evil-doers... The unfolding of their perfidy is the most creative and pleasant part of the movie, though it takes a repugnant turn with a violent rape... When Rob Roy is finally compelled to rebel against the English soldiers, the action becomes well understood, ending with the predictable duel between him and an expert with the blade...Liam Neeson injects heroism and passion to his character... He is intelligent, fair and virile... He carries his height with grace as the Scottish chieftain of a small community... He is a loving father, a passionate lover, and a noble husband, driven to desperate acts by dastardly villains... He'd rather die than tell a lie or betray a trust... Oscar winner Jessica Lange gives the film class as the strong robust devoted wife, a proud peasant woman, brutally raped by an icy psychotic aristocrat... Lange's lines are filled with dignity and integrity 'I will think on you dead, until my husband makes you so. And then I will think on you no more.'John Hurt brings his usual clever touch with character roles to make Montrose something more than a greedy Marquis, ruthless with money and tempered by the English court's fashion for foppery... He is a pompous arrogant man with two villainous servants at his service... Honor, in his view, seems a quaint notion... He has two objectives ruin the reputation of his rival, the Duke of Argyle, and to hunt down the fugitive MacGregor... He sends his soldiers to burn the Highlanders' homes, to kill their people and their livestock...Tim Roth&#151;the perfect antithesis to the hero, is fearsome and strangely an effeminate enforcer... He is a penniless British aristocrat, a nasty 'hired sword' wonderfully evil, ravishing and murdering his way through the Scottish mist... His name is Archibald Cunningham... He turns out to be a liar, a thief and a murderer... He dismisses himself as 'but a bastard abroad, seeking his fortune and the favors of great men, and therefore can't care about anyone else Love is a dung hill and I am but a cock that climbs upon it to crow. He even jokes that he once raped a young boy whom he mistook for a girl...Cunningham seems pathetic... He smiles foolishly, and utters words with affected refinement, but not terribly harmful-until a muscular swordsman insults him, and we discover that he's a cool head and an expert with a sword... He really does steal the film with a performance that earned him a Best Supporting Actor nomination...And while Brian Cox is suitably odious as Killearn, Andrew Keir is Montrose's rival, the powerful local aristocrat, the Duke of Argyll, one of the few trustworthy men McGregor meets outside his own family... Set in 18th-century Scotland, and with an atmospheric musical score, 'Rob Roy' is really a love story between a man and his wife, a recognizably human story, unjustly dwarfed by Mel Gibson's 'Braveheart,' that does tell essentially the same story of provincial resentment of overbearing English landlords... "},{"Title":"This film is better than Braveheart and here's why....","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"40 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  **Attention Spoilers**First of all, let me say that Rob Roy is one of the best films of the 90's. It was an amazing achievement for all those involved, especially the acting of Liam Neeson, Jessica Lange, John Hurt, Brian Cox, and Tim Roth. Michael Canton Jones painted a wonderful portrait of the honor and dishonor that men can represent in themselves. But alas...it constantly, and unfairly gets compared to Braveheart. These are two entirely different films, probably only similar in the fact that they are both about Scots in historical Scotland. Yet, this comparison frequently bothers me because it seems to be almost assumed that Braveheart is a better film than Rob Roy. I like Braveheart a lot, but the idea of comparing it to Rob Roy is a little insulting to me. To put quite simply, I love Braveheart, but it is a pale shadow to how much I love Rob Roy. Here are my particular reasons...-Rob Roy is about real people.Let's face it, the William Wallace in Braveheart is not a real person. He's a legend, a martyr, a larger than life figurehead. Because of this depiction, he is also a perfect person, never doing wrong, and basically showing his Scot countrymen to the promised land. When he finally does fail, it is not to his fault. Like Jesus, he is betrayed by the very people he trusted most. He even goes through the worst kind of torture because he wants freedom so much.The depiction of Wallace is very well done and effective. But it really doesn't inspire or intrigue me. I find human ambiguity far more facinating than human perfection. That is why The Last Temptation of Christ is a better film than King of Kings, and that is also one of the reasons why I think Rob Roy is better than Braveheart. Rob Roy may be heroic and brave, but he is far from perfect. He makes several mistakes that affected the lives of many of his loved ones. Now sure, not bearing false claim against the Duke of Argyll was an act of nobility and courage, but it was also an act of egoism and self centeredness. Let us not forget that the kinfolk that he had claimed to protect were driven homeless by the end of the film because of this act. But Rob did the best he could, and that was all you could ask of him.Rob's Wife Mary, is also a normal, ambigious person. Let us start though, with how she looks in this film. Sure, she's beautiful, but she doesn't wear makeup and she basically allows her natural beauty to show. Compare this with the two loves (or one, depending on your point of view) of William Wallace in Braveheart. Now these two ladies are hot, but hardly indicitive of how women looked at the time (especially the lay persons). Maybe not a fair comparison, but just another example of how Rob Roy's attempts for accuracy are far more effective.Throughout Rob Roy, Mary has to live with her vicious rape by the dastardly carrion, Cunningham. She feels compelled to tell Rob of her struggle, but doesn't because she knows that Rob must seek revenge for her rape. Such revenge would surely mean the death of Rob, and Mary is not prepared for such a sacrifice.The villains in Rob Roy are equally as compelling. Although the enemies in Braveheart are well written, they are hardly original. Robert the Bruce, a man both brave and cowardly, is plagued by moral decisions that are all to familar in the fictional realm. Should he take his claim as the king of Scotland, or should he betray Wallace in order to ensure the safety of his family name? Bruce is the most ambigious character in Braveheart, but from Brutus in Julius Ceasar to Fredo in The Godfather Part II, these types of characters are hardly original. Longshanks, although a compelling villain in his own right, is very one dimensional. He is the epidemy of evil, and his tyrant ways stand in direct contrast to Wallace's heroism.Rob Roy has three villains that are wonderful in their chicanery. First of all, let's start with Marquis of Montrose. He is a man who is so obsessed with his self image, that he's willing to let an innocent man suffer because of it. See to it that I am not mocked are his favorite words to his factor. He is a man obsessed with power, upset that a man of great noble bearing as the Duke of Argyll can be considered of greater providency then him. He is shamefully self obsessed and insecure. He is an evil aristocrat, but in ways that make him unique.Cunningham and Callarn are the conspirators in Rob Roy, and are also Roy's direct assailants. Callarn is so cunning in his cowardace that he is almost comical. He will do anything to maintain the good will of the Marquis, which includes backstabbing and trickery. Cunningham is a compelling character in that he seems to have been raised to do whatever he can to obtain status and the affection of the Marquis. He needs a father, little does he know that the Marquis is his real father. Therefore, when the opportunity to obtain wealth comes from Callarn, he grabs it without even questioning it. He is very much like the evil of modern man, so self centered and vain that he cares not about the consequences of his actions on others.Many have criticized Tim Roth's performance in this film as overacting. Hogwash I say. It is clear that Cunningham is not simply evil but also psychopath throughout the film. In a world where a man and his stepson can go around shooting random people for amusement, is Cunningham too much of an unbelievable character? We live in a society where people seem to have decreased the value of human life. Rob Roy simply teaches us that only the circumstances of this decreased value has changed. It is a problem throughout human history that the vanity of the human heart will not allow for the capacity for compassion. Rob Roy and Mary give us hope that goodness will prevail, but snakes will always exist in our world.Another character that I find fascinating is the Duke of Argyll. He is a true nobleman, and his values of honesty and courtesy are in direct contrast to the Marquis. He appreciates the bravery of Rob Roy and Mary, and has a direct vexation for the Marquis and his factor. He gives the world hope for the people of power. Hopefully, people like the Marquis are an exception and not the rule.- The final duel in Rob Roy is more exciting then 10 of the battle scenes in Braveheart.One thing I get tired of is people telling me that Braveheart is a better film because of the battle scenes. First of all, battle scenes are hardly original. From Spartacus to Gladiator, Hollywood has had a long tradition of historical European battle scenes. Braveheart has some of the best battle scenes ever put on film, but they suffer from one important problem. These battle scenes have no context except for the fight for freedom.Now, don't get me wrong, duels are hardly original either. In fact, there are probably 10 times as many films with duels as there are with battle scenes. But the context of the duel between Cunningham and Rob Roy is a beauty to behold. It is one of the greatest scenes in film history. Let me explain why...First of all, the fighting style and the bearing of the two characters in this duel describe the characters perfectly. Cunningham is effette and dangerous, Rob Roy is strong and courageous. Cunningham uses a fencing sword while Rob uses a broadsword. Cunningham fights with quick tricky movements, while Roy's fighting style is more obvious.The whole film, from the deliberately slow first half to the exciting second half, is leading up to this moment. It is powerful stuff, and it is clear that Rob must exterminate this menacing evil that has plagued his whole world. When Rob finally gets the upper hand (literally and figuratively,) it is one of the greatest moments in film history. Rob wins because he has more to live for, and his honor is more powerful than 10 Cunningham's. The use of music is absolutely chilling in this scene. Good prevailing against a real evil is more powerful to me than seeing a dude get disemboweled just so he can yell FREEDOM!. But hey, maybe that's just me.- Rob Roy is more realistic than BraveheartI don't know that people in the aristocracy or Scotsmen talked like the people in Rob Roy, but I do feel that it clearly an attempt to capture their speech patterns. I feel that many people are bored by Rob Roy simply because they can't understand what the characters are saying. If this is the case, then read some Shakesphere, or put on the close-captioning. Rob Roy is actually one of the greatest written films of the 90's. Many of the dialogue in this film is clever, but maybe you have to watch the film a couple of times to understand it.By contrast, the dialogue in Braveheart is hardly very interesting. Of course, what do you expect when the main character is a Scotsman played by an Australian? This is a legend, and there was clearly not an attempt to capture the speech of the times. This film takes place several centuries before Rob Roy, and yet they talk like the people today. Thus the reason that many people like it better. Audiences today have become increasingly lazy, and they don't want to take the time or patience to understand things that are complex. Therefore, as with many epic films, they expect to see the villians speak a recognizable English accent while the heroes speak in a vernacular not too far away from our American language. Sure, it is clear that the Wallace is Scotish, but other than sounding like Scotty from Star Trek and a couple of Ayes for acknowledgement, the Scots in this film fit into the Hollywood tradition of how we believe Scots should sound.So, do these descriptions prove that Rob Roy is a better film than Braveheart? Hardly. But if it proves one thing, it shows that it is hardly common knowledge that Braveheart is a better film than Rob Roy. To put simply, Rob Roy is a film that has themes that are very apropos in today's world. Braveheart is a film about a legend that is inspiring but hardly realistic. You can make a decision on what you think is better...Grade - A Score - 9 "},{"Title":"An unforgettable epic of love and honor.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"40 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  What can one say about a film that has one of the blackest, most nihilistic, and occasionally  most weirdly -I wont say 'sympathetic'..I will say 'charismatic' villains in the history of the Cinema, and the best sword fight since Flynn and Fairbanks were in their heyday? This is an epic about a stubborn, sometimes foolish, incredibly courageous and honest mans fight for his honor and freedom against tyranny. I loved it. John Hurt and Tim Roth were great villains. Jessica Lange was very moving, tender, and sensual.  "},{"Title":"unusual messages from Hollywood","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" MAJOR SPOILERS!! THIS IS FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE SEEN THE MOVIE!!Commenters have touched on the major theme of honor in the film, and too many comparisons to Braveheart. I'll point out a few things about this movie that I have not seen other comments touch onThis movie has a decidedly different take on abortion. The first character to get pregnant is the villain's (Roth) girlfriend, and when he coldly suggests an abortion, she states it is too late for that. The shame of her situation (I'm to have a bastard's bastard.) leads her to commit suicide in a much later scene. The second character to find herself pregnant is Mary, Rob's wife, after a rape by Roth's character (and at least one sex scene with her husband, Rob). Late in the movie, as Rob is leaving for a final confrontation with Roth, Mary asks what she should do about the pregnancy of questionable origins, with a tone hinting of abortion. Rob replies in a noble tone, it's not the fault of the child, and then states what he thinks the name should be, girl or boy. I find this pro-life stance on the part of the hero to be very un-Hollywood. Rob walks from the darkness of the house to the bright outside to make this comment -- not coincidental symbolism.Another related theme is Roth's character is a bastard, someone who evidently does not know who his father was, and has few kind words for his mother, though he wears a picture of her in a case hung from his neck. Is it coincidence that Roth (devoid of family stability) is the walking definition of psychopath, while Rob is the strong husband/father figure, and of course the hero. In the final sword fight between Rob and the villain (Roth), the former slices the latter deeply across the chest -- the left side of the chest, over the heart. His employer and pseudo-father figure (John Hurt character) holds the mother's picture in his hand and gazes at it, before snatching it from the neck of the dead Roth.Also what I find interesting was the direction of the rape scene, which was not quite graphic but neither was it off-camera and implied. I found it surprising in it's somewhat matter of fact depiction, with Mary convincingly showing the characteristics of someone going through the ordeal, and subsequent post traumatic stress (as we call it now). My point being that the rape was neither sensationalized nor just implied, which I find an interesting middle road for Hollywood to take.In the final fight scene, I have to correct an earlier commenter The weapon Roth chose was a rapier (or perhaps a short sword), the weapon Rob chose was a Claymore. Someone was really doing their homework on this entire scene. Roth would have the upper hand in such a situation, but of course the Claymore is a distinctly Scottish weapon. What is even more striking to me (as a fencer and someone who has read a bit on the subject) is that this final sword fight is one of the most convincing of any film ever made The actors seem actually trying to kill each other -- not the usual slashes to the opponents blade we see in most movie fights (including the movies opening fight). Even more true to history, Roth is seen several times using the rapier as a thrusting weapon, which is it's purpose by design! (Rapiers were edged, but primarily a thrusting weapon with the edges used mainly for parrying an opponents thrust.) Rob uses the Claymore in broad slashes, as it's design intent. The fight goes down as I would expect it to -- Roth effectively wins. Though Rob wins the day by grabbing Roth's weapon (more symbolism) and striking him dead with a powerful slashing cut.Folks, it is RARE to see this level of historical accuracy in a movie sword fight.I'll also note that for whatever reason, I remember 1995 (the year of release) distinctly as a time of distrust of the U.S. government. Hollywood was obviously tuned into that, with the release of both Rob Roy and Braveheart, and I think the anti-government leanings are why both films get so much comparison. I think the different perspective that this film gives is refreshing to avid movie fans, tired of the same old, not so hidden messages from Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Powerful, Involving Story","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"41 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This is one powerful film. The first time I saw it, the Scottish accents made it tough for me to understand a lot and that ruined the viewing experience. I gave up on it but then acquired the DVD, used the English subtitles when I needed them, and really got into this movie, discovering just how good it is. It is excellent.The widescreen picture makes it spectacular in parts, with some wonderful rugged scenery and the story reminded me of Braveheart, an involving tale of good versus evil. Here, it's Liam Neeson (good) vs. Tim Roth (evil). Both do their jobs well.Few actors come across as despicable as Roth. Man, you really want to smack this guy in his arrogant, irritating puss. (He is so nasty and vile the sick critics love his character more than anyone else's here). Neeson is a man's man and a solid hero figure as Gibson was in Braveheart. Jessica Lange is strong in here as the female lead. The movie draws you in and gets you totally involved, so prepared to have an emotional experience viewing this. "},{"Title":"Sword Fighting is Hard","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"41 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Overshadowed by Braveheart released the same year, the two costume dramas beg comparison. I admit my bias against Mel Gibson, yet I maintain a rational preference for Rob Roy. Both Braveheart and Rob Roy compellingly depict Scots history in bloody, romantic fashion. Braveheart is an epic paean to individual honor and courage and a fine revenge fantasy. It's also melodramatic, anachronistic and maudlin. Note its cornball usage of slow motion filming. Its violence is both ugly and glorious. It is the latter quality which makes it more appealing to the adolescent mindset. While Braveheart surpasses Rob Roy in sheer levels of carnage (not to mention its indulgent running time), the latter film is ultimately more mature and satisfying. Its action is more understated, yet more surprising and clever. Its sex is less showy, yet more erotic. Rob Roy also has a better realized romantic interest. Its dialog attempts to approximate the poetry of the period. Its rotted teeth in the mouths of the actors attempt to approximate the dentistry of the era. And Tim Roth is a superlative villain. Also recommended The Last of the Mohicans and The Patriot. You may find the latter more akin to Braveheart with its emphasis on blood lust, with the former more similar to Rob Roy in tone. All the of the aforementioned movies merit their R ratings for violence. "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This sweeping drama has it all top notch acting, incredible photography, good story. It is often compared to Braveheart because both movies take place in historical Scotland. Even though I love Braveheart, I think this is the better of the two films. Jessica Lange gave an incredible performance (should have been nominated for an Oscar). Liam Neeson is fantastic in the title role. Tim Roth plays one of the most evil, despicable, characters in film history (he was nominated for an Oscar). John Hurt is excellent as Lord Montrose, another dislikeable character. I am always amazed at the incredible range of characters that John Hurt can play. This is a story of a dispute over money between Rob Roy and his clan, and Lord Montrose. Rob Roy is a self made man, who will not solve his problems with Montrose if it violates his sense of honor. Montrose, who, inherited his title, has no sense of honor. And that is basically what this story is all about; honor of the common man versus corruption of the nobility. This movie is very entertaining, it should appeal to all. It has romance, action, beautiful scenery, and has a exciting plot. One of my favorite films. "},{"Title":"Great action show, with a moral message.","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This is a very good, under-rated action/drama/and slightly historical movie.The basic story concerns Rob Roy's borrowing of 1000 pounds, its theft, and the problems it causes for his family and indirectly his clansmen.Cunningham( Tim Roth) is an amazing villain and character in this story. Brutally cold and if you watch his face he seems to be able to turn his eyes off and look completely evil.Rob Roy (Liam Neeson) is excellent too, but i think the writers used the word honour 1 too many times.The rest of the cast is strong, and the whole movie is very well acted and filmed.The Action is exciting and the sword play very realistic, but not too gory. The story is good and you really want Rob to win.All in all just shy of a classic. "}{"Title":"Rob Roy towers.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Well done, scenic, finely made film, Liam Neeson is great here and shoulda had the same basic part in Phantom Menace, he is a force of nature here. Roth is a great nasty, Hurt too. I thought the assault scene on Jessica was tough to watch but that crap did happen. The British were tyrants up in the High Heather in the 1700s even as they were in the 1300s in 'Bravehearts' day.I see this as a bit of a forerunner to Braveheart, though they came out at about the same time, it shoulda done better at the box office and ditto at the Oscars.***1/2, and boys...that final fight between Roth and Liam...my o my. "},{"Title":"Is there anything Liam Neeson can't do?","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time -- it far outshines Braveheart which made more money and got more attention.  Liam Neeson is just exudes manliness in this movie, and if I was Jessica Lange I'd have been liftin' me skirts all the time too.  Her portrayal of Mary McGregor is just beautiful -- turns out Mary is just as strong as the man she married.  Tim Roth is a little exaggerated as the evil Archie Cunningham but still manages to be believable.  I think the two most underrated actors in this film were Eric Stoltz as McDonald and Brian Macardie as Rob Roy's younger brother.  The scene in the woods where Cunningham is pursuing  MacDonald is simply agonizing to watch, and brilliantly filmed.  MacArdie's compassion for Mary McGregor when he learns her secret is so moving, you just want to cuddle the guy and pat him on the head.  The final swordfight between Rob and Archibald is amazing, one of the best movie fights I've ever seen -- yes, it's bloody, but death tends to be.  Rent this!  If you are a Brian Macardie fan, check out Kidnapped. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and Underrated Film","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Its not Braveheart( thankfully),but it is fine entertainment with engaging characters and good acting all around. I enjoyed this film when it was released and upon viewing it again last week,find it has held up well over time. Not a classic film,but a very fine and watchable movie to enjoy as great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Powerful portrait of an ordinary but honourable Scottish clansman","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This is the moving tale of Scotland's legendary hero, Rob Roy, and his battles with the feudal landowners. Like Braveheart to which it is frequently compared, it is not very historical. Despite their primarily fictional nature, I rate both of these movies highly and would be hard pressed to choose between the two. The 13 Century William Wallace is, as others have noted, a larger than life national figure, while the early 18th Century Rob Roy comes across as an honourable but ordinary Scotsman.The story revolves around a clan chieftain, Robert Roy McGregor, who lives in a Scottish highland cottage with his wife Mary and their two young sons. As the movie begins, he and his fellow clansmen are hunting down some thieves who have stolen the local lord's cattle. Rob Roy then wishes to improve the living conditions of his people so arranges to borrow one thousand Scottish pounds from a local noble, the Marquis of Montrose, in order to buy cattle to herd to market. He temporarily entrusts this money to his friend, Alan McDonald. When both McDonald and the money turn up missing, Rob Roy finds himself in conflict with Montrose as well as his despicable protégé, Archibald Cunningham, and his sleazy factor, Killearn. Rob Roy's honour is also tested when Montrose seeks to involve him in false testimony against his rival, the Duke of Argyle, whom he wishes to accuse of being a Jacobite.The charismatic Liam Leeson is brilliant as the kilted highlander Rob Roy, an intelligent, virile, and noble hero and a man whose sense of honour is pivotal to this tale. Personally, I feel that this is Neeson's best performance, his brogue (albeit Irish) adding authenticity for the average viewer. Rob Roy is a stubborn, proud, courageous, and honest man whose word can be trusted. He is a loving husband & father, and also touchingly loyal to his friend, McDonald, who is accused of robbing him. Tim Roth masterfully portrays his major adversary and surely one of the most heinous and sadistic cinematic villains, Archibald Cunningham, an egotistical, ruthless strutting peacock. He is very effeminate for someone who makes it his major business to ravish the local women, whether willing or otherwise. The pathetic Cunningham himself constantly refers to the fact that he is a bastard unaware of his own father's identity, though this hardly justifies his horrendous misdeeds of murder, rape, and thievery. Also, he mercilessly casts aside the young servant girl, Betty, after she becomes pregnant with his child, resulting in her suicide. John Hurt plays the arrogant and foppish Montrose, who is eventually implied to be Cunningham's father.The movie is essentially the very believable love story between an ordinary man and his wife, beautifully depicting the passionate relationship between Rob Roy and Mary. Those who question the presence of passion within marriage should watch this husband and wife! I think the phrase used by this pair, 'How fine you are to me...' is surely one of the most beautiful expressions of love in all cinema. The most compelling performance is possibly by Jessica Lange as Rob's wife, Mary McGregor. Lacking make up, she has the pretty but natural look of a sturdy peasant wife and mother. The actress brings great courage and dignity to her role when she is brutally raped by the despicable Cunningham, while the disgusting Killearn looks on. Her dialogue is plain spoken but filled with pride and grace. I give Hollywood its due that for once they showed just enough in the rape scene to reveal its cruelty as well as Mary's pain and humiliation, but nothing intended to sensationalize. Their kinsman, Alastair McGregor, shows emotional anguish when he learns of Mary's rape, and further torment when she swears him to secrecy never to reveal to her husband her violation by Cunningham. Of course this film features the beautiful scenery of the Scottish highlands, also lavish period costumes and appropriate musical scoring. There are no grand battle scenes as in Braveheart, but continuous engaging action and a particularly gripping sword fight in the final duel between Rob Roy and Cunningham. This is a captivating movie featuring both tense action and a beautiful love tale. "},{"Title":"A Taste of 18th Century Scotland","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" The early to mid 90s were a high point, in my opinion, for the historical drama. Last of the Mohicans, Braveheart, Rob Roy - all portrayed a distinctive passion and intensity in their respective time periods.Rob Roy was a unique and intriguing taste of a time and place rarely represented by film. It really has everything - interesting story, great acting, remarkable dialog, and breathtaking scenery. I was particularly impressed by the apparently genuine dialog. I can imagine this is how early 18th century people spoke and behaved.Something else that surprised me was the vulgarity expressed by the characters. I found it to be more repulsive and shocking, albeit often more subtle, than most found in films set in modern times. The movie had a very racy and sexually charged edge to it that was unique and most likely very realistic in the context of the era.The pace was very tight, with hardly a dull moment. There was much intrigue and political subplots that complicated things a bit, but yet did not detract from the main storyline.The action was also very well done and gripping. Something that I will forever find remarkable is that during the highlight action piece in the film, there is no soundtrack whatsoever. It makes for a very tense, exciting sequence, since we have no musical cue as to the direction and resolution of the scene.Rob Roy will always remain high on my list of favorite films. I would recommend it to all. "},{"Title":"One of the most passionate movies ever","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Liam Neeson portrays the Scottish legend Robert Roy Macgregor from the early 18th century. He is a true actor. He captivates the audience with his charisma as he does in all his roles. Jessica Lange is excellent as his wife Mary. Mary is such a beautiful woman. It's her love that makes Rob Roy the legend, but it's his passion that makes her love undying. They need each other. Tim Roth as the evil Cunningham is perfect; in one way or another, upon watching the movie, you will find Cunningham disgusting. The Scotland scenery is beautiful. The environment and conditions of the times are depicted quite well. If you like history, romance, passion and love, you'll enjoy Rob Roy. There is violence and blood, but it's unavoidable in telling this story as it should be told; no gratuitous violence. And you do have to listen carefully if you're not used to a Scottish accent. One important point that makes this movie so good is that no one actor or actress is glamorized; they get dirty and actually look unattractive in various scenes. It's their skill as actors that attracts you, they don't rely on marquee names, popularity or sex symbol appeal. This is something special.  "},{"Title":"Braver than Braveheart","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Mel Gibson's Braveheart was a spectacularly accomplished film, but it left a sour taste in the mouth.  Rob Roy, by contrast, is slightly less polished, but a better film by far.  This is a historical film which combines timeless themes with truly historical values, whereas Braveheart put a gross and unpleasant comtemporary gloss on an ancient tale.  What makes this film is the cast.  Liam Neeson plays the hero, in a role he basically reprised (in a watered-down fashion) in the Phantom Menace.  The character is heroic, but is neither the greatest fighter nor the most demonic lover.  Admirable yet human, he commands the screen.  Against him are set a selection of equally human adversaries including Tim Roth's Cunningham, obnoxious but brilliant, and John Hurt's morally bankrupt laird.  Also to praise is Jessica Lange, as Rob's pragmatic wife also strong and noble, but 300 years away from a modern heroine, which is only as it should be.  This is not the most original film you will see, but it has the courage of its own convictions, and the strong performances make you care. "},{"Title":"Do not think that all sins go unpunished in this life, Montrose.","Date":"7 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Rob Roy is directed by Michael Caton-Jones and written by Alan Sharp. It stars Liam Neeson, Jessica Lange, John Hurt, Tim Roth, Eric Stoltz, Andrew Keir and Brian Cox. Music is by Carter Burwell and cinematography by Karl Walter Lindenlaub.Neeson is Rob Roy MacGregor, an 18th Century Scottish historical figure who borrows £1,000 from the Marquis of Montrose (Hurt) with the plan to improve his clan's way of life. But the money is stolen in transit by the dastardly Archibald Cunnigham (Roth), so unable to repay the loan, Roy is forced to live as an outlaw. From such seeds are legends born.Beautifully shot on location in parts of the Scottish Highlands, Rob Roy somewhat got lost in the slip stream of Mel Gibson's Braveheart. A shame, for although not as epic or as rousing as Gibson's Oscar grabber, Caton-Jones' film is a different, more reflective, type of historical piece. Thematically the film is a play on virtues, in fact it's a trumpet playing fanfare for such. Honesty, honour, loyalty, fidelity and love nestle in nicely with the wonderful landscapes, born out by Sharp's intelligent script. But that's not to say that the director hasn't got the requisite thrust of stirring adventure within, he has, and Rob Roy rewards in that department also. The films crowning glory is a climatic sword fight, no tricks or hard to believe heroics, just an expertly shot long sequence that's choreographed sublimely by William Hobbs and Robert G. Goodwin. While Carter Burwell's score sits nice with the visual treats; even if the Gaelic strains within the orchestration sound more Irish than Scottish.Cast work well. Although Neeson looks the part as the robust Roy, there's no need for dashing here, character calls for strength of mind and body, as well as emotional fortitude with the love of his family, Neeson plays it with ease. Lange, an interesting casting choice as the missus, shorn of make up, yet still naturally sexy, she gives Mary MacGregor believable strength. But it's undeniably Tim Roth's movie, part effeminate fop, part calculating bastard, his villainous turn as Archibald Cunningham has to be seen to be believed. He was rightly nominated for an Academy Award for his efforts. The rest impact well, Cox and Hurt, great pros as always, and Stoltz too, isn't found wanting. There's some iffy accents at times, so what's new? And if I'm to be churlish, then it often feels wrong in period. But they are small complaints in what is otherwise a smart and lovely splinter from the swashbuckling tree. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Satisfying from start to finish.","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" To bad for this fine film that it had to be released the same year as Braveheart. Though it is a very different kind of film, the conflict between Scottish commoners and English nobility is front and center here as well. Roughly 400 years had passed between the time Braveheart took place and Rob Roy was set, but some things never seemed to change. Scottland is still run by English nobles, and the highlanders never can seem to catch a break when dealing with them. Rob Roy is handsomely done, but not the grand epic that Braveheart was. There are no large-scale battles, and the conflict here is more between individuals. And helpfully so not all Englishmen are portrayed as evil this time. Rob Roy is simply a film about those with honor, and those who are truly evil.Liam Neeson plays the title character Rob Roy MacGregor. He is the leader of the MacGregor clan and his basic function is to tend to and protect the cattle of the local nobleman of record known as the Marquis of Montrose (John Hurt). Things look pretty rough for the MacGregor clan as winter is approaching, and there seems to be a lack of food for everyone. Rob Roy puts together a plan to borrow 1000 pounds from the Marquis and purchase some cattle of his own. He would then sell them off for a higher price and use the money to improve the general well-being of his community. Sounds fair enough, doesn't it? Problems arise when two cronies of the Marquis steal the money for themselves. One of them, known as Archibald Cunningham, is perhaps the most evil character ever put on film. Played wonderfully by Tim Roth, this man is a penniless would-be noble who has been sent to live with the Marquis by his mother. This man is disgustingly effeminate, rude, heartless, and very dangerous with a sword. He fathers a child with a hand maiden and refuses to own up to the responsibility. He rapes Macgregor's wife and burns him out of his home. This guy is truly as rotten as movie characters come. Along with another crony of the Marquis (Brian Cox) Cunningham steals the money and uses it to settle his own debts. Though it is painfully obvious to most people what happened, the Marquis still holds MacGregor to the debt. This sets up conflict that will take many lives and challenge the strengths of a man simply fighting to hold on to his dignity.Spoilers ahead!!!!!Luckily for the MacGregor's, a Duke who is no friend to the Marquis sets up a final duel between Rob Roy and Cunningham to resolve the conflict one and for all. This sword fight has been considered by many to be one of the best ever filmed. Cunningham is thought by many to be a sure winner with his speed and grace. And for most of the fight, it looks like these attributes will win out. Just when it looks like Rob Roy is finished, he turns the tables in a shockingly grotesque manner. The first time you see what happens, you will probably be as shocked as Cunningham! Rob Roy is beautifully filmed, wonderfully acted, and perfectly paced. The score is quite memorable, too. The casting choices seem to have worked out as Jessica Lange, who might seem to be out of her element, actually turns in one of the strongest performances as Mary MacGregor. The film is violent, but there isn't too much gore. It is a lusty picture full of deviant behavior, however. The nobility are largely played as being amoral and sleazy. The film has no obvious flaws, thus it gets 10 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Great film - don't miss it!","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  A very engaging, intelligent, and well-made film.  Liam Neeson and Tim Roth play their roles superbly.  The cinematography is outstanding. The fight scenes are amazing. This is a film I will enjoy watching again and again. One of my favorites. "}{"Title":"One of my top 10 movies of all time!","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I question anyone saying they don't care for this movie. Some reviewers have said it didn't have enough action, some said it was too long, etc.  Don't listen to them!!!  If you like Shawshank Redemption and/or Braveheart, you will definitely love this movie!The acting performances are superb!  Tim Roth, John Hurt and Jessica Lang are allsuperb and Liam Neeson does an admarible job and is a very imposing character because of his size.  The Cinemaphotography was brilliant and breathtaking.  It is onw of the few movies I have seen in my life (along with Shawshank) that was virtually flawless from casting, directing, writing, acting, etc.!!!I was amazed this wasn't in the top 50 or 100 movies reviewed.  I felt so passionately about it that I just registered with IMDB so I could let everyone know the real scoop.  I have seen this movie about 10 times (each time with a different person) and everyone has loved it!  You must be awake and pay attention carefully for the first 30 minutes because they introduce quite a few characters in the beginning.  If you have the attention span longer than most of these juvenille kids writing reviews for the movies on this site, than you will love this movie!  Come on...all 3 Lord of the Rings movies in the top 9 and the Matrix at #32?!?!  That should show you the age range of most reviewers here!This is a top 50 movie!!! "},{"Title":"an underrated epic of passion and action!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Rob Roy is and underrated epic of passion and action!SOME MILD SPOILERS WITHIN. Liam Neeson gives a towering performance as Rob Roy MacGregor,one of the best in his career.Jessica Lange is letter-perfect as his wife Mary.They have the most passion and chemistry I've seen in a screen couple.John Hurt gives his best snotty aristocrat performance.Tim Roth portrays one of the great screen villains.His rape of Mary is repugnant and harrowing.He really is a magnificent bastard in this movie.The final duel between Rob and Cunningham is one of the best swordfights ever.Well scripted ans scored,and Michael Caton-Jones direction is flawless. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My favorite film!","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This is a very exciting and romantic film. I have seen it several times and never get bored with it. Everything is realistic and it is a good plot. The actors are excellent Liam Neeson, Jessica Lange, Tim Roth and Brian Cox.I actually prefer this film to Braveheart as Braveheart contain so many historical misstakes. There is many exciting scenes - watch out for the Bridge Scen and the last fencing scene. This is really good and surprising scenes.The music are lovely...it really suits to the movie. The setting is amazing. "},{"Title":"A Standard Western","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  In my review of ULZANA`S RAID I made the point that Alan Sharp had written a Vietnam war movie and had located it back a hundred years to the wild west . Here Sharp has written a western and transferred it to the Glens of 18th century bonnie Scotland . I mean think about the plot for a moment , a greedy cattle baron strikes up a land deal only to double cross the home steaders and it`s up to Mister home steader in a white hat to clear his name and bring Mister greedy cattle baron to justice . The allegory is even more obvious with the amount of scenes that take place in crowded bars that always end with somebody challenging someone else to a fightNo matter because I actualy preferred ROB ROY  to BRAVEHEART . Okay I`ve got to be honest and say I wasn`t entirely overwhelmed by either production but at least ROB ROY was actually filmed in Scotland with a Scottish director working from a script that was written by a Scot and this movie has the better cast . Liam Neeson is good as the title character ( And I`m glad no one thought of casting Clint Eastwood ) and he is very well supported by John Hurt , Brian Cox , Andrew Keir and of course Tim Roth deservedly won an Oscar nomination for his role . The only disappointing performance is with Jessica Lange , or rather her accent which keeps turning from American to unplaceble Scots , but I guess the Scottish accent is difficult to capture , rather like the hero of this movie  "},{"Title":"Gripping, spectacular and entertaining ...","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" What a year for highlanders! Nothing but a coincidence, but it's still intriguing that Rob Roy, a movie about a Scottish hero, was released the same year than another movie about another Scottish hero, William Wallace aka the titular Braveheart, directed by Mel Gibson, and winner of the Best Picture Oscar (that's for the trivia).Yet it would be unfair to compare the two films on the simple basis of their similar settings. Rob Roy is not only set four centuries after the epic battles lead by William Wallace, but the film's scope is totally different, it's more a historical biopic than an epic, more about a man, about two men actually and their imminent confrontation. The two men are Liam Neeson, as Robert Roy, cattle drover and leader of the MacGregor Clan, and Tim Roth as Archibald Cunningham, the sneaky henchman of the Marquis of Montrose, played by John Hurt, and both Neeson and Roth couldn't have played more opposite characters, each one is the other's perfect nemesis and that's what make their antagonism so thrilling. Indeed, a good movie can only depend on the quality of its villain; in that case, Tim Roth creates one hell of a performance, rightfully Oscar-nominated as the evil Cunningham.Archibald Cunningham reveals the hideous face of his personality when, after having heard from Montrose's factor Killearn (Brian Cox) that Rob Roy was getting a loan of £1000, steals the money from Roy's best friend, Alan McDonald (Eric Stoltz), kills him in the process, and makes Roy an official outlaw. However, Roy is given a chance to redeem himself by bearing false witness for Montrose against his main political rival the Duke of Argyl (Andrew Keir). Less than a plot device, Roy's expected refusal comes at the illustration of the definition he gave of honor in his previous scene with his children, honor is something no one gives to you and no one can take from you. Roy is not just a skillful sword-fighter, and noble in a sort of Robin-Hood way, but he's a man of word and honor, as good as Cunningham is evil, treacherous and irredeemable. The film finds the right balance between a noble hero and a detestable villain, and it powerfully engages us in each of their story lines as they're not just one-dimensional characters. Liam Neeson towers everyone in the film, he t reminded me of the Scottish people who thought that William Wallace was 7ft tall, I wondered how good Neeson would have probably been in Braveheart (not that it diminish the merit of Mel Gibson) yet despite his commanding presence, there is a sort of stubbornness and relative naivety betrayed by his eyes, which compensate his huge height. On his side, Cunningman is shorter, less attractive with this sort of crisped grin and effeminate manners that fool everyone, until he uses his sword and proves to be a worthy fighter. He's got style, flamboyance while Roy is mostly seen stabbing sword on people. A lot is said about Cunningham's past as a bastard, and there's much more to know about him, not to forgive him, but to give him a certain level of depth. Yet the characterization that doesn't only rely on the performances of Neeson and Roth. Take Roy's wife, Mary, played by Jessica Lange, while she could have been your typical hero's woman, loving, caring and worrying, Mary has passion, honor, questions her husband and would be the victim of the ultimate abuse from Cunningham, in a very gut-wrenching scene. By the way, the film features much more sexual material than other historical dramas, but it's never gratuitous, each intimate moment, rape, or sexual reference serves the story and gives it a touch of authenticity a few film had the guts to portray. Would you really expect a scene where the wife would wake up and got to the beach to relieve her bladder, she could have been there for any reason, but Rob Roy also goes for the realistic touch, another urination is featured in the film, when Archibald wakes up, yes it's a detail, but sometimes we do remember them more than the rest of the plot. Rob Roy has a special attention to characters, avoiding the usual archetypes like sidekicks, romantic or comic reliefs, although Brian Cox has very funny one-liners in the film. But let's get back to Mary, and Jessica Lange gives justice to the character by not getting shadowed by her husband, she ends up playing an important part to the plot, by persuading Argyl to propose the final duel between her husband and Archibald, and this is another important touch. While the film could have used as a climax a chase sequence ending in a violent confrontation or a sort of battle between the clan members and the British soldiers, it goes straight to the point with the final duel. As if it was conscious that the viewers only care for Roy and Cunningham after having spent so much time watching them. And speaking of the climax, the film features one of the greatest and most surprising sword fights ever featured in a film, you could feel the exhaustion, the tension, the hatred between the two characters, and the conclusion is absolutely unpredictable even in its predictability. The sword fight is the determinant element of the film, without which it would have been passably good instead of great.Rob Roy is a magnificent looking, and thrilling historical drama, signed by Michael Caton- Jones, it doesn't have the epic scope of Braveheart, or the gruesome battles, but it has some characters that immediately stick in your mind, and features some spectacular action sequences. Rob Roy is great entertainment that deserves more recognition. "},{"Title":"How about that!  It came out right before Braveheart!","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" I had never heard of Robert Roy MacGregor before Rob Roy came out, but the movie is definitely worth seeing. Playing the title character, Liam Neeson brings the same spirit to the role that he brought to Oskar Schindler, and Jessica Lange also does a really good job as his wife Mary. Archibald Cunningham (Tim Roth) is one person very likely to make your skin crawl.All in all, this comes out as good as Braveheart (maybe even better). I laugh when I think of how Hollywood released two movies almost back-to-back taking a swipe at England. Very good. Also starring John Hurt, Eric Stoltz, Brian Cox and Jason Flemyng. "},{"Title":"Brilliant period piece, although historically inaccurate.","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I loved this movie.  The scenery was breathtaking, the plot had some nice twists and turns, and the characters were well rounded.  On two fronts, however, Rob Roy scored far above average. First, I have rarely seen a popular film in which the quality of dialogue was so high.  There were many verbal slashes and thrusts to accompany the brilliantly choreographed swordplay.  I could give numerous examples, but why should I?  Just watch the film. Second, this movie understood a principle rarely acknowledged any more. For a drama to succeed, it needs not only a hero, but a really believable villain.  If you don't have one, there's not much joy in rooting for the good guys.  And Rob Roy  has not one, but three--the Earl of Montrose, his henchman Kilairn, and Archie.  Not one-dimensional villains, either, but fully fleshed and very nasty. It takes a bit more patience than Braveheart--there's more dialogue, and the accents are a bit tough, but it's a much more clever and subtle piece. (As I said, I loved this movie!) "},{"Title":"Blah","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Rob Roy is a historical adventure in the spirit of Braveheart with a little bit of Lord of the Rings thrown into the mix. It wants to be exciting and epic, but try as it might, it's rather forgettable.Robert Roy MacGregor (Liam Neeson) needs money, so he goes to the Marquis of Montrose (John Hurt) to offer him a business proposition that will make them both a lot of money. Things don't go as planned, and a man named Cunningham (Tim Roth) steals the money and blames it on MacGregor. So MacGregor must fight to save his clan and defend his honor.That's the story in a nutshell. It's really more complex than that, but truthfully it's not worth going into.By all accounts this should be a good movie. The performances are solid, being both standard adventure characters and complex individuals at the same time. The film looks great. So why isn't this a great film? The truth is that apart from a few instances, I could really care less about anything that happened. The most important thing a movie has to do is draw the audience into the story, and for me, Rob Roy fails to do that.There are two characters that illicited a response from me. Most importantly is Cunningham, played by Tim Roth. He's as vile as they come. He could care less about anyone, and no act of villainy is beyond his capability. The second Alasdair MacGregor, Rob Roy's brother, if only because he's rather likable.There are two things I must address. One is why they chose Rob Roy as the title. Liam Neeson's character is never referred to or addressed by this name. Maybe it's the name of the legend, but my bet is that most people, such as myself, would have no idea who the man was except for the movie.The second is that the film contains the best sword-fight in film history. Please. It may be realistic because people act in a normal way, but like the rest of the movie, it's rather lifeless.If you're looking for a good historical epic, stick with Braveheart. There's a reason why Mel Gibson's film is widely regarded as a classic and most people don't know this one. "},{"Title":"The fight of a hero.","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Robert McGregor was an eighteenth-century Scottish hero. The family financial problems, forcing him to borrow money from the Marquis of Montrose, and a host of adversity make him an outcast who just love a woman will give you strength to face everything.Based on the true story of the Scottish hero, who struggle against oppression, greed and tyranny of the feudal lords of the time, who only seek to increase their coffers and increase their land abusing the poorest and most vulnerable, while Rob Roy only seeks their welfare to borrow money for a cattle business and help his clan.This is expensive to fight him Rob Roy, lose their friends, their land, cattle, his brother, yet the defeat must maintain the honor and respect.The performances are superb, Liam Neeson is perfect in his role as Jessica Lange, and the good relationship between the two, Bryan Cox very good as insidious and loose mouth Killearn but he who does the best performance is Tim Roth as despicable mannered Archibald, which acts as the right hand of the Marquis of Montrose (John Hurt) ..Similarly, the correct photography, costumes, production design, makeup and balanced direction Canton-Jones showing scenes of drama, action, suspense, intrigue, all in a proportionate manner. The soundtrack is also good, especially the one heard at the end of the credits. "},{"Title":"Special movie with a great cast and story","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Spectacular movie of the common man of the Scottish hills compared to the upper crust Lords of the day. Great comparisons of the lives of the two classes. Summed up by watching Liam Neeson awake on a padded bed and Tim Roth awake on a sprawling king size feathered bed with all the garnishes.I give Braveheart the edge in its epic feel and intensity that stayed with me for a day or two. But Rob Roy is no slouch and is a more mature and possibly a more realistic movie.Liam Neeson is a superb actor and is excellent in his clan leading role. But Tim Roth gives a world class performance as the sleazy, vulgar, feminine wimp with an evilness that comes through in a mannerism that has to be seen and a god gifted ability in swordplay that puts one on the edge of their seat.Don't get me wrong. Liam is a superb actor and possibly better overall but this is Roth's Tour De Force.A simple story of good versus evil,done in a way that one does not see it as such, but is molded into the story. And one does not see the two forces colliding until half way through the movie.I will leave all but the final scene out of this movie. But you've been warned to stop reading here if you have not seen this move.The final scene is of Liam and Roth meeting to duel for Liams honor which Roth horribly trampled on. One feels the end for Liam's character as he enters the sword fight. One of the great things about the ending is as the fight begins one suddenly realizes that Liams sword is to heavy for the contest as Roth has a lighter model and swings it with ease. Near the end of the fight Liam tired and injured walks toward Roth dragging his broadsword. Its at this point that Liam grasps the sword with both hands and the camera aims to Roth who in his manner you see he says to himself, yes your sword is to heavy.The battle ends with Liam on his knees basically at Roths will and with Roths blade under his chin Liam reaches up and grabs the sword with his left hand. You see Roth startled and unprepared for such a move try and pull the sword back. Liam with a shaking hand grasps for his sword and with a battle cry stands up and slices Roth practically in half across the thorax. Both stunned and dying with blood flowing from his mouth Roth gives one of the best death throes ever recorded and falls dead.This movie is definitely worth the watch. "}{"Title":"The Best Historical Movie Ever Made!","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" I haven't seen this film in years so my knowledge is a little rusty. I do remember thinking that this film is twice the film of Braveheart. It is simply more realistic and has more believable characters. Ridb Roy looks like one would imagine Rob Roy to look like, messy hair and beard with simple clothing. Also the Liam Nesson has a Celtic look about him, he looks like a Scot and more importantly looks like Rob Roy. It's a comparison which angers some people but compare him to Mel Gibson as William Wallace. Gibson is supposedly playing a man who's legend has caused him to be described as a 6 foot 7 giant while Gibson is almost a foot shorter. The story contains a little romance, conspiracy and an underdog story. Sound anything like Braveheart? But instead of a film that cries out freedom, liberty and nationalism we get a film which says honour, love and justice. This makes it a more interesting film. Much like Gladiator. The cast is fantastic and Liam Nesson is a very strong leader in this endeavour. The story is great with how it deals with heroism and humanity. The scene where Mary is raped and she walks out of the burning house with a look of true Scottish strength is followed by her washing the semen from her crotch in an extreme panic. This is something a heroine in Braveheart would never do. Overall this is a stunning and almost flawless watch. Go and see it! "},{"Title":"Highlands of Epic Entertainment","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" The year 1995, when so many people talked about the great premiere of BRAVEHEART by Mel Gibson, also saw another very fine, yet underrated movie on Scottish history, ROB ROY. Although it is a very different film, especially due to the historical period the story is set in, ROB ROY has much in common not only with marvelous BRAVEHEART but also with the very spirit of epic movies.It is a film that discusses similar themes, like fight for dignity, courage, honor, revenge, family being a key to happiness. It also leads us to the very bliss of Scottish highlands where the human soul finds its rest being surrounded by all grandeur of nature. Robert Roy MacGregor (Liam Neeson), the main character is a true hero (so universal in epics), sort of Scottish Robin Hood who struggles to lead his people out of oppression imposed by cold hearted lords. Although he worsens his situation through the acts, has to suffer a lot, two things stay in his mind undeniably HONOR that he is given by himself and LOVE to his woman, Mary MacGregor (Jessica Lange). That leads him to unexpected events...Except for the interesting content and quite vivid action, the movie is filled with truly stunning visuals. This factor has to do both with the sets and locations of the film as well as the wardrobe. Many memorable moments stay in the mind of any viewer who can allow themselves an insight into artistic images. For me, the most splendid scene was in the Highlands when Rob Roy tells his boys what honor really means. Then, he sends them away and beautifully makes love to his woman. The scene he escapes Marguis of Montrose (John Hurt) to the waterfall is also worth a look as a stunning visual. Of course, there is some graphic violence, like in the duel for instance, but I don't think that this violence would be as harmful as in many other modern films. Its justification is like any other epic's bloodshed and cruelty of those times were really serious and there would be no point in hiding it. The most disturbing scene, for me, was the rape done on Rob Roy's wife by the villain of the story Archibald Cunningham (Tim Roth). It's truly disgusting and kids should definitely stay away. However, all the rest is O.K. Yet, there is one aspect that made me really love this movie, the performances.All the cast do perfect jobs, from the leading Lian Neeson who fits very well to the role of tall, brave, strong Scottish man to the supporting cast of Brian Cox who portrays wicked Killearn, a silent witness of terrible acts who feels comfortable with the evil of war. Jessica Lange is very fine as Mary MacGregor and has some of the most beautiful moments in the film. There is chemistry between Ms Lange and Mr Neeson in many of their scenes. John Hurt, one of the best British actors, does a terrific job as Marguis of Montrose, a corrupted man for whom money is the aim in itself achieved by any means. I like that calmness of his portrayal. But the real villain is played by Tim Roth who truly depicts wretched side of his character, Archibald - a man who mocks love, who loves war and who finds true lust in rape and slaughter. But, like in any good epic, this exceptional evil must find its end...And one more aspect the musical score such memorable and sentimental tunes that are bound to sound in the ears for long. The final moment touched me to tears not only because of the beauty it conveys but because I deeply combined these blissful tunes with the grandeur of locations. Scotland remains in the heart of its visitor and this movie reminded me of that permanent effect. It was, as if, my second journey to Scotland.ROB ROY is a very nice movie, very well directed, photographed and acted. It perhaps does not equal BRAVEHEART with its spectacular sets and crowds of extras in battle scenes, but it is a fairly long film with much attention placed on one very significant feature a cinema should have stunning entertainment combined with heartfelt education. I really enjoyed that film, do not hesitate to call it metaphorically highlands of entertainment and rate it 9/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie, but not for the overly sensitive.","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" I first saw Rob Roy twelve years ago. With little money for entertainment, I rented it for my fiancé and I to watch on a bone chilling winter's night. The movie I had wanted was gone, so I rented this instead, not expecting much, and was very much surprised with how good it was. I just recently watched it again, and loved it every bit as much as the first time. For those unfamiliar with the story, it's about Scottish outlaw Robert Roy MacGregor, a cattleman and folk hero. From the little I know about the man and his story, liberties have been taken with the facts, but it's a movie, not a textbook, and so the filmmakers can be excused. Basically, the plot of the movie is that Rob Roy borrows money from the Marquis of Montrose to buy cattle which he then intends to sell and reap a large profit from. But, his plan is foiled when the friend entrusted with the money is robbed of the cash and murdered in the forest. Our hero finds himself on the run after failing to settle the matter with the Marquis, and Mary, his wife, suffers a sadistic rape at the hands of Archibald Cunningham, a smarmy Englishman with no soul. Atrocities ensue, until, in an immensely satisfying conclusion, Rob carves Archibald up like a Christmas turkey. There are many great performances in this movie, but allow me to touch specifically on a few. Liam Neeson, as usual, is fantastic, a sexy beast you can't take your eyes off of. Honestly, this man is like ice cream even when he's bad he's good. His Rob Roy is an honourable man struggling to provide for those who depend on him, in the best way he knows how. Jessica Lange, as Mary, gives this woman a fierceness which is a nice change from the simpering, dull movie wives audiences are usually forced to endure. You just know she doesn't take any b.s from Rob, or anyone else for that matter. Tim Roth is completely over the top with his portrayal of the evil Archibald, yet somehow, it works. All the posturing and preening, combined with some wicked dialogue, result in one of the most memorable movie villains in recent memory. Combine all of this, and the stellar work by other supporting players, with the luscious scenery of Scotland, and you have what amounts to one really, really cool movie. If you haven't seen this, I highly recommend that you do. "},{"Title":"too many flaws","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" surprising that it made 28mil, as it was blown away by Gibson's braveheart, the more comic book version; Rob Roy is more raw, more interesting, better shot, better locations, but missing a screenplay that is entertaining; those defects are not helped by over the top fop tim roth who it is difficult to imagine even lifting a sword, and more so by jessica lang, who as her looks faded or something happened to create tiny little beady eyes, reverted to the quivering hand at the mouth and possibly tears school of acting; neeson is workmanlike, OK; john hurt nicely bizarre- though you should check him in his early penguin movie; all in all understandable that it faded under braveheart "},{"Title":"The fictional cousin to Braveheart","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Rob Roy (1995) Think of this film as the fictional cousin to Braveheart. Liam Neeson and Jessica Lange star in the Scottish tale of a hero of the people, who faced great adversities, gained many scars, but never lost his honor or courage. Coming out the same year as its Celtic cousin, Rob Roy is full of incredible landscape scenery, gritty examples of life for the average person in the 17th century, and, plenty of glimpses into the world of conniving wealth, taking what one chooses, and wearing the tackiest of clothing. Fops &#150; to say the least. Neeson does a good version of what he knows &#150; the humane, passionate yet stoic hero. Lange pushes further, giving a wider range to her character. Tim Roth, the Swishing Weenie of Fopdom, is the man you'll love to hate. If you're in the mood for an epic legend, this is a good one. "},{"Title":"Excellent period movie!","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Recently, I inherited hundreds of American VHS movies. This particular movie was one of the FEW worth watching. The scenery, acting, script, and storyline combined to make this movie one of the most memorable. This motion picture was primarily about Mary and Rob's relationship as a married couple in the Scottish Highlands. They were clearly in love but their love was tested by Rob's unflinching sense of honesty and integrity. Mary thought survival was more important than honor and honesty, but even still, she remained steadfastly loyal to her husband, Roy. In the end, she conceded that he was probably right to fight against corruptible forces.The realism in this movie was refreshing. Makeup was sparse, if absent on Mary, as it should have been and some of the common folk were downright ugly, toothless and dirty, as they should have been. The potty scenes added another sense of biological realism. Who could forget Mary casually squatting in the lake to relieve her morning bladder? Tim Roth was effective as the pansy-faced villain who surprisingly could wield a sword like no other. In the end, as expected, he was cut down and the good lived happily ever after - a typical Hollywood ending, yet satisfying as always. "},{"Title":"See it more than once","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  You must see this movie more than once to appreciate the beauty of the love story under the action.  A must see. Authentic chemistry between Lange and Neeson. Good drama and war movie and love story in every sense.  "},{"Title":"As good as it gets","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Movies do not get any better than this. The views of the Scottish Highlands are stunning, but what got me about this picture was that does such a good job of depicting the times in which the film is placed. This is no Hercules or Zena. No hip and cool talking 21st century dudes here. The dialog rings true, the villians are fantastic, no cheezy special effects, just wonderful acting, scenary, storyline, etc. Everything about this movie is 1st class.....          "},{"Title":"Great story & acting combine to produce a fantastic movie","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  The movies I've always liked the best have three things going for them. They always have a great story.  They have great, realistic characters.  And they take me to places that I could only imagine.  It really doesn't matter what type of movie it is... SciFi, Adventure, Drama, or Romance.Rob Roy combines of all of these elements into a movie that I would consider one of the best historical dramas of recent memory.  Liam Neeson & Jessica Lange give great, believable performances while Tim Roth is absolutely fantastic as the evil Archibald Cunningham.Treat yourself to an adult adventure movie.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"10/10 Movies don't get better then this","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I am shocked to see how low Rob Roy's score is on IMDB.  How could people not like this film?  Liam Nesson and Jessica Lange have more passion between them then most movies could hope.  Rob Roy is a magnificently colossal tale of love, honor, and revenge.  As Rob Roy Liam Nesson gives the performance of his career.  And Tim Roth's Archibald Cunningham is the greatest cinematic villain of all time.This film is one of the greats -- and is inferior to none. "}{"Title":"Looks good, acting is fine, story line weak","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Beautifully set in the Scottish landscape and with solid performances all round, for me this film lacked a credible story line. It's hard to relate to Rob Roy's sense of honour, on which the entire plot hinges, because the film fails to establish it sufficiently in the early stages. Likewise, Roy's foppish enemy's motivations are not fully explored, and so he comes across as a bit of a pantomime villain. But with stunning landscapes, charming music and some cracking sword- fighting, this is a reasonable way to spend 2 and a bit hours if you've already watched your top 100. "},{"Title":"Rob Roy based on Walter Scott's novel of the same name","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Reading some of the negative reviews for this film... one has to wonder whether IMDb need to regulate some of the reviewers... pointing to the homophobic reviewers... albeit, I am at a bit of a loss on that one with regards to this film.Scottish sentimental rubbish? Clan costumes? Do these people know who Sir Walter Scott was and what he did to promote Scotland? Of course it is Scottish sentimentalism... it is a Georgian Highland Romance story written to appease King George the whatever's fascination with all things Scottish. Scott all but invented Scottish cultural nationalism that we accept today.Did Rob Roy exist? Well if he didn't someone needs to rewrite the Battle of Glen Shiel (1719) because Robert Roy McGregor and 40 of his men were there.This film would normally be a 6.7... the acting is fine, the villain parts are perfectly executed... never been a big Neeson fan but he is fine in this film. The story is fair enough with predictable ending. What makes this a great film though is the final sword fighting scene. One of the best film sword fights in cinematic history. Worth just fast forwarding to that fight scene. Plus being of clan Gregor... I can't really give it less than 9. "},{"Title":"Scottish Highlands star in his tale of rogue and hero","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Rob Roy is an adventure and historical movie based on a real person, Rob Roy MacGregor (1671-1734), who became a legend as a Scottish folk hero and outlaw. The movie is a fictionalized account of his life, although many of the events are true if not accurate in detail. For a tale about this Scottish Robin Hood though, this script led me to question some of the decisions made by Rob. That may be as intended by the writers and/or director. For all the different roles and fine actors in this film, Rob Roy comes down to two characters who epitomize the age-old struggle of good versus evil. The acting is very good all around, especially by Tim Roth who plays Archibald Cunningham, one of the most despicable characters most viewers would ever care to see. Roth received an Oscar nomination and a Golden Globe nomination as best supporting actor. He did win the BAFTA (British Academy of Film and Television Arts) award for best supporting actor role. Like most other viewers I suspect, I enjoyed seeing justice done at the end for Cunningham. The characters of Archibald Cunningham and Rob Roy (played by Liam Neeson) are exact opposites in this movie. Archie is a wastrel; Rob a responsible worker and husband. Archie is a misogynist who abuses women for sex. Rob respects women, and treats them so. Archie is a hedonist; Rob is a responsible father, husband and livestock manager. Archie is a self-centered loner who manipulates and treats people with disdain; Rob is a caring friend who gives to those in need. Archie is a liar, thief and bully. Rob is honest, honorable and kind. Two lines from this film, one by each of the two male antagonists, describe their different characters very well. Betty, a discharged housemaid who has become pregnant by Cunningham, confronts him and asks, What are we to do? I love you, Archie. Cunningham replies, Love is a dung hill, Betty, and I am but a cock that climbs upon it to crow. In a scene with his wife, Mary (played by Jessica Lange), Rob says, Honor is a gift a man gives himself. And no one can take it away.One incident in the film is quite incongruous. That's after Cunningham kills McDonald (played by Eric Stoltz) in the woods and robs him. A following scene shows him in a boat on the bay dumping a body into the brink. Cunningham is a very slight build of a man. How in the world he could carry off a much more stout man by himself &#x96; for whatever distance, is quite unexplainable. Even then, where did he find or have a boat stashed away to take out in the bay to dispose of a body? One of the best things about this film is its glorious color cinematography of Scotland. The scenery of the rugged but picturesque highland country is quite inspiring. And, the film gives us a glimpse of what life probably was like in that time and place. The other technical aspects of the film were all very good. However, this is not a film for the whole family. When I first went to see this film in the theater, the thought was in the back of my mind about a cocktail called a Rob Roy. I had drunk such a drink in the past &#x96; many years ago, and had made it for others when tending bar. A New York bartender invented the drink in 1894 at the Waldorf Hotel &#x96; but I don't know if I ever heard his name. The ingredients call for 1½ oz. of Scotch, ¼ oz. of sweet vermouth, and a dash of angostura bitters. It should be shaken with ice to chill, and then strained into a tall martini or cocktail glass and served with a maraschino cherry. I don't know what inspired the inventor to make such a drink or to name it after Rob Roy. But, since it's a drink with Scotch, it seems obvious that he had our folk hero in mind. "},{"Title":"Compelling epic and incredible duel","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" It's 1718 in the Scottish highlands. Rob Roy MacGregor (Liam Neeson) is a honorable man who tries to lead his village and extended family. The society is changing as honor loses its meaning. He borrows money from Lord Montrose (John Hurt) to buy cattle, but his man McDonald (Eric Stoltz) is ambushed by Montrose's evil henchman Cunningham (Tim Roth) with the help of scheming Killearn (Brian Cox). Cunningham has debts to pay. Rob Roy is given all the blame as McDonald is assumed to have run away with the money to America. Montrose offers consideration if Roy Roy bares false witness against Duke Argyll. He refuses and Montrose hunts him down. He must battle to keep his honor, avenge his wife Mary (Jessica Lange) and save his people.The legendary Rob Roy is brought to the big screen. I don't really care about accuracy. It's simply a great epic about honor, love, and family. Liam Neeson is dripping with stoic goodness. Jessica Lange is nobility and dignity. Tim Roth is wonderfully villainous in his controversial performance. All of it leads to one of the most compelling duel ever seen on film. The meaning and its effects goes beyond a simple action scene. "},{"Title":"Featuring One of Cinema's Greatest Villains -- EVER!","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Rob Roy came out in 1995 with a couple other heroic swordplay films Braveheart and First Knight. I rank Rob Roy on a par with Braveheart, even though the two films shouldn't really be compared since Rob Roy focuses on the conflict of individuals in Old Scotland and Braveheart focuses more on whole armies battling.WHAT WORKS First of all, the location cinematography of the Scottish Highlands is breathtaking (far better than Braveheart). Liam Neeson and Jessica Lange are fine in their parts as Rob Roy and his wife. The sword-fighting (between individuals) is perhaps the best ever in cinematic history. The film also possesses a completely realistic vibe -- no anachronisms or campy humor here; the pic really helps one realize what life was like in rural Scotland 300 years ago.What works best, to my mind, is Tim Roth's outstanding performance as Rob Roy's foppish-but-deadly nemesis. This is truly a villain you love to loathe. The Roth character (I forget his name) is so over-the-top foppish that he appears effeminate; but this is only a disguise as he's actually a ruthless master swordsman. Surely this is one of film's top villains ever! (It doesn't sound right to say good villain, does it?).WHAT DOESN'T WORK The story itself doesn't have a lot of drive from beginning to end (unlike, say, Last of the Mohicans 1992). One's attention may wander at points. Of course this may not be an entirely bad thing in light of the schizophrenic editing of many films post-Armageddon. (In other words, the leisurely pace can be refreshing).WHAT MAY OR MAY NOT WORK FOR SOME PEOPLE There are aspects of extreme sexual brutality (a rape scene) and vulgarity (a man shoves his fingers up a woman's nightgown); as well as overt love-making -- definitely material not appropriate for children. There are also overt scenes of, believe it or not, urination; many may regard this as needless, but (for me) it helped drive home the point of what every-day life was like back then (e.g. Where do you pee if you're living in a shack out in the hills? Or, in the middle of the night, if there's no upstairs bathroom?).The story's lack of drive prevents Rob Roy from attaining true greatness in my mind, but the positive aspects noted above definitely achieve greatness. Certainly worthy of one's DVD library.GRADE B "},{"Title":"One of the BEST movies EVER made","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" I was given free tickets to see this movie on the day that the Oklahoma city bombing occurred. So I remember it well. What I saw was one of the richest and most impressive movies I have ever seen. Michael Caton-Jones deserves to go down as one of the BEST director's EVER for this masterpiece. The screenplay MASTERFUL. It has EVERYTHING Action, suspense, drama, romance. This movie is every bit as enjoyable as the Shawshank Redemption. It is a shame that some viewers will find the realism of this movie distasteful. Personally I find the realism EXTRA tasteful. A cartoon, this is NOT. YEAH! A hundred years from now this performance from Liam Neeson will be recognized as one of his finest. "},{"Title":"Swords and sheep, lots of sheep","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Heavily romanticized account of a real life 18th century outlaw, Robert Rob Roy MacGregor (Neeson), here portrayed as a Scottish Robin Hood. MacGregor borrows money from his landowner (Hurt), only to have it stolen by the landowner's right hand man and a most dastardly villain (Roth). To add to injury to insult, the villain rapes Ferguson's wife (Lange) and torches his farm. Soon, Rob Roy is on the run and plotting revenge. Long and talky, nevertheless this epic boasts lush photography and locations, and the sets and costumes feel authentic enough. Brian Hannibal Lecter Cox has a meaty role as an uneasy bad guy. Besides Robin Hood, the title character is highly reminiscent of movie antiheroes like Jesse James and Billy the Kid. At the time, Neeson may not have seemed like the best choice to portray an action hero, but he does just fine. And what an action hero he has become in recent years! Who da thunk it? "},{"Title":"Really enjoyable Scottish historical romance.","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Perhaps not everyone's cup of tea, but I watched this film cuddled up with my wife, I had no idea of the plot, although I had heard vaguely about Rob Roy the great Scottish hero.The film never pretends to be an epic, and there are some beautiful performances by the actors. Liam Neeson in the lead and Jessica Lange, who looked stunning despite her bedraggled attire. Also Tim Roth is a thoroughly believable nasty piece of work.I don't know how true the story line keeps to the historical context, films like Braveheart where the French Princess was actually only 4 years old when Wallace invaded England, had plenty of made up stuff in it.However as a film this is really enjoyable, one for a romantic night in, with some excellent acting. "},{"Title":"decent historical action","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Well, I've heard of this film for a few years now, only I hadn't seen it until recently. It's a respectable watch that tells a tale of highland vengeance against a sociopathic Brit.It's a basic film with a basic plot, and a very nice artistic sheen to it. We get a full rich visual of the period, and are treated to some small scale battles.If I had one complaint, it's that the revenge motivators and overall tone of anger to this film is pretty heavy. It's like Neeson's character is given no other option than to seek the path that he ultimately does. But, then again, that's kind of what the whole film is about.One of the great technical aspects is not only the art direction, but also the lensing. Very fine use of long lenses and master shots. We get true visual artistry here.The characters are all stock, but also multifaceted. Neeson isn't just a more contemporary version of Gibson's William Wallace. He has no less fire, but is more contemplative and earnest than the zealot from the middle ages.A respectable watch. "},{"Title":"Set in 18th century England and Scotland, a story about 'honor.'","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Liam Neeson is Robert Roy MacGregor, a Scot, and a natural leader who has had some shady dealings in the past but now wants to work for legitimate improvement in his lot, for him, his family, his friends. To do this he chooses to borrow 1,000 pounds from a British nobleman, for 3 months, at 1/5th interest. He will repay 1200 pounds.With this he will buy cattle and double his money with his plan. He doesn't actually want the money per se, he wants the line of credit. However his friend is fooled, convinced Rob Roy wants the money, he is given the money and set up to be robbed and killed, his body dumped in a lake, and Rob Roy left to wonder if he stole the money and took off.Meanwhile the natural tension between the Scots and the British take over, the English nobleman wants Rob Roy's land and have him imprisoned. But Rob Roy takes off, and threatens the nobleman's man, Tim Roth as Archibald Cunningham, a man with NO honor and only cares about himself. He actually is the one who stole the money. In turn Cunningham and his men show up at Rob Roy's home and not finding him, rape his wife, Jessica Lange as Mary MacGregor, and burn his home. This sets up the rest of the story, with Rob Roy vowing to see Cunningham dead.The nobleman is John Hurt as Montrose. His other key associate is Brian Cox as Killearn. All this sets up the final duel, with swords, between Rob Roy and Cunningham, a superior swordsman. But, guess who comes out the victor? "}{"Title":"Braveheart, with stronger characters and better acting, but on a smaller scale.","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Braveheart stole all of Rob Roy's thunder in 1995. Both movies are about a Scottsman seeking justice against his English antagonists. Both draw upon Scottish folk heroes and both take liberty with history to make good cinema. Where the two differ is in scale and character. Braveheart is filled with huge battle scenes and the story is similarly epic, encompassing all of Scotland and England. Rob Roy, for the most part, is about a single man defending his family and honor against those who have wronged him.Robert Roy MacGregor (Liam Neeson) borrows money from, Montrose (John Hurt), an English lord, in order to purchase cattle to drive and sell at market. Two of the lord's household Killearn (Brian Cox) and Archibald Cunningham (Tim Roth) conspire to steal the money and frame MacGregor's friend Alan MacDonald (Eric Stoltz) after murdering him. With no means of repaying the debt, Montrose offers Rob Roy a deal, bear false witness against a rival lord and the debt will be forgiven. Rob Roy refuses to dishonor himself and becomes an outlaw instead leading to English reprisals and Scottish raids.The movie is character driven and Tim Roth was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his portrayal of the villainous Archibald Cunningham, who is truly a man to be despised and reviled. Liam Neeson's portrayal of Rob Roy is honorable and stoic, with just a bit of hero thrown in. The plot may not be larger than life but the cinematography, setting, and acting are. In many ways Rob Roy is a better film than Braveheart but, alas, it has gone largely unnoticed. "},{"Title":"Honest","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Whether or not the story is true, Rob Roy is an honest film, containing honest performances from all the principals (though special mention must of course go to Liam Neeson for a Rob Roy of rock-hard integrity and Tim Roth for a reptilian Cunningham).The film looks wonderful and is always gripping underdog vs superior forces always works in securing the audience's involvement.The division between plot and action works well - the story is complex, but delivered in such a way that it is easy to assimilate.And, as someone who enjoys movie swordfights - starting with Flynn/Rathbone - the climactic fight between Rob Roy and Cunningham is, I think, the most visceral swordfight ever committed to celluloid. As someone else commented, you really believe that these two men are intent on killing each other. More, you believe that Cunningham has it in mind to play with Rob Roy beforehand - to torment him to the limit of endurance before putting him to death, and this gives the conclusion of the duel a grim satisfaction.And then compare it to Gibson's meretricious tosh... "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" I can't believe this movie is only rated 6.8. It's better than Brave Heart. I would have only rated it a 9 but it's underrated on this site. It should have been nominated for best screen writing Oscar. Tim Roth is so good, its so amusing to watch him as Archubold. The cinematography is acceptional. A love story is in it which I'm not really a big fan of, this was its only little drawback. A good look at a true story in the early 18th century Scotland highlands. A great movie bottom line. Liam Neeson's best performance I'm aware of by far. The accents are all very well spoken so thats not a bother like some other movies do. Worth a watch and maybe to own. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie?","Date":"13 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Just finished watching this film once again, randomly caught on a Sunday morning.....THE best time for watching movies I have found. Every once in awhile one is asked to profess a favorite movie. After several watchings over a period of 14 years since the original release, I am ready to unapologetically announce to anyone who cares to know, that Rob Roy is My Favorite Movie.As to why this movie effects me so, I think it must be the perceived historical accuracy combined with the eloquence of the old world dialogue. And of course the actors and direction had to be great in order to make me believe so heartily. Although the dialogue is somewhat difficult to keep up with, at least the effort is often rewarded with some incredibly memorable lines that are beautifully structured. I just can't think of any other film that captures language and historical moments as artfully and poetically as this one. So until I find another that does, Rob Roy will be My Favorite Movie.To borrow from Rob Roy's response to the Duke of Argylle after the final sword fight that he'll know who to bet on next time..........may I live so long........to see another movie that is better than Rob Roy. "},{"Title":"One of the best ever","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" It's rare to have a movie with so many characters fully fleshed out. Normally you get 1 hero and 1 antagonist, and you're lucky if either is fleshed out. The depth in Rob Roy is phenomenal.And no hero or villain is solely black and white. Each has clear faults, motivations, and shades of gray. The three villains have been extensively commented about, played by John Hurt, Brian Cox, and Tim Roth (in an acting tour de force). But even the much smaller parts of the Will Guthrie and Tam Sibold charters are played pitched perfect.If the plot is somewhat good vs. evil formulaic, this can be forgiven. With such a tight-knit script loaded with delicious dialog, marvelously textured performances, and fantastic cinematography of the Scottish Highlands, Rob Roy stands out as a unique gem of a film.And the sword fight at the end is so real you can almost feel the exhaustion and the cuts just watching it. A must see film for lovers of great film-making. "},{"Title":"When A Man Loves A Woman","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Tim Roth and John Hurt team up once again, over a decade after their stellar performances in Stephen Frears 'Gangster Noir' film, THE HIT. Tim Roth is mesmerizing as a swishy swordsman with a yen for robbery and rape. The sword fighting scenes in ROB ROY rank with the very best ever captured on film. Although certain Japanese Samurai films might display more frenzied technique, Michael Caton-Jones(the director)seems to allow the sword play to help define his characters' roles. Roth demonstrates a brazen, yet strategic approach-cruelly and intuitively seeking his adversary's weaknesses, while Neeson's character exhibits the ability to stoically absorb the hits, and continue to slug it out. Although, Liam Neeson seems a bit stiff as the noble Scottish clan leader, John Hurt hits the bull's eye as a very wry, British upper class fop. And, Jessica Lange puts a big romantic bow on the entire project. All in all, ROB ROY is a love story about honor and courage without a trace of sappiness. "},{"Title":"It's the saddest comment on mediocrity that Braveheart rates higher than this.","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This thing is a timeless masterpiece. When Braveheart is long forgotten, and 35MM is a term known only in dim antiquity, there will still be fans of Rob Roy. It is SO incredibly well balanced and finely tuned. The stars are STELLAR!!! A true Star Ensemble. The writing, deft. The sets, costumes, cinematography, score.. All top top notch. The direction, the best he's done, and why not? Just look what he had to work with! You can see the power and versatility of every single actor by looking at the rich and impressive careers of Every One of Them!, the casting was the luckiest confluence I've ever seen (more likely that script pulled all these bright actors together. They knew that not many of that quality come along) The Braveheart - Rob Roy thing used to bewilder me, but now it merely saddens me. It just means that those of us who really love and CAN DETECT a great piece of work have to be activists for the work, over time. But really, no worries This movie may not be for Everybody, but it is for Ever. "},{"Title":"Superb Performances!","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" As a Cinematic Experience, 'Rob Roy' is decent, but if you're clearly looking to see some fine acting, 'Rob Roy', just might do the trick. This 1995 Historical Drama has Liam Neeson & Tim Roth delivering performances that are so sharp & effective, that, they even manage to the hold the film, when it falters.Directed by Michael Caton-Jones, 'Rob Roy' stars Neeson as Robert Roy MacGregor, the famous Scottish folk hero and outlaw of the early 18th century, who battled with feudal landowners in the Scottish Highlands.Robert Roy MacGregor's Journey On-Screen, is decent in parts. The Writing Material is slow and slightly deary in the first-hour, but picks up the second-hour and reaches to a memorable culmination. Michael Caton-Jones's direction is satisfactory. Cinematography by Karl Walter Lindenlaub is stunning. Editing is fair.Performance-Wise As told, Neeson & Roth rule the show with their sharp & effective performances. Neeson gets into the skin of the character, and plays a robin-hood of his time perfectly. Roth, on the other-hand, plays the bad guy, most effectively. Jessica Lange is adequate. John Hurt & Brian Cox are fairly good.On the whole, A Must See for Neeson & Roth Fans! "},{"Title":"A true testament to quality film-making ...","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" ... of which I was reminded every time I popped in the VHS Cassette - and as recently as yesterday the DVD. You start in a relax state, and the first thing you know you are thoroughly engrossed in it. There's no turning back. Nothing grates in terms of the storyline - the acting is so solid - even if you hit the pause/button - you are hard pressed the imagine they are faking. Anyone wandering around sat for a few minutes, got involved and never left their seats ... For me the revelation was Tim Roth & Brian Cox, amazing ! Jessica has long since left her corny KingKong image behind. All the others were as good as the best roles before or since (from what I had seen of them). For those that joined the viewing the final sword-fight (makes it sound like there are many - NOT) left them breathless and squirming uneasily in the seats. There is just enough light humour to balance in incredible grittiness of the epoch. Mature and unassuming, no 1 man vs 10 (like some over-the-top kung fu movies), it's one on one, mano a mano. A top 10 candidate for sure. Enjoy - they make so few of those.JM.PS (notice I bypassed comparison with Braveheart / First Knight, there is none, they may be good in the own rights, but all they share is the medieval times, period). "},{"Title":"I liked it but im biased","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I liked the film, but I would, while I was at college I was hired for a 2 week stint as an extra in which I played an Aristocrat ( you can see all 3 seconds of me in the duel scene!) The duel was shot inside a modern steel Barn in Perth Scotland It was great watching Tim Roth and co being put thru their paces by the armourer. We filmed the exterior castle shots at Castle Crichton not far from Edinburgh. I also played a coachman in that scene!Not bad being paid £67 a day to wear 18th Century costumes (which were rather comfortable.....)157 of us local Perthians took part in the film as extras... and we all meet regularly.Just some uselessinfo. Sorry "}{"Title":"A MASTERPIECE!!!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  One of the top 10 movies I've seen.  If people can make it through the ethnic accent of the actors, they should not be disappointed. Tim Roth's performance was deserving of an Academy Award. Everyone else was deserving of a collective Academy Award.  "},{"Title":"A very well made film","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I like rob roy has a got a good story great cast tim roth was great in this film everything was well done the music is really great even i buy the soundtrack but i do amit i could not watch rob roy all the time so watch it about every 6 months. To me rob roy is better then braveheart give this film 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"My faute I will proclaim... in a low-key sort of way","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  The movie is brillant and the acting is as well. Nothing more to add to that. As for the acting, particularly Tim Roth is memorable as the stunningly evil Archibald Fancypants Cunningham. This is the role he does so well. Just take a look at The Hit where he also starred next to John Hurt as a neo-nazi, trigger happy sidekick. Not unlike this Archibald character.Of course, the rest of the cast was simply perfect. The only problem I had with this movie, was slightly messy filming. It was, however, remedied somewhat by the sheer beauty of the scenery. Not knowing much about Scottish history, I find it quite refreshing to know, that at least someone have a low-key, peace loving war hero. "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  This is a very well crafted movie. If you like period pieces, you will like this film. If you love period pieces, you will love this film. There is nothing wrong with it.My rating system is based upon a movie with no significant flaws as a 9. What makes it a 10 is an intangible. However, as I am not particularly fond of period pieces - unlike every woman I know (swords, horses, knights, etc.), I have to downgrade it from a 9 to an 8.My girlfriend asked me after it was over if I didn't think it was one of the most romantic movies ever made. I thought (but spoke anyway) that I didn't even think of it as a romance at all. You've Got Mail or Roxanne or Pretty Woman or When Harry Met Sally are romances - not this one. After quite a bit of discussion, we realized the reason why I felt that way was because there was no courting as they were already MARRIED. Hum. So, the minute we get married, the romance ends, huh? ..... Might need to be looking for a new girlfriend soon.  "},{"Title":"An interesting story and good performances make this movie worth watching","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" I guess that everybody who sees this movie will immediately compare it to Braveheart. And that's not only because both stories are situated in Schotland and are based on a historical figure. I found it quite surprising that two movies, who were made with only one year in between, could share so many similarities, but still could be so different. But I believe that every movie has the right to stand on its own and that's why I will not compare the two into detail.In the highlands of Schotland, Rob Roy tries to lead his small town to a better future. As a former cattle thief and because he now protects these animals for other thieves, he knows the difference between good and bad cattle. He decides to borrow money from the local nobility so he can buy a herd on the market, which he then will sell on the other side of the country with a large profit margin. But when the money is stolen and he is accused of the theft, he has not only to defend his honor, but also his family from the ones that have always wanted to get rid of him...The best thing this movie had to offer were the realistic characters. The highlanders, the thieves, the noblemen,... all characters were well-developed and interesting. The fact that they all felt real in this movie also has a lot to do with the good acting of course. Let's take the character of Rob Roy for instance. Somehow, Liam Neeson isn't exactly the man I would think of for this kind of role, but he sure proves that he is capable of doing it well. But only talking about Neeson's performance wouldn't be fair towards the other actors as they all did a very fine job portraying their own characters.Overall this is an interesting movie with a good story, some nice scenes and fine performances. When you've seen Braveheart, you'll notice the similarities, but these are still two different movies and should be treated that way. I give this movie a 7/10, maybe even a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Overall a pretty good film","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This is a well-made, well-acted, well-executed film. How historically accurate it is is open to interpretation. Rob Roy is ably played by Liam Neeson and his wife by Jessica Lange. The evil Marquis of Montrose is wonderfully played by John Hurt. Tim Roth also gives a great performance as Archibald Cunningham. The cinematography is very good. The setting, wherever it was, looks a lot like northern Scotland. I'm a member of the Clan Graham Society, and it kind of hurt to see James Graham, Marquis of Montrose, portrayed as such a greedy and evil man, but I'm sure not all of my Scottish ancestors were saints. There is some violence, but the film doesn't make that much of it. The worst part is the rape by Cunningham of Roy's wife. Eventually, the two will have to go at it, of course. Overall, I enjoyed this film immensely. "},{"Title":"Great story, beautifully directed, outstanding cast!","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films of all times.  I score it a solid 10. If you like period pieces like Amadeus and Braveheart, this is right up there in terms of quality. Liam Neeson, Jessica Lange, John Hurt, and Tim Roth (especially well-done evil person) ... What else do you need to know?  I think Liam Neeson is a terrific actor who hasn't received the recognition he deserves; and this is some of his finest work ever.  Rent it, and if you like it, you should own it.  "},{"Title":"A supremely underrated film...","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I'm still flabbergasted that the competent, but  unspectacular Braveheart won an Academy Award and  Rob Roy for some inexplicable reason went generally  unappreciated.  Rob Roy is far superior to Braveheart in every respect, from direction to writing to acting to  cinematography.  Jessica Lange and Liam Neeson are  wonderful and Tim Roth's turn as Archibald Cunningham  was one of the most provocative and inspired supporting performances in recent memory.  Roth was nominated for but didn't win the Academy Award for Best Performance by a Supporting Actor.  This was the film's only nomination, yet the clunky, unnuanced Braveheart wins Best Picture, Best Director, etc?  Go figure.  "},{"Title":"One of the greatest EVER!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Although it's hard to understand with the accents the actors use, it makes it more real.  Tim Roth deserved the best supporting actor. Liam was great as usual. A MUST SEE!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Braveheart was good, and stirred the nationalist passions of many a Scot, but it doesn't hold a candle to this one.","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" As a native of Scotland, but now an American citizen, I first would like to comment on the ignorance of too many reviewers when they comment on how the British were hated by the Scots. British is a collective name for ALL the people of Great Britain ( including the Scots ) What they actually mean is English That being said, I have to say that I was absolutely delighted with the movie Rob Roy, immediately from the opening scene where Eric Stoltz ( Rob's friend Macdonald ) bit into a cow patty in order to determine how long it had been since the stolen cattle had passed that way  A day, maybe two  ROB ROY as a movie had everything, great acting, beautiful scenery, skullduggery, a great plot and the best dialogue I have ever heard in a Hollywood movie. I mean, where else can you hear lines like Were you kin tae Tam ? (Rob to Guthrie) Near enough. I shagged his sister ( Guthrie to Rob ) Like as not, Tam did too ( interjection from Killearn ) "}{"Title":"unintelligible sound track","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This might have been a good story. We picked it on Netflix because the cast was good and it had five stars. The landscapes are beautiful, and the settings and costumes are rich and detailed. They went to the trouble of casting heirloom cows for the cattle drive. Unfortunately the sound is recorded in a style that makes the dialog nearly impossible to hear. Everyone mumbles in an accent, and the voices are mixed much lower than the music or the sound effects. We gave up straining to hear what was going on after 20 minutes or so. Too bad, could have been a good movie. Four stars for Liam Neeson, zero stars for bad sound mixing. "},{"Title":"Great film - simple but great","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Rob Roy shines through its masterful making - all the parts of its film-making are top notch the casting and acting are brilliant and also every other aspect of it writing, directing... A beautiful film that will leave you with a sense of satisfaction at the end that very few films accomplish...It is a shame that it is lost in the battle with its similar movie -Braveheart (like so many other twin-films-in-the-same-year, like Armaggedon VS Deep Impact, Shakespeare in Love VS Elizabeth, and many more)... I cannot comment on which film is the better one as I need another viewing of Braveheart to do so, nevertheless Rob Roy is very good film that does not need comparison with anything else to prove its quality.The story is a simple revenge story and quite predictable - nonetheless its presented to the viewer in such a way that makes the viewer stay glued to the edge of his seat. Recommended to all! "},{"Title":"There something about freedom","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  This movie came out the same year as another Scotland legend movie, 'braveheart'. Looking at the box office and awards it was unfortunate for &#145;Rob Roy'. &#145;Braveheart' is one of my favorite movies of all time. And throughout this either picture all I could think about was this was a 18th century &#145;Braveheart' with honour instead of freedom as it's theme. That being said I still love this movie. I don't know whether freedom seems more important to me than honour, but I found the theme or epic scale of it lacking. I still completely believed in Liam Neeson as a man willing to go through what he does for honour. Tim Roth as the villain steals most of his scenes, and definitely deserved his Oscar nomination. Jessica Lange I think gives the most devastating performance of the film as the wife of Roy. Her scene on the beach is&#133;. Everything. There is not a single bad performance in this movie. Of course with a movie set in Scotland, it again makes brilliant use of the landscape (of which &#145;Braveheart' can be faulted for using Ireland as a stand in), even if it is a bit unrealistic at times. There was some amazing realistic sword fighting, through.  	Finally, one last comparison to &#145;Braveheart'. Wallace risked only his life to gain everything, where as Roy risked everything, just to hold onto what he could control. I gave this film a 9 out of 10, and &#145;Braveheart' a 10, because for some reason I just didn't feel the that little thing that pushes a film over the top to greatness. Perhaps it was the music of &#145;Braveheart' that put it over the top, or the &#145;Spartacus'-like ending. Still a very good movie, just missing that little something for a 10.  "},{"Title":"Impressive movie except....","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Only thing that bothered me really was where we got two of the actors using the bathroom. Do we really need to see that?  Once was enough but twice?! The rape scene I believe was necessary, because it was one of the plot points of the movie.  Still though too much sex, it got in the way of the storyline.  Other than those problems i give this movie a 9.  It does boast one of the best sword fights, and the most sinister villian to ever be onscreen.  Acting all around was amazing, with a simple but powerful storyline, and the beautiful Scottish highlands as the movie's location. "},{"Title":"A highly underrated film!","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Comparable to Braveheart because of the Scottish environment in which it took place, Rob Roy was released the exact same year. Somehow Braveheart got all the attention while this film was hardly mentioned.  Although Braveheart may be a tad better, it's still unfair how this film here was misjudged by many.Rob Roy is a beautiful film about honor and courage. The scenery is absolutely eye-catching and by far more beautiful than it was with Braveheart.  The story was good even if it became a little predictable now and then. The acting performances are quite outstanding. Jessica Lange proves (again) to be a great actress.  Liam Neeson on the other hand is as 'Scottish' as Mel Gibson was.  And, as for John Hurt and Tim Roth they're very good as the 'baddies'.Still, I like Braveheart better than Rob Roy. Most likely, because Mel Gibson's epic had some very impressive battle scenes and this is, I believe, the one thing that's missing from Rob Roy.  Nevertheless, this film has its own remarkable scenes; such as the great sword fight at the end of the film for example.All things considered Rob Roy is a very good film that will keep you attached to the screen for the whole time being. "},{"Title":"A Bonny Pic!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Thoroughly enjoyed the romp through the heather. Good production all round. Not totally factual, but then who cares when there's so much gripping entertainment. Scotland the brave forever. Congratulations to all the production team for the great entertainment. "},{"Title":"A much-underrated film ...","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Comparable to Braveheart because of the Scottish environment in which it took place, Rob Roy was released in the same year (1995).  Somehow Braveheart got all the attention while this film here was hardly mentioned.  I couldn't even remember if it had been in the cinema or not.  Although Braveheart IS somewhat better, it's still quite unfair how this film was misjudged by many.Rob Roy is a beautiful film about honour and courage.  The scenery for example is absolutely eye-catching and by far more beautiful than it was with Braveheart.  The story was okay even if it was a little predictable now and then.  The acting performances are quite outstanding.  Jessica Lange proves (again) to be one of the best actresses of her time.  Liam Neeson on the other hand is as 'Scottish' as Mel Gibson was.  And, as for John Hurt and Tim Roth they're very good as the 'bad guys'.Still, I like Braveheart better than Rob Roy.  Most likely, because Mel Gibson's epic had some very impressive battle scenes and this is, I believe, the one thing that's missing from Rob Roy.  Nevertheless, this film has its own remarkable scenes; such as the great duel at the end of the film for example.  All things considered Rob Roy is a very good film that WILL keep you attached to the screen for the whole time being. "},{"Title":"Honor is Above All","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  The portrait of honor is portrayed well by Liam Neeson.  Tim Roth does well counteracting Neeson as Cunningham.  When I saw it the first time I thought, Neeson is the man.  But then I saw it again and thought that it was brilliant in painting the picture of honor in the Scottish society.  The colors blended well and the people did too.  Jessica Lange as Mary, the dutiful but colorful wife, was terrific.  The whole movie overall  captures the Scottish Honor and holds it for all  "},{"Title":"smashing film to watch time & time again","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  the only frustrating point was the fact that Tim Roth didn't Kop it much slower, reckon he should have suffered more. excellent sound track & scenery coupled with first class acting. However the Irish accent from Liam as Rob Roy reminded me of our very own Sean Connery, who never changes his voice. "},{"Title":"Great, rousing movie - spoilers","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Nobody plays MAN quite like Liam Neeson - a tall, handsome figure, all blustery and manly.  No wonder Jessica Lange hikes up her skirt for him every 5 minutes!  Sir Walter Scott was a world class overwriter back in his day, and this movie is adapted in much the same way - the characters are larger than life and broadly played.  The villians are quite complex, ranging from just plain evil (Brian Cox), I-just-want-to-be-loved-Evil (Tim Roth), and last but not least, John Hurt as the greedy Marquis of Montross.  Tim Roth's character was unique, however, in that they set up his lack of morals to his lack of parental involvement, something we don't see all too often in these days of no character development and zero plot movies. The only problem I had with the movie is the rape scene- the same effect could just has easily have been established had they not shown anything, but since they do show it, it looks tawdry and relies on shock value. The climax involves a great sword fight in which Rob Roy realizes he must outsmart the fiendishly clever Archie in order to win the fight. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Appreciated but not liked","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Overall my opinion of Rob Roy as a film thinking of all aspects of it is poor. I found it very slow to start and in some ways overly gratuitous, the story primarily is a very good one but due to aspects of the film it turned into a bore. The main thing that I noticed within the first 5 minutes that carried all the way through was the endless amount of sexual connotations and needless sexual violence which after a while became frustrating. The violation of Mary scene however I will admit was played well and the desired affect was achieved as I did feel really disgusted for Mary and for me it was when the film began to become interesting. As previously said the start was very slow and for the first 30 to 40 minutes the only thing that stopped me from turning it off is the principal I have that I cannot pass judgement on a film unless I have seen all of it, but i persevered and watched it in its entirety. OK, enough with the moan. There were a few things that really were good in the film and as well as criticize the bad i must praise the good. Firstly Tim Roth was absolutely outstanding in his role as the evil Englishman who robs, rapes and beats to get his way. His acting really left me with a hatred towards his character that I have never felt with a movie villain and it really was deserving of praise. Secondly the duel at the end between the hero and the villain was amazing. I felt 99% sure that Rob Roy would win but the film was played that it may be the other way, and with this in mind i felt the need to scream at the TV when the duel was won. Overall as said I do appreciate the film but did not enjoy it as a film to watch and couldn't really watch it on a regular basis. "},{"Title":"Better than the 'award winning' Braveheart!","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  This film is simply brilliant! The movie is painfully realistic with its unconventional hero striving on a basis of honour and duty. The movie has tones of facing all odds while being true to oneself and overcoming enemies in the face of persecution. Liam Neeson, Jessica Lange & Tim Roth do an overwhelming job about bringing this wonderful screenplay to life and I believe that what it lacks in publicity it makes up for in worth. This film, I'm happy to say, won't be consumed by the mass, but valued by the few.  "},{"Title":"Best ending swordfight ever","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  As of 2001, I would still have to give props to this movie for the most innovative fight scene ever.  Rob Roy is a good swordsman but outclassed and clearly no match for Cunningham's grace and speed.  In fact, Rob Roy should have been beaten in this movie.  But in one desperate moment, he combines his strength, and his will, into one surprising final blow that cost him a sliced up hand but saved him his life.  All around, this movie comes across as being very definitive of a decent and strong picture.  Unless of course your a British person, in which case, it kind of plays like The Patriot with Mel Gibson.  All the redcoats play off like these evil, arrogant fiends that are the epitome of everything for which you must antagonize.  Yeah, British people do get a bad rap in these films.  But I suppose if this is more of a storybook tale than a documentary, it would seem appropriate that the heroes are the very embodiment of good and vice versa.  "},{"Title":"A Touching and Human Epic","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Touching?  Human?  Epic?You might think that these words do not all go together, How can a movie be human while at the same time havingthe sweeping touch of an epic?  Rob Roy illustrates how.This movie is about a man struggling to adapt to a world ofintrigue and politics that has been thrust upon him.  He is anot a political man - basically he just wants to raise cattlewith the rest of his village.    But when he is framed as aJacobite, he has to take on responsibilities and burdensthat would break a lesser man.This film is a magnificent elegy to the joys and despairs ofbeing a human.  Wonderful performances abound,  highlighted by Tim Roth's nominated performance (whichwould have won in any other year, but he had the bad luckto go up against Kevin Spacey in The Usual Suspects). Jesica Lange shows her under-appreciated skills again,especially in the most touching love-making scene I haveever scene, as she and Liam Neeson (cruelly ignored bythe Academy again) make love in a field in a way that canonly be described as...discreet.What else?  You want more, monkey boy?  How about EricStoltz as a normal freaking human being for once (and  having the luck to have the best death music ever).  Howabout Ian Holm?  How about....words fail me.  Just rent it,and watch out for the single best and realistic swordfightscene ever.  Basil Raithbone and Tyrone Powers would  have been proud. "},{"Title":"A masterful epic of a movie!","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Easliy one of the best period movies ever made, let alone of the 90's.  It did not receive much attention due to the timely release of another great period piece, Braveheart,. I perfer this much better because it has a little less blood and gore, and tells a much better love story between the two lead roles.  Perfect in all aspects of the movie and the scenery is absolutely gorgeous, the end sword fight is one of the best ever.  It just so happens that Mr. Neeson was also in a saber duel of a different kind in Star Wars TPM.  A rating of 10 out of 10 was given. "},{"Title":"Well-acted, well-paced, good theme - if only it were a family movie!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I enjoyed Rob Roy far more than I had anticipated.  It's a stirring movie with, for a switch, an uplifting theme and message.  My only demurral is that I wish the (for lack of a better word) adult elements had been toned down enough for the whole family to see the movie.  It wouldn't have taken that much, given the adult elements that are present but skillfully backstaged in classics such as Gone with the Wind and Quiet Man.  But when they're older, I mean to recommend it to my kids. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever...","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Yes, in my opinion, Rob Roy has to be one of the best movies ever. I've always seen good reviews about this movie, but I never knew the effect it can have on me (and I'm sure on other too) until I rented the video last weekend. Liam Neeson, Tim Roth, and Jessica Lange were inspirational in their roles.  "},{"Title":"Tour de Force from Roth","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Not much of a film really. Liam Neeson is about as convincing a Scotsman as Groucho Marx would be, you just want Jessica Lange to get raped and the pair of them are just too bloody holier-than-thou to be true.But Tim Roth? - brilliant! He sneers his way through the entire film, when he isn't crawling to John Hurt that is. Even his name is a sneer! What a loathsome character he portrays and he does it so well, ably aided and abetted by the masterful Brian Cox, doing quite nicely in Hollywood in his old age.As for the rest of it? Rubbish! Certainly not a patch on its contemporary 'Braveheart'! "},{"Title":"Nobility Contrasted With Its Empty Facsimile","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe peasants are depicted just as they were dirty, sickly, thin and gross looking. Rob is the enforcer for his noble the Marquis of Montrose played well by Hurt. When Rob sees the suffering of his clan, he makes the ill fated choice to borrow a thousand pounds from Montrose whose slimy attendant Cox happily whispers in Cunningham's ear that the money can be his if he waylays Rob's man coming home with sacks of coin instead of a check. Roth steals the movie as one nasty piece of work; a resentful bastard, the source of his anger, who uses his sword for money fighting duels for nobles. He is as ruthless with his gear, impregnating a servant girl and driving her to suicide when he laughs at his responsibility. Montrose mistakes Rob as being like he is a land lusting slime who cares not who or what gets hurt in his quest to increase his holdings and station. Listen to him,Oh, a man of property bent upon growing richer, we are not so different after all. This is followed by a wicked chuckle. Yes, after Cunningham murders Rob's courier with the bags of coins, Montrose proffers an easy way out; simply bear false witness against the Duke Of Argyll, who Montrose is looking to supplant by slandering him all over as a Jacobite or a loyalist to the King in exile. It matters not a whit to him that Argyll may be killed by his slander, that is precisely what he is hoping for.Rob refuses, to Montrose's amazement,Oh, ply me not with your honor, Rob is forced to flee, his house is burned and his wife Mary is raped by Cunningham. The movie culminates in a duel to the death between Rob and the fop. The best scene is where Archie has Rob down on the ground defeated, awaiting Montrose's permission for the death blow, Rob grabs the blade, blood gushing from his hand, rises majestically to his feet, and with a roar cleaves Cunningham almost in two. See, all the suffering visited upon Rob, the years of suffering, the flight and torture forged Rob into a formidable protector whose endurance for pain crushes the fop. Look at the look of incredulous terror on Archie's face. He cannot believe the pain the man can endure. The movie is a masterpiece of acting and writing. It models real nobility predicated upon deeds of goodness versus the empty facsimile of hereditary nobility that often cloaks slimy reprobates lusting after land with titles they did neither earn nor merit. The film is not preachy; Caton Jones has Rob teaching his children honor at the beginning; the bulk of the lesson are the deeds Rob performs over his helpless ones. He refuses to have what little he has in his poor, hungry, cold life destroyed his honor; he loathes nobles but he will not bear false witness for he knows it is but the first of depravities Montrose has in mind for him. How do you think Archie and Montrose got to be the monsters they are? One step down at a time, Rob says, no thank you, I do not have much but that you never take from me. Yes, it models real nobility which the genetic facsimile pales before. It also shows you if you wish to stand over the helpless you better be ready for pain, injustice and keep holding the sword above their heads with every ounce of your strength. Despite its sex and violence and the R Rating, cover your kids eyes during those parts. This movie teaches what it is to be a real Protector. A Protector who stands over the helpless until he falls. Real nobility inside of each of us not the worthless facsimile. Michael Caton Jones' Best Movie. All That Doth Not Kill Us Makes Us Stronger. Nietzsche "},{"Title":"Good period drama for European history buffs","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" My favorite sexy actress of the past decades, Jessica Lange, played the wife of the film's hero played by Liam Neesom, and is still very sexy at over 50. My lord, I do think that woman will still be sexy at 80. It's not the age, it's the nature of the woman. John Hurt played well a wealthy royal fop with great power who clashed with Rob Roy, and Tim Roth was fantastic in a supporting role as Hurt's vicious sword-wielding hit-man and was the very best thing in this film filled with fine actors. His was the role to die for, and he did, so see the film for his magnificent work, and get the rest of the film as a bonus.It is my long-held opinion that Roth, along with Karen Black in Five Easy Pieces, Jon Voight in Desert Bloom and Kevin Kline in Sophie's Choice many years earlier, got royally screwed for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. His was by far the best acting job of the year in this category and he was totally mesmerizing as the ruthlessly cruel but exceptionally talented and skilled swordsman who finally clashed with Rob Roy in a thrilling swordfight conclusion. His performance was at least as good as the other three greats stated above who also did not win. He probably lost partly due to the film not being a big commercial success.The story was primarily about desperate love of family and land, but was a bit too talky and soapy for my taste, in a loose historical dramatization about a crucial time in very early 18th century Scottish history, when the old tribal clan ways were giving way through deadly battle to the royal system that is still in force today in the UK, for better or worse, including all the oppression and the fighting and the dying and the suffering. Neesom played a strong role as the historical Scottish hero who led the charge, Robert Roy MacGregor, and Lange was his equal as his strong, devoted wife.An entertaining but not great film that featured great costumes and wonderful scenic views of the starkly beautiful Scottish highlands. "}{"Title":"Taking a stand for Melodrama","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  This is an under appreciated movie that had the misfortune of coming out at the same time as Braveheart, but I can't stand critics that criticize this movie because it is too Melodramatic.Melodramatic has become a dirty word in our modern language.  Funny how we are unwilling to admit that 99% of our movies are entirely melodramatic. Melodrama does not necessarily mean that the characters are not realistic, but merely that the pairing of realistic good versus evil does not happen in everyday life.Rob Roy is a very melodramatic movie.  The good guys are very very good and the bad guys are very very bad.  This is the case with every action movie ever, and most historical epics.  It is the fact that the film succeeds so well at creating good and evil characters that make it work.  Liam Neeson and Jessica Lange both emit tons of scottish nobility and humor that it is impossible not to like them.  Conversely the villains are all immensely evil, but each in a different way.  Brian Cox is the sniveling scheming henchman that betrays his countrymen.  John Hurt is the kniving, self-righteous noble, that does not care about anything but money and power. And the show stealer is Tim Roth in his oscar nominated role as Archibald Cunningham.  Cunningham is an incredibly mean, liscentious, cold, and unbelievably violent half noble that rapes and kills for money, but you get the idea that he enjoys it as well.  These characters are given amazing words to say as well.  Neeson and Lange's lines are filled with dignity and integrity, while the villians are also given magnificentley underplayed venom.  Roth's amoral diatribes are a treat, as well as Hurt's positively poisonous civilized conversations with enemies.It is not just the top notch acting, and great characters that make this movie come alive.  The scottish highlands are photographed beautifully, and the movie contains amazing fight choreography.  The ending duel between Roth and Neeson is the greatest dramatic swordfight ever, with an amazing payoff. This is not Braveheart, but it is a fantastic movie if allowed to be on it's own. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  After my mother saw Star Wars Episode 1 with Liam Neeson in it,  she went on a Liam Neeson craze.  She bought Rob Roy and several other flicks.  I thought it was a little too bloody but I guess that's history.  Or maybe it's just that I'm only thirteen and am too young for that stuff.  I'm a mix of Irish and Scottish so I am proud that I have that blood in me after I saw this movie. I suggest you rent it but make sure you have a strong stomach.  A VERY strong stomach.  If you are squeamish about blood and gore, keep a paper bag "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  After walking out of the theater and thinking back on the movie Rob Roy, I said to myself, I'm glad to be Scottish.  Liam Neeson portrayed Rob Roy beautifully and Tim Roth was excellent in his role of Archibald Cunningham. He was truly evil and he brought that character to life freakishly.  And the climax was awesome!!  If you haven't seen Rob Roy, I suggest you go out and rent it.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Please start reviewing THIS film...","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  There are more than enough pro and con reviews posted here to give people an idea what to look at, so I won't bother with that.  I writing to ask if we could please stop comparing Rob Roy to Braveheart.  They are two different films, with two different stories, and share nothing except their locale, a hatred for the British, and Brian Cox.  Spiderman and Arachnophobia have about as much in common.  Rob Roy had nothing to do with Braveheart.  If you can't see the difference, then you're not paying attention.  As such, you probably shouldn't try to review it.   "},{"Title":"Good solid acting all round","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  ROB ROY was, if you like, the predecessor of BRAVEHEART - it seems that every cinematic cultural icon seems to have a 'training ground' - even with the biggest directors this is true - many people say of SCHINDLER'S LIST that it was Spielberg's first look at the serious issue of war. But what about EMPIRE OF THE SUN?ROB ROY is just such a film, only really coming to light after the success of it's younger prodigy. Dealing with very much the same sentiment (and hatred towards the English!), this is a cracking film! Liam Neeson turns in a first-class performance as the heroic Scot, and gives his stylist a dummy run for STAR WARS! Jessica Lange is equally powerful as his long suffering wife. Although Tim Roth's bad guy is maybe a little too comic-book for the reality of the film, he certainly makes this particular Brit none too proud of his roots! "},{"Title":"Has it's moments","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Tim Roth, and have loved everything that he has done in the past, but he doesn't really fit in here. Both him and John Hurt don't hold up well as the bad guys. Their lines aren't written at all well, and Roth himself admits that he overacted the part. Liam Neeson, on the other hand is quite good. Although it the part that he favours to play, he does a decent job. Jessica Lange, too, is very believable as Neeson's wife. The person I think put in a touching performance was a young Brian McCardie as Neeson's relative who knows a dirty secret about Lange that could destroy her. However, he is under used, like most of the great possiblities. For instance, Jason Flemyng of Lock Stock fame might go un noticed. However, Rob Roy delivers a fine story with some great scenes, and should not be dismissed as a bad film. Rating=3/5 "},{"Title":"Rob Roy","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Macho flick that features Neeson as a man in search of freedom and justice. There's no real point to the film, but it is an entertaining film. Tim Roth was Oscar nominated.  "},{"Title":"Money is the root of all.","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Rob Roy (Liam Neason), his wife Mary (Jessica Lang), the evil fop (Tim Roth), and his only slightly less evil patron (John Hurt) keep carrying on about honor but the honor begins and ends with money. Religious conviction and money were all mixed up. That was the sociologist Max Weber's argument anyway, in The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism. It all started with John Calvin and the doctrine of predestination. Since God knew everything, he must certainly have known who would be saved and who wouldn't. The human problem was that neither the saved nor the condemned knew which was which. So, according to Weber, they tried to figure out who was who by working at a calling, becoming rich, and demonstrating worldly power. Wealth became, de facto, the measure of God's grace. Calvinism was rampant in Scotland. (That's where we get those jokes about skinflint Scotchmen.) Tedious, granted, but all of this provides the engine of the plot. Money is hard-earned, stolen, wagered, won and lost, and repaid. The fact that Tim Roth as the personification of evil happens to rape Jessica Lang is, as far as honor is concerned, an ancillary consideration, though still a powerful one.Boy, is Tim Roth a great villain -- a frilly fop with a curling wig like Johann Sebastian Bach's, and a devil with a sword. His smile is so patently fake yet so ingratiating that even his social superiors are easily taken in. He was a very different kind of heavy in a TV movie about Charlie Starkweather, inexpressive, matter-of-fact about murdering people. It takes a fine actor to overcome the limitations of that physiognomy. Fortunately, he's a fine actor.So is John Hurt, for that matter, my supporting player in the artistic masterpiece From the Hip. Liam Neason is also outstanding in his heroic role. He's so large that he seems to fill the screen whenever he's anywhere near it. And that nose -- drooping down out of the middle of his forehead. Jessica Lange does what she can with the part. She's pretty heroic too -- no make up worth noting, and a workable Scots accent. She's not the imposing performer the others are but she fills the bill nicely.The story doesn't manage to avoid all of the expectable clichés. Neason must enter the climactic duel with a raw wound in his side, just as Russel Crowe must fight Commodus while hamstrung, and Rocky must be half-blind in the final bout, and Robert Redford's Natural must have a bullet working its way out of his gut while he tries to hit the final, winning home run. There isn't really too much of that nonsense. The dialog is ambitious but sometimes stilted. Roth, dismissing a maid he has impregnated, Love is a dung heap upon which the cock climbs to crow. (Whew.) The photography and location shooting are splendid. Not picture-perfect, not like an old Walt Disney movie about Rob Roy, but wherever it was filmed it evokes the Scottish highlands. At one time those many hills were covered with forests but the trees were cut down for timber and became more suitable for sheep. The wardrobe is well done too. A less adult movie would have had the highlanders running around in flashy red hunting tartans.I haven't checked the release dates but my bet would be that this was an attempt to cash in on some of the remaining public enthusiasm for Mel Gibson's big hit about William Wallace. This is, however, good enough to stand on its own. "},{"Title":"The  Final  Sword  Duel  Raises  This  Average  Film","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Rob Roy is just a standard costume adventure film in old Scotland. It has fine color photography in outdoor beautiful locations and a rather interesting plot.In my opinion what demerits the film is (i) Liam Neeson is a good actor indeed, but he is miscast-ed here. He doesn't have the physic du rol of a swashbuckler hero nor the necessary punch (and I'm not saying that they should have casted some current version of Errol Flynn); (ii) The film is too long and becomes hard to swallow at times; it overruns at least 20 or 30 minutes.On the other hand, Tim Roth's villain is brilliant (you really get to hate the guy) and the supporting cast is most qualified mainly Jessica Lange, John Hurt and Brian Cox.But the real highlight in Rob Roy is the final duel between Neeson and Roth, very realistic and not so hollywoodish as we've seen in so many earlier films of the genre. Worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Superior to Braveheart in many ways","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  When it comes to Rob Roy, there is not one thing that stands out, but many things. First and foremost, the performances. Liam Neeson is great, that is to be expected. Tim Roth gives a performance that goes beyond great. Brian Cox proves again why he is considered one of the greatest character actors in the business. I am not even mentioning greats such as Jessica Lange and John Hurt. However, in the end, it is Roth who steals the show and shows why he was nominated for an Academy for this film. This movie captures the essence of feudal Scotland beautifully. You are there, living the way the Scottish people lived so long ago. It is a tough life, with few pleasures. You are there to see the horrible way the British treated the Scottish people. However, the best thing is, that you are there to see the great showdown between good and evil at the end. I loved Braveheart and recommend it. However, this film just has a more realistic feel to it. There are not actors and scenes added to make it a typical Hollywood standard fare, but instead, it seeks to tell us a very real story, with as much reality as possible. It was not created for mass market appeal, it just wanted to pay proper respect to a very real time, a long time ago. Simply brilliant. "}{"Title":"this is movie it at best - better than average","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I purchased a used VHS copy of this film and the local Video store,for only $2.99 - I had never seen this film,and I thought it would be something that I'd like. and the truth is that I do like this film, its not a film I can watch again and again. I belive the costumes were good, the Acting is 1st rate(Liam Neeson is always great-he is one of the best-an interesting side note Big Time Producer GoergeStar Wars Lucas loved this film and called it one of the best films of the 1990's, He like this film so much and liked Liam Neeson's performance in this film so much that he offered Liam the Role of Jedi Knight Qui-Gon Ginn before he even had the Episode 1 script completed all based on Liam's performance in this film) What hurt this film is the Action scenes are are slow and its takes a while for the Action to develope. And the movie as a whole moves at a slow pace.There were some scenes where I had a hard time telling the good guys from the bad guys, I could never distinct if that was intentional of the films producer as a way to create a climate of uncertinty, or if that was just a hole in the plot that made it sometimes hard to follow. However The Music score in this film nothing short of Awesome!!! This Movie as a whole is at best - better than average but if you compare this film to other historical epics this film falls flat on its face. I put this film in the same Catagory as Barry Lyndon as a film that is a good film but misses the mark of greatness. I give it 3 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"heterosexual training film","Date":"11 August 2009","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" You know how there are 2,000 reviews on this site that talk about how some movies are too gay? Rob Roy is too straight. The creators devised 20 scenes they really wanted and then all the motivations were reverse-engineered to play on the irrational fears of heterosexual men. Fear of prissy, effeminate men. Fear of looking like a pu.ssv. Fear of outsiders (clannishness). Fear of household invasion. Fear some guy is doing your wife. It's all a bit single-minded, and uh, obsessive. All these paranoid, reactionary neuroses are portrayed as the basis of honor; rather than resulting in say, a husband who beats his wife, or kills his whole family. That movie, you may have noticed, is completely missing at a theater near you. Oh sorry... that's not the official line of propaganda for heterosexuality. These same neuroses are also manipulated by political figures and presidents to send unquestioning testosterone-cases off to war with a scapegoat; which might later turn out to be an utter boondoggle that was based on lies. I don't mind heterosexuals, but do they have to be so outspoken? and recruit others? This whole bag of slop is squeezed through the oh-so-popular Celtic fad of the era. It's unbelievably sluggish and wrong-headed. "},{"Title":"an interesting remake of a classic tale","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" In truth this film is really an eight or a nine out of ten, but also in truth, since I had to adjust the volume levels about 50 times during the film, it was no better than a five out of ten. Usually my volume level for a DVD is good at around 15 or 20, but for this one I had to take it all the way up to 55 to hear the words in several places in the film, which was still hard to understand because they used period English. I also had to lower the volume down to around 10 many times due to some very loud background music, so loud that it made the speakers buzz. That to me is a major production oversight regarding the DVD product, like nobody bothered to take the time to make any alterations for a home setting. They just transfered the uneven cinema soundtrack right onto the DVD. I think its a big mistake because cinemas are designed for high volume levels where homes are not. It also neatly points interest away from the films into the realm of technical problems. It is a remarkable film, but not if you have to spend two and a half hours mucking around with the volume levels. "},{"Title":"Well-made, with a dashing title character","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I watched this movie last night for the first time, and I enjoyed it quite a bit.  As a descendant of the MacGregor clan, I have doubts regarding its historical accuracy, but who cares?  It was a well-made, interesting film. It had enough to keep both my husband and I interested - a powerful love story sprinkled in between swashbuckling sword fights and lots of talk about honor.  However, I must admit, the reason I liked this movie the most was the fact that I was able to ogle Liam Neeson for 2 hours and 19 minutes. Ladies, you think you don't like men in skirts?  Check out Liam Neeson in (and out of *smirk*) his kilt.  Bring tissues . . . to wipe away tears and soak up drool! "},{"Title":"A brilliant film.","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Actually only slightly below it's coeval Braveheart, but only because it lacks the stunning battle scenes.  The dialouge here is first rate (you have to tough out the Scottish brogue however) and the story takes advantage of classic motifs from adventure films to produce a thrilling tale.  I've heard that the filmmakers were inspired by American Westerns when creating this movie, and I think they achieved something special.  Great acting and action too!  "},{"Title":"An effective and strong film, which though falls into over-sentimental approach in some parts.","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  It is to say truly, that Braveheart seems to be everything a little more than Rob Roy is - and it is too much, then. Rob Roy keeps - though a movie made with a multi-million budget - the certain feeling of down-to-earth humble movie making. It does not start to trick with anything unintentional but keeps it in mind that this is merely a remake of a man's life. Sometimes even the emotional side of the movie does affect strongly, only problem is that sometimes the director has not been able to make end to it and it goes over. This is the main problem in Braveheart, and I can see that this subject does drive to that matter easily.For the acting, Tim Roth as A. Cunningham makes a great role, but so do both of the marquises. Tim Roth does get the grip of the character which pleads for the watchers to get on there to strangle that person - and so throw them into the movie itself.Besides acting, no other part of the movie does jump up to the screen so strongly - which is good, the balance of the movie remains. Though the movie is working very well - very much above 'well', to say, does it also lack for the actual sparkle - and without Tim Roth, the remains of the sparkle would fade away unnoticed.A good movie which couldn't be done any better without losing big audience but maintaining the real feeling and experience.Timo Vuorensola "},{"Title":"Very Good But Very Gritty","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  BEWARE!  SPOILERS WITHIN! Also, some of this material (like the movie itself) is for adults only.Rob Roy is a very good movie!  The music, the acting, the dialogue, the cinematography are all suburb.  However, there is one reason that Rob Roy will not be a personal favorite.  Simply put, the bad stuff outweighs the good stuff in terms of overall impact.  Despite the victorious ending, the harsh stuff will stay with me long after the rest.  Granted, I think this is intentional.  (This is, after all, the man who brought us This Boy's Life.)  And, truth be told, the oppression of the powerless shouldn't be easy to stomach.  Nevertheless, (and I have a pretty strong stomach for this stuff) Rob Roy is too harsh for me.  The rape scene, as you've probably heard, is one of the most disturbing scenes I've ever seen.  Another scene that I found pretty gross was when Brian Cox felt up Cunningham's lover and held his visibly slimy fingers under Cunningham's sleeping nose.  I really didn't need to see that.Nevertheless, the movie is pretty brilliant.  The love between Mary and Rob is very believable and very touching.  The scene where the young man who was supposed to keep watch over the Roy family is crying and yelling after the retreating enemies is particularly poignant (especially when he realizes just how severe their attack was).  His reaction to Mary's pain tears your heart out.  As is the case throughout the film, you really don't feel like you're watching actors.  This is all very real.  And Tim Roth?  Unbelievably convincing in his role as the degenerate but ruthless antagonist.  His effeminate simpering and whimpering are nothing less than chilling.  Quite an indictment of the aristocracy of the time (as well as of ours).Also the action, though sparse, (esp. in comparison to Braveheart) is pretty amazing!  The scene when Rob loops his rope around Cunningham and jumps over the bridge is one that should go down in film history.  Less breathtaking but equally memorable is the end of the final duel where Rob grabs Cunningham's sword in his bare hand to win.It's hard to imagine Rob Roy any differently than it is.  As I think, I wish this was toned down or that was different I am reminded of the scene in Amadeus where Tom Hulce asks how you expurgate a perfect work.  Nevertheless, Rob Roy will be for me (like Clockwork Orange) one of those movies that I think are incredibly memorable but will probably never make their way into my home video library.  "},{"Title":"Better than Braveheart","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  This movie came out the same year as Braveheart and often gets comparedto it, usually to Rob Roy's detriment, but don't be fooled. The onlygood things about Braveheart are its battle sequences and those aren'tall THAT good. But the rest of Braveheart is laughably bad - it was evennamed by several critics as the worst movie ever to win an Oscar forBest Picture. Rob Roy, in comparison, is thoroughly engrossingthroughout, with a great final sword-fight, probably the finestswordfight ever filmed. This movie is well worth your time, especiallyif you're in the mood for some Scottish history better served than thestunningly awful Braveheart "},{"Title":"Boring chain of clichés","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Probably it is because I had watched Braveheart about a dozen times before seeing this movie, but I found Rob Roy particularly boring and insipid. It just lacked the intensity and passion that made Braveheart such a breathtaking experience.  The characters were superficial and the chemistry between Robert Roy Mac Gregor and his wife Mary was as powerful as weak coffee on a drizzly winter's day. As the story dragged on and the characters kept on talking and talking, I began to wonder when the hell something would actually háppen.  Well, stuff díd happen after all - but when compared with the fantastic Braveheart battle scenes (where the viewer is almost dragged into the action) it was all very clinical and dull.  A bunch of Evil English burning a house and raping a woman.  Oh dear, what an action compared to giant armies clashing in fury and rage.  The swordfight at the end was alright, I have to admit.The story was also not helped by the succession of endless dialogues choking every scene.  Never heard of that wisdom saying that one image can tell more then a thousand words?  Definitely not, in Rob Roy's case.The music was okay, but a far cry from Horner's magical score.Of course, when watching a movie playing in the Scottish Highlands, there is always one reassurance  the scenery.  Seeing the mighty Scottish Highlands is always a lust for the eye.  This was also the biggest reason why I've endured watching the entire movie.Anyway, I didn't like this movie at all.  It's not even worth standing in the shadow of Braveheart.  What a waste of time. "},{"Title":"This Rob Roy NEVER existed.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Born, raised, and educated in Scotland, I was appalled at this disgusting portrayal of a man who was no more nor less than a cattle rustler. Worse yet, the thread of the entire movie was sex in one form or another, by implication or verbally. To view it, one would think that 18th century Scotland was populated by a bunch of sex perverts and homosexuals. Lange was a joke acting as the young mother at age 49 but Liam Neeson was even worse! Taking a bath in a Scottish loch is NOT commonplace as they portrayed him - but, it did give them yet another opportunity to demonstrate how sexually driven we were. Save your money and watch Pinnochio.  "}{"Title":"Re This Film is Better Than Braveheart and Here's Why","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This is an excellent movie in every respect, except perhaps one. By focusing on only one event in Rob Roy's life (and probably a fictitious one at that), it misleads anyone who does not investigate for themselves the true, historical character of the man, as well as his eventual fate. Of course, as most historical movies, fact is often sacrificed for drama. (Unfortunately, this is true in several respects in Braveheart, which otherwise was excellent drama and did much to raise the Scottish national consciousness.) First, this movie leads one to believe that Rob Roy was impeccable in his honesty, while that is far from the truth. He was dishonest in several ways (1) while he was at one time a prosperous cattle dealer, he also raided lands around Loch Lomond; (2) he engaged in protection for blackmail; and (3) in fact, the Duke of Argyll, a distant cousin in the Campbell family, actively encouraged him to steal from the Duke of Montrose.Second, Rob Roy did not go home from the duel (which in fact is not even found in historical records) and lead a quiet, peaceful life - which is where the end of the movie leaves him - but joined the Jacobites in open rebellion, was charged with High Treason, was hunted, and eventually surrendered. However, he was eventually pardoned and THEN allowed to go home and live out his days.There is also something to be said about the historical accuracy of the language used in this film versus that in Braveheart. Yes, Braveheart uses a number of modern expressions that are incongruous; but the accents, particularly Gibson's, are fairly good. We have a cousin whose Scottish wife was born and raised in Edinburgh, I've been listening to music by Scottish vocalists for twenty years, and I recently spent two weeks touring the country and speaking with Scots in all corners. Gibson's accent may not be perfect in every instance, but it is a good representation. However, Rob Roy and Neeson's is no less effective, and perhaps more so considering the movie's idiomatic purity. Oh, while some may find it odd that Australian-born Mel Gibson played the Scottish hero William Wallace, the name Gibson does have both Scottish and English roots; while Liam Neeson, who played the Scottish rogue Rob Roy, was born and raised in Ireland. Okay, I confess. Neeson is also originally Scottish. When it comes to national origins of actors, the movie I do find odd is The Highlander. While the Highlander was played by Christopher Lambert, whose roots are English and French, the real Scotsman in the cast - Sean Connery - played a Spaniard. Go figure. "},{"Title":"decent film which suffers due to it's 'homely' feel","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" SPOILERS Like so many other years, 1995 can be remembered for Hollywood releasing two similar films in the same year. Just like 1998's Armageddon and Deep Impact, 1995 featured two films about the Scottish Highlands. One, a 13th Century epic called Braveheart told of the battles of William Wallace to free Scotland from the rule of the tyrannical English. The second however, was this film Rob Roy. Set 400 years later, this Liam Neeson epic was much more of an individual based story with some brilliant performances and some excellent fight scenes. Sadly though, unlike Mel Gibson's film, Rob Roy both benefits and suffers from a rustic feel which leaves it gritty and realistic, yet less energetic and flowing.Robert MacGregor (Liam Neeson) is head of the clan MacGregor, and he has great plans to make the clan wealthier. Taking out a misguided loan from the self-absorbed Marquis of Montrose (John Hurt), MacGregor finds himself in trouble when the money goes missing. Now, hunted by the evil Archibald Cunningham (Tim Roth), 'Rob Roy' finds himself in a battle to regain his honour.Led by a suitably sturdy performance by Liam Neeson, Rob Roy is well worth a visit. With an inaccurate (historically) but decent plot, the film thrives on it's scenery and a few brilliant acting performances. Tim Roth in particular as the selfish and evil Cunningham is brilliant as he travels around Scotland, constantly slating the place and forever causing trouble. Given a character, apparent to have missed a decent childhood, Roth makes Cunningham act like a spoilt child from his first scene to his last.As well as Neeson and Roth, the film also features a brilliant turn by the always excellent Jessica Lange. As Neeson's wife, Lange adds a romantic and sympathetic edge to the story. In a world where strength is essential, Lange proves that even the female characters can have remarkable courage and dignity, even when treated by some as dirt.In fact, Rob Roy could easily outshine the more flamboyant and 'showboat' like Braveheart if not for three aspects.Firstly, the film is marred by an increasingly annoying performance by John Hurt. Hurt is an actor who more often than not can express emotions through little to no effort. Therefore, we must conclude that either Hurt just has an off day in Rob Roy or that the character is badly written. Whatever the reason, Hurt's Marquis is a frustrating black spot on this film.The next major problem is ironically also one of the films strengths. Rob Roy provides what can only really be described as a 'rustic' touch. Using it's scenery to enormous amounts, the film transports us dramatically to the hills of Scotland. It shows us how they lived, it shows us the feel of the era, and it feels distinctively dirty. This in itself is a wonderful thing, except for the fact that it causes the film to feel a bit too plain. Watching films need never be about the glamour of a movie, in fact often the best films are completely glamour free. There is a definite balance however, and in Rob Roy it feels occasionally like we are watching a historical reconstruction rather than a proper film. It's a strange feeling, but for some reason, something just does not feel right.Perhaps the most awkward flaw with Rob Roy is not an actor or it's feel however, but it's conclusion. Without going into detail, to avoid ruining the film, the ending feels distinctively rushed. Leaving one or two issues unresolved, the film concludes with an ending which is probably the right choice, but which is unsatisfying. With a major fight scene towards the conclusion, the film's key resolution is beautifully shot and meticulously played out. Ultimately though, once that scene is over, the feeling surfaces that Alan Sharp, the writer, has obviously ran out of ideas on how to finish the film. This is a shame, mainly because so much of the film has been well written, but it's final ten minutes could do with some extra work.Realistic and gritty, Rob Roy features some excellent acting and some brilliant moments. Ultimately though, with one weak acting role (actor or script, it's hard to say), the gritty feel being perhaps excessively plain, and an ending which never really finishes properly, the film deprives itself of a potential legacy. Rob Roy is a good film, but it definitely required more work. "},{"Title":"A well deserved 9/10","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Rob Roy is an excellent movie.  The story is good and all actors seem to fit in their roles very well.  Jessica Lange, Tim Roth, Liam Neeson and a lot of side-actors all gave a magnificent performance.  But probably the best actor in the whole movie are the Scottish highlands.  You just got to love nature itself when you see movies like this.Why not a 10/10 you might guess?  Well it's the part of me that likes to see big battles like in Braveheart or siege weapons like in The Messenger that holds back that last point.  If that's what you're looking for you won't be pleased with Roy Roy but for a good story in 18th Century Scotland this movie is perfect.  I enjoyed it a lot. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Acting","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" Excellent film dealing in the 1700's which capture my complete attention and kept me on the edge of my seat. Liam Neelson (Robert Roy MacGregor) Gangs of New York,'02, portrayed a Scotchman who believed in the clan's honor and respect and sort of upset his wife,(Jessica Lange),(Mary MacGregor),Masked & Anonymous,'03. There was plenty of scenes with blood and guts fighting. The bad guy in the film is Tim Roth,(Archibald Cunningham) To Kill A King,'03. Archibald Cunningham stole quite a few scenes throughout the picture with outstanding acting. Well produced and directed film. This is a must see film if you missed it, all the actors deserved an Oscar. "},{"Title":"Tim Roth does well, but that's about it...","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" ...Rob Roy stars the over-dramatic Liam Neeson as Robert Roy McGregor, an innocent Scot who gets mixed up with the Marquis of Montrose (John Hurt) and his evil henchmen Archibald Cunningham (Tim Roth) and Killearn (Brian Cox).  Chaos ensues and McGregor develops a personal vendetta against Cunningham.  This leads to various battles, rapes, and drawn-out conversations about honor.I guess I'm being too hard, maybe I expected too much, this being one of my favorite actors' Oscar-nominated performances.  Speaking of which, Roth does quite well at making you both hate and feel sorry for him, like similar villains (most similar being Jaquin Phoenix from Gladiator).  Still, Roth did a lot better in Reservoir Dogs, making me wish he received a more fitting award for the role of Mr. Orange.And what's with all these reviews shouting about how its such a great action movie?  Did I fall asleep during a portion of the film, because the only action I remember was the climactic battle between McGregor and Cunningham.  I'm not saying it was a bad swordfight - it was actually quite well done - but Rob Roy is hardly an action movie.Luckily Roth and Brian Cox's performances and the astounding choreography save it, 7/10. "},{"Title":"Rob Roy just another romantic  tale only the scenery is worth the effort to watch.","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This film inspired by Sir Walter Scott's fictional character weaves a story that portrays exaggerations of character and caricature. It was too predictable from the start and hardly worth the film it was made on or the time spent by its producers and staff, like Braveheart sentimental dribble.It is clear though that the landowners in the movie are of Scotch origin, that the lifestyle, romanticised by the movie of these persons and the clansmen are sharply contrasted but portraying clan life in the crofts as some kind of ideal lifestyle is too much. The eighteenth century events that form the background to the movie were indeed traumatic for all concerned, the events were not simply those of English and Scottish nobles rivalry for power but also of the need for Scottish nobles to distance themselves from barbarous clansmen. "},{"Title":"Rob Roy - Men in kilts!.","Date":"21 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" How does a Scotsman in a kilt make love in the bonny purple heather? Very,very carefully.Now I have the distinct advantage over many other of the reviewers in that I was born in Scotland.Far too many Americans take this simplistic nonsense seriously.It's a joke,people,four legs good - two legs bad,as Orwell had it. Jessica Lange has an accent that the Wells - next - the - sea Amateur Dramatic Society's production of Brigadoon would turn down. Liam Neeson - apparently popular with the ladies - wears his kilt with all the authority of a man whose Great Grandmama once stepped off the train at Edinburgh Waverley. And the Auld Enemy?Where would the Scots be without them to hate and blame for everything?Messrs Roth,Cox and Hurt should be ashamed for indulging in such racist stereotyping. Robin Hood - Prince of thieves seems a masterpiece of historical accuracy in comparison.And at least Alan Rickman was funny. "},{"Title":"Better than Braveheart?","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" When Braveheart first came out, I was enthralled, and was admittedly one of the most rabid fans of the film. When Rob Roy came out, I was intrigued, and although I enjoyed the film I did not think it was a great film. However, as time has gone by, my appreciation for Rob Roy has grown, and my enthusiasm for Braveheart has diminished. Braveheart is great entertainment, to be sure, but there are flaws as well. The most significant, in my view, is the unflattering portrayal of Robert the Bruce, who was without a doubt Scotland's greatest king. Another is the historical inaccuracy of the film, which tarnishes the film in proportion to the many historical distortions. I think I am also bothered by the fact that it was in this film, seen only (at least by me) in retrospect, that the beginnings of Mel Gibson's egomania can be seen clearly for the first time. In contrast, Rob Roy has grown on me over the years. Partly because it largely avoids the faults I mind most in Braveheart. But also because Rob Roy is like fine wine, growing more mature and complex with each viewing. "},{"Title":"Sad & stupid","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  Based on what we've seen in the film, Rob Roy's honor is the most important thing to him. But does that mean that cunnying, intelligence, leverage, and knowledge is to be discarded? Rob Roy does everything wrong in this film from the moment he allows one man to act has his financial agent to the fact that he doesn't use his allies against those that are trying to kill him and who end up raping his wife, he acts in typical Hollywood fashion as an idiot.The film would have been quite short if he would have done the right thing from the very beginning. But, alas, we would have no film so hence the stupidity from which we are tortured. The film has some great scenery and the acting is enjoyable except for the brutal rape scene of Roy's wife. Other than the scenery and acting, there's not much to see let alone giving cause to buying the DVD.  "},{"Title":"Downgrade from decent to not that great","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" I'm confused as to why I seem to be in the minority here on this one. OK, the movie had its moments where it felt like a pretty good action pic, but there were two glaring problems. First the editing left a lot to be desired or in this case left too much of the undesirable. The other thing bothers me more because no one pointed it out in any of the negative reviews here unbelievable gore. No, there wasn't much of it, but what was there was just horrendous. I would say the scene with the most blood was actually the most disgusting thing I've seen in about 10 years. If you don't mind gore but find disgusting sexual situations are more offensive, then you'll be unhappy to find an almost equally repugnant action here. Amazingly, the film doesn't seem to notice how gross it is and the music swells as if in any other triumphant scene in other much better movies. What the heck were they thinking? They ruined a perfectly average entertainment and created something I'd rather forget. I would strongly recommend Braveheart instead or even King Arthur. "}{"Title":"more sentimental scottish nonsense...","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I saw Rob Roy with a high, hopeful heart, trusting i was about to see a stonking action film and instead i got a film that veered horribly from grim to jollity before finishing in time for tea and cakes.   whoopee.  Its nothing we have not seen before and nothing i would wish to see again. Liam turns a fair turn as a square-jawed hero and Tim as the arch naughty person but frankly the script does not bear up to the impressive histrionics. "},{"Title":"what a bad film","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" I have to say the first I watched this film was about 6 years ago, and I actually enjoyed it then. I bought the DVD recently, and upon a second viewing I wondered why I liked it. The acting was awful, and as usual we have the stereo-typical clansmen in their fake costumes. The acting was awful at best. Tim Roth did an OK job as did Liam Neeson, but I've no idea what Jessica Lange was thinking.The plot line was good, but the execution was just poor. I'm tired of seeing Scotland portrayed like this in the films. Braveheart was even worse though, which is this films only saving grace. But seriously, people didn't speak like that in those days, why do all the actors have to have Glaswegian accents? Just another film to try and capture the essence of already tired and annoying stereotypes. I notice the only people on here who say this film is good are the Americans, and to be honest I can see why they'd like it, I know they have an infatuation for men in Kilts. However, if you are thinking of buying the DVD, I'd say spend your money on something else, like a better film. "},{"Title":"He's Behind You!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  This sorry pantomime of a costume drama was unsurprisingly eclipsed by the effective and passionate Braveheart in 1995.The performances are perfunctory (although far worse than this in the case of the two male leads), the production values are beneath those of a typical TV costume drama, the cinematography is third-rate, the script is generally very limp (Roth's description of love as a dung-heap he climbs upon being a notable exception) and the characterisation rarely strays beyond one dimensional.I wasn't concerned about the usual whitewash of known history, but since the producers decided to make their film free from the constraints of historical fact, they should have been capable of delivering a far enticing storyline.Neeson and Roth were so poor I felt like shouting Oh no he isn't! at various points in the movie. Only the appearance of Mother Goose could have made the pantomime experience more complete.At the time this film was made, both actors were whores for the respective roles they play here the put upon hero and the heartless villain. I'm pleased to see that they've branched out since then (in Roth's case going behind the camera), but it doesn't make this pitiful production any easier to endure seven years on. I'm only sorry I couldn't rate it half-out-of-ten on the IMDB voting system.     "},{"Title":"historical slow but interesting","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":"  I watched this movie the other night and I thought it was pretty good despite the lack of action. I don't usually like movies that are more arty but after Brave heart I thought I would try this one out. I was slightly disappointed because it was quite slow but overall I think that both movies are good in different ways. Robroy is good because of Liam Neeson he was good in Star wars and I did want to see him in another movie. Jessica lange was a big disappointment what are people thinking she is not gorgeous overall I give the movie 6 out of 10. p.s. not enough action in this one either I mean wasn't this meant to be a bloody historical piece. Sword fight was okay though.  "},{"Title":"Impotent","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" This movie was a long build-up with no climax. People whom refer to the swordfight in the end as great must either be out of their minds, or have none. Way too often this movie got soft. I am not saying that soft movies are bad. But no matter how fond you are of sugar it should have no space on a T-bone steak. This movie was supposed to be about vengeance for crimes committed against a culture, but it ended up being a petty bar-brawl. And there was only one of them who actually knew what a sword was; Tim Roth's character (and yes, he plays him well). Rob Roy was a weak hero with no knowledge of how to use a sword, and the way he won was a disgrace. As a drama this movie had it's periods, but the best performance in it has to go the nature of Scotland. This is one tad breath short of being termed as soap in my book. "},{"Title":"Rob Roy","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography","Review":" In quite a few of his roles, Liam Neeson has been trying to act good enough to win an Academy Award, probably ever since he lost the Award for Schindler's List to Tom Hanks in Philadelphia. I wouldn't call this an Oscar nominated performance playing Scottish legend Robert Roy MacGregor, but he does do a very good job. Basically this is another one of those battles similar to Braveheart where the Scottish fight against the English, this time lead by Rob obviously. Also starring Jessica Lange as Mary MacGregor, Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Tim Roth as Archibald Cunningham, Eric Stoltz as Alan MacDonald, Andrew Keir as Duke of Argyll and Brian Cox as Killearn. Liam Neeson does a pretty job with accent (being Irish), a good sword fighting scene, and some pretty good battle leadership. John Hurt was number 27, and Liam Neeson number 15 on The 50 Greatest British Actors. Worth watching! "}]