[{"Title":"Analysis aside, this film moved me.","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"45 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Fortunately, I do not judge a film merely by its technical excellence. Other reviews seemed to overemphasize the limited script, miscasting, lack of focus, etc, that this movie supposedly represents. All of it may be true, and certainly if the movie did not reach me, I too, would come up with a barrelful of sophisticated reasons why it didn't work.The problem is, it moved me. It touched my heart in just the right way, and left me once again, with a longing have known everyone who ever lived, suffered and died.Ah, the human condition!The first half of the film was slow, and seemed to be searching for itself. But from the time Robert entered into the home for the insane, it became engrossing. I thought the story of the Lost Valley was poignant and worth the whole movie. All that came before was necessary background for all that came after.So...not extraordinary, not outstanding, but quietly satisfying and definitely memorable. A little gem -selected with care- to share with those you love.  "},{"Title":"First rate without one bloody battle!","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"   Good Lord! a historical epic without a spectacular set piece till the fire of London. There was not a minute of this film I did not enjoy! Those who need chariot races to feel historically present need to know we can't all hang out with Cleopatra or Rhett. These people, in this film, came across as real through the ages! After seeing this delight,I mourn for Downey's career. Rent, NO! Buy this movie and step back into time for two hours. As historical drama, this is surpassed only by  A LION IN WINTER and LAWRENCE OF ARABIA. Mel Gibson should see this film before he messes with historical characters again. Please, you critics watch this with your heart; not your eye for spectacle 'NUFF SAID! "},{"Title":"Hidden Gem!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Restoration is one of the great overlooked gems of the 1990's. This movie is beautifully shot and competently directed. It is based closely on the original novel, and also reminds me of some of the more juicy excerpts from Samuel Pepys Diary. The use of real historical locations in Britain is inspired, for instance, the Fire of London and Cheapside market scenes were shot at Caerphilly Castle, the 13th-century moat doubling for the 17th-century Thames! Robert Downey gives a highly respectable performance as Merivel (and has an excellent British accent), but Meg Ryan is totally mis-cast, seeming very lost in some scenes. Sam Niell, I think, is probably the best casting for a British Monarch since Alec Guiness as Charles the First in Cromwell, and Dudley Sutton as James the First in Orlando. One of the best performances, however, comes from David Thewlis in support. His moving scenes with Downey at Tretower Court steal the movie. I worked as an extra on the movie, and some scenes for Pierce Brosnan's 'Crusoe' were shot back to back on the Cheapside market set. That movie has still to be released. 'Restoration' was filmed during 1994, and was delayed for release amid rumours of re-shooting scenes with Meg Ryan, and probable cold feet after the box-office difficulties with 'The Red Letter'.This movie has not been given the credits it truly deserves, and is an excellent illustration of Court life and marriage politics during the reign of Britain's sexiest Monarch! "},{"Title":"Lush And Unnervingly Eerie","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"32 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The set design and art direction on this movie was entirely mesmerizing! I will never forget the scene in which Dr Merivile returns to court (after The Plague has ravished London) in which this huge heavy swishing pendulum like incense burner, apparently to help ward off sickness... makes such a haunting and ominous sound as it waves smoke across the vast room...you can almost smell it! This movie is robustly lush and unnervingly eerie. As has been mentioned by a few others on the database...it's full of contrast on all levels. Personally, I was gladly surprised at how inventive Robert Downey Jr was with the role of Robert Merivel. He began with a laughing stupidity which grew to eventual compassion and downright intellect by the end of his story. Sam Neil is always all around proficient at what ever he takes on, his portrayal here is no exception, although I think he granted Charles II a lot of likableness and charm that was surely improbable in reality. Got to love the fifty or so Spaniels meandering with him down the plush hallways of the nobility through out the kingdom. And the scenes with intricate scientific inventions and mechanisms of the era were sheer beauty to behold.  At the same time there was such desperation and bleak contrast when dealing with the devastation and hopelessness of The Plague...only to be followed by the horrific Fire Of London. It's a wonder civilization survived at all in England at the time. The movie's art direction was of such a brilliant intensity. Parts of the script were a bit slow but the visuals tended to make up for it. The only truly unfortunate aspect of the film was the casting of Meg Ryan...just Plumb Awful(as they say)in the role of Dr Merivil's asylum inmate lover....who was by the way, miraculously cured of her insanity by his physical attentions. Whoever twisted Hollywood arms to get her on this project should be quartered and drawn.Considering all, this movie made me curious enough to download a copy of Samuel Pepys Diary 1665 to read more about the history of the Restoration. Isn't that what a good historical adaptation should do? "},{"Title":"An Intelligent,  Literary Film","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  A beautiful & thoughtful movie about chance and caprice in human  lives,and about how love and folly shape us. A unity of word, appearance, and action distill the reign of Charles II into the  soul of a doctor who lives through a new age of human  flowering. A movie aspiring to and attaining the qualities of a  literary novel, powerfully combining the naturalistic and the  symbolic, and equal to best adaptations of Jane Austen.  Restoration will be certain disappointment for movie-goers who  expect explosions instead of drama and grunts. "},{"Title":"The Age of Enlightenment","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  After watching this film, I felt my faith in humanity had been (somewhat) restored, and not for the squishy, feel-good reasons either.  Instead, I felt that filmmakers can often demonstrate truly wondrous, creative talents; Try not to think of all those sumptuous 18th Century European paintings that feature either the rich or the starving, while taking in the cinematic beauty of Hoffman's 'Restoration.'So what if Meg Ryan has a role in this one, I still enjoyed it.  This film is not about her anyway (the film is told from an exclusively patriarchal viewpoint, and doesn't sink into syrupy romance... at least not the way I saw it).Eugenio Zannetti (I'm not entirely sure about the spelling, but he is a production designer of infinite wisdom and talent) created endless aristocratic hallways, gorgeous rooms, and locations of richness and pestilence that exist side-by-side.  Zannetti went on to 'architecturally' design the central, Rococo menace in The Haunting (1999).Downey Jr's performance (as a doctor) is Raphaelesque, a walking representation of the period in which this story takes place (the anguish and hope he must undergo and have is thespian splendor).  Ian McKellan also appears (need I say more) here as a disheveled, yet benevolent supporting hero.I strongly recommend you experience this 'restorative' piece of cinematic art. "},{"Title":"An over-looked jewel, artful period piece with redemption.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Restoration is an overlooked jewel of a movie, a fascinating and atmospheric journey to another time and place. Robert Downey, Jr. is outstanding as a young physician who develops depth and compassion. The music, costumes and settings are full of rich detail. While Meg Ryan's character as an insane Irish girl was perhaps a bit overwrought, I found little to fault in the movie. I have seen it three times and enjoy it thoroughly each time. I'm sorry I missed it on the big screen. Interesting scenes portraying 17th century medical practice, the plague, the Great Fire of London. Not for the squeamish, but not overly violent either.  "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This has to have been one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen. I am not as up on history as some people, but I think the time - the costumes, the dress, the manners, (though not the language), was stunningly represented. The transition of Robert Downey's character was also wonderfully done - we watch him go from boyishness to maturity in a slow change throughout the film, it's not just randomly done because of one event, but of a series of events. The music was out of this world, and the last half of the movie very chilling, very sad, very emotional. Have a tissue box handy!!  "},{"Title":"Overlooked Period Piece of 1600s England","Date":"25 June 2007","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Europe of the 1600's has often been an overlooked era, sandwiched between the idealism and art of the Elizabethan/Shakespearean Age (late 1500s) and the Enlightenment of the 1700's. In many ways, 1600s England was a transitional time reflecting the growth of England toward a modern sensibility while still being hindered by the traditions and outlooks of the past, primarily the hold of Medieval thought which held to a strict hierarchical strata while discouraging and even destroying the pursuit of knowledge and truth.Robert Downey Jr. does a tremendous job as a character that appears to be a fore-runner of the coming Enlightenment. He is a physician on the verge of ground-breaking new scientific discoveries in the area of medicine. However, through a serendipitous and at first fortuitous run-in with King Charles II, the Restoration monarch (played brilliantly by Sam Neill), Downey loses his way and becomes a willing pawn in the king's sexual chess games. He even forsakes his precious medical texts to a colleague. In return, Downey gains a royal title, a royal tract of land, servants, and a wife. The only stipulation that is placed upon him He cannot touch his own wife--she ultimately belongs to the King as one of his many mistresses.In this way, Charles II is still a monarch enacting a role that was first prescribed in the Middle Ages that of the absolute ruler with absolute authority that can use his subjects for his own whims, and he can also discard those that are no longer useful. Simultaneously, there is another side to Charles II. Although he is the son of his late father Charles I, Charles II is the heir to Cromwell who devoted time and money to philanthropic projects, such as the study of science and medicine, the improvement of architecture, and the creation of schools. Charles II continues the enterprises begun by Cromwell and becomes a transitional monarch who has aspects that reflect both the Middle Ages and the Enlightenment.In many ways, Restoration is about these two worlds, and how Downey lives in both of them, from the luxurious life of a nobleman to the humble physician working with Quakers in an insane asylum. The king is also a person caught in both worlds. At first he appears the selfish ruler using his subjects as chess pieces in a large game in which he is always the bona fide winner. But then in another scene, we see him as a kind of philanthropic monarch financing and encouraging scientific and liberal research and discourse. In an interesting scene, Downey enters a kind of laboratory in which knowledge, research, and discovery are are being supported by the king who presides over the work of many scholars. Behind him is a strange swirling circus-like representation of the cosmos. We can't quite tell if the representation depicts the earth as the center of the Universe or the Sun, as if this notion is still being debated. But to his credit, the king is allowing for debate--something a Medieval king under a Medieval Church would have never allowed. Later, we learn that Downey is also an amateur astronomer, gazing at the stars in the heavens with a telescope.Through his adventures in and out of these worlds, Downey sees the light and dark of both and becomes something greater than he had before, particularly through an episode in which he falls in love with one of the patients (Meg Ryan) at the insane asylum. One aspect of the film that is quite revealing is the shades of color used to represent the different worlds. The world of the king is bright and colorful. The world of the Quakers is far more gray, but toward the end of the movie, the world of the king becomes darker hued.In the end, even the King seems to understand the importance of scientific discourse and research--that these ideas could ultimately help not only his people but himself. Medieval monarchs played games with people's lives for their own selfish ends, and sometimes stifled those who could make positive contributions to their societies and even humanity at large. Restoration is about the transition from the Medieval model to a new societal design in which personal gain becomes an outcome of talent and contribution and not monarchical whim. Today, we are still challenged by the notion of privilege over substance. People in power still often give major opportunities to those they favor over those that could make important contributions who are less adept at playing the political game. "},{"Title":"Why such bad reviews?","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" When this movie came out, the movie critics all jumped on and called it a failure. They said it was a hugely disappointing role for Robert Downey, Jr. Although, this movie was not superb, it was at least decent. That's why I never listen to critics. Downey plays an idealistic young surgeon with great promise. Chance has it that King Charles The Second discovers the young surgeon. If he promises not to sleep with the king's mistress, he will marry her and maintain an estate. Downey's Sir Robert is, of course, a man who chases after women, and when he falls in love with her, a spy (played by Hugh Grant) discovers it, reports it to the king, and Sir Robert is banished. Sir Robert finds favor again by devoting himself to treating the victims of the plague of 1660. What I liked about the movie, is that it showed that 1660 was the beginning of the transition to the modern World. Superstitions were falling, and surgeons like Sir Robert were starting to be seen as an asset. The King was even getting into science and medicine. Robert Downey, Jr. also does an excellent job. So, why all the bad reviews? "}{"Title":"To this film's detractors","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I'm not sure we saw the same movie and I'm puzzled.This is a tremendously rich, emotional film, very true to Rose Tremain's novel, and just wonderful.The casting is divine, and I thought Meg Ryan was fine as Catherine.Charles II is my favorite English monarch and Sam Neill portrayed him just as I pictured him.Robert Downey was Marivel to a T, as was David Thewliss as Pierce.The costumes and scenery were magnificent -- from the palace to the countryside and back -- and those fabulous Spaniels running through the palace and environs was just how I'd pictured England's most enlightened monarch's place to be!How anyone can find this movie to be anything less than a gem is beyond me. "},{"Title":"An English doctor finds good medicine during the Restoration.","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a diamond of a movie -- a diamond with an inclusion, but a diamond nonetheless. As the shallow court doctor, Robert Downey Jr's performance makes one cry for the habits that have kept him away from so many productions. This medical rogue, because of fluky fame, is summoned to King Charles II's court to save a beloved dog. When the dog recovers without any explanation, Downey's doctor is the star of the moment but his moment passes quickly.Sam Neil is one of filmdom's most convincing Charles II -- the merry monarch. He can be superficial and deep, a coward and hero all at the same turn. David Thewliss is also convincing as a Quaker doctor who helps lead Downey's character away from the excess of the royal court.Now, here's the inclusion part. Meg Ryan plays a psychiatric patient that Downey's character seems to cure in a manner not recommended by most Colleges of Physicians. Ryan is not right for the part.All else -- costumes, cinematography, music are wonderful. A sweeping film about fate and redemption during one of England's most dynamic reigns, Restoration is worth getting as a DVD because it really does improve with more than one viewing. "},{"Title":"A gem of a movie","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie set in King Charles glorious days. The scenery,acting and story were all great and Meg Ryan put on a passable Irish accent.I suppose that there will always be nit pickers like myself,and although Purcells great music was played throughout the movie,he would have only been five years old when these events took place.Still,I recommend this one and if you enjoy it try and also view'England my England'which is set during the same period. "},{"Title":"Restoration theatre has always been my fav","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" the restoration of the crown, the restoration of the theatre and the restoration of a man's purpose in life. I don't think this movie was marketed well, the notes on the case make it look like a silly bedroom farce, which, indeed, it is not.Robert Downey Jr is a revelation, as much as he was in Chaplin.Sam Neill makes Charles such a lovable scallywag that you can't disapprove of the randy King. I don't even mind meg Ryan.This film is so beautiful to look at, but don't watch it with a rowdy crowd. One needs to listen and absorb.I give copies of this movie as gifts. "},{"Title":"Lush, But Boring","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Mainly a biography of a lustful doctor, Robert Merivel , (Robert Downey) who has his way in the king's palace for the first half of the film and then helps out the downtrodden in the second half, mainly Katharine (Meg Ryan).The GOOD - Fantastic set decoration (i.e. the lush king's palace) and costuming make this a visual treat. The language is also very tame. Ian McKellen and Hugh Grant provide interesting support.The BAD - After 50-60 minutes, this movie simply gets too boring. It desperately needed to be given some spark after an hour but it does the opposite it drags on and on. The script certainly needed some badly-needed restoration, shall we say? The film may look nice but it's a long two hours to sit through.....too long. "},{"Title":"Robert Downey, Jr. Is Billed as the Star, But Wait Till You See the Sets","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Robert Downey, Jr. stars as a physician at the beck and call of the royal court in 17th Century England, and serves as our guide through an overstuffed story that includes lunatics, fires and the plague. As a narrative, it probably could have been tighter (o.k. let's face it, it could DEFINITELY have been tighter), and I think another reviewer here at IMDb said it well when he claimed that the movie is better than the sum of its parts, but I do remember liking this quite a bit. The jaw-dropping production and costume design is alone worth sitting through the movie for.With Sam Neill as a king and Meg Ryan as one of the lunatics.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Classic!!!","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is a awesome experience, it takes place in the most interesting time and place for new and exciting history. The hero, played by Robert Downey Jr. is fun loving and smart and charming, as a doctor and whore monger his love of life is infectious!!! Literally... his rise through the story is amazing and funny, yet we see him changing slowly and through his eyes we see the frailty and horror of the human condition in its most high and low of times. The King, played by Sam Neil is the most funloving Royal of all times, his is brilliant and funny and yet very Kingly. His love of the arts and engineering and medicine are what every one should aspire to in their reigns. The rest of the cast is very good, Meg Ryan's hair is funky, straw like, and needs conditioning, thats a joke. But she is excellent and has a great irish accent. Hope you enjoy this classic. "},{"Title":"Wonderful with a major exception","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Visually magnificent, with plenty of opportunities for oppressive opulence in this delicious, but ultimately convoluted epic, *Restoration* is a lovely mess. Spanning the reign of Charles II, the great fire, the plague, ad nauseum, the restoration refers to, not only the period, but the human condition. But that conclusion is a difficult one to arrive at, and will only be understood by those viewers who actually sit through the movie. Shot in England and Wales, and winning Academy Awards for Art Direction and Costumes, the script involves a promising young doctor, Jack Merivel (Downey), whose gifts attract the attention of the King. Entering the revered court circle, Merivel has the delights of the world at his fingertips and ultimately succumbs to debauchery. But it is a story of restoration (as well as *the* Restoration) and redemption, with certain timeless aspects that have modern consequences, but the script begins to fray throughout the second half. With the exception of an unpleasant, jarring characterization of a mentally ill woman by Meg Foster (whose forte is definitely not period pieces), the leading and supporting roles are well cast. Downey has an appeal and charm (one that survived his recent tribulations), and gives Merivel humor, irony and dedication, in addition to the human foibles he falls victim to. Neill carries off the role of King Charles II with style and assurance, as he seeks to secure the permanent services of his mistress by marrying her off the Merivel, thus keeping her near. The King has selected Merivel for his inability to be placated with one woman &#150; Merivel's desires keep him on a constant conquest for new and different lasciviousness &#150; but the King's one condition is that Merivel not fall in love with his own wife. Needless to say, that is exactly what occurs, and thus begins the tumultuous fall from grace. And that's just the first part of this lengthy movie. The second half deals with Merivel's quest for redemption &#150; not from the King, but from himself and God. It involves his daughter by the Meg Ryan character, and this is where the story changes from costume drama to social commentary. It is through Merivel's personal travails, as well as those inherent in the period disease, pestilence and ignorance, that Merivel understands that the only reason he is on earth is to care for this child that is an extension of himself. His flight to find her and prove his worthiness in overcoming the obstacles set before him is a moment that would have been served at little earlier in the film. Despite the lush cinematography, there is an overdose factor involved that, once the outcome of the movie is evident, the viewer yearns for it to hurry along and be over. That said, it also leaves lingering memories of beauty and gratification. "},{"Title":"This movie is a pearl... so touching!","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is quite a piece, and is there to prove that there are great movies that are, somehow, forgot as times goes by. The main character is a delight, it's so easy to like him (I guess Robert Downey Jr has a very likable face anyway), and you are emotionally bound to him from his first appearance to the last fade out which is, in my humble opinion, what makes a good movie. The background is also very interesting. The post Cromwell revolution England is a place full of contrasting people and ideals, and the movie explores the differences between nobility and the ordinary men with the sad looking puritans and the ostensible royal doctor. But the movie has a few flaws as well The timing gets kind of annoying and confusing in the first quarter of the movie as some of the characters are not properly explored, specially the Painter and Lady Celia, leading to some unnecessary over exposure of the main character. But then, the movie get everything together and put you there, inside the roller coaster of the story again, leading to surprising twists and a touch ending. ) "},{"Title":"Good epic film with great history","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Robert Downey, Jr. was terrific as always in Restoration.When I give reviews on films or when I tell family or friends about films, I like to go into detail of why I liked each character, the writing, the actors' performance, etc...With Restoration, I can't do that here. Why? Because I would ramble and go on typing forever. This is, to put it simply, an outstanding film. Sure, there are aspects of the historical time that didn't jive, but this film was meant to entertain, not to give us a history lesson.It was masterful. The performances of the leading couple were breathtaking. Great directing and writing.The film is wonderfully done. Although when the trailer was first aired and I wanted to see it very badly, the first time I actually saw it was in the theater. "}{"Title":"Restoration","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I must admit I was a bit skeptical before watching this particular film. Not only were my expectations met but exceeded. The story is brilliantly written to not only be historically accurate but it moves the human spirit. The casting was infallible as well. Downey does a wonderful job displaying the naive, hormonally driven young doctor who, in itself, restores his identity throughout the film. Meg Ryan captivated the film with her coy charm and the cameo by Mr Grant was nothing shy of entertaining. One aspect that hit home for me was the fact that the film did not speak solely on the Age of Restoration within society, yet it clearly focuses on one man of the age, Robert Merivel who, as stated before goes through a complete 180 on the maturity spectrum as well as going from a boy to a man. The director Howard, also does a fabulous job playing on human emotion. The first half of the film is light and uplifting with royalty almost satirical. It makes the viewer feel comfortable as well as happy such as Robert felt during his stays at court. Yet once out of paradise Howard then exposes the dark side of the age by changing scenery to a less lavish and happy setting. There is rain, dark colors, plague, death and despair. So ultimately you feel as though you are journeying along with Sir Merivel as apposed to being a mere passerby or an observer. It takes a special film to sort of grab you by the shoulders and force you to be apart of it. "},{"Title":"Surrounded by lavish sets and costumes...","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  The first half follows the bawdy adventures of medical genius, Merivel, who lived it up during the Seventeenth century. The second half has him down on his luck and seeing the light as he turns to saving humanity. It's a shame that the emotional second half wasn't given the treatment and the attention wasted on the excesses of the first half.  "},{"Title":"Great sets and costumes, but despite a good cast, it doesn't really click completely","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  This movie has a great deal going for it-beautiful sets and costumes, a fine cast (although Downey's performance is uneven and Neill is largely underused) and a decent story.  Problem is, the movie is too long and poorly paced.  The script isn't terribly bad, but it isn't very good either. Performances by Ian McKellan and David Thewlis are very good.  Meg Ryan and Polly Walker turn in good work in their parts as well, but they are also wasted.  This could have been better than it was, but is worth watching, particularly if you like costuming and lavish sets.  Worth a look. "},{"Title":"A truly magnificent film that touches the mind & heart","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This is a truly great film that I'm astounded so few are aware of. It's an absolutely beautiful film visually - each frame looks like a Rembrandt composition. Exquisite. The story, of how a physician during the time of King Charles of England, finds both himself and his vocation through great heights and tragedies, is very moving and very real. You can see the growth of Downey's character in a very real and natural way through the course of the movie. All the performances are excellent, but Downey's should have won him an Oscar. He needs to do more movies like this - it's his greatest performance by far. Sam Neill is also great. I cannot give enough superlatives to this beautiful and inspiring film. If you ever feel that you've lost everything....this movie may give you hope that all will be found again. "},{"Title":"Engrossing journey into the renewal of the lost talent","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Restoration is a period drama adapted from a novel by Rose Tremain and is directed by Micheal Hoffman. This probably is one of the most overlooked gems in period movies. This movie is visually enchanting replete with lavish costumes and is therefore not surprising to know that this movie had won 2 Oscars &#x96; Art direction & Costume Design.Restoration focuses on the gloomy aspects of the era life poverty, illness, medicine and the way of living during those times. This is a movie where you need to listen and absorb. You would enjoy it better watching it alone or with like-minded people. The story revolves around Robert Merivel, (Robert Downey Jr) who is a doctor during the reign of King Charles II (Sam Neil). He longs for the good life at the King's court and achieves it after successfully treating & saving His Majesty's royal dog. On gaining the King's favour Merival gives in completely to the rich life and all that it brings with it. This until he make a deal with the King and is married off to His mistress on the condition that Merivel is not to fall in fall with her. However he does do the one thing that is forbidden of him and ends up losing the King's favour. We are taken on a journey to two worlds; one of luxury another modest. We see how Downey lives in both of them. He returns to work with his Quaker friend John Pearce, (David Thewlis) at a mental institution where he meets and impregnates an Irish cuckold (Meg Ryan). However, when she gives in childbirth, he takes it upon himself to help cure London of the plague. He gets caught in the Great Fire of 1666 where he is left to believe that all is lost. Fate, however, has other plans. Downey has pulled off the English accent very proficiently. He looks foppish in curls and his short trousers & pulled off the transformation in Merival's outlook with élan. It most certainly was a moving performance and strikes a chord within you. This was the time when Downey was in war with his own personal demons in substance abuse. He does not look healthy but, the role fits his worn-down appearance and brings to life Merivel. I can't imagine any other actor playing Merivel. The rest of the cast slid into their roles perfectly. "},{"Title":"The Restoration of a Gifted Man","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Restoration was a costume drama that received decent reviews, but abysmal box-office upon its release in 1995. Its costume and set-design were clearly Oscar-bait and it was rewarded for its efforts by winning Oscars in those categories. However, the film itself has been relatively forgotten.The plot In 1663 England, young Dr. Robert Merivel (Robert Downey, Jr.) works alongside his colleague and friend, Dr. John Pearce (David Thewlis), in an overcrowded, underfunded, and run-down London hospital. While considered by his father, a glove-maker, and Pearce as being capable of being an outstanding physician due to a gift for healing, Merivel is unhappy as to his station in life. Young and more than a bit frivolous and shallow, Merivel enjoys life away from the hospital with wine and women and bemoans his medical duties taking him away from the color of life. Yet, a chance encounter with the restored king, Charles II (Sam Neil), leads to Merivel being swept away to that Merry Monarch's court where seemingly all of his dreams of having luxurious, decadent life free from stress and suffering come true. At the king's court, a sex-and-alcohol besotted and sumptuously dressed Merivel acts the fool for the seemingly easy-going king thinking it pleases him. And Merivel does please the king until he doesn't.Merivel becomes a pawn in one of Charles' romantic imbroglios between his many mistresses. Despite being rewarded handsomely to play ball, Merivel refuses to be a pawn and finds himself exiled from court. It's as if he was exiled from paradise. And he struggles to come to terms with its loss. Yet, with the aide and support of his friend, Pearce; the maturation that comes from becoming a father; and the discovery that he truly does have a gift as a physician; leads to a restoration of a broken boy into a truly decent man. Merivel's medical gift is actually his having a very practical mind that leads him to question some of the superstitious beliefs that passed for medicine in that era. His courage and skill as a physician is tested and proved by the 1665 Great Plague of London and once again captures the attention of Charles II....Restoration works as a film because of the terrific performance of Robert Downey, Jr. who brilliantly and believably portrays Merivel's rather stunning transformation from boy to man. At the time, Downey was beset with his own many personal demons as to substance abuse and he doesn't look healthy. However, Downey's rather worn-down appearance actually fits Merivel's dissolute character very well.He's joined by a terrific Sam Neill as Charles II. A shrewd king who has no problem using people for his own selfish ends, but also one that is not unkindly. Ian McKellan has a small role as a loyal servant. David Thewlis does an excellent job as the devout Quaker doctor, Pearce, who repeatedly tries to steer Merivel to his true calling. And, finally, Hugh Grant has a small, but memorable part as a conniving and unctuous court painter who tangles with Merivel.Unfortunately, Restoration has one massive miscasting Meg Ryan as Katherine, the abandoned Irish wife of an English soldier who becomes Merivel's lover and the mother of his child. It's not hard to understand why Ryan was cast she was big star in 1995 and Restoration needed star power to help with the box-office. However, she's too lightweight of an actor to carry the part, does too many of her infamous cutisms that worked in her romantic-comedies but are out-of-place in a period film, and the Lucky Charms Irish accent also didn't help. The fact that Restoration still bombed at the box-office despite having Ryan must have made her miscasting an even crueler blow to the films' producers.Overall Restoration isn't for everyone. It can come across as a fairly slow-moving and episodic costume drama. However, I like stories of rebirth and redemption and this is a very good one. Also, Downey is terrific. Not many actors could have recovered from his personal pratfalls, but Downey did because he's a truly outstanding talent and that talent shines through in this film. "},{"Title":"Spectacular--and moving","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" This movie is visually stunning--the spectacular sets (the floating wedding scene), the sumptuous costumes.But it's much deeper than the glorious surface would suggest--it's not just a costume drama--the story is about someone and something--one man's life from selfishness to selflessness.Downey's acting is superb, he's always been a wonderful actor, and here he's both subtle and broad and always believable. Meg Ryan is so different here from her normal cute roles that you might not even recognize her.The script, direction, acting, editing, and beautiful score combine to make this a rich, emotionally moving experience. "},{"Title":"When historical epics go wrong","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Lavish sets and costumes; debauchery and intrigue set Restoration moving at a terrific pace and the film threatens to be a classic. The first half is extremely watchable. Sam Neill excels as the King; and Hugh Grant displays real acting talent as a manipulative court painter. Unfortunately, both Neill and Grant are on-screen far too infrequently, and that leaves the mis-cast Downey Jnr to trundle along alone as the film very quickly loses its rhythm and slows to crawling speed.The film is far too ambitious. It's worth watching, if only for the first hour or so; but you will be left wondering what might have been had enough time and effort been given to character development, plot or history that is needed in order for it to become the historical epic that it trys to be. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Coign of Vantage","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Coign of Vantageis an advantageous position and for our Merivel he yaws between said locale and the bowels of contemporary existence.The film is full of literary allusions to previous works and the religious/social dynamics of the post Interregnum England upon the rise of the Phoenix (Charles II)from the ruins of Parliament/Cromwell's rule over the Three Kingdoms (England, Ireland and Scotland).Well back the comments Merivel (Downey) rises to a court position after saving one of the Kings dogs and is venal to the temptations of the usual hedonism. He becomes the unofficial jester and is used to wed one of Charles' Mistress Celia (Polly Walker)as a means to calm her conniptious behavior. A marriage in name only.And in proper course Merivel falls in love with Celia and makes the mistake of tawdry approaches to Lady Celia. The King banishes Merivel and repossesses his property, and he flees to live with a Quaker Doctor friend of his. (Thewlis) Merivel slowly comes to live with his dull new digs and inpregnates an insane Irish women with an unusual way of walking. Again banished, the two set off for the tepid/fetid plague infested city, London. She dies giving birth and redemption follows upon good works before the Lord under his Quaker friend's name.The title reveals much more than if the movie were, Robert Downey Junior's Adventures in England. The film has moments of humor, gilded production values subtlety and how doing good for others will bring you true happiness.Better than most period pieces about the Stuart Dynasty and deserved of its Academy Awards even without use of dead writer's work to be made by Merchant/Ivory. "},{"Title":"All dressed up...","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  One of the tasks facing the adapter of famous novels is the transfiguring of literary metaphor into cinematic image.  You cannot simply transpose a figure from one medium to another, but this is precisely what is done in RESTORATION.  Rose Tremain's source novel has been acclaimed, not only as an excellent piece of historical recreation, but for embodying the consciousness of mid-17th century England, without reference to or taint of our own century.This isn't strictly true - indeed it is impossible, you can't unknow what you know, and there is an early example of what would become Freudian psychoanalysis here - but she does write her novel using much of the figurative language of the time.  For instance, there is a great play with opposites - light/dark; death/birth; wealth/poverty; sex/celibacy etc. - that become transformed into a whole; there are metaphysical conceits (all the play with the stars), especially the fundamental structure of the four elements - air, water, fire, earth, which play such a vital role in the plot.The title itself is a bookish pun, signifying not only the restoration of the Monarchy after eleven years, as the inter-titles tell us, of 'bleak Puritan rule'; but also the restoration of its hero's humanity, decency and maturity; the restoration of London after the Plague and the Great Fire of London.All of this is imported directly into the film, which is divided neatly in two, from the dazzling splendour of Charles II's court, and riverside aristocratic estates, to the austerity and misery of Quakers, medicine, madness, childbirth, death, plague, the Great Fire.  This duality is figured in lighting (bright/dark), costume (gaudy, ornate/simple, threadbare), composition (noise, bustle, excess/spare, quiet), dialogue (witty aphorism/flatulent sincerity).  You could even add entertainment (mildly amusing/torture).This literary literalism extends to characters, eg the King is linked with the sun.  The four elements are also included the air that holds the stars, and carries the plague; the earth of Merivel's 'estate' (another pun), whose ownership is symbolically fragile; the water that connects his estate with the court, and also becomes a metaphor for Merivel's moral progress; the Great fire that signals a final destruction of corruption, the past etc.The problem with all this is that these figures are all literary.  In a book they have tremendous resonance, because they anchor the book firmly in its time, as well as the history of literature, Shakespeare, Spenser, the metaphysical poets etc.  However, cinema has developed different metaphors and meanings.  If you see a film with a river, you are less likely to think of Ben Johnson than Renoir or Vigo.  By failing to make the film cinematic, to tie its theme of history with cinema history (as Ruiz does in the extraordinary LE TEMPS RETROUVE), the film's representation of history seems insubstantial.RESTORATION's great glory is the art direction.  Though not authentic in any meaningful sense - the plague scenes are as artificial as the ornate gardens - they give a very real intimation of the age's artifice.  The sets quite literally swamp the story, from which it never recovers, and who can blame us when the characters are so unreal (a wonderfully camp Hugh Grant and moving Ian MacKellan excepted), while the buildings, the gardens, the vast halls, the statuary, the bric-a-brac, the drapery, the costumes, the colour seem so alive.Merivel claims he is sick of death and wants colour, and who can blame him? Unfortunately, the film takes the opposite route and  follows Merivel into abstention via some very queasy morality verging not only on pro-life, but in dispensing with women, mothers and sex altogether, as well as suggesting that the King's caprice was actually a very sophisticated moral test.So the first half of the film is like wandering dazed through a very elaborate museum.  However, the staticness (sic?) of the comparison begins to tell, and Hoffman's lack of cinematic nous soon makes us weary of finery, because he is unable to bring either his drama or decor to life, as Ruiz does.  I cannot remember a single memorable shot, and as the plot drifts into dully lit, talky, historical-epic moral progress, I quickly lose interest.  The largely pastiche score often seems anachronistic to the tune of 50 years.  Amid so much mediocrity and timidity, you hunger for the iconoclastic vigour of a Greenaway. "}{"Title":"Drama and a good bit of history","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Robert Downey, Jr. brought just enough of the serious and the comic to make this role work. His youthful, impulsive, debauchery evolves into a mature man with a purpose. Meg Ryan is hopelessly miscast as a mad Irish lass. Too bad there wasn't more of a role for Ian McKellen and Hugh Grant. And, Sam Neill was curiously unimpressive as King Charles II. I would have expected more from Neill. However, the film gives a chilling look at early England and The Plague. Costumes, sets, landscapes to fill the imagination and give us a little history, too.  "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" I thought this movie was a wonderful story. Meg Ryan plays a woman who lives in a mental institution and her acting is great, very convincing. Robert Downey Jr. is a doctor to a king, who marries Meg to save her, but begins to fall in love with her. The fact that their love story differs from most makes this movie even better. I laughed, I cried, I rejoiced along with the characters in the movie. But I will warn you of the nudity, Robert Downey Jr. and minor female characters are nude in certain parts of the movie. The costumes were fantastic and beautiful, as were the sets. I recommend this movie to all who are of age, because of the nudity younger people shouldn't see it unless they are quite mature. "},{"Title":"The 1600s British Restoration with some American actors.","Date":"10 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" The Restoration of the English monarchy began in 1660 when the English, Scottish and Irish monarchies were all restored under Charles II after the Interregnum that followed the Wars of the Three Kingdoms. It is very often used to cover the whole reign of Charles II (1660&#x96;1685) and often the brief reign of his younger brother James II (1685-1688).So during this period it follows mostly the life of a young physician who falls into the favor of the King, then out again. The young physician is Robert Downey Jr. as Robert Merivel. The King picks him to care for his kennel of dogs after saving his dearest dog that was sick. This was not a preferred career path but you didn't say no to the King.The King is Sam Neill as King Charles II, and eventually as his affair with a woman begins to get attention, he decides to marry her to Merivel and send them away to their own private estate. Merivel was NOT to have any relations with his bride, but save her for the King's visits.The fly in that ointment was Merivel begins to fall in love with her, and the King not happy with that turn of events evicts him. So he has to knock around, eventually getting the chance during the great plague of London in 1664 to 1666 to practice medicine again. One he saves there is Meg Ryan as Katharine, thought my most to be insane but she just had deep fears motivating her strange behavior.This is an old movie, Downey Jr. was not even 30 yet when it was filmed. To me it started a bit slow but eventually picked up and the story is very interesting. "},{"Title":"Low quality restoration","Date":"3 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Restoration is the story of a doctor - Robert Merivel (Robert Downey Jr.) who finds himself living amid the chaos of the interregnum - the brief period during the mid 17th century when England did not have a monarch. He lives the charmed life of a wealthy and charming bachelor in close proximity to the upper echelons of English society. However, his carousing is squandering his professional abilities.Those around him, including one peer, John Pearce (David Thewlis) and his tinker father (Benjamin Withrow) see him wasting his considerable gifts. This movie, while it is supposedly a 17th century story, actually employs a rather tired, worn modern storyline of the talented man who squanders his gifts but who finally achieves redemption after Losing Everything. It is disguised as a Restoration-era movie, but it's clear that this is a well-worn clichéd story in wigs, if you but peek below the hood. The script is rather pat, the characters slight, and the overall effect forgettable. Hugh Grant, in the wake of his success in various Merchant Ivory Productions, and some fantastic comedies, is given a forgettable role as a scheming court fop into which he throws himself. His character, however, is such a stereotype that even his great comic gifts cannot make much of it. His character is effeminate and one note, a scheming harpie with no depth. Meg Ryan must never try to do an accent again. Leprechauns are more realistic than her Irish accent. Watching her performance here, voice coaches wouldn't know whether to laugh or cry. Her Irish accent is like the Quasimodo of accents - you're horrified, but you can't turn away.King Charles II (Sam Neill) and Merivel's chemistry here is hilarious. The king has no dignity and it seems very unlikely that he would have become so buddy buddy with a doctor who has no noble credentials. Yet there, they are, all but doing shots together. Neill is usually better than this but he is atrocious here. He looks bemused and stoned in the movie, it's really terrible. Robert Downey Jr. is very charismatic and rakish in this film. As much as the work will allow, he imbues his character with charm and a lot of heart as he goes through his struggles. Ultimately however, this is a moralizing tale in wigs. The acting is weak and the script is terrible. "},{"Title":"worth seeing - not buying!","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  In danish we call the film  kongen, elskerinden og hendes mand - in english that is  the King, the Mistress and her Husband. And I don`t think that name gives justice to the movie. It`s really an o.k. movie, not so good that I would consider buying it, but it`s worth seeing. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"This needed a little more direction ...","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" and a tighter script. But, all taken together, this is an enjoyable movie. It seems in the nineties there was a very minor renaissance (so to speak) of costume movies Orlando, the Madness of King George and Shakespeare In Love come to mind. But this movie is reminiscent mostly of Barry Lyndon, from back in 1975, another sumptuous movie with need of greater discipline by the director. Those who make mention of the scenery are right to do so, it nearly becomes a character of its own, or perhaps a kind of Greek Chorus incessantly chanting of cloying frippery. This wretched excess nearly rivals that of the color drenched seventies. There really are some wonderful performances, from Downey, really one of the best actors today. Unfortunate that he's intent on destroying his great talent, and a poignant undercurrent to his foolery in the first part of the movie. Hugh Grant is classic here, as the fop of fops, he's hilarious. And Ian McKellan, that guy could act in a comic book movie and turn in a great performance (which he did in the X Men). The movie itself might well have been lopped in two and been something of a romantic situation comedy (a la Shakespeare) in the first and a more intense dramatic historical piece in the second. The two really don't quite work well together. Meg Ryan really is out of her element here. If you like historical dramas, this might not be the first off of the video shelft, there really are stronger works. But it's nice that they're still making them, and worth a look. "},{"Title":"Revolution","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" You take a risk in filming any book, but here we have one of these fat simple books that flow easily and have simple substance. Its targeted at the sorts of things that appeal to romance readers redemption, a hostile world, love, discovered honor. The book is a cartoon with faux travails from a lurid homeworld. If you were going to make a film of this without changing the book very much, and targeting the same audience as the book. You couldn't turn the story into something interesting, true or valuable. You couldn't make these characters matter. Lucky, because the director is incapable of doing so.What you could do is be lush. You'd create a home world that is lurid, with the earth sexually excited. You'd have full reds in a tumescent space (and rainy greys in contrast). You'd have novel ornamentation, excessive costumes. That's what we have here. As with other commentors, I say that the only thing interesting here are those sets. In this case, two women anchor and become part of the sets one dark redheaded and one light. Oddly, neither are photographed as beautifully as they have been elsewhere.What's interesting is how our set designer has folded the sets. You can't have an intelligent introspected story because the book is so pedestrian . But you can have folded sets. We have a wall of receding arches that is really a tapestry through which the king enters. We have a model of London, in which the king and our hero meet. And the best of all, we have an Orrery with the king at its center. An Orrery, if you don't know it is a mechanical model of the solar system. Its a marvelous thing, and has an iconic meaning in films where it is used. I collect these images because they are so few and deep. This is the loveliest I know.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Great costumes but little else","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  If sets and costumes were all it took to make a movie, Restoration would certainly be considered an all-time great.  Unfortunately the filmmakers did not pay as much attention to the script and the casting as they did to their lavish recreation of the court of Charles II.  Behind the frills of foppery at its most extravagant, the film is little more than an old melodramatic formula gifted man falls victim to debauchery and loses his talent, only to rediscover it after a series of tribulations.  The film is so overplotted that each scene introduces a crucial dilemma, leaving little room for character development.  And yet the stolid camerawork makes things feel rather slow.Restoration also features the most bizarre casting of any English period drama I've ever seen.  The problem Practically nobody's English!  Instead we have Sam Neill, who's clueless in the role of King Charles; you'll wonder, how exactly did this wooden, charmless man seduce all those women? Meg Ryan is at her most ridiculous as an Irish woman driven to insanity by the loss of her family; cute as Ryan is, she's an actress with an extremely limited range.  Robert Downey Jr. as the hero manages an amusingly off-beat performance, but the script puts him through such extremes of emotion in such short periods of time that he's forced to underplay.  I can't argue with its Academy Awards for costumes and art direction, but as a movie, Restoration is the equivalent of an expensive wig. "},{"Title":"Straight down the middle","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" By the books mid-90s historical epic, that like others of the era (Dangerous Beauty, Emma, Cousin Bette...) now feels slight and superficial; even corny at parts. The story is elaborate, but played mostly for sentiment. No villain, no chase, or explosions. But the piece of history covered is interesting in and of itself. And no movie about friendship is completely worthless. Prior to 2001, movie-makers scoured the storybooks for the right material to squeeze emotion out of you; and they frequently felt the need to time travel to do so (Titanic). This ruse now feels rather stretched, insufficient and manufactured.Not a complete waste of time, but reaction will depend on the viewer. There are some elaborate sets. Meg Ryan here is not making a good enough effort, or she knows that she shouldn't have taken the part. Hugh Grant's early stammering is on display. "},{"Title":"Lush period piece loses focus","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Director Michael Hoffman presents us with a lush period piece of 1660's England during the reign of Charles II after the restoration of the monarchy. Robert Downey Jr. plays a young doctor who is driven to find his calling through circumstances and women, and the king himself, who drive him. There is a strong cast and beautiful photography no wonder this film won Oscars for its visuals. The story line loses power because of its wavering focus - although if that clearly reflected the main character's own journey, perhaps that would not be such a weakness. The plague, the London fire, the environs of the time are richly portrayed so are the women and the sex, belying the film's opening statements that it is about a man of science bringing reason to his times. It's certainly worthwhile but doesn't deliver its potential.  "}{"Title":"Disappointing Hugh Grant","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  I rented this movie because it was produced by Andy Paterson, a physicist who also produced Hillary and Jackie and Girl with a Pearl Earring (2003). I very much enjoyed the art direction and costumes, but I wonder why they deserved an Oscar and those for Girl..., which depicts the same year, 1665, did not. I was disturbed by the miscasting of Robert Downey Jr. as a British lead - I usually love his work. Was he cast because he looks like Tom Hulce (Amadeus)? Another low point in acting was provided by a miscast Hugh Grant as a 17th century English painter. Everything about Hugh makes him too modern to play period pieces. Fortunately, Ian McKellen saved the movie for me, a great thespian in the right role.  "},{"Title":"A Grand, Luxurious Dud","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":"  Very long, rambling and in the end uninteresting tale about the fortunes of an ambitious doctor who is served up a bizarre life by fate. I suppose Barry Lyndon was the inspiration, just twist the time machine a bit, and slap on a happy ending. I tuned in for the historical significance, and it was well done from that standpoint. Magnificent costumes, settings, language. But the rest, my goodness! Robert Downey and Meg Ryan could not have been poorer choices for the leads. Downey's accent is passable, but Ryan's is just plain silly. As for the story? If you read it you wouldnt believe it. It seeks to throw in everything but the kitchen sink. I use that cliche since this movie is nothing more than a bad Hollywood cliche itself. Ryan's insane mud dancing cannot be watched without bursting into inappropriate laughter. P U baby! "},{"Title":"Pretty bad","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, History","Review":" Robert Downey Jr. in a 17th century wig and dress was enough to make me shudder, but I couldn't believe a great actor like Sam Neill actually took a part in this movie. The whole thing was unbelievable. I especially like Merivel's cure for the crazies. They dance...and hey presto! everyone's happy and they're all better! I guess I just didn't like the character Merivel too much. Therefore, watching a whole movie about his supposed transition from a whoring buffoon into a great physician was grueling. Also, I'm not entirely sure, but I didn't think the plague as well as the famous fire of London took place simultaneously. "}]