[{"Title":"Sad, affecting, and haunting","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What affected me and haunts me most about Xiu Xiu is the character of Lao Jin and his tender, sexless love and caring for Xiu Xiu.  He does his best to make her life easier in a place that she hates, and his pain and frustration mount as he sees how she is destroying herself.  His deep, sincere, and inarticulate caring for her touched me profoundly.  I wished that a romantic love could develop between them (and I am not generally into movie romances -- very few of them really work for me) but that was out of the question from the beginning, since Lao Jin was castrated.  That very fact gave their relationship a sense of tragedy from the beginning.I would love to see more of this Tibetan actor, Lobsang.  Imdb info shows this movie as his only film credit.The locale was spectacular and gorgeously photographed. Only intellectually could I understand Xiu Xiu's dislike of such a gorgeous place (as well as her lack of appreciation for Lao Jin's caring for her).  But both characters were very believable and involving, and this sad movie will stay with me for a long time.     "},{"Title":"To Have and Have Not","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Director Joan Chen has fashioned a lovely, slow-moving film, Xiu Xiu - the Sent Down Girl about the abuses of the Chinese Cultural Revolution seen through the eyes of one girl, Xiu Xiu.  Yet the film is more than a tale about the misguided totalitarian state and its pervasive influence on everyone's lives.  Xiu Xiu is also about a special relationship between the girl and her mentor and protector, Jao Lin.  It would be an oversimplification to call it a love story because the film only hints at any romance between the two (Xiu Xiu spends much of the film in contempt of Jao).  Indeed their contrasting lives could not be more pronounced.  Jao Lin is a horse herder, a man of the soil, one who cleans himself when it rains, and a victim of a castration leaving him without his manhood.  The much younger girl, Xiu Xiu, is from the modern city, doing her duty until she can return to her loving family and to a boy who yearns for her; she with the soft, innocent smile, and the daintiness to appreciate a kaleidoscope or a freshly dug waterhole.  They must live together in one tent for six months because &#145;headquarters' has mandated that Xiu Xiu learn horse herding.  While adapting to each other's needs, Xiu Xiu seems to have the upper hand on Lao (she bosses him around like a hired hand) but there is a strange, intuitive feeling between them that is really not appreciated until the very last scene.  As the story develops, six months have passed and Xiu Xiu still cannot return home because her family is too poor to bribe officials to take her back.  At the heart of this film is the evil that those in power do to those who are too weak to fight them.  Men from &#145;headquarters' regularly have sex with Xiu Xiu, sometimes with the frustrated Lao in the same tent, since Xiu Xiu mistakenly assumes these men will help her get back home.  All Lao can do is watch because even as he tries to protect Xiu Xiu in other ways, he is powerless to stop what is going on.  What develops, slowly but surely, is another side of Lao, besides the father figure - he becomes a man who can touch but cannot possess what he wants.  The latter is made clear when Lao steals Xiu Xiu's shoe and then lies to her that a man has come to steal her shoe so that he can return later to tell her of his love.  Xiu Xiu - the Sent Down Girl succeeds in giving us a poignancy about innocence lost and about the deep meaning of sacrifice and love.   "},{"Title":"Extremely moving and beautiful","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is truly incredible on many fronts. Firstly, the story is incredibly moving and powerful, without any schmaltz and the heavy-handed preaching about who's right and who's wrong that most Hollywood films resort to. Most of the film examines the relationship between Xiu Xiu and the Tibetan herder she is forced to live with as part of her re-education. The acting throughout is superb, with the two leads delivering subtle yet powerful performances. The photography and settings are breathtaking, and  I didn't find the music intrusive at all... "},{"Title":"A beautiful and brutal film","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joan Chen, who has had a modest career as an actress in American films and TV, makes her directorial debut here in this brutal, poignant and beautiful Mandarin language film. Starring Lu Lu as Xiu Xiu, a teenaged girl from the city sent to the country during Mao's cultural revolution, and Lopsang as Lao Jin, a castrated Tibetan nomad who is to teach her horse husbandry, Tian yu is not so much an indictment of communist China as it is an indictment of human nature. Xiu Xiu is brutalized by small-minded bureaucratic males as has happened throughout human history, be they communist or feudal, her innocence and youth traded for an apple, her buoyant hope for life dashed by blind political and economic forces, and her self-respect stolen from her by the twisted logic of rape and lust.What elevates this story above what we have seen many times before is the striking beauty of the Tibetan countryside and the fine characterizations of both Xiu Xiu and Lao Jin. Lao Jin is a gelding, made fun of by others, a man of quiet disposition who falls in love with his beautiful young charge, but stands aside because of his impotence. Xiu Xiu has an imperial nature natural to favored girls everywhere, be they Japanese princesses or American valley girls, a nature very well depicted by the script and very well acted out by Lu Lu, whose delicate beauty and spicy temperament clash well with Lao Jin's Taoist stoicism. At one point he remarks wisely that every place is the same, meaning of course that it is what we bring to the place that really matters. But his wisdom is completely lost on the teenaged girl who wants and needs society and all that it has to offer. And so, the underlying love affair between the two can never be...except...as it is in the end.Lopsang's performance is entirely convincing and Lu Lu is fascinating to watch. Joan Chen did a fine job with both of them while managing to keep politics and political agendas in the background. She concentrated on the human tragedy and made it universal. Both of her central characters had flaws that in some way led to the great sadness that they experienced, and yet they were not to blame. In this naturalistic expression we are reminded of the tragedies of novelists Thomas Hardy and Theodore Dreiser; and of course Chen was influenced by the work of Chinese director Zhang Yimou, in particular his sad, but captivating Raise the Red Lantern (1991) in which a beautiful girl is consumed and brutalized by societal forces of a different nature.This film misses being a masterpiece because of a hurried resolution leading to an ending that needed a bit more shaping. Nonetheless this is an arresting and compelling drama, beautifully filmed and sensitively directed.But be forewarned. Celestial Bath is a disturbing film not easily shaken from the mind.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Tragic","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this movie... It's such a sad film. It's sad enough to speak of love for such sad things. It starts off so pretty and happy. Such bright colors, pretty sky... then everything just changes. The colors never change, it is always pretty outside.. but the nights are what makes it sad. It made me feel angry of all the things that went wrong in this film... i wanted to be there, to help somehow... everything in this film is done so artisicly. The end of the movie is a perfect way to end sorrow. There is no better way to end something, than to simply end it. I recommend it to all who want to be touched. This is something that will never be done again. Nothing else like it. 10/10 for this one.  "},{"Title":"A tale of unimaginable brutality.","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Though there was the usual disclaimer at the end regarding persons living or dead, this film has an undeniable authentic feel.The Tibetan country-side is at once breathtaking and desolate; a perfect setting for a tale of unimaginable brutality. Far from overwhelming the movie, the music underscores Chen's theme of suffering and injustice visited upon young Chinese girls who were separated from their families and sent to places unknown, never to be heard from or seen again; young girls who were in effect disappeared. This is a film that will stay with me for a long time to come. "},{"Title":"A remarkable first feature from Joan Chen","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Xiu Xiu is a beautifully made movie in which Joan Chen combines sumptuous visual imagery, a beautiful, delicate musical score, fine performances by her actors and a spare and intelligent script to produce a simple, moving story of two lost lives.The movement of the story from the dark confines of the tent Xiu Xiu and Lao Jin  share to the almost limitless prairies and big skys of the Tibetan highlands follows the emotional pulse of the film. Expert camera work creates perspectives that sweep from the touchingly intimate to the overwhelmingly vast, exploring the characters from inside and out.Wonderful, economical performances from newcomer Lu Lu and Tibetan stage veteran Lopsang give profound and touching insight into the extraordinariness of two ordinary people. Chen saves the story from descent into melodrama by a precise and thoughtful restraint that respects, observes, and never intrudes to seek to explain or apologize.A film worth going out of one's way to see. "},{"Title":"More shots of clouds than any movie in history","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Xiu Xiu is a scathing look at communism in China, focusing on the story of a 15-year-old girl who is sent down to the countryside during the last years of the Chinese Revolution (1967-76). The girl works at hard labor and is gradually used by a string of powerful men who accept sex from her in exchange for promises that they have no intention of fulfilling.Filmed in remote reaches of Tibet, the scenery is beautiful, even all those shots of the clouds that director/producer/writer Joan Chen seems to love. The relationship that develops between the girl and an older horsehearder who was deprived of his manhood by Tibetan rebels also is sweet and properly understated. It's clear he loves her and wishes he wasn't powerless to protect her.However, the story is uneven. Still, it's worth seeing -- if nothing else, it's interesting to see a movie that's been banned in the country in which it was made. "},{"Title":"Beautifully executed, but with a slight flaw at ending","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a truly beautiful film.  Joan Chen has directed a movie of uncommon grace, beauty, and sensitivity.  She has a subtle hand and an eye for imagery that are almost unrivaled in the movie industry.  The two lead actors delivered flawless and engaging performances (and that saying quite a bit considering how little dialogue is exchanged).  I really enjoyed watching these three masters displaying their craft.My only reservation about this movie (here comes a vague plot give away, but it's about the end of the of the movie, so watch out) is that Xui Xui's reaction at the very, very end of the movie seemed psychologically inconsistent with how her character had been developed. "},{"Title":"Pleasant movie about harsh life under communism","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tian Yu directed by veteran Chinese actress Joan Chen is a bold film which is completely different both in style as well as content from those of other Chinese films made by fifth and sixth generation film makers.Soon after its filming its anti Chinese communist party stance had angered the Chinese cultural authorities to such an extent that it is still banned in China.Much of the film's strength lies in its choice of far off landscapes which add surreal beauty to the film.The film is sad as a young girl is sent away from her home to initiate a communist party sponsored reeducation process but she becomes a victim of sexual slavery.This is a real story which underscores not only the plight of the film's protagonist but also of countless ordinary girls whose happiness was snatched by the official brutality of the omnipotent communist party ideology.Top notch scenes of the film include sequences in which the young protagonist is forced to live in a far off settlement with a Tibetan eunuch.This unexpected event gives rise to emotional bonding between two people cut off from human civilization. "}{"Title":"Very powerful and exquisitely acted; 9/10","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Xiu Xiu the Sent Down Girl is probably a lot like you might expect. We in America only really get to see one or two types of Chinese films. This film is a lot like Zhang Yimou's films like To Live, Du Jou, and Raise the Red Lantern. Zhang could easily have directed this tragic film. But that's not a reason to criticize it. It is quite a great film. It starts off very slowly, but by the time Xiu Xiu moves in with the horse breeder Lao Jin, the film becomes great. Their relationship is the heart of the film, and it is difficult to find two better performances than those of Lu Lu and Lopsang. Xiu Xiu has been sent to study horse breeding. At first she is nervous about living with a strange man. He was castrated when he was younger, she is told. Lao Jin develops strong feelings for Xiu Xiu, as well as she does for him, but there isn't much they can do about it. Eventually, a young man comes around and tells Xiu Xiu he has influence to get her back home. She had come there with a bunch of other young girls and boys with an internship-type program. It failed, and everyone else went home months ago. In exchange for his help, Xiu Xiu gives him sex. He leaves, and, in a couple of weeks, another man shows up at the tent looking for sex. Lao Jin can do nothing but watch helplessly.The film is very tense and moving. My main problem, besides the slowness of the beginning, is that the final sequence is perhaps too melodramatic.SPOILERS The prevaling undercurrent of the film is the love story between Lao Jin and Xiu Xiu. Of course, since nothing can happen, it is impossible. His pain comes from the fact that Xiu Xiu is destroying her own honor. He wants so badly to protect that. There is another undercurrent that should be there but I never felt I wish Lao Jin felt angrier at the fact that Xiu Xiu would rather degrade herself and, eventually, die than live out her life with him as a horse breeder. I wish he would have objected at the end verbally. It's insulting, and his own suicide should have been caused by that insult rather than the fact that his beloved is dead. "},{"Title":"Concise yet haunting","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have watched movies from China for many years, dating to the early martial arts films from (ca.) 1950's.  This work is one of the finest, most coherent, focused, and most beautifully  rendered. I trust that Joan Chen will continue writing and directing.The plot and scene pallet were simple, leaving room for the excellent acting and poignant cinematography to show.  Character development was superb. The film did not need the lecturing normally reserved for the poorly done party films of the period described.  And, of course, the story provides a glimpse into the humanity of the Chinese people, in that system, without polish, making a subtle link to other human beings.If this is the Joan Chen who showed Yang form to an American on Washington Square in April, 1985 and who consulted with the same one at Taste of China, 1988, I would appreciate a note.  Last known address was New York, 1988.  "},{"Title":"Caution Extremely Powerful","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very powerful movie about a very important and real subject. It made its point very forcefully with the use of strong and explicit scenes that I'm afraid have been with me ever since I watched this movie and promise to appear in my mind day and night for quite some time.  I hate to say that I wish I hadn't seen a well-made movie, but that is the case here.  If you are very emotionally affected by movies like I am, I recommend that you pick up a good book about the history of sexual politics in China instead. "},{"Title":"Sent to the Sticks to Learn","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Joan Chen is a lovely woman who went to the Chinese outback to learn how ordinary people think visually. So she makes a film about a lovely girl sent to the Chinese outback to learn how ordinary people think agriculturally.The girl ends up feeling she has to prostitute herself to find her way back home. And so with Ms Chen, and as with the girl, we the viewer get some superficial pleasure.This is a simple film, and one can see that it was made by someone with an actor's sensibility. The story is extremely economical, so much so that the camera is anchored to the actors. Every shot is an actor's shot either to place the actor in a scene or to show the actor acting. The one exception is a rather heavihanded cloud metaphor. This works because the project has such low ambition, but it has the effect of abstracting the story so much we just don't care.A more experienced filmmaker might work at defining the situation, setting up some complex dynamics in the world and then placing some characters within those dynamics. That way we watch them in a context that we understand. Bertolucci did that with `The Last Emperor' in which Ms Chen worked as one of those actors responding to their environment. Here, she has it the other way around. We still get the wilderness, the political idealism and associated petty tyrants. But they are the the other way around, what our heroine sees. We, through our surrogate the camera eye, never see the bigger picture.In a sense, this is a `Taxi Driver' bet, a first film where we get things through one character's mind. It worked for Scorsese because he was fearless in putting us on the edge. This project was clearly designed that way, like `taxi' with the edge being in the sexual exploitation of a young girl. But Ms Chen backs away when the chips are down. Some more visual pain, more explicit images, more of a linkage of loneliness to the environment (for example in the Bertolucci `Sheltering Sky').So what we end up with is a small film where everything seems competent but nothing works quite right. She followed this up with the very similarly conceived `Autumn in NY.' Prostitution in the name of getting home. Sad.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking film","Date":"5 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" heartbreaking film about the Chinese cultural revolution in the 70's, when young girls were separated from their families and sent away to the remote countryside for manual labors ( A DUMB TRADITION THAT WAS PART OF THE Chinese CULTURAL REVOLUTION).The main character of this film is a 15 year old girl named XIU XIU, who is a victim of the circumstances, someone who relies in the hope of a false promise that will be the path for her destruction. She is sent to live with a man named Lao Jin, who will do everything he can to satisfy her ,he will be witness of the brutality of the corruption of a rotten system, feeling powerless of can do anything for save her.A beautiful film that progresses until turn into a tale of brutality. "},{"Title":"Great and interesting story","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In short, a great and interesting movie. At the same time very, very sad. The story of the tragic fate of a girl called Xiu Xiu. Sent to the wildness away from her home, a young and naive, she soon realizes that her only true friend is Lao Jin. Rigid communist regime that destroyed every human spirit, thus her promising life. On the other hand, this movie contains beautiful images of nature, water, sky, horses, flowers and beautiful emotional music. What characterizes this movie is definitely a unique blend of music, images and emotional state in which the characters are. If you want to see a serious story, then the Tian Yu movie is just for you. "},{"Title":"Sacrifice","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Eastern people are very strange. For my European mind. But my post-sovietic mind can understand the absurd of communism. People are going where the system sends them and think they are doing something very appreciable for others. Well, mostly things like it are useful for those in highest chairs.A little girl goes to the countryside to help people. She's so innocent and her plaits are a symbol for it. When she's sent to prairies to live with horses breeder Lao Jin for six months she's so shy and afraid he can do something bad to her. But he can't &#150; long time ago his manhood has been sliced off.After the time she had to go back she's still with Lao in the fields. But she wants go home. And suddenly a man comes and says he can help her. And gives her an apple (symbolic, right?). The next time he comes he wants something from her. And his friends wants the same. They say that's the only one way to go home. Yeah, right...Lao Jin sees and understands everything, but Xiu doesn't want to hear anything from him. But when &#132;surprisingly she becomes pregnant Lao is only one who helps her. And in the end the only one who frees her. When she's back to her innocence and plaits.It's a sad story. And very eastern. Gee, this really could have happened! Stupid system and dickbrained men. "},{"Title":"No less than a wonder","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is,in a certain way, almost strange to write something about this movie, now, so long after I have really admired it, so long after I have so intensely cherished it.XIU&#151;XIU might be described as a small&#151;scale romantic&#151;naturalistic synthesis. It has gusto, flair and pace. It has suavity, and visions of hell. It is very coherent, limpid and well&#151;constructed. The directorial approach is sober and incisive.It is deliberately heartbreaking and shocking and sensationally lyrical, of extreme emotional density ,a remarkable experience of art, of rich emotions; and, although not decadent in itself, it strongly appeals to decadent sensibilities and receptivity. (I thought it was good in a Rozanov/Bloy/ Nietzsche way, as I was able then to define the sphere of perception.) It treated highly, in a dignified perspective ,of humble things, elemental feelings and atrocious events. It played like the sum-ma of a certain art.Mainly on its base, I have formulated, or rather improvised, a quite decadent theory, the idea of the cruel, savage movie. By this, I meant a kind of lyrical and inspired naturalism, shocking and thrilling, the kind that might be seen in XIU&#151;XIU, in the R. Harris masterpiece This Sporting Life (1963) and in some scenes of A Streetcar Named Desire (1951) .The film has strength and several merits. It is of an explicit beauty. It is a synthesis&#151;a vision of art, a synthetic take. It has a vision of the human life, society, violence, evil, pain. It has a contemplative, quite and slow side. It is beautifully conceived and acted. Its sadness is visceral and piercing. For a time, I thought it better than anything else. During my XIU&#151;XIU era, when I resolutely campaigned for it among my pals, I also liked ED WOOD.On the viewer's part, XIU&#151;XIU might define an inclination towards finding beauty in its most compact and intense expressions. An aptitude for finding it. XIU&#151;XIU is also an admirably crafted drama, that adds competence to the inspiration' s high aim. "},{"Title":"a movie that definitely stuck with me","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie several years ago.and have been searching for a copy of it since I finally have more time. really it's a sad story but the overall story is excellent.I really enjoyed this film more than I can mention just the emotions of serenity and sadness just portrayed are awesome. and coming to find that it was directed by one of my favorite actresses/directors now. its pretty interesting in itself. well I hope you all enjoy this movie as much as I have. it's a very wonderfully sad movie that makes you wonder.that's about all I have to say I guess since I have to add a bit more "},{"Title":"Interesting parallels with Million Dollar Baby","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even though Tian yu (Xiu-Xiu) is a deeply moving film, one could sit back complacently thinking that something like this could never happen in America. Yet, Million Dollar Baby shows us that it can. Two excellent films. Of course, the movies are very different in many ways, but I was intrigued by some key parallels. In both, the male lead is an older man who develops a special, non sexual love for the female lead. Both men, for quite different reasons blame themselves for the situations the women eventually find themselves in, and both help in the ultimate solution, at the cost of their own lives. But they are not to blame in each case society has trapped the women into intolerable situations from which there is ultimately only one escape. The nurse who gloats that she'll never do that again after Maggie tries to pull out her life support is no less despicable than the nurses who deride Xiu-Xiu for what she has become, or the men who take advantage of her. We may view the system that forgot Xiu-Xiu as malignant, but it is no less so than the benign system that dehumanizes Maggie. Xiu-Xiu is the sort of film one expects to see in human rights film festivals&#133; and what about Million Dollar Baby? "}{"Title":"Balanced Movie / Thoroughly moving","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie has a really nice pace of editing among the many beautiful images presented by Joan Chen. You should take note that the pace isn't very fast and the story presents it self very linear. Without making clichés. For me it wasn't disturbing, I even embraced it.I watched this movie because the band Xiu Xiu recommended it. And I knew that this wasn't going to be happy-happy-joy-joy-experience.But the movie really grabbed me after wards, knowing that this isn't likely for many movies I regard this movie as a masterpiece. Strong Cinematography, good acting, moving story, nice soundtrack (not only the music), fine pace of editing.Be good to your self and step in to this experience. "},{"Title":"Thanks to the heartquaking times","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is even different for me, a Chinese youngster, just to comment on this sort of works, let alone introducing this movie to the worldwide spectators. Actually this is hard to be understood by foreigners, who will definitely consider this movie as a tragedy. It is a tragedy, and it is much more than a tragedy. In fact, it is the most heartquaking works of this theme I have ever received. This sort or this theme I have referred to is the particular times that happened in China decades ago, not far from us. Actually it is the times my parents have experienced. That period of ten years was filled with tragedies. The story this movie has described is just a corner of iceberg. What the times have given me is totally from our fathers' words or the works like this movie, which may not be so effective. However, what the times have given China is profound. Thanks to the times, China has been in the right direction for a long time. This direction has led and will go on leading the nation to unlimited prosperity. "},{"Title":"Fraught with rip-your-heart-out emotion","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a film that undoubtedly leaves you with images for (what has been for me) years. I saw this film a year after it came out in 1999 and I still can't get it out of my head. It will definitely make you want to do your research on Communist China and exploitation of any and all sorts. A bona fide eye-opener on social issues of all sorts, promise.The cinematography in this film is unparalleled poignant, stoic, ever-so aesthetically pleasing. The cast is as good as it gets from an American-reading-subtitles perspective; they convey the point of the story without fail on every point. The story, of course, is unforgettably tragic. Forget about happy endings with this one people, but see it all the same. Bring some Kleenex and take some Dramamine if you're physically reactive to strong emotion. "},{"Title":"wonderful. divine. touching. great. unforgettable","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Never seen Such a film before. Suffered much so touching it was. I am an atheist but when I watch films like this I start believing him and thank him that he created the people who do miracles like this wonderful film. It is a high tragedy and broke my heart absolutely. Love you all who staged this film The Sent out girl. How you did it?!!! It is too marvelous for words. Let live China!!!! "},{"Title":"A Chinese Tarantino flick?","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is by favorite foreign subtitled movie. There are hints of Tarantino in this flick, especially in the ending. This film depicts life in China as a young girl. I especially like the part with the apples. If you can stand reading the dialog , then this is an excellent film. The characters are likable and real. Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"On the contrary I believe the movie had good music","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  my friend I find the music in the movie pretty supportive to the silence that the two characters shared. Lately I'm turning more towards these recent canto movies mainly because of their better and much appropriate music.Watch 'Four Seasons' and 'Vertical Ray of the Sun' and I think you'll understand what I'm trying to say...maybe I'm wrong! "},{"Title":"Disturbing, but Great...","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tian Yu is one of those films that leaves you thinking immensely after the film is long over. Greatly filmed by Joan Chen, this movie unfolds the harsh reality of China's Cultural Revolution for teens. Xiu Xiu, a girl that is sent with millions of other teens down to the country to work together on farms, etc. Xiu Xiu is then sent to live, from there, to live and learn of horse herding with a castrated nomad in the deserted country-side of China. After her training time is up, her only hope of getting back to her home is prostitution. This is the very disturbing part of the movie, with subjects of child molestation (since the girl is only 15), rape, and her helpless attempts to win her trip back home. This movie may be very disturbing for some...but uniquely and depressingly good for others...either way, Tian Yu is possibly one of the best foreign films brought from China to U.S.  "},{"Title":"Lopsang is amazing","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was shocked to discover that this was Lopsang's first and only cinematic performance. His portrayal of Lao Jin is easily one of the finer displays of acting I've seen in recent years. This movie is worth watching for Lopsang alone.  "},{"Title":"Wish Chen Had Made A Worthy Second Film","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Something nice needs to be said about this film so I'm going to say it.  Joan Chen shows both patience and intensity in her debut film as a director, lingering on beautiful haunting images and cutting these with ugly and uncomfortable moments.  While it's not an absolutely perfect film, it is an extremely promising one, and it's a shame that she went on to do that dreadful Winona Ryder disease movie.  The leads are also wonderful and play their doomed roles with a quiet dignity.  The film begins with an unsettling feelgood attitude that seems misplaced, but soon makes sense once the delicacy of the main character shatters, and Chen is blunt in presenting a young desperate woman, swirling in a void of deceit, and convincing herself that her actions will eventually help her escape her hell.  The fact is, though, she has been forced to create her own hell, while a man who secretly loves her is forced to watch and protect.  This is a very powerful story of how a government affects a single life, how oppression is a collection of individual sorrows.  I would normally say that Chen is someone to keep an eye on, but we all know now that that is unfortunately not the case. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, sad film","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's strange how wonderful movies sneak up on you out of nowhere.  Unable to sleep I was surfing the endless cable channels after midnight, when I happened upon the opening credits to 'Xiu Xiu, the sent down girl'.It's so refreshing to find a film with beautifully unique characters, a gorgeously vacant setting and a love story that unfolds itself to the very last second.The two main characters in this film, Xiu Xiu and Lao Jin, have stayed with me for days now.  I day dream about them in the Tibetan plains, sharing their joys and suffering of their lives.I enjoyed the music in this film as well, it complimented the scenery well without drowning the characters.Hopefully, this film will sneak up on you some night without warning;) "}{"Title":"Don't forget it's a Chinese film","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film and felt it was the best work I've seen from Joan Chen in any role, actress, writer or director. I think it had some things that were a little hard to get your head around from a Western point of view. The temptation to forget the *intense* social pressures of the cultural revolution on Lao Jin and Xiu Xiu and simply judge them as weak. Just how much of an outcast Lao Jin was because of his castration. Just how low Xiu Xiu thought she had sunk. Even little things like the significance of the apples which I doubt was a biblical reference but was more likely a silk stockings sort of bribe (i.e. showed you had real connections).Many people commented on the music score which I thought, by the standards of a cultural revolution period piece, was if anything understated.My only somewhat strong negative feeling was that as tragic as the movie was it didn't start to really drive home the terrors of that era. "},{"Title":"good debut","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sure, the music is bombastic and some of the scene transitions are a bit abrupt, but this was a very promising directorial debut for Chen. Worth watching for the subtle changes that register vis-a-vis the lead actress's performance alone. The transition from naive-but-haughty to bruised-and-disillusioned reminded me of Gong Li in RAISE THE RED LANTERN. Some lingering sentimentality (aided no doubt by the over-emphatic music) stops this from being in the first rank, but it's still a lot better than I expected. "},{"Title":"young girl sent to outlying district during China's cultural revolution","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a very sad, but beautiful story.  Acting and photography are superb.  You can see why it was banned in China.  It is about what happens to a teenage girl brought up with bourgeoie amenities and caught up in China's massive plan to dissolve the middle class and make everybody peasants and workers.  The girl ends up in a vast wasteland to learn herding horses (eventually to be used in some cavalry) with a herdsman who has been castrated and who is the object of scorn and derision.  Still, he tenderly cares for his new charge and tries, in vain, to protect her from the official bureaucrats who abuse her and destroy her.  The ending is shocking.  A very powerful and memorable film. "},{"Title":"More powerful in its simplicity than The Accused","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a simple story, but the ambiguities, and the quiet characters will haunt me for the rest of my life.  I sit today in a melancholy profound. Thank you, Joan Chen, for your courage.(Oh, I don't agree with the other reviewer, I did not consider the music completely overbearing.  I may have taken note of it once or twice, but for the most part, it slipped into the background and let the story be told.) "},{"Title":"a good tribute that generation","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie is really a good one.  From this movie, we can see Joan Chen got a lot from her over ten years' life in USA.  I think it's also a reflection of her life in USA, her survival in Hollywood.  I don't understand why stupid Communist banned this movie in China.As for the story of Xiu Xiu, it's very real.  Although I am too young to be through these years, from my parents' description of those years, Xiu Xiu's case is not rare in that generation.The only bad thing about the movie is the back ground music is awful.  The movie is a good tribute to the generation that lost their youth to the stupid communist movement. "},{"Title":"A minor masterpiece","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Beautiful unfamiliar landscape setting with a superb musical score and wonderful direction. The film leaves me feeling dispirited yet somber. Wonderful non - verbal acting with sublime performances. The film draws on the emotional aspect of the two main characters, which is both moving and tragic. I felt paralised as I witnessed the rapid decline of such a beautiful young girl, alone in an unfamiliar setting. The film workes because of the casting and while it is not regarded as a brilliant film, it can be regarded as a minor masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Blended NOT Bombastic","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The sent down girl affected me deeply!  What I loved about this movie was that the dialog, visuals, and music, all perfectly blended together to tell the story, none of the elements overpowering the others.  The last film I can say that about was Some mothers son, which like this one is, in my estimation, truly a GREAT film. In most films I have seen, one element tends to dominate the others, due I suspect to the particular biases of the main creative force behind the film.As for this film, I am sure many people will be horrified and depressed by it.  I can understand, as my knees where physically weak upon exiting the theater. However even though the movie was tragic, I did not feel is was fatalistic.  It seemed to me to be a modern and very real version of Romeo and Juliet.This is a film that will stay with me for a long time I think, and that is the greatest gift a film maker can ever give their audience.  "},{"Title":"A gripping experience.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There's always a risk when a very good actor tries her hand as a director. There's a big difference between standing in front of the camera and sitting behind it. Joan Chen pulls it off superbly. She gets excellent performances from her two leads without letting them run away with the picture. The pacing moves, but gives the non-Chinese viewer time to figure out what's going on. The cinematography of the Tibetan plateau is magnificent. Watch for the scene with the rainbow and the views of the river at night.It helps to start with good material. The story, apparently taken from a novel, is stark and moving. A young, naive girl joins the movement of students to the countryside, which was one of the tragic parts of the Great Cultural Revolution. She finds that she is trapped in a boring job, that she doesn't do very well as an apprentice horse herder. She is initially suspicious of the herder with whom she lives but trusts both the promises of the local village cadre and the workers and peasants that she meets. The film shows her gradual disillusionment and descent into prostitution and despair. Of course, the Tibetan herder is the only person who really has her interests at heart. Eventually she meets with indifference, contempt or worse from everyone else. The cinematography gradually switches from bright to somber as Xiu Xiu's life becomes more somber. The promise of spring turns to the sterility and death of winter. I came away feeling that my emotions had been captured. I was moved by Xiu Xiu's tragedy. I regard that as a sign of a great movie. See it if you can.   "},{"Title":"Beautiful but hopeless","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie described by its maker as hopeful.  For this viewer, it was only hopeful in that it portrayed the unceasing optimism of the heroine, otherwise it struck me as utterly hopeless -  hopeless about man's inescapable subjection to the whims of both the system and of life in general.  Beautifully acted and filmed, it is, for all its rude violence, appealing and sweet in many ways.  But the overwhelming sadness and wretchedness of the characters are the feelings I carried away from the theater. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, angry, affecting movie","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What is with those Chinese?  I go out of my way to read Chinese history, old and contemporary, and to see their movies, but I am constantly left wondering, 'is it as bad as that?'  The very idea of making a movie illegally in China gives me the willies, but Joan Chen did a remarkably beautiful job on her first film.  It is shot well and the performances are full and nuanced.  However, the male protagonist has been emasculated (an obvious metaphor for the Cultural Revolution), and while having some wonderful qualities, he is unable to overcome the outrages perpetrated in the story.  This left me unsatisfied.  Making room for the disparities between Eastern and Western culture, I accept Joan Chen and her fine movie as an important cultural view.  Chen was born and raised in China, and she is angry.  Was it as bad as all that?  Apparently so.  "}{"Title":"sigh...","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  finally got around to watching this film, and what strikes me the most was the protagonist's naivete. many of my friends felt angry(!!!) that someone can actually be so dumb. but then again i thought it could be a voluntary choice into decadence, after her first time with the guy with the apple. it's rather heart wrenching to see her gradual transformation from chirpy lass into this wretched girl, crippled by helplessness and homesickness.one big grouse is that there was insufficient build-up in the transition part of her loss of innocence. (Or was it because the film is censored somewhere???)  As a result it appeared jarring.still, the anguish is thick and palpable. i must say joan chen did a pretty good job, debut attempt or not. but better than hou hsiao hsein? rather dubious... (chen beat HHH to winning best director at the 32nd golden horse awards)the score and song are deeply haunting. and they complement the mood rather nicely. but somehow i get the feeling that they will work better by themselves.but all in all, recommended viewing. "},{"Title":"Re How to ruin a good movie with overly bombastic music","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The overly bombastic music in the movie was not used to tell the  viewer what to feel, but rather, they are authentic period pieces, many of which still sang and taught in China today.  They are a product of the Cultural Revolution which aptly caricaturize the movement.  In other words, they are part of the prop. "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first word that came to mind was stark.  This certainly stands out from American cinema, and it's worth seeing if for just that reason, but there are many other reasons as well.If you're not familiar with the Cultural Revolution in China, I suggest reading a little about it beforehand.  Although it's a longer timespan, Jung Chang's Wild Swans is insightful.In any case, this movie surprised me.  Both the summary I'd read and the author of the book & screenplay - who spoke at the theater just before the screening, made me think that it would be more optimistic and hopeful than it was.  No matter, it was still terrific.  "},{"Title":"a story that stays with you","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I drove 40 miles in rain and gusty wind to see this movie and it's definitely worth it.  When the credits started to roll I was left teary and speechless in my seat.  Joan Chan shows great talent as a director.  The performances are flawless and the story is powerfully moving.  Just the fact that Joan Chan made this movie without permission from China's official and it might probably never be released in PRC made it especially worth seeing.  Watching this film will be an unforgettable experience.   "},{"Title":"A young girl during the cultural revolution","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is a sad movie.  One that starts out happy and generally sinks down to a heavy heart. Joan Chen is excellent as a director.  She is one of the few actresses who is surprisingly comfortable in a director's chair. No scene is useless and every placement of the camera is well thought out, detailing all the subtle changes of the young girl. The vast grassland reminds me of A Mongolian Tale, but this movie is better at showing the beauty of it. Simply excellent. "},{"Title":"Quite a true story","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think LuLu played a great role in an example of what rally happened to many young girls in that day, time and country. I still see this happening to many in the countrysides. Lulu's mother Zhang Wei Xin who was also a wonderful actress has surly developed a beautiful daughter to follow on in her steps.But the sad part of all this is ; The motion picture industry is full of sexual abuse and favor for sex and beauty in its midst. I understand this actress has gone on to do some other films in China but I have not seem any posted or advertised in the filmology letters that show she ever did a major film again like this. Does anyone know if she did and also some of the films her mother did?Thanks,Frank at inquiry2you@yahoo.com "},{"Title":"A Critique of Corruption in Communist China","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've read several reviews here and, to me, all of them are missing the point of the film. Even though the main character trades sex for freedom, this takes place within the context of a society where individual desire and freedom simply don't exist. The girl, in the communist sense, has corrupted herself, not by trading her body for favor, but by wanting to. She places her own desires above those of the People and is endlessly punished for it. The film is a meditation on communist values, and how they have misled and betrayed its people. Everyone that the girl meets, except for her emasculated mentor, takes from her until, at the end, she simply has nothing left to give. The film works in the context of a larger metaphor, I believe, one that deals with Tibet and its relationship to China. One can plainly see that China's presence there is harmful, that its values spread corruption even to the furthest reaches. The relationship between the herder and the girl can be seen as a metaphor for the relationship between China and Tibet. The herder's death is not merely a reaction to the loss of a loved one. It is a metaphor for the death of the soul of Tibet. The Chinese government understood this all too well to be a harsh rhetorical criticism against its policies against women, Tibet, and people in general. That is why it was banned there. "},{"Title":"a good movie you don't want to watch twice","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this is a very powerful movie, well made, beautiful shots, very pretty and lovable actress.BUT (i agree with the other reviewer), you want to trash the disc right away after you are done. by error i watched this movie with Dancer in the Dark back to back, torturing myself to the abyss of hell! i hate this movie, but i still rate it highly. it has achieve its job of making me hate it so much. it is a powerful movie, so powerful that one wish one had a time machine to go back change all that, or at least go back to change Joan Chen's script. if i were the Chinese censorship official , i would also be inclined to ban it (sort of NC-17), or at least requires the distributor to put a cigarette box warning note on VCD/DVD box.all said, i mean this as a compliment for a well made movie.some other notes 1. china was bad in that era, but a story like that is extremely rare. 2. the sex scene is overdone. the same effect could be achieved without that cart-pushing scene "},{"Title":"Sickening trash (vague spoiler)","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Vague spoiler ahead.  Decent acting, a storyline more depressing than Sylvia Plath, and a few shots of lovely Chinese wilderness do not change the fact that this is basically softcore porn for sadists.  If you would enjoy watching a fifteen-year-old get sexually mistreated, this is the movie for you.  I am no prude, but this movie has a nihilistic, letcherous feel that in my experience has only been matched by _Kids_.  This movie left my wife and me feeling ill - I did not eat dinner after watching this film. "},{"Title":"Moving and compassionate - SPOILERS WITHIN","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  NOTE SPOILERS WITHIN!Xiu Xiu the Sent-Down Girl was the first Chinese feature I saw. Since my first screening of it, I've watched a handful of Zhang Yimou's work, and have become quite a fan of China's cinema.  Having just re-watched Xiu Xiu, I believe it to be every bit as good as I remembered it.  Strong performances (most notably that of Lopsang) combined with a strong visual presence, and yes, APPROPRIATE music make for a fine movie, with rich content. I won't go into the details, there are a mound of posts which already go over the plot.I didn't find the music overly pompous, certainly no more so than in any other similarly-themed (broadly themed..) film.  It matched the mood quite well, and I think the silence would have been overpowering had it not been there. The dialogue is quite sparse, and music aids in carrying the mood across longer transitional scenes.  Time dilations are also quite common, and I feel that it could be confusing (possibly!) without some device to carry you along.SPOILERS NOW!I saw a comment dismissing the central portion of the plot as Xiu being sent to the grasslands to have sex with officials. (to paraphrase) It's clear that these commenters really didn't understand Xiu's plight, and overwhelming desire to go home. Willing to go to any length, she disconnects herself in the ritual washing after each encounter. Though she IS whoring herself, she was *not* Sent Down to do so.A lot of people have complained about the ending being a cop-out.  I see it as years of maturity and responsibility all arriving and developing at once in a young girl's mind.  She sees the futile position she's in, and he reads her perfectly. Mercy, compassion - not cop-out.Joan Chen's directorial debut is a very strong movie. The flowing visuals, simple in nature, allow the eye to wander and grab every blade of grass, or cloud, or wisp of smoke.  The cinematographer was the same as in Yimou's To Live, and I think they used the same hospital hallway.  You can dislike a movie's content, or its characters, but still regard it as an exceptional piece of work. Xiu Xiu fits this maxim well.  The events which take place are atrocious, but I love this film. "}{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The music in the version I saw was restrained and appropriate. Beware!  You may not want to read further if you haven't seen the movie. A stunning movie.  Lao Jin is steady, wise, experienced, not someone you would expect would join 15/16-year old Xiu Xiu (pronounced Show Show) in a romantic murder-suicide, so it's all the more powerful and moving when he does.  The shots of the serpentine river at dusk, the wide open spaces and Lao Jin on horseback racing along a ridge silhouetted against the ominous evening sky are fabulous.  The male exploitation of Xiu Xiu is heart wrenching.  The actress Lu Lu as Xiu Xiu is beautiful enough to suspend you in awe all by herself.  It's reduced me to clichés I usually avoid. I had some difficulty with making Lao Jin emasculated from a war wound, as if that's the only way we would believe a herdsman would play father figure rather than seducer. It could have been entitled Under the Sun.  The cultural revolution has great aims to change social relationships, but the reality is there's nothing new under the sun. When Xiu Xiu belittles Lao Jin for being someone who only raises horses, he simply responds, They raise me too.  She can't understand how he's willing to spend his whole life in the country.  He responds, Every place is the same. The narration by Xiu Xiu's young male friend from Chengdu seems somewhat strained and unrealistic, since he could only have heard rumors about her fate, and it's a device with little practical effect on the story anyway, added, I suspect, only to try to add resonance. Before she knows it's a bath tub that Lao Jin is constructing, a curious, puzzled Xiu Xiu comments, It's almost long enough for a coffin.  Which is what it becomes, all the more appropriate because of her, and now his, symbolic effort to cleanse her body and purify her soul of the corruption which has invaded it. Lao Jin was slow to understand the cleansing power of water for Xiu Xiu. After the second man to come to the tent has his way with her, she asks Lao Jin if there's any water.  He gives her tea or wild onion drink and she says no, she wants water, so he rides off to the river and returns with water, only to be surprised when, instead of drinking it, she uses it to wash herself.  Bathing is for her a way of trying to restore some of her purity. He's a rustic and cleanliness has never been important to him.  It's one of the things that separate them, an urban girl literally a class above the country laborer.  Yet he's not nearly as slow to understand and feel the degradation the men bring her.  Perhaps the bathing motif is part of the process by which he falls in love with her, simultaneously making her different and mysterious and allowing him to develop empathy.  As he gradually sees and feels how she suffers and tries to cleanse herself, his heart is moved ever more deeply. In her childishness and homesickness Xiu Xiu mocks Lao Jin for his way of life in this vast landscape.  You don't have anything, she tries to taunt him.  Not even a radio or a watch she says.  He shows her his radio but he's not very interested in it.  She talks about being able to get food in Chengdu made with so many ingredients that people wait in line for it. Waiting in line, ironically, is the predicament of Educated Youth like herself who need permits to return there, and the food prepared by Lao Jin she actually seems to like quite well.  The other example of the superiority of cosmopolitan life she mentions is the Chengdu chrysanthemum show. This too is ironic, for surely, no flower show in the city could possibly compare to the beautiful wild flowers surrounding her in the country.  As a, now, 16-year old girl, she's perhaps still too young to see the beauty of nature, but the landscape may be becoming less bleak to her.  When storm clouds in the distance create a glorious rainbow, she says it's as beautiful as the People's Boulevard in Chengdu. The possibility that in time she might have come to love these vast open spaces, like the possibility that she might have used her spirit and her wits to find a way to get back home, is just that, a possibility only, something that adds to our frustration and longing for her, our hope that she'll resist the men who would steal her innocence and her very life, and adds to our anguish that her life is so tragic. This film is a tremendously powerful feminist statement because of the way that what she sees as her only hope of escape is what seals her fate. Once she yields to the men, her reputation is destroyed and she can never go back. Chen juxtaposes a sequence of Lao Jin collecting eggs with the second visitor to the tent brutishly having sex with Xiu Xiu, cutting back and forth.  Both sequences involve a plundering, but they're opposite in tone and feeling.  He's planning to bring back the eggs for her, while she is in the process of giving up her innocence and dignity.  I think Chen wants this context.  She wants us to be thinking of the two acts together, for their differences, that Xiu Xiu doesn't really have to be giving in this way to another's corrupt lust, that with the pure love of Lao Jin something better could have been worked out.  The juxtaposition just makes our anguish all the more heart-wrenching. In the post-film discussion Debbie Gaudet asked why Lao Jin doesn't try to stop the men from taking advantage of Xiu Xiu.  A man said Lao Jin understood that his power was limited.  A woman disagreed, asserting that he could have driven them off with his moral force.  No doubt with his gun as well, but Lao Jin is a philosophical man.  He takes a long view of things, and he could well have felt there would be eventual retribution. Shooting through the cap of one herdsman was about as far as he was prepared to go, at that point.  But as he falls more deeply in love with Xiu Xiu and is more outraged with the way she's treated, he takes increasingly stronger action. When he shoots her, he takes his own life not only as a Byronesque, romantic act but because he knows he would be held responsible for killing her. Another woman said Lao Jin didn't try to stop the men who came to the tent because he respected her right to make her own decisions.  Not exactly. I don't think he regarded her at age 15 or 16 to be quite an adult yet. The first two men, of course, came while he wasn't there.  And Lao Jin had been around.  He comes from a rough world.  He knows what men are like.  He understands nature, and while he's a good man, his morality is not exactly of the drawing-room variety.  Virginity and purity probably mean less to him than to most. The torture Lao Jin once endured during the struggle in Tibet cost him his manhood.  But was he castrated or was his penis cut off?  Other herdsmen making fun of him say they've heard he squats like a woman when he pees. Others describe him as a tea pot without a spout.  And he dares the herdsmen to take him on and try to bite off my balls, so he apparently still has that part of his anatomy.  This could make a difference to how he sees Xiu Xiu and how he feels about her.  If he'd lost his testicles, I imagine he'd suffer a hormonal change and wouldn't feel ordinary sexual desire.  But if he lost his penis, he'd still have the desire without the ability to fulfill it. In a post-discussion discussion a woman who was a sent-down girl in China and survived the experience was asked by Debbie whether most people in China were against the program of sending the educated urban youth into the country.  Her fascinating response was, You have no way to be against. The question was an American, Western, liberal democratic question.  The Chinese, then if not still, could not even think in terms of such a question.  There were no elections, no public opinion polls, no letters to the editor, no way to register dissent of any kind.  That was the policy. There was no choice. China's ban on Xiu Xiu is a good example not only of the narrowness of politicians but of their cowardice and short-sightedness.  This is a movie about universal evil and corruption.  It doesn't come down on the cultural revolution or Communism in particular, and is actually rather gentle in that regard, even understanding and compassionate toward the ideals of the program.  And it certainly leaves a Western audience with more, not less, respect and admiration for China, that it can have produced so fine a work of art. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a world full of stories about `normal people' with the ability to be shot 287 times and keep on walking.  It is nice to see a story that breaks the rules, and isn't afraid to say, life is not all happy endings.  Many have commented on how the ending is a cop-out.  I disagree and say that the ending is a pivotal point, and shows that even in hardship there can always be love.  I thought this movie was great, and the scenery, although barren at times was fitting to the story. "},{"Title":"Powerful,heartbreaking drama set in 70's communist China.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This simply and beautifully directed film takes the audience into the cruel and oppressive world of Chairman Mao's 1970's China.  Seen through the eye's of a lovley but nieve' peasant girl, we see vividly, how the politics of a brutal dictator can destroy the life of one who has'nt even been given a chance to live and love. The performance of Lu Lu in the title role is a staggering achievement.  A performance that vividly shows such complex emotions at such a young age is remarkable.  Lu Lu is another Gong Li, perhaps, time will tell.Great credit should be given to director Joan Chen for braving the massive obstacles of shooting this film in a hostile country that would not give her permission to shoot there (she is now banned from China).Tech credits are very good especially considering the low budget and difficulties of making a film while avoiding arrest by Chinese authorities.I very much look foward to future films from both Joan Chen and Lu Lu. "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was wonderful, but terrifically sad (discouraging?) too. Essentially a you can't go home again flick literally, metaphorically, emotionally, spiritually...  Acting was superb.  Layer upon layer of messages about women, about men, about innocence, about undoing what was done, about voyeurism and exhibitionism, about the human heart and body as both temple and sacrificial lamb... this is an intense film that, while it may justifiably be criticized as another Chinese tragedy, it is superbly executed and HIGHLY recommended.Complaints  The same music repeats several times;  editing less than perfect;  the execution of some scenes/ideas are a bit cliché.  It moved, from time to time, too slow or too fast here or there, so I couldn't give it 10 stars. "},{"Title":" Beautiful,Moving and Very Sad","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   I just saw this video last night.I mostly enjoyed it. The two main characters are wonderful to watch. The scenery was beautiful. Most of it was very touching,but I would have been happier with less explicit sex scenes. This film definitly held my interest,even though you must read the subtitles. It is a very sad story on two levels.Because of the beautiful young girl's situation and because of her wonderful, but much older castrated mentor's love for her. After seeing The Shower and now this film, I am developing an appreciation and interest for Chinese films. For those who don't mind reading subtitles in a good foreign film, I don't think this will dissapoint many.  "},{"Title":"Too long and boring","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A film you either love or hate (according to the feedback in two French Film Festivals), Joan Chen's directorial debut inspires the latter reaction in my view. With so many good Chinese movies about the Cultural Revolution, this is one long, boring one I advise you to skip. The lead actress' performance is outstanding, but not reason enough to waste two hours of your life. "},{"Title":"I was curiously unimpressed but wanted to like the picture more....","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Xiu Xiu is one of many young people transplanted from their homes in the city to the countryside in an ill-fated attempt by the government to enforce an exchange-type program. The aims might have originally been noble, but this story is about one fictitious girl who suffers greatly because she is dumped in the middle of nowhere and is forgotten. Life as a nomadic horse herder doesn't suit this city girl well and her promised return home never materializes--making her desperate to do anything to get back.This is an interesting film because it is critical of the Chinese Communist regime of the 1960s--only something you might have seen in a film made in China in very recent years. It also talks about sexual abuse and exploitation. However, despite these being interesting topics, the overall product left me curiously flat and unimpressed--mostly because the characters were difficult to relate to, were amoral and were amazingly one-dimensional. This SHOULD have left me a lot more satisfied, as films with similar themes (such as Lan feng zheng, otherwise known as THE BLUE KITE) but instead I just felt detached and wanted the film to end and end soon. I wanted to like this film a lot more than I actually did.FYI--Parents, this film is not appropriate for younger viewers both because of sexual content and because the birth scene is pretty gross. Think twice before letting your kids see this one. "},{"Title":"stupidity of the cultural revolution, or love of neutered man?","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The biggest contribution of this movie is it uncovered a stupid aspect under the enthusiasm of the Cultural Revolution. While her parents feel torn inside, the girl, Xiu Xiu, says, Everyone goes, and I go. Were those elite students reported in the world news such childish girls in 14 or 15?How miserable the latter half of the movie is! Lao Jin, Xiu Xiu's neutered mentor, loves her but she can not understand it. Only if Joan Chen meant to show the true love a middle-aged neutered man has for immature woman, she was successful. But I wonder if a tenured man, who lost male hormone, can be that manly and tough. "},{"Title":"disturbing scenes","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The sad story is about a girl sent by her Commie student group to live with a Tibetan nomad, very likely, to have her spread the red word to the 'heathen'. However, loneliness drove the young girl into desperation as she forced herself to bed various party officials in an attempt to win herself a pass back to her native Sichuan.The movie was shot secretly in Tibet and had some amazing landscape scenes but I found several of the sex scenes disturbing and bordered on the distasteful. I seldom react strongly to a movie but immediately after watching the movie, I removed the discs from my player and immediately chucked them into the wastebin.  "},{"Title":"A searing tale of abuse","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Xiu Xiu The Sent Down Girl is one powerful movie.  Some reviewers have put forth negative comments, but their reviews are shallow and only skim the surface. Joan Chen has crafted a masterpiece that cuts to the heart of the issues at hand the sexual use and abuse of a young innocent, governmental corruption and empty bureaucracy, and the lustfulness of a certain type of male, a type devoid of conscience, given to self-seeking pleasure, blind to the suffering of others, in fact, enjoying the act of inflicting pain on others. This movies gets to the root of evil and exposes its slimey underside. Congratulations, Joan Chen, your indictment of the system is magnificent! "}{"Title":"Trapped in a repressive culture.","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"       Nothing flourishes under Chinese communism.  From the outset this film's premise is very clear, then pounded home in its remainder.  Set on the plains of northern China during Mao's Cultural Revolution, it portrays the lives of a teenaged girl and a kindly, maimed man of experience trapped in a repressive culture.  The splendor of mountains, fertile meadows and wildflowers belie any expectations a viewer might entertain for a pleasant outcome for the characters.  The performance of Lopsang as the man is well worth double the price of admission.        The movie is poignant and sad.  It's obviously written from the heart.  An A+ for Joan Chen's directorial debut. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The story had great potential, yet it was ruined by weak story telling and film directing.  Given the length of the movie, there was a lot of room for developing the story, yet much was wasted on trying (unsuccessfully) to create an atmosphere of desperation.  A common problem with films that try to weave personal stories into social commentary is that the director ends up failing to do either.  Directors such as Zhang Yimou have mastered the skill, but they are a rarity. Despite focusing almost entirely on Xiu Xiu and Lao Jin, expression of the emotional link between the two was weak.  This focus also came at the price of not using ancillary characters (people in the headquarters) to fortify the sense of helplessness and hopelessness.  The end product was a weird, unnatural ambiguity that left me emotionally unsatisfied. It was a good attempt by Joan Chen, only a little too ambitious.  I think it would benefit her to direct some straight forward narrative movies to hone her skills before embarking on anything abstract. "},{"Title":"Hits you over the head","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  the metaphors were a bit much...the apple, the gun, the pool of water... an interesting story driven home with a sledgehammer.  The unskilled acting didn't bother me but the heavyhanded direction was too much. "},{"Title":"a pointless film","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film tries to be significant, but in the end is merely a pointless melodrama which uses a typical cop-out ending commonly employed by writers who are unable to come up with anything better.Don't bother.  "},{"Title":"Just pay attention to the Sky","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There was much hype about this movie since it won several awards at the Taiwan Golden Horse Movie Awards 1998/9 - namely Best Actress, Best Actor, Best Director etc.But after seeing Tian Yu - Xiu Xiu The Sent Down Girl, I personally feel that it is terrible, very very heavy & senseless - shows worst side of man - felt sick after the movie.  Very disturbing.Confirms my suspicion that other nomination at the Golden Horse were more deserving than TianYu.  Only the beautiful scenery is worth the effort to see this movie.  It was a struggle for us to sit through the entire movie.Unless you like to feel sick about something so mindless, skip this movie for whatever you may have heard about how good it is.  "},{"Title":"How to ruin a good movie with overly bombastic music","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nicely acted and directed, this movie was ruined in post production when someone decided to add music to tell viewers what they should be feeling.This short, serious study of corruption in the cultural revolution could get the director banned from future movie making in China.  It is not a simplistic, hollywood formula like Seven Years in Tibet and the video quality gives it a more authentic documentary feel. The subtitles are good, though the nonverbal acting of both lead characters is subtle enough to carry the film without words.But whoever decided to add the music track should be banned from movie making for life.  No music at all would have been much more effective. "},{"Title":"Good but not -that- good.","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Xiu Xiu The Sent Down Girl, Joan Chen's directorial debut,  tells the story of a midteen girl from a poor family in 1970's China who is taken from her family and sent to do menial labor in the tundra far from home (sent down) as part of China's cultural revolution youth labor/education program. The result is a less than happy story which waxes to a startling climax in the last couple of minutes of the film. I became aware of this film upon its release to DVD, read glowing reviews and advertising which touted it as banned in Bejing, and finally, after it inexplicably disappeared from the Netflix inventory, managed to scrounge a VHS copy from a local Hollywood Video store. Perhaps all the fuss raised my expectations as the film was not as good as the critics and hype led me to expect. In typically Chinese fashion the story is simple and minimalistic with only two characters dominating its austere landscape as it delivers its dark tale of a exploited girl and her older emasculated mentor. The production value was low end and the film appears to be a low budget project but, most of all, I was troubled by the denouement which seems contrived for shock value, incongruous with the story, and begs some serious questions about the behavior of the male lead. Recommended only for those into foreign films, particularly East Asian, or others with a specific interest in the place and time. For maximum enjoyment ignor the hype, keep expectations real, and don't be too analytical. (B-) "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The plot made hardly any sense, the editing was atrocious, the ending was a cop-out that shows the original screenplay must have sucked. If Joan Chen hadn't been behind this film it would never have been released in the U.S.--and they shouldn't have bothered because it's not worth it. Very disappointing. "},{"Title":"It is my duty to warn others","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you received a sadistic charge from the movie KIDS and you are emotionally uplifted by watching all of the rape scenes from the DEATH WISH movies edited together with all of the justice that comes in the second 1/2 of each edition removed... then you will simply LOVE Xiu Xiu He Ta De Nan Ren SENT DOWN GIRL.A 13 year old teen Chinese girl is sent to the distant west of old Communist China to sexually service assorted men.There is nudity and she has a very wonderful chest.  In fact, the photography throughout the movie is exceptional.  Brilliant if you see it via film and not video.However, in telling the story of people's personal relations, this movie holds no truth.  As the movie KIDS is an American parent's worst sadistic nightmare about their children, SENT DOWN GIRL must be the worst sadistic nightmare of Mainland Chinese about their Communist past.Starting someplace during the mid point, the first to walk out from the movie house where I saw SENT DOWN GIRL were Asians.  The many that walked out before the end did so for good reason.  One thing to think about... why is the 40 YO motor bike guy such the sexual stallion going strong for many, many hours (as if), but the 20 year old guy had seemingly much less stamina?Is it because the movie was holding to a real world truth about older Chinese men, or might it be instead the feeble wishful desires of the 40 year-old's who were someplace behind the camera making this horrid movie?  "}]