[{"Title":"big hit","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent little movie which looks like it's about food but is actually about the search for success, the striving for excellence in a crass and uncaring world, and brotherly devotion. Two Italian brothers run a little restaurant serving superb food as a labor of love, but it's failing, in contrast to the wildly successful spaghetti emporium down the street with execrable food but which is raking in the big bucks. The story line - set in the late 50's U.S.A. - is paper thin, but the movie is populated with interesting, likable people and the tale is lovingly told with an excellent script and superb acting all around, especially from the two brothers and from Ian Holm, the British actor, who does an unexpectedly great job as the owner of the red sauce place (Ian Holm playing an Italian? Yes, stunningly). Caring seriously about food does help one to appreciate this flick; I have never seen the preparation and serving of food presented so beautifully and lovingly in a movie. The final, wordless scene, in which a simple omelette is prepared and the brothers express their reconciliation, is, for me, one of the most eloquently poetic codas I have ever seen. This is a warm-hearted movie with a great deal of humor that rates an A+. "},{"Title":"A truly great small film...","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't even begin to explain how much I love this film.  First, it may be one of the great food movies of all time.  Anyone who considers him/herself a lover of good food and doesn't drool over the timpano alone should check their pulse...  And the performances are remarkably restrained, yet lively.  Stanley Tucci is sublime, Tony Shalhoub is, as always, a marvel.  Truly interesting camerawork that draws one in, yet doesn't detract (or distract) from the story or the characters.  Because, at its heart, this is a character-driven piece -- about the love and mutual respect shared by two strong-willed siblings.  Someday I will take part in a feast like that shared by the characters in this film, and on that day, I will be an extraordinarily happy man.  Until then, I'll watch this movie again and again. "},{"Title":"A great little film","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After having looked over my reviews on IMDb, I noticed that only one of them was enthusiastic. That should be rectified, since I consider myself a big fan of cinema, and I choose as my second enthusiastic recommendation Big Night. This is one of those films that doesn't have to show off. It's a slice of life sort of thing going on here, with an assortment of people with strengths and faults, but who all value life's simple pleasures, like good food. It's a story about the underdogs , and their hopes and dreams and struggles -- some within reach, some not. It's got a good cast too. They all make it look easy, but they have a charming script and careful direction. I think Billy Wilder would have approved. At turns funny and touching, and the last scene -- several minutes without a word of dialogue -- is pure gold. "},{"Title":"The crisis of immigration","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just need to mention that this is my friend's review that I wanted, with his permission, to share with you. I believe his meticulous view has discovered a veiled aspect which most of us have missed.MR********`Big Night' is a movie not so much about food and Italian cuisine but rather about cultural encounter and identity crises that most immigrants face upon their arrival in the new homeland.The story cleverly unfolds the multi-personalities of an immigrant's character in a metaphorical representation. A character that is overwhelmed in a fierce inner struggle, constantly striving to reach a desired compromised. The big night is a milestone in an eventful and often chaotic journey. It's a moment for close encounter with reality.The movie is about two brothers, Italian immigrants, trying to run ` Paradise' a gourmet restaurant. Primo is an uncompromising chef, who wishes to educate Americans to appreciate `The Real Italian Food'. Despite the obvious failure of their business, he stubbornly defies his customers' conception of Italian food. He simply cannot stand it when, a customer wants her risotto, painstakingly prepared seafood, with spaghetti and meatballs, and he calls her a `Philistine'.While the brothers are battling for survival, Pascal, another Italian immigrant one generation older, runs a busy restaurant that fulfills the American conception of Italian food. Pascal is the kind of immigrant who has a clear mission statement. He is here to do business.Secondo, the younger brother, who is in charge of management and accounting tries to convince his brother to give in and accept the business realities. He is in favor of changes to save the `Paradise'.Primo the gifted chef, Secondo the manager who wants to run his business with the Rules of the Game, and finally Christian that mysteriously and quietly is there for the brothers in times of need, all are three aspects of the same person. A person lost and exhausted in the `Paradise'. Torn apart between Pascal who runs an enormously successful Italian restaurant across the street and Alberto the isolated barber who preserved his old social values.The Movie begins with a scene that shows Christian in deep thought looking at the sea. We will see him often around the brothers throughout the movie. He hardly says anything. However, his presence has a mysterious significance yet unrevealed. Perhaps, an aspect of the immigrants' character that is more fundamental than the ones affected by cultural differences.Primo represents that side of the immigrant that's terrified by the might of the new culture and the impending changes that eventually unravel. He is reserved, strongly opinionated and scared that he may lose it all in this journey and end up `eaten up' by the new culture.Secondo shows us the willingness of the immigrant for discovery, understanding and adaptation to the new social values. He looks up to Pascal for advice and, as Gabriella (Pascal's mistress) puts it, sees him as a `lighthouse' in a raging sea.The night of the feast is an important milestone in this evolutionary process. It is an opportunity for Primo to show us what he possesses and how precious  those possessions are. At the same time, it's a moment to face the reality that `Paradise' is in trouble and without a compromise it won't make it.The film ends with Secondo, Christian and Primo eating three scrambled eggs the morning after the big night. Scrambled eggs and bread, a basic food in both cultures, implying a retreat to a common ground, for further evaluation and perhaps some adjustments. The movie, quite appropriately, doesn't reveal the direction that our immigrants will take. However, it beautifully displays the quiet coexistence of three personalities in a more persuasive journey!I wonder if `the Big Night' is an adaptation of Freudian Psychoanalysis. If so could you identify `Id', ` Ego' and  `superego'?SR  "},{"Title":"Beautiful film that has it all.","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is just amazing, quite unlike any other american film I ever saw; a gentle, bittersweet tale of frustrated dreams and artistic integrity, an hilarious comedy of manners performed by an outstanding international cast, a touching blend of awkward romance and the central relationship between the two brothers, brilliantly portrayed by co-creator Tucci and Hollywood's every-foreigner, the sublime Tony Shalhoub. Big Night dragged me through wider range of emotions than any other movie, it made me want to dance and sing during the party scene (Mambo Italiano), made me laugh out loud at the wacky characters sprinkled throughout, made me angry with the philistines and money-grabbing capitalists who spoil the brothers' dream, made me want to hug Shalhoub's shy gastronomic genius Primo as he tried so clumsily to chat up his flower-girl; the food looked simply amazing, Minnie Driver splashing around in the sea was at her most gorgeous, every actor played their brilliantly scripted part to perfection and the scene at the end with the omelette is the most beautiful and poignant ending I could ever hope to see. All in all this film is one of the best ever made and everyone in the world and especially in Hollywood should be forced to watch it every week until they get some humanity back in them. But not on an empty stomache, get some snacks in first eh. "},{"Title":"Brotherly love","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Campbell Scott and Stanley Tucci are good friends in real life and together they made this delicious gem. Tucci plays Secondo who along with his brother Primo (Tony Shalhoub) run a restaurant named the Paradise. Primo is a genius as a chef but they are on the verge of going out of business so Secondo goes down the street to a very popular place run by an acquaintance named Pascal (Ian Holm) and Secondo asks for a loan. Pascal doesn't give it to him but decides to help him by having singer Louis Prima come to their restaurant with the press knowing he's coming also. Their restaurant will become famous when its mentioned in the paper so the two brothers plan a big night with special meals. Secondo invites his girlfriend Phyllis (Minnie Driver) and Primo wants to invite the flower shop woman Ann (Allison Janney) but is to shy. Secondo helps him out by inviting her. This is another enjoyable film where food is the common component that enables them to communicate. The food and its preparation is the art of the film. Watching Primo prepare meals is a real spectacle to behold. He really does come across as a great chef, there is no doubt as you watch this. But at the core of this film is the love and respect of Secondo and Primo as brothers. Even when they argue it is done with mutual respect. Yes, they get furious but at no real time do we get the feeling that they will walk away from one another. Scott and Tucci have created a wonderful blend of food and love and its the relationship between the two brothers that is the key here. Secondo is having problems committing to Phyllis and while its an important part of the film, its not the main focus. Janney adds just the right touch as Ann and you can understand the awe that she feels when she watches Primo at work and can witness his skill first hand. Tucci and Shalhoub shine in their roles and together they bring a very good film up another notch! This film also does a believable job of recreating the time period that the film is suppose to take place in. When people ask me for a good film to rent I always think of this one. Its a real gem.  "},{"Title":"A feast","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When the British film magazine Sight & Sound had one of their periodic times of asking critics to list what they thought were the best films ever made, there was a book which collected articles by several of them, one of whom said that if you were the type of person who didn't tear up at THE BELLS OF ST. MARY'S, he didn't want to know you.  I try to avoid that philosophy, but if I endorsed it, BIG NIGHT would be that type of film for me, a litmus test.  This is a wonderful movie, and I usually am not a big fan of food movies.  I thought BABETTE'S FEAST was too full of whimsy, and whimsy also bogged down the often good TAMPOPO(EAT DRINK MAN WOMAN, it could be argued, was a relationship movie which happened to be set in the world of food, where the others are inextricably food movies).  But this was wonderful.Tucci and Scott said they studied a lot of film masters, and it shows here; there's nothing that screams first film.  Instead, they take their time telling the story, and setting up characters we care about, even Pascal, the rival restaurant owner.  And a lesser movie wouldn't have had the scene between Isabella Rosellini and Minnie Driver which is quiet yet moving, like the rest of the movie.  The food scenes live up to the hype, and that final scene is moving. "},{"Title":"Culturally Rich Slice of Life","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Big Night is a peaceful joy to watch because its themes and the overall feeling of the film is so normal. The characters, so beautifully rich, are realistic and so are their problems. The characters are mainly wonderfully, infectiously bombastic Italians, and entire scenes are sometimes constructed of the process of making Italian food from scratch. The subtlety and unaffronting reality of these qualities are so endearing to me. In fact, the scene that leaves an imprint on me more than any of the others, despite how fun it is to see the actors have a blast playing fiery, thick-mustachioed men with heavy Italian accents, is a scene that hardly has a connection with any of the others. An Italian ballad is playing over the soundtrack through the previous scene and continues into this scene, wherein Marc Anthony, playing a low-level restaurant bus boy, a small, quiet, incidental character, begins dancing with himself as he mops the floor of the restaurant. When other characters enter, the music, coming from nowhere but the film's soundtrack itself, cuts off and he continues mopping the floor as if the dancing never happened. It's so touching for that scene to have been slipped in, giving a person who is only against the background of everyone's lives a dreamy, sensitive personality that he keeps to himself.The focal point of the film is the chemistry between the characters of Stanley Tucci, playing a hard-working, pleading, frustrated restaurant owner, whose head carries only logic and a goal for success, and Tony Shalhoub, his brother, whose aggressive passion is for the food he cooks and the mystery and subtext within it, yet his interaction with people is painfully shy. Their clashes of pride, their battles with each other's completely different perspectives, and yet their sharing of the same dream are what drives the story.A lot of the film's humor comes from the hilarity of Ian Holm. Ian Holm, a stiff-limbed Englishman, plays here a loud, very animated, hot-tempered Italian entrepreneur with a seamless and wonderfully entertaining delivery of an Italian accent and Italian movements. It's my favorite performance of his because I had never before imagined that he would play a role like this.Big Night is not a masterpiece nor do I think it was even meant to be one, but what it is is subtle and interesting for purely human reasons. It's soundtrack is also a fantastic celebration of Italian music. "},{"Title":"Eat first!","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is fantastic.  You feel like you are on the Jersey shore and can smell the sauce being cooked.  Even Minnie Driver is great!  Eat something first because the food consumed and prepared during the movie will have you drooling.  "},{"Title":"Cinematic poetry","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is like a good poem it doesn't all make sense, but you love experiencing it, and after you're done you keep thinking about it for days and days.Big Night tells of two Italian brothers trying to succeed as restaurateurs in the 1960s. The bulk of the movie revolves a single big night in which they unleash their finest dishes in a culinary extravaganza.The leads, Shalhoub and Tucci, are joined by Ian Holm (depicting a rival restaurateur) in a really memorable set of performances. All the minor supporting characters are equally endearing and real-to-life. There is a lot of attention given to the food and to its preparation, and the cinematography used to actually depict the meal (and the music superimposed onto it) is fantastically enjoyable. It's like the dishes are actors or characters in the play! The movie's final scene is perhaps deserving of the all-time hall of fame. It plays out over several minutes of complete wordless silence, yet it makes such a lasting impression. Ultimately the scene shows that the movie is not about the food or the striving for success, but about the relationship between these brothers, and that the relationship will outlast any of the trials they are undergoing, no matter how severe.If you insist on a tidy ending that resolves all the issues, don't look here because the ending is completely hanging. Yet somehow I found it satisfying nevertheless. You'll find yourself recalling scenes and lines from the film for weeks to come. "}{"Title":"Good, but not as good as I expected","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was a bit disappointed in this movie, I guess my expectations had been built up a bit by what I'd heard and read about this film. It is a clever, well produced movie - no question. However, it is also quite slow, and has no real resolution. In the end, all I can say is that it feels like a waste - of a clever idea, of good writing, of a very talented cast - because nothing really happened. Worth a watch but not worth the 7.8 or so it's currently rated at. My vote 7/10  "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No movie has ever loved food as much as Big Night, and since food is a passion of mine, it's not hard to see why this is my favorite movie. It's like it was made just for me, with themes of art vs. commerce, immigrants trying to make it in a new place, sibling rivalry, relationship drama, and much more. It touches on a lot of things I find fascinating. I especially enjoy the showing of little things like the fact that spaghetti and meatballs is something that doesn't exist in Italian culture, so it's not on the menu at the real Italian restaurant, but go to the much more successful Italian-American joint up the street and literally every table has spaghetti and meatballs on it because it's a popular Italian-American dish.It's an underseen movie, but one whose reputation grows year after year, with good reason. "},{"Title":"Great actors' movie","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two brothers Primo (Tony Shalhoub) and Secondo (Stanley Tucci) own a floundering Italian restaurant. The customers are philistines who frustrate the authentic cooking of Primo. Secondo knows the restaurant is failing and the bank will foreclose at the end of the month. They can't compete with the americanized showman competitor Pascal (Ian Holm). Pascal offers to send famous singer Louis Prima as a customer, and the brothers decide to make a big night.Stanley Tucci is the driving force for the movie in front of and behind the camera. It's brilliant actors letting other brilliant actors do great work. The characters jump off the screen with their humanity. The brothers' relationship is absolutely fabulous. It is the most delicious of movie making. "},{"Title":"While the Food Owns the Spotlight, There Is Also a Message","Date":"24 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In the mid-1950s, two immigrant brothers from Italy work hard in New Jersey to keep their Italian gourmet restaurant (Paradise) in operation. The older brother, the temperamental Primo (Tony Shalhoub), is a genius cook, an artiste, but only a cook. The business aspects of the restaurant are handled by his brother Secondo (Stanley Tucci), who also does cooking. He wants to make changes to sustain the business. While the two brothers often clash tempestuously over procedures, they are perceptibly devoted to each other. Nevertheless the reality is that the business, despite its sumptuous food, is struggling to keep afloat. Tony is dismayed when an under-appreciating woman orders both risotto and spaghetti together (both are starches). What also irritates Tony is that the restaurant across the street, Pascal's &#x96; which caters to the working man and gives Americans what they think is Italian food &#x96; is very successful. Do you know what happens in that restaurant every night? says Tony, . . . the rape of cuisine! Pascal (Ian Holm), the owner of the competing restaurant later tells Secondo, A guy works all day, He don't want to look at his plate and ask, 'What the f*** is this.' He wants to look at his plate, see a steak, and say, 'I like steak.' Secondo, though, wants Tony cater to general public taste to some extent.Pascal, as a friend of Secondo, offers to assist him. It seems that the great and flamboyant Jazz entertainer Louie Prima is in town. Pascal has his picture on one of his restaurant walls. Pascal, who claims to be Prima's friend, offers to send Prima and his band to the Paradise for dinner and thus drum up publicity for the failing enterprise. So it is that the two brothers agree to work like blazes to prepare a feast for a king the big night. Obviously much movie time is spent in food gathering and preparation. And what incredible courses that develop! There are the triple risotto, the splendid timpano (with sausage and eggs and meatballs and pasta), that sumptuous fish, the roast pork! Besides being an epicurean's delight the entire dinner scene is fun! Although some complain about the ambiguous resolution, the movie has important messages, like the difficulties experienced by immigrants, the cultural clashes, the process of adaptability. The scenes are intimate; for instance, note the elegance of the little restaurant, including the kitchen. The feel of the 1950s is there. Notice those large-finned Cadillacs! How about that music! Note that classic cool scene at the end, where the eggs are cooked in real time with nary a spoken word. Both Tony Shalhoub and Stanley Tucci are so good with their hands that they make one believe that they are great chefs! Maybe they are good cooks after all. The supporting cast includes Minnie Driver (Phyllis) and Isabella Rossellini (Gabriella), both of whom look as dazzling as they ever did. Marc Antony as Cristiano also demonstrated his acting skills. And top kudos to co-directors Stanley Tucci (again) and Campbell Scott.SPOILER I could not resist but take a peak at the cast to see if a supposed main character was going to show up. As I did not see his name, I suspected what the movie's outcome would be.One recommendation Don't watch this one if you are hungry! "},{"Title":"A Gourmet Italian Feast For the Eyes","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Big Night could be called a gourmet movie. It's the story of two Italian brothers, Primo and Secondo, who run a failing restaurant in New Jersey. The food is excellent, but it's too sophisticated for the locals' taste. They might have to close their doors, but first, they plan a huge dinner, expecting Louis Prima and his band. It's a movie with lots of heart. Many scenes are rich in emotion, even when the characters have no dialogue. Tony Shalhoub gives an intense performance as Primo, the chef who always strives for perfection in haute cuisine. The food seems to become a character in itself, particularly the pasta colossus, the timpano. Big Night is the kind of movie you wish you could taste! "},{"Title":"Could I have another helping please?","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Big Night is a claustrophobic character-driven ensemble flick about two Italian immigrant brothers (Tucci & Shalhoub) trying to succeed in the restaurant business. There's little story to be found in this lovely little tale about food, brotherly love, food, family, food, friends, food, success, food, Louie Prima, food, the nature of the universe, and, um, food. File this one under G for Gem. (B+) "},{"Title":"Leaves a bland taste in your mouth","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ostensibly, there's nothing at all wrong with this film. It's nice enough - characters that you can (mostly) identify with, a wonderful sense of forgiving family that we all either have or wish we had, and some predictably humorous fish out of water moments as we watch our two Italian protagonists struggle to get along in the States.But there's nothing really beyond that - the problems faced by the two brothers, Stanley Tucci (who also directed) and Tony Shalhoub, are the same we've seen time and time again. Tucci, playing the self-centered but occasionally adorable (well I think that's what he's aiming for) Secondo, cheats on his girlfriend and paces around depressingly, presumably too hung up on the monetary problems he faces when he and his brother's restaurant looks like going bottom up to care about much else. And his brother Primo, played by Shalhoub, is so little more than a device to elicit more sympathy for the familial pains that they must all surely be feeling - unfortunately, it's hit and miss at the best of times.Instead, the film's only moments of real resonance come in the humorous asides of the communal gatherings in the restaurant itself, relying not on the chemistry of the two brothers, but instead on the audience's preconceived notions of family and community and the occasional joke that actually hits its target.The film isn't bad for a lack of trying, and it credit is due for the fact that it manages to come together at all. But the more subtle moments - like the silent final shot of the film - tend to say far more than the scenes which are overwritten to do exactly that. Big Night is a reasonable time waster and its occasional moments of humour do enough to relieve the boredom that might otherwise set in, but for the most part it is as dull as its horribly unimaginative title forebodes.If you want a real feel-good film that focuses on food but doesn't leave such a bland taste in your mouth, try Ang Lee's superb Eat Drink, Man Woman. "},{"Title":"Paradise","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If Big Night doesn't make you hungry, then no film will. But of course as others have pointed out, it is not just about food, but about two brothers and their pride for Italian cuisine, which has little impact in a empty classical restaurant in Jersey Shore. They painstakingly prepare a pasta and seafood risotto for a rare customer, but she would rather have spaghetti and meatballs - a grotesque combination, according to the master chef and older brother Primo. A little ways down the road, a much more successful 'Italian' restaurant specialises in this sort of dish, and is immensely popular for it, and so the snobbery of Primo is a little sympathetic and endearing because he clearly cares about his art, and could easily concede and go work for Pascal, or start his own line of spaghetti and meatballs. When Secondo visits Pascal's, we get the feeling that it is a regular destination for him, for another plea for assistance or a loan, yet he marvels every time at the success that his own restaurant cannot attain. The camera swivels around the entire joint in amazement, visiting every table (but not presenting the food with nearly as much importance as Paradise does), every satisfied customer in an unbroken shot, bathed in a red luxurious glow, and this is very reminiscent of the famous long take in Goodfellas (I got egg noodles and ketchup!). If this was a comedy it would be quick to establish both restaurants, and it would pit them against each other and clearly define Pascal as an antagonist and they would trade blows and acts of comedic sabotage. But they embrace, and their shared heritage enables not a loan, but a favour. Much of this film has the Italian Americans fumbling for words, for the right expression of meaning, but behind the hand gestures and stutters we see a intimate sense of camaraderie and friendliness. Primo stumbles around smalltalk with the local florist, Ann, whom he is attempting to romance, but the smile of Alison Janey is all that we need to confirm that is is just a matter of time. A lamp protruding into the middle of the frame provides a measuring line for the downtrodden vs the successful, but Pascal settles to Secondo's level and they reminisce of old times. They show their friendship, without ever having to describe it as one of those things...you know...the ships in the storm, with the lights. The camera-work is just perfectly intimate and showcases their love for their craft. To the lively soundtrack of an upbeat Italian guitar tune, we witness a montage from a bird's eye view; close-ups of eggs being cracked, flour being mixed, dough being kneaded, each roll of pasta being lovingly and carefully sculptured. Elmiger cuts on the action, but shows us enough of each sequential step of the recipe, so it becomes a fluid, stop-motion like process from the two brothers. Later as the feast is being devoured, we get reactions shots of each guest's sigh of contentment, each full belly, and each gasp of surprise at an entire garnished pig being wheeled out. And after that, and the timpano, and the soup, and each course loudly announced by the white on black title cards, we get a slow dolly that unveils each dinner guest at the table, completely stuffed, and Gabriella and Cristiano the waiter swiveling on the spot to soft piano. He is a vital member of the restaurant; he dances playfully, he eats silently with them, he even loyally falls asleep on the kitchen tabletop after the big night. In the singular crane shot, he steps out for a smoke, and the entire street is slowly revealed, the lonely red neon sign of Paradise blinking against the cruel blue night. He embodies the small-time Italian establishment with so much character, without speaking a single word. In the climatic scene on the beach we have two arguments, first Secondo frustrated at his brother's unwillingness to compromise, of his head and mind being ever stuck in the kitchens, then Primo, who is clearly unhappy in such a foreign and unappreciative world. And like throughout the film, they struggle to find the words necessary to convey their feelings, and must switch to their natural Italian, to finally release those bubbling emotions. The authenticity of this scene lies in both of their cases having merit, and the little details that emerge that tell us so much about their difficult relationship. Primo has to physically pin his brother down in the sand, as if he has failed to be heard for so many times, and later, after his furious tirade, Secondo vehemently defends and is fiercely protective of his brother, fully aware of his talent; he will not let Pascal steal him and turn him into a spaghetti and meatballs chef. There are no easy answers here, no quick remedy for this conflict. They have spent their savings on the big night, and the kitchen is nearly devoid of any ingredients. The loyal Cristiano stays, and Secondo wordlessly starts whipping up a plain and modest omelette, to be shared. And when Primo enters, he too gets a share. This silent, unbroken long take is tremendous because it is able to sum up the entirety of their journey, of striving to create true cuisine in the uncaring world, of seeking independence, of being able to cook for themselves and share with others their food. A hand is placed on the shoulder of a brother, and that tells us more than any apologies or words of affection could. "},{"Title":"A Strange Little Film","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A failing Italian restaurant run by two brothers (Tony Shalhoub and Stanley Tucci) gambles on one special night to try to save the business.My biggest question about this is how Tony Shalhoub keeps getting roles as Italians, Germans and everything else. Somehow they find a way to make him any ethnicity they want. And, don't get me wrong, it works. Obviously if they wanted authentic Italians, there are plenty to choose from (including in Stanley Tucci's own family). But how can you beat Tony Shalhoub? The lesser question is how the heck did this get on the IMDb Top 250 at one time? I understand in the first year or two it was sort of a Wild West zone, which allowed plenty of cult, geek and anime films to sneak on there. But why this one? Has anyone even heard of it in the last ten years? "},{"Title":"A Great Movie that Nobody Saw","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Big Night is the utterly charming and richly entertaining sleeper of 1996 that nobody saw and it's really a shame. This is the story of Secundo and Primo, a tight pair of Italian brothers who run an intimate Italian bistro in 1950's Brookyln who are facing bankruptcy until a business associate, so impressed with their food, promises to have his good friend, jazz musician Louis Prima, come to the restaurant for dinner and it is the preparations for this big night that send the brothers and everyone in their orbit into a tailspin. This joyous celebration of everything that is Italian-American completely envelops you with an almost voyeuristic atmosphere and characters who vividly touch your soul.The brothers are flawlessly played by one of our most solid and underrated character actors, the brilliant Stanley Tucci and Monk's Tony Shaloub and neither actor has ever been more appealing on screen. Tucci's Secundo is smart, sexy, charismatic, and generous of soul and Shaloub's Primo is an arrogant boob who always remains likable. Tucci co-wrote and directed this gem with actor Campbell Scott, who also appears briefly as a slick-talking used car salesman and Tucci and Scott's one scene together is a standout, but it is the atmosphere and rich characterizations that take center stage here...Ian Holm steals every scene he is in as the brothers' benefactor and Minnie Driver, Isabella Rosellini, and Allison Janney are impressive as the women in the brothers' lives. This movie is a joy from start to finish and made me wish that I was Italian. If you've never seen this one, please, treat yourself...and don't see it while you're hungry! "}{"Title":"Such an ode to cuisine has never been this fun.","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Big Night is sure to make you hungry, but that's just scratching this otherwise deceptively quiet little film's surface. The art v. commerce debate rages between Tony Shalhoub and Stanley Tucci as they struggle to save their failing little Italian restaurant. But for such a modest affair, it's surprising how immersive this movie is in its period setting. The supporting cast is great, the dialogue is a blast, and the big meal is undeniably festive and infectious. Rossellin's bombshell towards the end still stings, while the showdown on the beach is just heartbreaking. But the final scene is just powerful enough to hit you right where you live. And my god, the food. To watch these guys work is mesmerizing. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Strange cut","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Big Night seems to have been abruptly cut down to 100 minutes... Something feels unfinished, for this is no experimental cinema, and it follows the old rules of Aristotelian poetics. Of course, it may also be my need for answers, solutions, and a punch on Pascal's nose (as well as on insufferable Primo's), while the filmmakers were only interested in exposition. But then, in that case I prefer the films of Roy Andersson or Aki Kaurismäki (laconic characters aside), where no expectations are created for a formulaic ending. Everything is built fine, even beautifully, especially atmosphere and main characters (the others appear at the dinner party out of the blue), but then it just suddenly deflates, brothers reproach each other or their nemesis (Pascal) and then... well, Marc Anthony walks out. "},{"Title":"A clever movies about cooking and success in America","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a one of the few movies that I went in watching having very low expectations and left very pleasantly surprised. I normally do not watch low budget cooking films (not that there are many) and I was not expecting this to be a very enthralling film at all. What I found was that this movie was only mildly about cooking, and more about the struggle for the American Dream and the family dynamic between two very proud Italian immigrants. The story takes places in New York, time unknown but given the cars and signs, it is implied that it occurs around the 1950's. Italian brothers Primos and Secondo have been running a very delicious but very traditional Italian restaurant, Paradise. Despite Primo's fantastic cooking, American audiences come to the restaurant expecting spaghetti and meatballs like all the other Italian restaurants in New York. Younger brother Secondo recognizes this and is in a constant battle with Primo to make the restaurant more accessible, but Primo is too stuck in his ways. It quickly comes to light that the restaurant is failing and if the brothers cannot come up with the money they already owe the bank by the end of the month, the bank will foreclose. Luckily the brothers have a fellow, more successful restaurant owning friend who knows of a famous jazz musician coming to town. They plan to throw a party in his honor at the restaurant in order to reignite the restaurant's failing reputation. What follows is a hilarious and bittersweet series of events that changes up the way most movies of this nature are presented. Stanley Tucci does a fantastic job writing, directing, and starring as Secondo. Tony Shaloub also gives a great performance as Primo. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and suggest it to anyone who enjoys food and clever scripts. "},{"Title":"Not quite heaven, but close","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Trying to do something and succeeding are two different things. Big Night wants to be a lighthearted, cheery confection, and although there are moments when it hits the mark, there are a few when it falls flat. Overall, it is worth a look.Primo (Tony Shaloub) and Secundo (Stanley Tucci) are two brothers who have traveled from Italy in search of the American dream. In their case, it's to open a restaurant showcasing the finest Italian cuisine. Unfortunately, no one goes there, and the bank is about to foreclose. Help comes along when their friend, Pascal (Ian Holm) offers to help. Pascal knows Louie Prima, and says he will arrange for the famed jazz musician to eat dinner at their restaurant. The publicity from such an event will make their restaurant famous, so the brothers go into hyperdrive preparing. But will the plan work?The performances are universally wonderful. The central character is actually, Secundo, the younger one. And while it took Stanley Tucci another 14 years to earn an Oscar nod, he gives a terrific performance. He's the brains behind the operation. He loves what he and his brother are doing, but he's also a realist if no one comes, then they can't do what they love anymore. Normally the answer would be obvious (Give them what they want, as Pascal tells him), but Primo is stubborn and temperamental. There's actually more than a little bit of a character from Rent in him (Give people time, they will learn) and Tony Shaloub has no trouble essaying the part. He's not an easy guy to work with, but there is a deep humanity to Primo that Shaloub essays perfectly. Ian Holm is a little too over-the-top as the foul-mouthed Pascal, but it works nonetheless. The women are just as good as the central characters. Minnie Driver is effective as Phyllis, Secundo's girlfriend who is aching for a marriage proposal. Her scenes with the stressed out Secundo are the most real; when he vents his frustration at her, she rolls it off instead of storming out of the room in an over-dramatic fashion. Allison Janney is also very good in a lowkey performance. Known for her shrill comedy, Janney's performance as the florist that is attracted to Primo (and vice versa) is quite touching. Isabella Rossellini is also very good as the lovesick Gabriella (in a far different performance from her future appearance with co-director/co-star Campbell Scott in Roger Dodger).Unfortunately, the film has some pacing issues. The film drags in a number of places, particularly in the beginning and the end. These scenes are supposed to be character building, but they really don't add much. But the big scene, the dinner, is amazing.Big Night is worth it, despite its faults.My rating PG-13 for language. "},{"Title":"Blood Is Thicker Than Pasta Sauce","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Big Night is one of those life affirming films that will have the audience exiting with their heads in the clouds,as well as hungry,as food is a central gathering force here. Two brothers,both immigrants from Italy,both run a failing Italian restaurant in New York. Failing, because the restaurant serves upscale Italian dishes (or,nouveau cuisine)in a blue collar,working class neighborhood that doesn't know (or care)beyond spaghetti & meatballs. The fact that the local bank is just a whisper away from foreclosure on the property doesn't make matters any better. A rival restaurant owner across the street (played by an cheerful,over the top Ian Holm)offers to bring his friend,Italian-American Jazz legend, Louis Prima,to try their restaurant. Tony Shalhoub & Stanley Tucci (one of the two directors,and who also co-wrote the screenplay with Joseph Tropiano)play the two brothers who try to keep the leaky boat that is their beloved restaurant afloat. The film also gets some solid support from Minnie Driver,Isabella Rossellini,and even Marc Anthony,just as he was gaining fame as a pop singer. Campbell Scott (son of the late George C. Scott),who also co-directs the film,has a nice turn as a car salesman,who is always trying to sell just about anybody a Cadillac. Most of the second half of the film concerns the two brothers getting ready for their big night. Does Mr.Prima ever show up for the feast? Food,food & more food are paraded on camera as much as possible. Make sure you enjoy a big meal before taking on this one. Rated 'R' by the MPAA,for vulgar language,some adult situations & much smoking. "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful character study that shows the struggle between mediocrity and art, represented by a brilliant chef's inablity to complete with the slop shop across the way. He is offered an opportunity to show off his talents when the competitor offers an invitiation to Louis Prima to come to the enjoy the food of the great chef. Brilliant performance by Tony Shaloub as the chef as well as Tucci as his more pragmatic brother. Their relationship is a major part of the movie. It is touching and humorous and very compelling. The romantic interests in the movie are aytypical and keep you guessing till the end of the film who will end up with who. Finally the party is full of characters that are all individuls. This is not a hot bang up movie, not for everyone, especial people who like Pizza Hut. "},{"Title":"A comedy about food","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Big Night was one of the sleeper hits of 1996. A comedy starring an ensemble cast including the two directors Tucci and Campbell Scott, this is very much an actors movie. The script is funny at times and slow at others. All the scenes involving food and especially the ones with the chef Primo are great. The only let-down was the last twenty minutes where everything seemed to fall apart. The entire cast (especially the vastly underrated Campbell Scott) does a great job. There's a great scene with Minnie Driver in the sea coming out all wet - hot! Another great food movie I recall is Babette's Feast. That was more religion-drama and not comedy though. The style of this film is faintly reminiscent of Woody Allen. This film will appeal to all Louis Prima fans. "},{"Title":"Great film about italians, without any mafia","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stanley Tucci and Campbell Scott did well with this indie/art-house flick about two Italian brothers who attempt to save their restaurant business by organizing a big night to help get the word out. The film is written very well by Joseph Tropiano and Stanley Tucci, the direction fits and is a bit atmospheric, capturing the feel of the people. The cinematography was right on and done very well by Ken Kelsch. I liked the editing as well as the cast, Ian Holm was amazing, while Tony Shalhoub casted well here and not over-the-top, Stanley Tucci shows why he is underrated, with a good performance here. Marc Anthony, Liev Schreiber and Isabella Rossellini were all good in supporting roles while i didn't like Minnie Driver here (she was much better in good will hunting). All in all, a good meaningful film.---IMDb Rating 7.1, my rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Fab Film...  Fills my friend's Restaurant","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oh, what a Big Night! Tucci and Shalhoub played their roles perfectly, as did the entire cast. A lovely film for everyone and fun to watch with a loved one, family or friend.I specifically want to talk about the food. The shooting of each dish was done so well that it would not leave my mind. I had to watch the film several times. Primo's love for his art made such an impression that it changed the way I personally view food, dining in or out. The film told a wonderful story and showed food deliberately prepared by loving thoughts and hands.While helping a good friend promote his Italian restaurant, I produced a commercial following the Big Night theme. My Cameraman cleverly panned the food slowly and deliberately as it came out of the kitchen. When the commercial aired, the food practically jumped off the TV screen. Only music in the background, a very short tag line plus a reservation number on the screen, my friend's phone started to ring immediately. Life is about family, friends and FOOD! Big Night shows this exceptionally well and dining out now is a great experience. "},{"Title":"Where's the recipe!","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is cruel not to include the recipe for the gorgeous special dish cooked in Big Night. I remember there was a huge sheet of pasta lining the big bowel, and then many layers of ingredients, but I would really, really, REALLY like the recipe. PLEASE! The preparation  of this glorious dish was central to the excitement that built towards the big night.And yes, I loved the movie - the script, acting, and direction were all superb. I would call it brilliant. The brothers Primo and Secondo were great characters. They represented the two sides of the artistic dilemma - one side seeks perfection, while the other says Be practical - you have to earn money.This is a movie I have recommended to all my friends. It is what you get when you have amazing talent and enough money for a collaborative effort. This should happen a lot more often. "}{"Title":"An amazing movie","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting in this movie is fantastic, but the final scene is one of  the greatest and most poignant scenes in cinematic history.  This movie distills complex human emotions and presents it to the viewer on a platter. (And it will make you really hungry, too!) "},{"Title":"Appetite for Life!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  BIG NIGHT (1996) **** Stanley Tucci, Tony Shalhoub, Minnie Driver, Isabella Rossellini, Ian Holm, Campbell Scott, Allison Janney.  Delightful comedy with Tucci (who co-wrote and co-directed with Scott) and Shalhoub as Italian immigrant brothers who are trying unsuccessfully to run a gourmet Italian restaurant down the Jersey Shore circa '50s era with some great comic moments.  Particularly Shalhoub (who steals the film) as the very proud chef who won't compromise his art for `philistines'.  Lushly photographed with a definite love for food.   "},{"Title":"A multiple course feast for the film fan","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A multiple course feast for the film fan.  A great cast.  A simple story that leaves just enough unsaid.  A great soundtrack.  Beautiful cinematography.  Some great lines.  7.5/10.  This was my 2nd viewing of the movie, with the first viewing quite a few years ago.Warning - don't watch this movie if you're hungry.  Anyone that loves Italian food, will love the talk and images of the meals that are created throughout the movie. If only we had the technology to truly capture the aromas of the food, then the only thing missing would be to actually be on the set and taste it all.I also found it also rather sexy.  I won't comment on the appeal of the suave Italian lead men, but the ladies were just beautiful.  A couple of my favourites Isabella Rossellini and Minnie Driver grab lots of sexy shots and the early role from Allison Janney is a pleasant surprise.  Like other movies centered around food, the food itself adds to the sex appeal of the movie.Best line of the movie - what's the matter?...my Mother was such a terrible cook.  The small part of the car salesman played by Campbell Scott contributes more than its fair share of great lines, incl...beautiful place though, Italy...yes it is, have you been?...no, never.I've had the soundtrack for quite some time and I use it to accompany activity in the kitchen or dinner music, but I got a better appreciation of it seeing it in the context of the movie again.The movie conjures up feelings of passion, perseverance, love and pride, as well as providing glimpses of a deeper understanding and appreciation for the human heart. Great movie, probably a keeper. "},{"Title":"Little big feast","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Here is a time and place that invites and entices-- who wouldn't give anything to be invited to the Big Night dinner? Well, we're there with bells on, and in the unique position of knowing the secrets and shames and loves of the attendees, particularly Secondo and Primo, the restaurant manager and his older brother, the brilliant and temperamental chef. In a last gasp to save the Paradise from foreclosure, Secondo agrees to allow friend and rival restaurant owner Pascal to arrange dinner for the famous Louis Prima and his band at the Paradise.Before we all get up and Mambo Italiano, we meet the characters that inhabit their world-- Secondo's girlfriend, the artist, the cadillac salesman, the florist... all finely drawn characters who are real to us despite their often fleeting appearances in the film. I'd like to meet any one of them for a coffee sometime! I'll have to settle for their attendance at the big dinner. And what a cast-- you'll see lots of familiar faces in some of their best (if concentrated) work.I found the tenderness and passion of the relationships in this film mesmerizing-- maybe because they illustrate the tales of our own lives, both the profoundly delicious and the deeply bitter. The central and most moving relationship is between the brothers-- the final scene just fills you up and leaves you wanting more (omelette and bread).Enjoy this movie on any one or all of many levels. Dress up. Bring your appetite. Enjoy the art. Contemplate the ingredients. Be reminded of what is important. And don't let the banquet pass you by. "},{"Title":"This film made me hungry","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Roger Ebert gave 'Big Night' four stars; I would give it 3 1/2, but it is still way out in front of most films these days. I stumbled across it at the public library; I have never seen it in a theater, in any video store or on cable. It belongs in that small but distinguished genre of Movies About Food. Its structure most resembles Babette's Feast, where the dramatic climax of the film is a sumptuous yet exuberant banquet. Despite the characters' constant bickering and occasional fighting, this is a film of refreshing gentleness, an independent film of the type Hollywood seems incapable of even imagining, much less making. It is circa 1958 in what I take to be a Jersey shore town, although it could be anywhere from Maine to Maryland. Two brothers, immigrants from Italy, run Il Paradiso, a restaurant that is about to go under after two years. Primo (Tony Shalhoub) is the Bobby Fischer of chefs Of superlative genius and creativity but impractical, difficult, a purist, disdainful of commercialism in any form. He is a dysphoric, dedicated Puck compared to Emeril Lagasse's Bottom (a metaphor, not a pun). Secundo (Stanley Tucci) is the younger brother, a good chef himself but trying to succeed mainly as the restaurant manager. The restaurant's impending failure is probably for several reasons but a big one is Primo's steadfast refusal to compromise his vision, to 'give people what they want,' unlike the tremendously successful Italian restaurant down the street run by Pascal (Ian Holm). Although Secundo is in constant chagrin about Primo's stiff-necked refusal to cater to public taste, he also recognizes that his brother's talent is rare and precious and hesitates to force the restaurant menu in a more popular and profitable direction. Eventually Pascal, who claims to know everyone, offers to help out by delivering bandleader Louis Prima to Il Paradiso so that they will profit from the publicity. But the film, though sweet, also establishes an undertone of such mournfulness that the viewer is not surprised when Prima never shows up, in fact, was never going to show up; it was a brutal trick by Pascal, who recognizes the brothers' abilities, so that they would be forced to close the restaurant and, he hopes, go to work for him. But that is not where the impact of the denouement lies, and there is no neat Hollywood-style resolution at the end, just an affirmation of the two brothers' love for each other and their dedication to good cuisine.Stanley Tucci's endeavors in independent film-making aren't always successful (viz., The Impostors), but this one is one of his triumphs. He and the Wisconsin Lebanese Tony Shalhoub speak what sounds like very convincing Italian to each other. When Shalhoub played Antonio Scarpacci in 'Wings,' his faux Italian accent was comical, but it sounds real in 'Big Night.' Minnie Driver shows up in a supporting role, with hair dyed a sort of carrot color, again doing her perfect American accent. Allison Janney, as Primo's romantic interest, gets more screen time than her supporting billing would suggest. Isabella Rossellini has a small but crucial role. Watch her switch between English and her native Italian In Italian, all of her linguistic mannerisms change, and she suddenly becomes much more natural and animated. The production designer chose mostly pastels for this film, which work very well. One unconvincing detail in the film is that, although it appears to be the 'on' season from the weather, the street the restaurant is on is always nearly deserted despite being only a couple of blocks from the beach. There should be more people walking to and from the beach. Perhaps the budget didn't permit hiring, dressing or directing the extras you'd need to populate the street with summer beachgoers, or perhaps the absence of people on the street is a deliberate metaphor for the poor business the restaurant is doing. "},{"Title":"just pleasent","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you like good food, (I don't mean just eatýng)eating out from time to time, taking your time while you are eating and enjoying the food and the atmosphere, than just go for this movie.It's simple and pleasent. The movie gets you in so quickly and you are in the table "},{"Title":"A truly satisfying film","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Big Night is a hearty, satisfying tale of two Italian brothers coming to America to make it big. Primo and Secondo have two very dissimilar ideals about food and business. The dichotomy that exists between the two brothers provides for both tension and humour and fuels this delightful tale.Shaloub, Tucci and Holm are all magnificent. Holm as the (literally) ass-biting rival restaurateur is absolutely hilarious. Shaloub and Tucci, two native Americans, were very convincing as Italian emigres. The women, Rosselini, Driver and Janney complement and flesh out the cast quite nicely.The film moved along at a nice pace, generously sprinkled with humour, passion and tension. The big dinner party scene is lively and will have you dancing in your seat. And the food they served -- I got full just watching it all.My one complaint with this film was the superfluous use of Italian. It's an AMERICAN film -- why must the brothers (and other cast members) arbitrarily slip into Italian conversations. It's not as if it served as a place for the characters to secretly discuss things -- just about everyone was Italian! I don't feel it served the film well at all. It did not add to it's authenticity -- instead it appeared to mimic a true foreign film.Other than that the film was pleasant and enjoyable! After watching Big Night you'll have a hankering for a big dish of just about anything Italian.  "},{"Title":"Don't overlook this one","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you're the kind of person who attends big blockbuster movie openings, 'Big Night' might not have got your attention, but it should have. The cast is excellent from top to bottom, with Tucci particularly giving an excellent performance. The plot, characters have great depth and the movie is shot in an understated and classic way. I especially appreicated how this movie, like the classics we rave about, made me think about life in general and the way people interact. 'Big Night' is a commentary on principles, sacrifice, desire, ethics and the interplay of these themes with a hearty helping of wit. If you like good stories told in a unique manner, check out this film.  "},{"Title":"Big Night Will Stick to Your Ribs","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I adored this movie. It was a wonderful story of two brothers trying so valiantly to do something magnificent together. They're incapable of succeeding without one another's respective gifts; yet, they're so incompatible that success is impossible. A favorite memory is Stanley Tucci decrying the rape of cuisine because a customer decided to add condiments to her risotto.But the best of all is the final scene in the kitchen the morning after the Big Night. One long shot with a single locked down camera. It captured the underlying love the two brothers shared; a love that --despite their inability to collaborate in the kitchen -- bound them together as blood relatives. And, naturally, it is food that provides the backdrop. I cry every time I watch this scene. It is emotional and it is set up and shot with a powerful simplicity.   "},{"Title":"Something Smells Good in the Kitchen","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stanley Tucci, who stars, co-writes and co-directs (along with Campbell Scott who has a cameo as a car salesman), succeeds in an appetizingly brilliant independent film. It success stems from the outstanding cast of talented performers to the compelling soundtrack to the immaculate editing and the scintillating cinematography. So plenty of kudos to those who've contributed to this engaging film. Tucci stars as Secondo, the younger sibling of two Italian immigrant brothers living a New Jersey who own a restaurant. Secondo is the business part of the duo, the slick guy who owns a fancy Cadillac. Primo (Tony Shalhoub) is the older brother and the master chef who has the gift for creating a plethora of culinary delights that attract people in the area to try his delightful dishes. While serving a seafood risotto to one of his patrons, the patron complains that the seafood is barely visible and that her side dish of spaghetti, didn't come with any meatballs. (One of the best quotes in the movie is...Sometimes spaghetti wants to be alone). Primo shrugs to the fact he believes that he is serving to a pack of Philistines. But to be honest, the Philistines are licking their chops over a Pascal's diner across the street. Pascal was played gracefully by Ian Holm, who understands that the customer is always right no matter what. The rivalries between the the opposing restaurants is absolutely astounding. When financial troubles starts brewing in The Paradise, Secondo turns to Pascal for financial but fends off from working with him. Pascal suggests to Secondo to prepare a no holds barred big night that will surely attract customers. Pascal offered to invite a friend of his named Louis Prima, who will eat, indulge and enjoy the atmosphere. The movie lifts off to this Big Night (which also has a side-story of Secondo's troubled love. During the banquet scenes, Big Night shifts the attention to its audience with a wonderful array of savoring food that will make your mouth water. The cast which also stars Isabella Rosselini, Minnie Driver and Allison Janney nails their respected roles to perfection. The cooking scenes look stressful, but is handled in a very subtle fashion. After the big night, many truths have been confessed, partially because it's hard to betray after such a poignant experience. If these scrumptious dishes doesn't manipulate you into walking out of the theater after the movie, to go out afterward to eat in an Italian restaurant, then what's wrong with you.What makes the film so impressive is the small things it has to offer. Whether Primo using his cup to tamper coffee grounds to making an omelet, the movie nails all the scenes to perfection. Even if the DVD has little to offer. The film itself will likely to whet your appetite. "}{"Title":"Delectable!","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is actually the second time I've viewed this movie.  The first time was during a benefit at a local independent movie house where several of the chefs from local italian restaurants cooked for the audience while Big Night was shown on the screen.  Because it was such a social occasion it was difficult to concentrate on the film itself.Consequently, while I watched this film for the second time it seemed like a new experience to me.  And what an experience!The film takes place during approximately a day and half in the lives of two italian brothers who run a restaurant in New Jersey that is less than successful.  Unfortunately, the time has come where they are going to have to close up shop if their luck doesn't turn around immediately.  Their competition, Pascal, has a restaurant down the street that is thriving, despite the fact that the food doesn't compare to the brothers' restaurant. Their hopes are heightened however, when Pascal offers to send Louis Prima and his band to their restaurant - a sure fire way to drum up business.This is a small movie with scenes that have an enormous impact.  You aren't just told that Pascal's restaurant is tacky and subpar, yet flashy enough for the average diner to come in droves, you walk into it with a great point of view shot.  You experience the cramped seating, the garish decorations, the horrid singer who massacres O Sole Mio worse than any karaoke singer I've ever heard.  Most importantly, the food takes an obvious back seat - there is no presentation.  Conversely, in the brother's restaurant, the food preparation scenes are absolutely beautiful.  As cliche as it sounds, you can almost feel the pasta dough, smell the basil and taste the marinara.The character development also bears a strong mention.  The viewer learns an amazing amount of information about the two main characters, brothers Primo (Shalhoub) and Secondo (Tucci) despite the short time span we have with them.  Secondo is definitely the business minded one in the family, while Primo is artistic and passionate about his cooking.  While we discover this mainly through their interaction, it is also subtlely exemplified in scenes such as the first sign of Secondo's pure delight while test driving a Cadillac, and Primo's abject happiness while discussing art and his passion for food with a woman with whom he is clearly smitten.  There are many subplots within the main story, and for such a simple premise and short time span, the complexities the subplots add to the general story engage the viewer until the real co-star appears.  The food.I sincerely believe it is physically impossible to watch this film without your mouth watering at least once.  This film could have doubled as a propaganda piece for italian food.  As a major lover of italian and sicilian food, I was in my element.  The presentation is such that you can taste, smell and feel this food on your pallette. It also unfortunately reminded me that I have a long way to go with my own italian cuisine.  I am not going to linger on the scenes which involved food because it is simply something that needs to be experienced on ones own.The acting in this movie was formidable.  There were several co-stars that were kind of throwaway characters, (Driver, Rosselini and Marc Anthony, doing his best Harpo Marx impression come to mind).  I still am marveling at the choice of Ian Holm as the crazy and ultimately destructive Pascal, but it definitely worked in the film. He also gives the funniest pep talk in the film Bite your teeth into the ass of life and drag it to you!  Campbell Scott, who co-directed the film with Tucci has a memorable short scene as a Cadillac salesman.  I laughed through the entire scene, because Scott is normally the laid-back and intellectual character in his films - which, at least for this viewer, has always made him very endearing.  His bizarre turn in this film was absolutely hysterical.As for the two main characters, I was both content and amazed.  While Tucci has long been recognized as a solid character actor (this film being no exception) it was Shalhoub's performance during the film, primarily in the final scenes, that literally made me ache.  He was absolutely magnificent and completely exemplified the despair the brothers finally let surface after what has been an apparently long gestation period.  Throughout the film as well, however his passion was palpable.  He delivered my favorite line of the film, which struck home because of my own (at times) dramatic tendencies You have to kill yourself after you eat it because you can't live!  To eat good food is to be close to God.This is not intended to be a spoiler, but I found the last five minutes of the film that had absolutely no dialogue to be infinitely more profound than your average cookie-cutter drama.  The viewer is left to speculate, something that is a rarity in american films, even with a lot of independents.  There has been talk in the last few years of a sequel, but I sincerely hope this never comes to fruition because this film would lose its impact if it were anything but a stand-alone masterpiece.Big Night draws you in quickly, leading you in by your senses.  I have not wanted to be in a scene from a movie as much as I did during the last half hour of the movie.  They made the spectacle almost as much a part of the scene as the food. The brothers make food an event and give the audience a plethora of reasons to do the same. As for me, I normally prefer I Paliacci or Turandot when I am attempting my Risotto or Lasagne Bolognese but I think I will pull out my Louis Prima albums the next time I cook. Besides, it's been a couple of years since I've danced around the kitchen with an open wine bottle lip synching Mambo Italiano by Rosemary Clooney.Bottom Line  Watch this movie - just not on an empty stomach, unless you don't mind running to your local italian restaurant after.--Shelly "},{"Title":"VERY NICELY DONE","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A little slow and studied, but very worthwhile and ultimately moving. One of those modest little films that are awfully good but you may have to oversell it's virtues to get your friends to see it. Some will love it, a few will shrug and say So What? I've seen it twice now, I like it even more the second time around. The long, long single, almost wordless shot will move you or annoy the heck out of you if your impatient. By the way, my native Italian friend (who loved the film) says Tony Shalhoub is much more convincing as an Italian man speaking English than as a an Italian man speaking Italian. "},{"Title":"The main course of great moviemaking.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Big Night is one of those rare movies that really hits every right note in great filmmaking.  It's a passionate and heartfelt movie about the bonds of family and the love of class that gives you a sense of majesty and flavor. Tony Shalhoub and Stanley Tucci, (Who by the way co-directed this film with Campbell Scott) Plays brothers who own a struggling Italian Restaurant who puts everything on the line for one big night to save their business. Primo (Tony Shalhoub) Rather live for his art for fine food than be successful, while Secondo (Stanley Tucci) tries to keep Primo and himself above water while being tempted by the extravagances of owning a successful Restaurant. An all around superb cast of characters backs them up in this journey that includes Mark Anthony as their loyal follow coworker, and Sir Ian Holms as an rival Restaurant owner who tries to help them out.  This is a true heartfelt movie that should not be missed under any circumstance.  "},{"Title":"Who says only Italians can make an Italian art film? -","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  - Campbell Scott and Stanley Tucci do it here, and in the very highest style. This is the film where Tucci, previously stuck playing sleazyball creeps, reinvented his career. Primo and his brother Secundo (Tucci) own a gourmet restaurant. The conflict - Primo the purist won't sell out to commercialism, while Secundo is seriously considering it, in the interest of staying in business. A simple plot, but perfectly written and magnificently realized.  "},{"Title":"waiting for Godot, cuisine-style","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like Chocolat, Big Night is the sort of movie that makes your mouth water. Portraying Italian immigrant brothers Primo (Tony Shalhoub) and Secondo (Stanley Tucci) trying to recruit Louis Prima to sing at their ailing restaurant in 1950s New Jersey, it's a great movie from various aspects. I felt like I just wanted to jump into the movie and eat everything on the screen.Anyway, it's a movie that I recommend to everyone. This was certainly a great introduction for me to both Shalhoub and Tucci. I still enjoy thinking about it. Also starring Minnie Driver, Isabella Rossellini, Liev Schreiber, Ian Holm and Allison Janney. "},{"Title":"Obsession","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.`Eat Drink Man Woman' works because the chief chef is wholly dedicated to living his life through his food. That food has purpose it expresses his love for his daughters. He doesn't make food for the food, but for the consumers of the food. The food is a direct link between souls. Ang Lee directs his film the same way he is dedicated to the art as a matter of pleasing us. It is a gift from him to us.This film, `Big Night,' is different. Not a matter of dedication but of obsession. Not a matter of pleasing us, but pleasing the chef and directors/actors. As with the food and film, we are taken on a fun ride as everything Scott and Tucci can do is done. The camera swoops as if dePalma wrote the recipe; pairs banter as if Mamet was writing; props are used as if Ridley were in charge. But nothing here is inspired, it is all by the recipe.It is because of this obsession that I re-watched this. In the last two days, I've seen Shalhoub in `Thirteen Ghosts' and `The Man Who Wasn't There.' in all three of these cases, the filmmakers depended on his excess. But I think this case is different, because actors are in charge, and they appreciate this sort of obsession just like we are supposed to admire Primo. "},{"Title":"the last movie I'll ever see about food.","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm giving up .  I've seen Babbete's Feast , La Grande bouffe,Tampopo, and now Big night.  Critics loved them all and I nary a one.  Heck I even found the cook the thief etc and My Dinner with Andre totally disappointing; if you want to stretch the genre a bit.  Not to sound like a total illiterate, but the next time I go to a movie about food it's gonna be something like the brain eaters or Food of the GodsNow, should I listen to what the critics are saying about imposters and give Mr. Tucci one more chance?????   "},{"Title":"Uh, oh.  It's one of *those* movies","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" About 45 minutes into this movie, you start to realize this is one of *those* movies. It's one of those movies that never really gets started, then you realize, it's not going to tell you the story you want. Then you realize, it's not going to tell you any story whatsoever. You care about the characters; you want them to succeed, you'd even be willing to see them fail but in the end you're left with questions about what it all means. What happens now? It's all very unsatisfying. Sort of like smelling the food but never getting to eat it.Why did they open a restaurant across from another, wildly successful Italian restaurant? "},{"Title":"this move look's boring af","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I din't watch it but I watch the trailer and I fell a sleep half way through it don't watch this move I din't think that Minnie driver was in a movie until good will hunting's I remember watch that move and I identified with it a grate deal because I am also a mathematically genius and also a janitor but this move about a Italian chef look's boring and/or depressing if you want too spice it up a bit halve Minnie driver make out with Ben afflict or brad Pitts as a super genius that's work's at the renstiraunt as a flore sweeper but can solve a math equation's and Minnie driver is impressive with him and run's off with him instead of an Italian chef which is dumb "},{"Title":"perhaps the best food film ever","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorites, especially as it reveals the essence of true italian food, rather than Italian-American food (spaghetti would never be served with meatballs anywhere in Italy.  Tony Shahloub (-2 sp.?) and Stanley Tucci really touch the italian soul and the ensemble cast is great. Eat after seeing this delightful film. "}{"Title":"A sweet, perfectly acted, perfectly made film","Date":"30 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is an absolute delight, filled with fabulous performances by Stanley Tucci, Tony Shalhoub, Ian Holm, and Minnie Driver, I don't know how it managed to escape Oscar nominations. The sweet, poignant story of a restaurant proprietor and his brother, the cook's, attempts to keep their struggling franchise afloat is perfect fare not just for families, but for anyone who enjoys a truly well made film. Every aspect of this film sparkles, and provides a true cure to today's big bang, big money, flashtacular Hollywood films. "},{"Title":"Too bad everyone ignored this gem","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a fantastic movie.  Even though it was a little slow, Stanley Tucci and Tony Shaloub are phenomenal (why there was no Oscar nominations I'll never know).  It's too bad that everyone ignored this movie.  Please see it.  If nothing else see it for the final scene, simple yet touching, and masterfully directed.  "},{"Title":"Timpano","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Suzy, here it ishttp//www.mangiarebene.net/cinema/macaroni_timpano.htmland good luck !To the guy who was confused by two italian brothers, fresh from italy, conversing to each other in their mother tongue ~ yes... that's an enigma to me also ;-)as for his shouting proclamation of this film being 'AMERICAN' i'm not sure that's correct ~ no murder, car chases or explosions in sight, you must be mistaken.to the freudian dude, spot on analysis mate.as for me, 10 out of 10.cheers "},{"Title":"An actor's movie","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Seeing BIG NIGHT for the 2nd time, I am struck that this movie is essentially a film to showcase the actors. Many of the scenes appear to be improvised, almost acting-class exercises. And the acting is indeed a joy to watch, particularly the great Tony Shalhoub, who is so often under-used. Plotwise, the film is a bit slow and visually not particularly striking. The acting's the thing!P.S. I disagree with another poster's assertion that Minnie Driver was cast for her star power; at the time of this film she was mostly known for CIRCLE OF FRIENDS and (somewhat) for GOLDENEYE, and was still part of that indy-film group of actors that included Scott, Tucci, etc. "},{"Title":"An exercise in artistic ego","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Big Night came off to me exactly like a movie that a bunch of actors who were friends decided to make together and of course each one wanted at least one big dramatic scene for themselves, so those of their friends that were writing the script and the friend directing gave them each one. And that was pretty much the entire story. They forgot that acting is not about playing a character, it is about giving the audience an experience. My experience was that they were not in the least concerned with me, the watcher. It was all ego on the screen. I was bored throughout.I felt the same way about The Imposters, which Tucci also co-wrote. "},{"Title":"Big fan of Big Night, the filmic equivalent of a thoroughly satisfying three course meal at an authentic local restaurant.","Date":"12 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Big Night is a wonderfully well observed independent American film, from the mid 1990s, about identity; apparent class; honour; perseverance and the struggles in trying to integrate one's self to a foreign culture whilst desperately attempting to balance what you simultaneously are at heart. The film is a wonderful character piece; a film documenting cultures clashing and basic conventions of a particular field of culture, in this case food, at the very forefront. Where the goal of the central characters is to attain the American Dream to a degree, the film covers the hardships in having to apparently let go one's traditional methods and forge new identities in a foreign territory as the supply and demands take on different forms.The film documents the troubled times of two immigrant brothers from Italy, both of whom own a restaurant in 1950s New Jersey, and their misadventures in keeping the business afloat as the manifestation of their presence has an affect on those in and around the local area. The brothers are Primo (Shalhoub) and Secondo (Tucci), their food joint is named Paradise and proudly sells the best of local Italian cuisine of the home shores from whence they both come, local dishes as well as special ingredients that produce special dishes known only to their family name. They dress smartly and the interior of the restaurant is magnificent, our first meeting with Primo sees him make sure the individual chopping the garlic gets it spot on so as to slice it to a finely tuned degree, getting the most possible out of the exercise. The film's primary point of interest is the clash in cultures these Europeans find themselves at odds with when held up against the American standards of eating, epitomised early on by a Secondo jibe at the American's eating habits of whom he accuses of preferring hot-dogs, a supposedly cheap and nasty source of replenishment, over the glorious Risotto.The brothers have very few customers, a local American couple early on sit in an empty restaurant and there is generally a sense of the couple getting mixed up in what they want; what they're ultimately ordering and the changes the female participant of the couple feels ought to be made to the dish she wants, thus highlighting the apparent ignorance the Americans possess as to what is considered by the central characters and the film itself as cuisine of a genuinely high order. Nearby lies Pascal's (Holm) restaurant, a place named after the man himself and as the brothers' business lies dormant in steady decline; Pascal serves all the junk food both parties seem to agree is as such, but said produce is what the Americans keep coming back for and is keeps Pascal's afloat. Primo and Secondo's own feeling is that buckling to the masses is unthinkable, and that serving such inadequate meals ought to be a crime against fine cuisine. We feel Holm's character shares similar sentiments and undergoes a degree of pain in his ultimate decision, but the temptation to be lead into submission to local demands thus eliminating any strain was apparently too great.Whatever parallels you'd like to draw in relation to this very European and very foreign presence in America, and both the antithetical process and attitudes towards something that can be very fine, goes without apology. The Americans, whom seemingly can only appreciate complete crap in what they choose to venture out and indulge in, only come across as naive and dumbed-down as much the two brothers come across as stubborn and flawed themselves. Secondo maintains a relationship with Phyillis (Driver), but has an affair with the wife of Pascal himself named Gabriella (Rossellini) but the film is more about the relationship between two brothers and two cultures. The text might be read into as being anti-American in its labelling of them as idiots whom persistently seek the lowest form of whatever said cultural item; only rarely does an example break out of said cycle, in doing so the film portraying them as just hopelessly ill at ease with their now new surroundings. This, as the Europeans whom are humorously represented by way of the perfectionist; life-loving; life-affirming; intelligent and well dressed Italians, struggle to comprehend the mindsets of their newly acquainted neighbours and cousins after having been brought up on supremely nourishing, now apparently elitist, items. The restaurant itself sits perched on a precipice between a welcoming beach plus promise of the ocean and a bog-standard urban street full of stores, further highlighting how easy it is as to sway either side of the line in what you get in regards to beauty or more something commonplace; the brothers even have an artist come regularly to their place, the fact the man's an artist sees the film allow each party to share the same apparent 'elitist' space in the brother's restaurant, as the fact either of their roles to produce fine items around supposedly more main stream tastes is highlighted.The big night from whence the title derives is the event the film builds to, Pascal proposing the visiting of a famous musician he's regularly in contact with to 'Paradise' might provide it with the leg-up in cash intake the place needs. The brothers gamble, producing all the specialised dishes they know for the huge crowd expected to turn up for the musical event; the food still taking second place to the event, remember, as the guarantee of razzmatazz and entertainment gets them in on a primary level just so that they may be able to have the opportunity to come to realise that finer, lesser mainstream things can be just as, if not more, enjoyable when given the chance. The cast do an immaculate job as these emotionally torn, financially struggling individuals with bonds to one another; their girlfriends; customers and rivals with the film displaying some wonderful writing in what is a wonderfully played out film. "},{"Title":"Little Movie with a Big Heart","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A low-key and highly entertaining indie comedy about two brothers (Stanley Tucci and Tony Shalhoub) trying to make a go of their Italian restaurant without losing their cultural identity in the process.Shalhoub is the chef stuck on tradition, who refuses to compromise his culinary integrity for whiney customers; Tucci is the more reasonable and business savvy brother who understands the need to change with the times. The acting is good all around, and the the food in the film looks so good I guarantee you will be starving before it is over.Also with Minnie Driver, Ian Holm and Isabella Rossellini.Grade A- "},{"Title":"The Brilliant Little Sleeper that Nobody Saw","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" BIG NIGHT is the utterly charming and richly entertaining sleeper of 1996 that nobody saw and it's really a shame. This is the story of Secundo and Primo, a tight pair of Italian brothers who run an intimate Italian bistro in 1950's Brookyln who are facing bankruptcy until a business associate, so impressed with their food, promises to have his good friend, jazz musician Louis Prima, come to the restaurant for dinner and it is the preparations for this big night that send the brothers and everyone in their orbit into a tailspin. This joyous celebration of everything that is Italian-American completely envelops you with an almost voyeuristic atmosphere and characters who vividly touch your soul. The brothers are flawlessly played by one of our most solid and underrated character actors, the brilliant Stanley Tucci and MONK's Tony Shaloub and neither actor has ever been more appealing on screen. Tucci's Secundo is smart, sexy, charismatic, and generous of soul and Shaloub's Primo is an arrogant boob who always remains likable. Tucci co-wrote and directed this gem with actor Campbell Scott, who also appears briefly as a slick-talking used car salesman and Tucci and Scott's one scene together is a standout, but it is the atmosphere and rich characterizations that take center stage here...Ian Holm steals every scene he is in as the brothers' benefactor and Minnie Driver, Isabella Rosellini, and Allison Janney are impressive as the women in the brothers' lives. This movie is a joy from start to finish and made me wish that I was Italian. If you've never seen this one, please, treat yourself...and don't see it while you're hungry! "},{"Title":"There's a line in here I use on my students.","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You've got to grab life by the ass and hang on! It's worth owning this film and it deserved the attention it was garnered with at the Sundance. It is truly a wonderful piece filled with the tension that is so apparent in almost any family with members who lean on each other for support and get more or less than they bargain for. And if we don't have family to rely on we use our friends. What really stood out for me was that when the characters cut through all the crap they each had to face, they remained anti heroic, realistic, breathing human beings and not the cardboard cutouts that Hollywood stupefies its audiences with. A must-see for anyone who has second-guessed their chances at love. "},{"Title":"One of the few memorable American films in the last 20 years","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" because of its humor, life, and especially its humanity. You will fall for the magic that Italians can make of a dinner. I used to think that Fellini was creating a private vision of Italy with his magical realism. Not so I now see! And the film is in no way other worldly. That's the remarkable thing as seen from my utilitarian, protestant perspective The real, work-a-day world can be spontaneous and unexpected. Adults can show all of their emotions and that's o.k. The humor, life, and humanity of this kind of living fulfills us so there is much less need for living other peoples lives vicariously, as Lennon put it. "}{"Title":"A Little Big Film","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No matter who we are or where we go, one of the common threads that binds us together as a species is the fact that our lives, in one way or another, are filled with hopes and dreams.  The aspirations may vary, and of course change from individual to individual according to wants and needs, but irrefutably it is there, and more often than not has a significant bearing on who we are and what we become.  And it is that kind of ambition and the need to succeed that generates the impetus in `Big Night,' a drama set to the tune of real life, directed by Stanley Tucci and Campbell Scott; a film that explores what it means to follow your heart and hold on to that dream, even in the face of adversity.  Finally, it's a story about love, trust, truth and betrayal, all of the things that make up what we fondly, and often exasperatingly, call `life.'It's the 1950s; two brothers, Primo (Tony Shalhoub) and Secondo (Stanley Tucci) have recently emigrated from Italy and landed on the Jersey shore where they are trying to make a go of their Italian restaurant, the `Paradise.'  Business, however, is not good; Primo is a genius chef, but insists on preparing meals fit for the gods (like his exquisite risotto) rather than the mere mortals who only occasionally stop in to sample the elegant offerings of their board of fare.  Secondo, the businessman of the two and the visible presence in the restaurant, has tried time and again to reason with Primo in regards to the menu, but to no avail.  And now, the Paradise is on the verge of going broke; the bank is about to foreclose.Help often comes from the least likely quarter, however, and so it is here, when Pascal (Ian Holm), the owner of a rival (and quite successful) restaurant offers to do them a favor.  He offers to call his friend, the famous jazz musician Louis Prima, to invite him and his entire band and entourage to dinner at the Paradise, which just may provide the shot in the arm the restaurant needs to stay afloat.  And so Primo and Secondo prepare for the biggest night of their lives, the one `big night' that is going to save them and keep their dream of making it to the top-- `their' way-- alive.Working from a screenplay written by Tucci and Joseph Tropiano (Tucci's cousin), directors Tucci and Scott deliver a thoroughly engaging and entertaining film, a little gem that is worth any number of Hollywood blockbusters put together.  The characters are sharply drawn and presented with humor and poignancy that resonates with honesty and realism.  It's the kind of film that opens itself up and invites you in with the promise of a sumptuous feast awaiting between the opening and closing frames, then makes good on that promise.  Collectively, the filmmakers have a studied and subtle touch that makes this film appealing and accessible to everyone and anyone who has ever aspired to something better.  And they make it very clear that theirs is a pursuit of the heart, rather than the cold comfort of a viable bottom line.  They actively seek out the humanity that resides at the center of their story, and finding it, they convey it to their audience with a sure hand devoid of any pretensions or undo sentimentality.  There is, without question, sensitivity in their approach, but it is restrained and effective and allows the drama to play out in very real terms.  The characters are people you quickly grow to like, similar in nature to those who populate Bonnie Hunt's wonderful `Return To Me' (which starred Minnie Driver, who is also featured in this one).One of the elements that sells a film, even one which seemingly has everything going for it to begin with, is the performances; and the ones here are first rate all around.  As the brothers, Shalhoub and Tucci each take an understated approach that makes their characters convincing and real.  Tucci, especially, lends incredible nuance to his portrayal of Secondo.  Watching him perform a basic task like preparing food in the kitchen becomes spellbinding; the way he approaches the counter, scrapes a knife on the cutting board before he begins chopping and slicing, the second nature of the way he wipes his hands on his apron or removes a skillet hanging overhead and places it on the stove.  It's all SO real that it puts you right there in the kitchen with him.  And it makes you a part of the experience rather than merely an observer.  The same can be said for Shalhoub.  His portrayal of Primo is a study in precision, and the mannerisms  shared by Primo and Secondo and the way they connect with one another makes the casting of them as brothers entirely believable.  Their relationship has that necessary sense of lifelong history about it that makes it genuine.As Pascal, Ian Holm gives an energetic and larger-than-life performance that makes his character a decided presence in the film, and it makes his pivotal role in the story convincing.  And as Pascal's girl, Gabriella, Isabella Rossellini leaves a lasting impression, as well, with a performance that is discriminatingly seductive.As Secondo's romantic interest, Phyllis, Minnie Driver is charming and irresistible.  Her screen time is comparatively limited, but Driver makes what she has significant, with an expressiveness that makes Phyllis endearing.  And with her eyes and facial expressions, Driver speaks volumes. It's a winning performance that makes Phyllis an unforgettable character.Also effective in smaller roles are Allison Janney as Ann; Campbell Scott as Bob, the most convincing car salesman to grace the screen since Kurt Russell's Rudy Russo in `Used Cars;' and Liev Schreiber as Leo.  The ending of `Big Night' is somewhat ambiguous; but staying true to the story, it is the ambiguity of `life' itself.  And a more perfect ending there could not possibly be.  10/10. "},{"Title":"A fine movie","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Simple, great. Worth an investment of a couple hours to take in the pace, depth, and passion of the acting, directing and the cooking. I only wish there was a little more background and follow-through on the story, but that's just me. The last scene is touching. "},{"Title":"love, food and brotherhood","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It`s a brillant movie about love, food and brotherhood. The last scene in the kitchen is fabulous. You only see the two brothers sitting in front of the table, eating their breakfast in complete silence. It´s their kind of very intimate communication.  "},{"Title":"the perfect movie? (spoiler)","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first sought out this movie because Siskel & Ebert told me too.I loved it....but the unresolved ending took me by surprise.Having just watched it for the third time, I don't see it as an unresolved ending at all.  I think the difference was that once I knew the secret (he was not going to show up for dinner) -- I actually enjoyed the movie more knowing this.I had a similar reaction to leaving las vegas; knowing the ending sometimes lets you relax and enjoy the performances more.Keep an eye out for C.J., from the west wing. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a gem of a movie. Stanley Tucci and Campbell Scott did a great job in co-directing this film. It was just such a joy to watch. Ian Holm is just such a terrific actor, he just shines in this as Primo and Secondo's rival. The soundtrack also adds so much to the feel of the film and lets not forget the wonderful, wonderful food. Don't see this movie on an empty stomach........Delicioso, magnifico!! "},{"Title":"A DELICIOUS TRIBUTE TO THE ART OF FOOD!","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A succulent slice of nourishment, 1996 BIG NIGHT serves up tantalizingly great acting by the film's entire cast and fully realized characters all delicately simmer in a crisply witty and flavoured 1950s period tale of two Italian-Immigrant brothers named Primo and Secondo who, in their own independent restaurant, prepare an elaborate multiple-course dinner for an extremely important guest-of-honour.Poignantly bittersweet, Big Night ranks alongside Babette's Feast as one of the most best food films ever written and produced in the history of films, for audiences to gratefully devour to one's own fill.Come to the table hungry, then feast and drink the entire night away!BUON APPETITO! "},{"Title":"Enoyable but slightly disappointing","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well I have mixed thoughts on this film.  In some ways it delighted me, in other ways it disappointed.  Primo (first-born child) and Secondo (second-born) are two Italian brothers living in the U.S. but their restaurant business is going nowhere.  The locals of the town just don't appreciate good Italian cooking, like the lady one evening that eats both a plate of risotto and then a plate of pasta in the same sitting and complains to Secondo that there is no dish of spaghetti and meat-balls.  Living in Italy and knowing of Italian food I really appreciated what it meant for Primo to never compromise his skill to cook anything that was less than what he was used to.  Secondo wants to compromise, however, to make some money, and a great part of the story is based on this tension.  But they adore each other all the same.  Half way through the film it devotes itself to the big night where some famous jazz player is coming to eat there, which Secondo hopes will turn their fortunes, while Primo gets everything prepared.  This is where the film reminds a little too much of Babette's Feast, with slightly disappointing results.  Nevertheless, Big Night is an enjoyable film, albeit a little slow at times, it can be funny and touching and expertly demonstrates the differences in cultures between Italy and the U.S. "},{"Title":"Louis Prima and pasta!","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies... great music, great story-telling, intimate sets, beautiful costumes. An excellent rental for those nights when you are dreaming of romance and love.Bring back the days of Louis Prima, gentlemen in hats and suits, and voluptuous women in tight 40's dresses and red lipstick! "},{"Title":"Last scene, a classic","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has a feel of Italy unlike most other movies I've seen, and the story even goes on in America. Anyone who has a soft spot for italian cuisine and everything surrounding that will love this movie. The music itself is reason enough to watch The Big Night!! "},{"Title":"As perfect as a movie can get...","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the most beautiful movies ever filmed, Big Night captures storylines of family, art, love, business, food, and the American Dream.  Tucci and Shalhoub are both endearing and frustrating as Italian brothers struggling in unaccepting 1950s New Jersey.  Campbell Scott is brilliant in his role as the slimy car salesman.  The food, however, steals the show.  In the mold of Like Water for Chocolate, the scenes of incredible cuisine are enough by themselves to make the movie bearable.  The script and performances of the actors make the movie a classic.  "}{"Title":"Great looking food, great style to a Big Night!","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Even though I'm as thin as a rake, I love good food; you could even call me a connoisseur. That's why I really appreciated watching great Italian dishes look so scrumptious and delectable in Big Night, a good-looking independent film.Stanley Tucci and Tony Shalhoub charismatically play two brothers in the restaurant business, one with business sense and the other with the chef's palette. You feel for them in their struggle to create a great eatery while in competition with a most successful manager outside the street, played wonderfully (of course) by Ian Holm. If there be any drawbacks to the film, it would be its pacing and its awkward romantic edge with love interests Minnie Driver and Isabella Rossellini.The film's food scenes and celebration party could have survived on their own. I've never seen food look so good on camera or its eaters look more satisfied with their feast.Big Night does move slowly, but the characters are honest, their performances are full of life, and the food... need I say more? Rating Three stars.  "},{"Title":"Didn't think I'd like it.  Surprise!!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I only watched the movie because my wife picked it out, and I like Minnie Driver's abilities as an actress.  I was surprised to find the film engaging.  I kept feeling the emotions of all of the characters involved. The acting, directing, casting, lighting, everything was done very well.  I highly recommend Big Night to all of my friends.    "},{"Title":"A wonderful tale of humanity and risotto","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Delightful and visually spectacular in equal amounts, Big Night is a wonderful feat of acting, scripting, and remarkable directing. All the principles turn in superb performances, notably Shalhoub as the under-appreciated Primo, and the script dazzles with line after line of wit and depth. But it is in the directing, the sumptuous colours and convincing verisimilitude that are what shine in this movie. Essentially, the movie is about the artistry within food, and this is beautifully realised in every regard. The period is evoked perfectly, and what is most appealing is the length between cuts, the consummate skill that has gone into each and every scene. A delight. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies about food","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Apart from Babette's Feast, this is probably the best food-themed movie I have ever seen. Despite sounding dreadfully dull, the entire movie is about two brothers who own a struggling restaurant and the preparations they make for a special dinner which will be attended by the singer, Louis Prima (King Louie's voice in Disney's Jungle Book). How is this interesting? Well, the relationships between the characters are so well-written and the acting is so good you really find yourself caring about these ordinary and very believable people. It is a fine counter-point to the often loud and vulgar fare from Hollywood and in many ways is reminiscent of a foreign film (particularly the excellent German film Mostly Martha), though it was made in the good old USA. "},{"Title":"Unsatisfying Feast","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two immigrant brothers from Italy try to keep their restaurant in 1950s America from going bankrupt. It's pretty well made but there's hardly a plot, and it eventually runs out of steam. The acting is good. Tucci and Shalhoub are perfectly cast as the brothers - they really look like brothers. Holm has some funny lines as the foul-mouthed owner of another restaurant. Tucci co-directed with Scott, who plays a Cadillac salesman, the first time behind the lens for both and it shows in the form of some sloppy camera work. This is not a film to watch hungry as the last third of the film is devoted to a delectable feast. Unlike the feast, however, the film is somewhat unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"The Best Ever","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Was planning a long review during the night. However, after reading so many of the other reviews, most of them express my feelings to a tee.Therefore, just a few comments. The marvelous acting of Tony Shaloub as Primo and Stanley Tucci as Secondo the brothers trying so hard to make a go of it.  The restaurant itself trying to hold its own with esoteric food, competing with a mediocre Olive Type Gardenrestaurant (forgive me) The almost unrecognizable Allison Janney in a minor role, who has since become and rightly so an award winner on The West Wing Isabella Rossellini, the image of her famous mom, Ingrid Bergman. The wonderful music of the era that made the audience want to get up and dance as the actors did in the film.Finally the non-ending so-- no spoiler as the film is left open ended as to the future of the brothers and their restaurant.   In the wee hours of the morning, party ended, Louis Prima never shows or was never invited, brother Secondo makes an omelet. He serves it to his helper and his brother. Time is standing still in this euphoric moment where the brothers are patting each other affectionately on the back. The future for this moment, matters not. One of the best non-endings ever.  "},{"Title":"Really good film","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A bit slow early on, and a few scenes seem a bit out of place, but when it gets going it really kicks in.  Stanley Tucci and Anthony Shalhoub are priceless - some truly wonderful performances.  If you like food, it's hard to resist. "},{"Title":"The ultimate test of endurance","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is about two Italian brothers counting on a night that could save their restaurant from bankruptcy.It is the most deceptive that the synopsis goes Whoever loves food will love this movie. Food only appears once in the first 46 minutes of the film, in the form of a wide angle shot of two patrons eating a risotto. The only decent shot of food we get is a secret recipe pie being cut open. For a film about restaurants, it is almost a disgrace to not have food prominently featured. Look at other outstanding restaurant films such as Mostly Martha, or even Gloomy Sunday. it can be seen that Big Night falls way short of similar films.The worst thing about this film is the poor script. Nothing ever happens in the film. There is no drama, there is no action, there is nothing. Simply nothing. The uptight Primo is annoying, while Secondo is unsympathetic either as he spends all his time being a playboy instead of trying to save the restaurant.Camera work is terrible. Shots can be continuous for 5 minutes with only slight camera movements. Can we at least have two angles shooting two people having a conversation? This film is an ultimate test of endurance. It is very boring, and has no substance. "},{"Title":"If only you could taste it.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Highlight is the feast but that arrives a little too late after a forced set-up of character and plot establishment. Still, it has wonderful moments with the up-and-down relationship between the two brothers, Primo (Shalhoub) & Secondo (Tucci), who attempt to salvage their sinking restaurant. "},{"Title":"The Problem with Minnie","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a sumptuous, yet subtle film that touched my heart. The performaces by Stanley Tucci and Tony Shalhoub are very good. I'd argue that the presence of Minnie Driver in this film brings the whole production down a peg.  This really became evident to me towards the end of the film, when Minnie emerges from the sea, clothes clinging to her shapely form. What was it that Roger Ebert said, If you can't show her naked, get her wet? It was a crude moment in the movie of sensitivity and high ideals. From there I had to reassess Minnie's role in the movie. What she brings to this film is star power, something that, with it's quiet greatness, it didn't need. Her appearances in this film are often awkward, as if the producers were thinking We've got Minnie Driver here, where can we fit her in?Minnie's central purpose in this film is to sell to a movie going public that would only see a movie if it had a big star in it. These are the same people who, after the movie, would head to a fine Itallian restaurant and order a side of spaghetti and meatballs with their risotto.I have included this film in my collection, and recommend it to friends. It is a wonderful film, a celebration of the finer things in life. Minnie remains a small fly in a yet otherwise exquisite dish of cannelloni alla sorrentina.   "}{"Title":"A slightly iconoclastic view","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I *do* love food movies.  Even though it's not exactly a food movie, I even loved the controversial The Cook, the Thief, the Wife, and His Lover.But there's a big difference between high cinematographic artistry and cheap thrills.  Big Night has too much profanity and too much smoking, period, and for no reason other than that profanity and smoking sells.  Why do you think they set it in the past?   "},{"Title":"Sometimes the spaghetti likes to be alone.","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crickets and Tumbleweeds. This is our initial introduction to the life and business of two brothers named Secondo and Primo (symbolically named second and first to make sure that we the viewers can remember which is the older and which is the younger). Together they have come from Italy in hopes of pursuing the American dream, to become popular and wealthy with their trade. Each brother has his own trade. Secondo (played by Tucci) is the business suave brother, he attempts to keep the restaurant afloat by pleading with the bankers, while on the other hand test driving the newest Cadillacs because he believes in the philosophy, To be successful, you must first look like you are successful. Primo, played perfectly by Tony Shalhoub (best known for the TV series Monk and the Men in Black films), is the chef of the family. Although both brothers can cook, Primo prides himself to know food the best. His belief is that the food will bring the customers in through the doors, not due to the booze, women, or music. Together, with the help of some of their friends, they try to keep their heritage alive by trying to save their restaurant.Alright, before you say, Well, I don't need to read further, I know what the review is going to be... Think again. This film was honestly one of the worst independent films that I have seen for some time. Tucci's style of film-making (along with Scott) is almost like we were watching a theater group on the big screen. I understand that is a very common style to use, but it didn't cut it during this film. While Shalhoub is amazing in his role, it is almost erased by Tucci's role. He overplays his character to the limit. We forget about the two brothers and spend so much time trying to get past Tucci's acting in this film, that we loose sight of the whole picture. I also felt like the timing was off. Several times I glanced at my watch to see how much time was remaining on this picture. Coming fresh off of Mostly Martha, and being a fan of Chocolat, I wanted to see so much Italian food that I would immediately rush out after the film and gorge myself with all the Italian food that Southwest Virginia had to offer. I wanted to salivate every time I saw or even heard Italian food, but unfortunately, Pavlov still had a lot to work to do. Unfortunately, after watching this film, I wanted to immediately purge myself of all Italian food that I had eaten in my lifetime.Big Night left a horrible taste in my mouth. It was a beautiful ensemble, with some great actors, but Tucci needed to give them something to stand out of the screen with. I felt, and I know the film was about the two brothers, that the other characters didn't mean anything. When the secret from Pascal was announced, I didn't see him as the self-proclaimed villain. He was just a liar, nothing more...but I wanted more. People have raved about this film, but I don't see the big secret. Nothing new, nothing special. Big Night showed that lack of creativity, and without power or money the American dream cannot become a reality. It was almost a insult to what America has to offer. To respond to brotherly love, it really didn't seem like the two brothers wanted to work for their money. They just wanted the 'American Dream' to appear and be theirs.. What I saw from this film were too lazy brothers that could not create their own business...They realize that they saw the American dream during that big night, even if it wasn't with all that jazz (pun was intended).Grade ** out of *****  "},{"Title":"BIG NIGHT Is No Big Deal","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I noticed that BIG NIGHT had a very good write up in the TV guide which had me puzzled as to why it was being broadcast on Channel 4 at 2.40 am . After watching the movie it wasn't so puzzling - It's a fairly uninteresting very low concept movie in search of a plot . Take the opening scene where a woman starts complaining to Secondo about the rissoto . Didn't everyone think that this might be GOODFELLAS meets FAWLTY TOWERS ? There's a scene not long after that sees Secondo in his bank manager's office where he's told things are looking grim with the repayments . Didn't everyone think that this would lead to some darkly comic drama where Secondo pulls a scam ? No what happens is Secondo has romantic interludes with a couple of women and pays a visit to Pascal his rival who owns a successful restaurant across the road . It's difficult to explain what happens because little does happen . As I mentioned the screenplay is painfully low concept and no matter how well directed and played a movie is if it doesn't have much of a plot then you don't have much of a movie It should also be pointed out that if you're trying to stop smoking then there's no way you should be watching this movie since every single scene has somebody smoking a ciggie . I know it's trying to convey the 1950s when attitudes to smoking were very very liberal but I doubt if many of the cast will be collecting a pension after appearing in this  "}]