[{"Title":"Stunning black comedy","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tarantino presents this little gem, which he caught at an Italian genre festival while promoting Reservoir Dogs (he relates the fateful anecdote in an epilogue after the movie on video.) It shares with that director the nervy, hip black-comedy attitude, an absolute command of cinematic techniques, and a post-modern approach steeped in b-movie history. However, where QT's films (and similar triumphs like Go) are explosive, this one is insidiously subtle and dead-pan; so much so that the gradual recognition of the filmmakers' intentions will give you the shivers. The creeping revelations of the themes, the dark pastels, self-referential script and straight-faced performances are reminiscent of earlier successful dark comedies, like Parents and I, Madman. Jones (her solo dance is a knockout) and Baldwin are both dead-on, and the director and editor never miss a beat. This is one of the best films of the 90s. (by the way, did anyone notice that this film opened about the same time as Headless Body in Topless Bar? quite a coincidence.) "},{"Title":"The heads...do they talk?","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, this is one of the most underrated movies of the 90s, featuring one of my all-time favorite performances by the enchanting Angela Jones. It is based on a short made in 1991, about a childlike murder-obsessed Colombian-American who takes a job as a maid...who cleans up after violent murders. Apparently, Tarantino liked the short so much that he cast Jones in Pulp Fiction and produced a full length version of Curdled with Jones and William Baldwin (who is surprisingly great.) This is one of my favorite black comedies and easily the funniest serial killer thriller ever. Angela Jones lights up the screen with her animated facial expressions (think Audrey Tautou) and quirky delivery. Oh, and this movie features one of the best dance sequences in a movie (yes, even better than Britt Ekland's in The Wicker Man). The recently released DVD is a blessing and surprisingly chockful of extras (including the original short film) for a movie that is apparently so reviled. The worst thing I can say about Curdled is that Braddock didn't go on to make another film and Jones went on to do a freakin Children of the Corn sequel. Recommend to all fans of serial killer movies and dark comedies. My rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"What a story...","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was originally a 20 minute short by Reb Braddock.  Braddock extended this after seeing the success of his short.  Angela Jones plays the lead character superbly.  For those of you not familiar with Jones, she is the Taxi Driver in Pulp Fiction.  William Baldwin plays the killer.  Angela Jones' character is mesmerized by murder scenes and gets a job with a company that cleans up after murders.  She soon comes in contact with the murderer on the job site and the suspense begins to build.  Great performance by Angela Jones and a brilliant story and dialogue provided by Braddock.   "},{"Title":"Great indie flick","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie, especially the main character.  It was really cool linking the similarities between her and Esmerelda Villa Lobos from Pulp Fiction-besides both had Tarantino having some role in them- both characters exhibited an almost childish facination with death and murder.  And, I have to admit, Billy Baldwin was really stylish as the Cold Blooded killer.  This movie is definitely unique, and a treat to watch.My only complaint is that, the movie, as a whole, is rather strange.  It doesn't decide whether to be a dark comedy or some weird, violent romance.  It is definitely dark and weird, but never steps into a comfortable niche to decied which one it really is.  This really isn't that big of a deal, really, and after awhile, you learn to just forget the analyzation, and just enjoy the madness being thrown at you. This movie is definitely not for everyone, in that the gore is played so casually, as if it were a normal fixture of a room, like a table or a rug.  It also has a few scenes that b\c of the conversational build up during the movie about what it's like to see a crime scene for the first time, and the casual way that the gore is treated, it may not be suitable for everyone.  However, I enjoyed it b\c of it's pure creativity and of course, wonderful acting by the two main leads.  A give it a strong 8/10 stars for having the courage to be different.  That is my story and I am sticking to it.   "},{"Title":"Cool movie, could've been better, but very cool.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of my favorite scenes in Pulp Fiction was the one with Butch and Esmeralda Villalobos, the cab ride. Not many people I watched it with, and most of you maybe, didn't really care for it. More than half of the scene didn't make the final cut. I thought it was intriguing, this woman wants to know what it would feel like to kill a man.Imagine my surprise when I turned on this movie, CURDLED; starring Esmeralda herself, Angela Jones. Her character, Gabriela is fixated on murders. She keeps scrapbooks of newsclippings and the likes. Then she joins a crime scene clean-up crew. Only she aint too bothered that much with the actual cleaning up. Instead she savors the thought that 'this is where the killing actually happened, right here.'What miffed me was that I found out that Tarantino was the Exec Producer, but he didn't help out with any of the writing. (IMDb only credits him with the news reports) There were a few scenes he could have spruced up, I'm sure, especially at the cleaning crew's home base. There were a few blahh moments. I also wondered if he could've been ballsy enough to keep Angela Jones as the same character as in Pulp Fiction, instead of the ditzy not-all-there Gabriela. But I guess this was a Reb Braddock vehicle. I see this started out as a short of his. Billy Baldwin is also very good in this.I give this a 7 or an 8, I'm not sure which I'll choose just yet. It's really a solid 7.5 on IMDb's 1-10 scale.Definitely check this movie out. "},{"Title":"Tarantino fans don't miss Curdled.","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When Curdled was in the cinemas I missed it, but now I rented the VHS and I'm happy, having seen it. I had a couple of hours of pure fun. This is a very good black movie in Europe we'd rather say noir with a touch of sophisticated humouror black comedy. The actresses are impressive and the plot unique. Just follow my advice if you loved Pulp Fiction or Reservoir Dogs don't miss it, Curdled it's even better!  "},{"Title":"Latin music, chewing gum and a glimpse of Tarantino - nice!","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's surprisingly hard to make fun about serious subjects, like murder. Curdled succeeds in it it's a hilarious film about a girl obsessed with murder, with a nicely twisted vision of the world. Yes, it has it's faults, but there are some irresistibly funny moments in it as well.Jones does an excellent job in this black comedy, it really is a shame we haven't heard more of her. Even Baldwin fits in his role! The soundtrack is spicy and quite excellent. Braddock has extended this from a short film, and unfortunately it shows in some places. A few scenes feel, well, boring, and dialogue isn't as sharp as it could be.Tarantino is often linked to this film, although he was only the producer and wrote a very little piece of script. However, there are connections to his movies in Curdled and they are fun to catch.My score 3/5  "},{"Title":"Not Known For Some Reason","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Gabriella (Angela Jones), a Colombian immigrant, is obsessed with understanding violent crime. The current string of murders by the Blue Blood Killer of affluent Miami socialites provides her with fodder for her scrapbook of death. She lands a job with a post-murder cleaning service and during a Blue-Blood clean-up job, discovers evidence that police have overlooked.While this is not a perfect film, it is a fun dark comedy that should appeal to gore hounds and fans of Robert Rodriguez. Apparently this exists in the same universe that From Dusk to Dawn does, plus features Billy Baldwin as a killer. That is pretty sweet.I would need to see this a second time to really get a handle on it, but I think I was pleasantly surprised and hope this film somehow makes a resurgence on people's to-see lists. "},{"Title":"Stylish, Dark and a must-see for fans of black comedy","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film does everything that it wants to do right, and it does it in a time frame that fits. Unlike most Tarantino flicks this movie has a less than 90 minute run-time, which could leave a certain fan unfulfilled and unsatisfied by the end. That being said, the film is fantastic in the time it's given, it's full of details, style and a soundtrack that honestly made me stand up and dance.The main character is a young Columbian woman, Gabriella, who has an obsession for gore and a serial killer The Blue Blood Killer who specializes in murdering and cutting off the heads of rich women, clean cut with a Tanto. Gabriella begins working for a forensic clean up crew, but finds more interest with the scene of the crime than the cleaning. The ending may come a bit sooner than you would think, but it feels very similar to the ending of Inglorious Basterds, and will leave you smiling and satisfied if you see the film for what it is and is trying to be. A solid 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Why Short Shouldn't Go Long...","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Quentin Tarantino, aglow with the buzz-borne light from the soon-to-be-released Pulp Fiction, was sitting in a darkened theater with his producer/pal Lawrence Bender, enjoying a short-film festival. The short being screened was called Curdled, and it was about a Latin woman working for a housekeeping service that specialized in cleaning up crime scenes for murderers and killers. I picture our hydro-cephalic hero QT laughing so loud he annoyed everyone in the theater, including the film's writer/director Reb Braddock.But Braddock needn't have worried. Our fat-headed pop-culture savant got up from his seat when the short was over, sought out Reb and declared, full of his own ego and I can only guess Goobers, Listen to me, Mr. Braddock, alriiiiiiiight? We're gonna take your short film and make it into a feature, okaaaaaaaaay? You'll write/direct and I'll produce, alriiiiiiiiiiight?And so the feature-length version of Curdled was born. I'm scarcely exaggerating this story because it is the version told by Quentin himself in the film's bonus material. Could any aspiring director refuse the offer of a then white-hot Tarantino? Could you? Unfortunately for us the feature is nothing more than the 10 min. short stretched out over an hour and a half. Which strangely feels like three hours.Thrill as Nothing happens in slow motion. Watch the immediately-attractive Angela Jones (Butch's cabbie in Pulp Fiction) become less and less adorable as sheer boredom numbs your senses. Laugh at a one-joke black comedy that manages to kill the joke after twenty minutes. Rock to a movie so bad its writer/director Reb Braddock never wrote/directed anything ever again. At all.What did we learn today? We learned that short films don't necessarily translate into feature-length. We learned that even Latin women need good story lines to hold onto our attention. And most importantly If Quentin Tarantino ever approaches you in a theater with greazy fingers and a shlt-eating grin you need to evacuate the premises as soon as possible.That's what Fire Exits are for.GRADE D- "}{"Title":"I think they talk. They could tell you something.","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This always quirky, sometimes funny, sometimes dark, and sometimes misses film isn't a masterpiece. But, certain scenes make it worth watching. The exchange between Baldwin and Jones is one of those scenes. Gabriela is obsessed with violent crime. When she sees an ad on TV from a crime scene cleaning company she quickly contacts them to get a job with them. She is reluctantly hired and quits her other job. It gets somewhat slow at this point, but a key scene is when her partner complains about Gabriela's childlike behavior. The juxtaposition of Gabriela's demeanor, the crime scene, and her happy salsa music is a strange combination indeed. It sometimes works and it is sometimes grating. William Baldwin as Paul Guell is actually quite brilliant and doesn't get enough credit. You have no idea how much it pains me to write that. But, anyway here it is. He has a very difficult job to do here and he pulls it off and makes it look easy. He has to be a menacing serial killer, check he is very creepy. He has to manage to make it funny somehow as well, check. As mentioned before his exchange with Jones, was well worth watching the movie. He also manages to show some sensitivity, we can almost see into the pit of his dark soul, what motivates him to kill. It does't all work however, there are parts that are so illogical. Aside from the fact that the childlike main character is obsessed with violent crime. Things that would never ever happen in real life. I will have to leave it at that, if you watch the film you will spot at least one glaring example at near the end of the film. The ending will leave you with more questions than this film can answer. "},{"Title":"Very black and bloody horror comedy","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This very black and bloody horror comedy is a real favorite of mine, ever since I first saw it on cable several years ago. Tarantino saw the original short film while promoting his Reservior Dogs at an Italian film festival, and suggested the filmmakers to expand it to a feature film, and he would produce it. They did of course, and to me, this is a work of art, with a film score that fits about as perfect to the scenes as any I have seen. Angela Jones plays Gabriela, a Columbian beauty that has moved to Miami, and has an obsession with bloody crime scenes. She gets a job with a company that cleans up crime scenes, and she starts following the news accounts of a serial killer played by William Baldwin. After his recent murder, she gets assigned the job of cleaning up the bloody mess, and doesn't know it, but the killer is locked in the wine closet because he left a clue to his identity. Soon, there is the grand finale, which is a danse macabre between the two, with an ending that knocked me out of my chair when I first saw it. This is black comedy at it's darkest and most fun, and the DVD is loaded with features including an intro and outro by Tarantino. It also contains the original 30 minute short version of the movie. I absolutely love this movie, and recommend it very highly. "},{"Title":"A clever, fun dark comedy","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  By far Billy Baldwin's best work, Angela Jones shines in this quirky dark comedy expanded from a film school thesis short. In a movie world that exists just a few degrees of deviation from our own world, Reb Braddock has lovingly crafted a dangerous innocent - Gabriella, who is so fascinated by violent crime that she takes a job as a maid for the Post-Forensic Cleaning Service.The only true flaw in this film is the 'question' that Gabriella so sweetly seeks an answer to, but the fantastic soundtrack and hauntingly choreographed 'final dance' make it all worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Maybe it would've been better as a 20 minute short","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Excruciatingly slow-paced, over-scripted black comedy with a too-clever premise and bad acting.Maybe this would have worked as a Twilight Zone or Tales from the Crypt episode, but by the last half, you just want it to get to its predictable ending and be done with it already. "},{"Title":"A young woman fascinated with murders gets a job cleaning up murder sites.","Date":"2 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This movie is a total surprise. It's fast-paced and will hold your interest the entire time. As a girl, Gabriela witnesses, so to speak, the murder of a man. From then on out she becomes totally fascinated by murder and keeps a scrapbook full of drawings and clippings. As an adult she lives in Miami and ends up working at a place that cleans up after murders (suicides). Cleaners, as they are called. During this time a serial killer is on the loose and Gabriela is hooked. What makes this movie so great is Jones, who plays the young woman, and her somewhat warped sense of killings. The scene where she's dancing with the knife, re-living the latest murder is perfect. Though there's a lot of blood, and the near final scene is audibly graphic (you do not see anything), it's also one of the funniest, for those of us who appreciate a very warped sense of humor. In the Special Features Quentin Tarantino explains why this actress was so perfect for the part, and he's spot on, as even while watching her (prior to watching the SF) you could just tell. He talks about a sparkle in her eye. Her entire body lights up in this part. Everyone else, even Baldwin (as the killer), does not come close, though he did a fairly good job, especially in their scene where they are together dancing. And you know who the killer is from the beginning, so I'm not spoiling an ending here. Find this gem and watch it over and over again. Each time you will catch something new that Jones does. She's a very physical actress and I hope to see more of her, and soon. "},{"Title":"One of my All-Time Fav Movies","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Darkly funny. I love this movie and can watch it again and again. William Baldwin & Angela Jones are perfect in their roles as a serial killer and a woman who cleans up in his victim's homes after the police have gone. Gabriella, the cleaner, is a great character. She epitomizes the people who are fascinated by serial killers. In some ways this movie reminds me of CSI and Forensic Files and shows like that. Lots of good law-abiding people watch them and not just to imagine themselves on the cops' side, but to fantasize about being criminals and toy with their dark side. The best part is her salsa dance with the devil as she reinacts one of the killer's crimes for him. I don't know why this movie got such a bum rap. I think it's great! "},{"Title":"A neat little film","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Why hardly anyone has heard of this movie is beyond me. Angela Jones delivers a great performance and I easily understand why Quentin Tarantino wanted to keep her in the feature film version. An original story along with great acting make this one a must see. "},{"Title":"What can I say...I LOVED IT!","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  My best friend's Aunt worked for Disney and each month they received a box full of demo copies of the latest season line up coming to video. Some were horrible but some were the best I have ever seen. The beauty of it all was seeing them for free months before the released. Among the best were French Twist, The Horseman on the Roof, and CURDLED! I didn't know what to say about it once it was over but among viewing it three more times a spell was cast over me to place this as MY FAVORITE FILM EVER MADE. I love the short running time the most because it makes it easily watchable over and over again. When I am feeling down or have nothing better to do I just pop in that good 'ol comedy. Yes, its bloody, but I love the cleaness of the entire thing. I can watch and enjoy any movie but I really love movies that don't curse just to be doing it. CURDLED maybe has three cuss words in the entire thing. Maybe I just didn't expect that from a Tarantino produced film. Thanks to CURDLED my favorite genre now is dark comedies. I found them out to be realistic and enjoyable to watch. If your not a fan of them, I suggest you watch some. They'll get you hooked.My only thing against my favorite company (Buena Vista/Miramax)is they are taking too long to convert all their movies on DVD. Please Miramax please release this on DVD soon cause I am going to wear out the tape from over use before long and then I am going to be without the best movie ever.If you like this movie be sure to check out these other great dark comedies! Clay Pigeons, The Big Lebowski, and Nurse Betty. "},{"Title":"Little pretensions, great satisfaction","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Really a great movie. I did know of it's existence till last week when I saw it at the video-rent. I think it is really witty. I've read people are disappointed it is not black comedy. Well I have to agree. i do think it is comedy and the idea behind it is black. Just like gabriela does not think it is sick to be obsessed with the idea. The photography was also great with the wide shots, especially for a movie with so little pretensions.And what about the end? It is so sudden and surprising and at the same time, in my opinion, completely satisfying. That's what makes this movie so special. "},{"Title":"a delightful, wicked little comedy!","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When anyone asks me my vote for my all-time favorite film, I immediately reply with Curdled, which leaves them all staring vacantly with a not-so-bright look on their faces. Obviously they have not been clued in on what I believe to be the best black comedy ever. A truly fantastic little story here and gosh darnit if it doesn't have the smallest pinch of that ol' tarantino magic...hell, even if his involvement was minimal..you can still see traces. It's just wickedly clever, with the best ending anyone could ever hope for. Fabulous morbid fun. "}{"Title":"Cool And Quirky Horror/Dark-Comedy/Thriller....","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I picked this one up at the recommendation of a few people that I trust - and though it is not the typical sleaze/gore/trash that I pump into my brain at a record-pace - it is a truly funny, well-made and entertaining little number. Although there is some blood, don't expect a bloodbath, and there's no nudity (which DOES suck...) but this one is good on it's own merits as a fun and pretty original film...Gabriella is a sweet young girl, who has been obsessed with murder and death since an early age. To satisfy this obsession, she takes a job with a cleaning agency that specializes in cleaning up murder/accident scenes. When the opportunity arises to clean the house where one of a string of the Blueblood serial-killer murders occurred - Gabriella jumps at the chance. Unfortunately - her enthusiasm may bring her just a bit closer to the murders than she really wants to be...or does she??? CURDLED truly is an enjoyable and original film. More than anything - the performances carry the film. Angela Jones as Gabriella is both naive and adorable, but also strangely sexy and intense. There are a ton of people you'll recognize in this one, in both large and small roles - William Baldwin, Kelly Preston, Daisy Fuentes, a quick shot of Clooney and Tarantino from DUSK TIL DAWN on a crime-show, and the guy that plays Gabriella's boss (I forget his name, but he's been in a ton of stuff too - he was the one big boss in WAR GAMES...) - and all the performances are pretty top-notch. The directing is also confident and well done, and the music direction adds to the overall quirkiness of the whole film. If you dig strange black-comedies, you'll probably dig this one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Curdled cheese...","Date":"23 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is definitely unique in that it's original. Quentin Tarantino produced this film and put it under his now failed Rolling Thunder Pictures. The film in its essence had a lot of potential and really had a great leading actress, but it had its share of problems. If your a fan of Tarantino like I am you prob. will rent this no matter what anyone says, but I would recommend this movie with caution because it just a mediocre middle of the year release that Miramax quickly buried under its large pile of flops. The special features of this film are the best part. With the thesis student film attached to the DVD along with an intro and outro by Quentin himself. Overall not much here but you may find some qualities that can be enjoyed by all. "},{"Title":"Not Funny","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had the potential to be a great black comedy with the idea behind it, but it falls very short.  There is very little in this film that impressed me or made me laugh.  It's like a black comedy without the black (the film tried to be violent and gory, but looked little more than ridiculous) or the comedy.  The film is about a woman (Angela Jones) who quits her job and decided to go work for a company called PFCS (Post Forensic Cleaning Service) when she becomes fascinated with a serial killer known as the Blue Blood Killer, a psychopath who goes around Miami beheading rich women.  The company is a cleaning service that is called in to clean up the blood and guts left behind in homes in the aftermath of a murder, after the Cops haul the body and evidence away.  The premise for a company like this is funny (one of the only moments in the film that caused me to laugh was their T.V Commercial), but the end result is not.I can see why Quentin Tarantino was attracted to a project like this.  Word on the street is that this was originally a funny short film that was shown at Sundance in the early 90's and after the success of Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction, Tarantino bankrolled this full length version of the movie and released it later on video with his Rolling Thunder Pictures.  Tarantino seems to be very amused and fascinated with the idea of a cleaner or cleaning service to clean up the mess of the deceased.  He surely watched Luc Besson's La Femme Nikita many times in the later stages of his video store clerk days and used the idea of Victor the cleaner for his Winston Wolf character in Pulp Fiction.  The idea of a cleaner is quite funny and worked very well in both films, but here, it simply does not work beyond the admitted hilarity of the T.V commercial and of the mock-up sensationalist reality-TV show excerpt in the middle of the film.  The rest of the movie is boring and pointless and the acting, apart from Angela Jones, is pretty stale.  If you want to see real black comedy that will make you laugh (and cringe, that's another thing this film was missing), I would suggest seeking out the early works of Danny Boyle (Trainspotting, Shallow Grave) and the Coen Brother's Fargo over a boring film like this.  4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Limp black comedy","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very typical early 90's black comedy which menas that it's jarringly aware of it's own cleverness, shares the same faded primary colors as Natural Born Killers or Freeway, and involves a serial killer. Frankly for anything like this to work it would need some basis in reality and the fact that William Baldwin kills women without using gloves avoiding touching things or even getting rid of his fingerprints immediately annoyed me. Nothing in this movie is real enough or gruesome enough to actually be funny or disturbing. The director poars on the stage blood but every murder is done in a clean emotionless tarantino type of way and all the crime scenes just contain neat little pool of blood. haven't they ever read that after a week you have to wear thigh length boots to prevent maggots from crawling up your legs or that you wear air masks when cleaning up these places or that most of it is done with an ultrapowful wet-dry vac? realistic details such as these would have helped this film. After reading that this was a short I could believe it because the entire film feels like it was very thinly stretched.   "},{"Title":"silly, crazy, weird comedy...even to my standards.","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The 90's was filled with a lot of hit and misses, and, well...Curdled is one of those movies that rides the fence. You don't know weather to call it a hit or a miss. In some ways, it does work, depending on what kind of film you are looking for. For a black comedy ( stuff you shouldn't laugh at, but you laugh at it anyways...you know what a black comedy is!) it is quite stellar. For anything other then that, I'd say take a pass. It's just about a woman who is paid to clean up the mess a violent crime leaves behind. Unfortunately, she's more obsessed on what happened, why it happened, and where it happened, rather then focusing on cleaning up the crime scene. She eventually ends up talking to a serial killer himself, and there's quite an interesting discussion on weather the head talks after it's been removed from the rest of the body ( If that doesn't steer you away from this, then what will?) Again, black comedy, SUPERB! Anything other then that that you are looking for, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Nice little Black Comedy","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When you want a black comedy that will tickle you without too much mental action, this makes a good choice.  It works much like an old Twilight Zone and won't stress you too badly.  Well photographed and acted with an enjoyable soundtrack.  Can you hear me Gabriella!? "},{"Title":"Wickedly enjoyable, Angela Jones is great!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am not sure how I heard about this film but I am glad I did. It was much more enjoyable than most videos I watch on the weekend. Angela Jones is a delight to watch. I loved the ending. Don't turn the video off at the end, fast forward through the credits and watch Quentin Tarantino explain how he discovered this film at an Italian Film Festival.  "},{"Title":"Makes murder a little cute, but I loved it","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Angela Jones did a great job, I thought, and her naive manner in the role was just dreadfully cute, which made the movie horribly funny. I love the scene where she's talking to Billy Baldwin about his killings and the disgusting cartoons she draws. It was  a great thing to look at on a Friday night with the feminine friends. "},{"Title":"Definitely Baldwin's best movie","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Billy Baldwin hasn't had much success in acting in great films. Curdled is probably the best story Billy ever worked on. I can't say it was his best performance though. Angela Jones did great, and Daisy Fuentes' cameo was awesome. ( I think I say that because I'm a bit partial to her. ) "},{"Title":"The erotic meets the macabre to form an interesting romance.","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film has nothing to do with cottage cheese. It's about a cleaning service in Miami that goes in after murders. The naive Gabreila, played by Angela Jones, is obsessed with a head-hunting serial killer for reasons that go back to her childhood in Colombia. (That part is a little forced but excusable.) Except for Jones and Billy Baldwin, the acting ranges from so-so (Daisy Fuentes and Barry Corbin) to poor (just about everyone else), and the script is adequate without being too inspired. What really drives this film is the morbid fascination and curiosity that most of Quentin Tarantino's fans were born with for some reason. Tarantino was the executive producer on the film, but apparently did little more than shell out some money and guide Reb Braddock, the movie's writer and director, through his first and only feature to date. Tarantino saw Braddock's 1991 20-minute short upon which Curdled is based and encouraged him to turn it into a feature and to make sure he used the same actress in the lead. A great piece of advice. Tarantino also cast Jones as Bruce Willis' cab driver in Pulp Fiction.  Curdled is a must-see for Tarantino fans, not because of Tarantino, but because it approaches his big three (Reservoir Dogs, True Romance, and Pulp Fiction) though on a much smaller scale and without the incredible dialogue. The violence and sex are present but only implied, which gives the film some of its charm. The climactic, choreographed last half hour or so makes this a piece of truly delightful filmmaking. "}{"Title":"Salsa with a twist of blood.","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Frankly, most black comedies aren't. This one is so twisted and wild (sprinkled with incongruously happy Latin music), that the laughs are incredibly uncomfortable, but laugh you do. It's not just that the heroine becomes enthralled in this murder madness, but because of Angela Jones excellent job, so do we. If the Oscars had an award for most mesmerizing facial expressions, she surely would have won. And why Reb Braddock hasn't done anything since is a real shame. I'd sure like to see him direct a musical. "},{"Title":"Tarantino's Turkey.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Proof that not everything Tarantino touches turns to gold. This is most definitely plastic, all the way. Its easy to see that without Quentin's involvement this would have probably sat on the shelf for years, that's assuming it would have ever got produced in the first place. It is about a woman with a fascination of death who gets a job cleaning up after crime scenes, Angela Jones is unconvincing in this role, William Baldwin is better as the Serial Killer who keeps Jones in employment!. All in all pretty poor.  "},{"Title":"Forgettable and familiar horror yarn","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" From it's uninspiring title to the flat acting performances, Curdled is very much an unremarkable film throughout. The film has gained some fans by way of the fact that Quentin Tarantino's name is attached to it, and the silly and out of place nod to the Rodriguez/Tarantino flick 'From Dusk till Dawn'. These things do not make a great movie, however, and this is more than evident all the way through 'Curdled'. The film suffers from an all too obvious lack of ideas, and it tries to mask this with murders that are meant to be stylish and events that are supposed to be disturbing. The Mexican music score that accompanies many of the sequences in the film is obviously meant to be cool, but it's becomes annoying very quickly; especially as aside from the fact that the lead character is Mexican, it doesn't fit with the tone of the movie. The film's plot is typically offbeat and it follows a gorehound who, because of her obsession with grisly murders, takes a job with a firm that cleans up murder scenes. It sounds boring and it is.William Baldwin is the only 'name' on the cast list, and even he doesn't make an impression. He hasn't been given anything to do in the movie and aside from talking to his victims and standing around trying to look menacing, he's pretty much wasted. Angela Jones, or rather; the taxi driver from Pulp Fiction, takes the lead role as the murder obsessed young woman, and it is always clear that it's her involvement with Pulp Fiction that won her this role, not her acting ability. She may have been good enough in her small role in Tarantino's masterpiece, but she doesn't have the talent to lead a film by herself. She looks lost and out of place for the majority of the film, and if it weren't for her Latino accent; she wouldn't convince the audience that she's a weirdo on any level. Curdled is a one hundred percent-proof piece of forgettable trash. Films like this often win themselves praise for invention or black comedic antics; but this one fails on all levels. Whether you're a Tarantino fan, William Baldwin fan, horror fan or just a movie buff; this is one to miss. "},{"Title":"A well-acted aberration.","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Thoughtless, ignorant, ill-conceived, career-killing (where is the talented Angela Jones now?), deeply unfunny garbage. It's no wonder Reb Braddock hasn't directed anything else since - anyone who has a chance to make his first film on his own rules, based on his own script, with the help of Quentin Tarantino himself, and creates something like THIS, anyone who feels that THIS was a story worth telling to the world, doesn't deserve a second break. Under the circumstances, the performances are good - the actors do what they're told to do, and they do it well. It's just that they shouldn't have done it in the first place.     0 out of 4.  "},{"Title":"This one is Very Sweet","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Qt. someone overlooked masterpiece, it 's like watching from close-by how the mind of the killer works, you owe it to yourself to like this flick, cause you'll never see anything like it ever, A very nice fairy tale with deadly results A "},{"Title":"Loved Opening Credits Music","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This black comedy was a little too dark for my tastes; but I loved the opening tune and the graphics. Also, glad to see Barry Corbin who is one of my favorite character actors (remember Uncle Bob in Urban Cowboy). Nevertheless, the movie is still worth viewing late night on cable. "},{"Title":"Should've been left a short.","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although this film has its moments (they are few and far between), overall it does not succeed as a full length outing.  The twenty minute short that it started out as was tight, intriguing and left the viewer interested the whole time.  In this elongated version though, it seems as though Red Braddock was not quite sure what to work in to expand the film.  It turns out to be a watered down, meandering script and a rare good performance by William Baldwin and the serviceable Angela Jones are somewhat left adrift. It's just my personal opinion, but Quentin Tarantino should have listened to Red Braddock when he was hesitant about expanding it into a feature.  I must admit though that it was interesting to see the blue blood killer developed a little more (however minute that expansion onto the original character was).  To bring this to a point, despite its shortcomings, it's worth seeing in all its black comedy quirkiness just once...but don't make a special trip to rent it. "}]