[{"Title":"A film that surprises and grows on you.","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films, like Only You (Marisa Tomei and Robert Downey Jnr.), that you catch by accident and are then surprised that it wasn't a bigger hit.This film certainly had all the right ingredients, good Hollywood stars and good actors into the bargain, an everyday setting, and a completely believable storyline.Its lack of success is probably down to the fact that both Christian Slater and Mary Stuart Masterson were both better known for playing much more serious or action roles and this was quite a departure for them.Where the film really falls down is the script, which any English student could probably have written without difficulty, but it is a credit to the two stars that such an endearing and enjoyable movie is rescued from it.The script simply attempts too much, with both characters having troubled pasts when it comes to relationships and so it then comes as slightly unbelievable that Slater's character suddenly finds the courage to take the lead as he does.Both the actors, though, give wonderful performances which really make you feel for their situation and involve you with their lives. This, mixed with some great comic moments from Pamela Segall make for a very enjoyable romantic comedy which doesn't lose its appeal with time.A must see for all commitment phobics!  "},{"Title":"Warm and Wonderful","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Bed of Roses is easily one of the best romance movies ever. Even if the movie wasn't as good as it is, the soundtrack alone would make it worth watching. But, the movie itself is wonderful and full of warmth. Bed of Roses has the kind of story you would like to live out for yourself. True, people don't usually meet and fall in love the way Lewis and Lisa do in this movie, but isn't that the purpose of movies and music? The story and characters are as unique as they are addictive. When the movie ended, I found myself wanting more. This is one movie that will stick with you. I dare you to watch it only once.If you enjoyed Bed of Roses, you might also like At First Sight with Val Kilmer and Mira Sorvino. "},{"Title":"A big bouquet of happiness will be delivered to any viewer who chooses to watch this fine film","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Lisa (Mary Stuart Masterson) is a rising businesswoman who rarely devotes herself to anything but work and more work. This is, in part, because of events that occurred during her childhood. She has a drop-in boyfriend who doesn't really spend any quality time with her but, Lisa is certain she likes it that way. That is, until the day a gorgeous bouquet of flowers is delivered to her at the office, without a card. Lisa calls friends and work colleagues to try to determine who sent her this gift. No luck. As a last resort, she goes to the florist and begs for information about the giver. She is stunned to learn that the delivery man, Lewis (Christian Slater) is her unknown fan. Lewis tells her about his interest in her and Lisa is cautious, of course. But, over the next few weeks, Lisa and Lewis become closer. Yet, something is wrong. What could it be? This is a quietly beautiful love story. Masterson is pretty and touching as the woman who doesn't know much about love and Slater is wonderful as the florist who learns to open up his heart again, too. The rest of the cast is nice and the script, costumes, sets and production values are very good. If you are drawn to stories of romance, this one should land on your must-see list. It is a bouquet of humor, heartache, and happy endings that will have you floating on air, smiling like crazy. "},{"Title":"Romantically Sweet","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  At the time that this movie was in theaters, I didn't really want to see it, so I didn't.  I later rented it on one of those nights where I needed a feel good romance.Bed of Roses was that and a lot more.  Christian Slater was amazing as a very rare male romantic, and Mary Stuart Masterson was also endearing as his love interest.  The only downfall was the trite script, but that was more than made up for by the wonderful acting, and the beautiful idea of the story.It makes you really think about what love is really all about.For a wonderful romantic movie that gives you a reason to go out and look for that special someone, see Bed of Roses. "},{"Title":"Great acting, mediocre movie","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this film, but only for two specific things the acting of Masterson and Slater.  Masterson is startlingly good, and Slater shows a deeper range than I previously thought.  The rest of the film, though, is shallow and never fully realized.  Plot elements are thin and almost unbelievable, several of the supporting actors are terrible, the music is trite and unoriginal, the cinematography is downright boring, and the dialogue falls into inanity and predictability too often.  If not for the heroic performances of the lead couple, this film would be entirely forgettable.  Masterson, though, is truly gifted, and digs deep to find the center of her character, and Slater reaches a bit himself for a romantic side I've never seen.  I give it a 6, for the acting alone. "},{"Title":"don't miss it","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Here we go, a rating from a guy....who really hates chick flicks...but sorry guys ... this movie is tops. Mary Stuart Masterson is fabulous and the perfect cast for the role. Admittedly i've had a crush on her for years but this film is meant to give that glimmer of hope to those who think they'll never find someone. Its a romance story and being an action fan find myself in somewhat uncharted waters. The plot is basic as a love story and not meant to be taken literally... Bottom line here for you guys is...if you want to impress the wife or girlfriend or make up after a fight....watch this movie together...all with be forgiven scorpio  "},{"Title":"Good film if you don't dig too deep","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I bought this movie primarily because I am a sucker for a good love story and I also happen to love Jann Arden's Insensitive. I was quite surprised to learn who the song was directed to in the film, but that's another story.On the level of light entertainment, this film makes a nice viewing. But when you go below the surface, there are an awful lot of problems.It's one thing to have a relatively short film (88 min). It's another to have a 3-month time lapse condensed to a couple of minutes and give us no clue as to how one of the 2 characters is faring until we see the resolution. There were several times in this film when there were substantial time shifts and it was interspersed in such a manner that you tend to get thrown a bit off-balance.*SPOILER Additionally, this film is a bit offensive in that it uses prior child abuse merely as a plot device. It never really delves into it and keeps everything vague. Because of this Mary Stuart Masterson's character certainly comes off as alienated, but only in a surface manner. One would assume that a long-term relationship might only work for her if she initiated serious therapy. This film never addresses that. If one believes that 'love conquers all' it would probably not be an issue. But that concept isn't reality-based.And there are unneccesary ambiguities in this film as well. Is the issue of Masterson falling in love being met with dissatisfaction from her boss? Has she become a better worker for not being a workaholic? These office scenes are handled very poorly and become relatively superfluous.Performance-wise, Christian Slater does indeed come across well as an offbeat prince charming and Pamela Segall is excellent as the best friend, though she seems to be channeling Brenda Morgenstern. The biggest problem is Mary Stuart Masterson. She plays awkward and stiff well, but this role could probably have been cast better. Personally, I would have liked to have seen someone a bit plainer, such as Janeane Garafolo, in the part. It would have given Slater's motivation more depth. Could he fall in love and attempt to be a savior for a troubled woman if she wasn't especially pretty?At any rate, Bed of Roses is well worth a watch. Just so long as one enjoys it for the light entertainment it is. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I really loved this movie.  Mary Stuart Masterson and Christian Slater are great as a couple and I found myself rooting for them all the way through. Christian Slater's character, Lewis,  is sweet and sexy and leaves me wondering...does he have a brother?   "},{"Title":"Definitely for the Romantics!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This movie definitely stands as one of the most romantic films I've ever seen! I loved the very basis on which the movie was based - presenting a bouquet of flowers is such a day to day affair but how beautifully this little ritual was transformed into a touching love story between two people who need soul mates. There's Lisa, the busy VP of a company, an orphan who has had an unhappy childhood with her foster father but whose death at the start of the movie leaves her with a deep sense of shock and loss and there's Lewis, a florist, living in his own floral world, with a huge family but someone who is no stranger to loss himself, having lost his wife. These two people from considerably different backgrounds are destined to meet and fall in love...Christian Slater's character is every girl's living dream! Lewis as a man is perfect, make Chritian Slater play him and it seldom gets better than that! ;) This was the first movie with Mary Stuart Masterson that I saw and I was sold! The woman is excellent! I saw films like 'Fried Green Tomatoes' and 'Digging to China' later just for her! I don't agree with what one more viewer over here has written - that MSM is just not the kind of girl a guy like Christian Slater would fall for. Making Lisa too beautiful would have lessened the human-ness of her character I think... Lisa, that way, is moderate in all ways, beautiful in a class of her own, not the most romantic person and with a past which makes her a trifle cautious about love, since she herself has received it in grudging doses... Analysis apart, see this movie for an hour and a half of unadulterated romance... With a beautiful music score(Scarlet's 'Independent love song', Sarah McLachlan's 'Ice Cream' and Michael Convertino's ethereal music!) I have the OST of this film and it's one of the best I've heard! The dialogues - ..nothing like a finicky agapanthus.., ..it must have been some mistake in the floral world.. - are quite witty! If not ANYthing, just watch to have a peek at Lewis's dream-like terrace garden! Sigh! If all guys had such gardens on their terraces, all the girls would be bowled over like Lisa is and the ozone layer for once wouldn't be depleting! ;) Those are highly unromantic thoughts to occur while writing about love and romance in full bloom (pun intended..!) But all said and done, this film is definitely for the romantic at heart! Those who're not, are perhaps likely to dismiss it as rosy mush! I liked it because the film had substance. 'Bed of Roses' wouldn't fall into the Romantic Comedy genre, 'cos a comedy it certainly isn't. And thank god for that! There are unfortunately very few rom-coms that are mercifully devoid of the same formulaic dialogue, contrived plot-settings and characters...in fact most are disappointingly mediocre('Notting Hill' is one classic example...) 'Bed of Roses' is just a romantic movie - it doesn't have comedy elements that are inserted in films more often as ploys to rope in a wider audience than for the need of them in the story per se...anyone who dismisses 'Bed of Roses' because of its lack of comedy or because they think it's a chick-flick - too bad! You're missing out on a good film! "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie for the Hopeful Romantic!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  How can I even start. This movie is a true love story about bringing together two people so different from one another that under anything but the most unusual circumstances they would never even cross paths. And isn't that what we all want? A magic moment with someone that comes out of left field? Christian Slater is excellent as a shy but well meaning character who has nothing but the best intentions. His pain is easy to feel and his thoughts about the world are childlike, innocent, and so on target (We should all go to story hour sometime!) Mary Stuart Masterson is the picture of todays executive - hustling and bustling while never even giving thought to what she really wants deep inside. The two together are just the picture of how love should be. (The morning after scene is something I will always wish for in life and will never achieve)I honestly thought while watching this - if you could just run the credits after the morning after this would have been the perfect movie but into life a little rain must fall and so we have the second half. But even this I love because don't we all have those insecurities, that cowardice hiding deep inside?? Trust me - its worth a watch - everyone I know loves it and I have to fight to get the tape back when I loan it out!! "}{"Title":"The Dropout and the Foundling","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" When you cast Christian Slater in a part where he sends flowers to a complete stranger you never know what you're going get. It's not like he hasn't played off balance people before. And some might consider what he does to Mary Stuart Masterson as stalking.But Slater and Masterson make a fetching romantic couple in Bed Of Roses as a pair of lonely people looking for something or someone to complete them as a line in another film done in late 90s said. Slater has never been this romantic before or since on the big screen. Parts like he had in Kuffs, Pump Up The Volume, and Heathers are more like what he's identified with.Slater in fact was once in Masterson's world, he was a runner with Goldman&Sachs who lost a wife and child in childbirth. After that he just dropped out of it all and became a florist delivery man because flowers are beautiful and everyone is happy to see him when he delivers.Masterson is in that world now, but all she has is work. She was a foundling who was left at the Pittsburgh airport and raised in a foster home with a man who drank considerably and its hinted he may have done other terrible things to her. She has no romantic illusions, she does have work though and the world of high finance demands her attention completely.Bed Of Roses is a good, but not great film. It's lack of development of supporting characters is a big weakness. Still it's the definition of a star vehicle and the stars do shine in this one. "},{"Title":"Predictable, cliches, scenes you've seen a thousand times;","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Nothing new in this hackneyed romance with characters put into unbelievable situations, speaking dialogue that borders on the ridiculous.  This is an example of another movie put into production before serious script problems were solved.  Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Bed of Rosy Film Memories","Date":"18 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This is a chick's film. And I am most emphatically not a chick but I love it. Men can be romantic, too. Provided there is something about the romantic story which is as intelligent and beguiling as this story is.The performances of Mary Stuart Masterson and Christian Slater are master studies in delicacy and hesitancy, arising out of their characters' tragic backstories and the exigencies of the romantic plot generated by their lonely background. This is the dance of love at its most delicate, hesitant, subtle and intricate. The whole film is shot through with a Ravelian delicacy of music and mood, and indeed the music of Michael Convertino (along with some well chosen ballads) is a major reason for the film's delicate beauty and atmosphere, superbly combined with the excellent photography. New York has never looked so much like a city for lovers! Pamela Adlon's character is so interesting and attractive in herself that it is a crying shame she was not given her own film with her own fine romance.The story and characterisation has been more than adequately conveyed in the reviews to date. I would simply like to emphasise that the romance is sweet without being sickly, particularly because of the edginess to the story at times which counterpoints the lyrical moments. With performance, script, music and photography in perfect sync this is a film whose afterglow lingers long in the memory of your true romantic. A minor masterpiece. Would there were more like it. "},{"Title":"To my surprise, better than average love story","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This film is from that time period when someone thought Christian Slater could be a quirky (if not slightly creepy) romantic lead. I never believed it, although he did have several good roles in such pics. But quirky and creepy don't play well for long.So, I was a little surprised to find myself watching this film...and liking it. Although it took a while. The first third of the film sort of meanders along with a slightly creepy Slater romancing a workaholic loner of a girl (Mary Stuart Masterson). I began to wonder if this film was going anywhere interesting...you can look at just so many flowers being delivered. Then they begin living together and she is invited to his family's home for Christmas. Can she do it? No. Christmas is a disaster. The romance is off. They go their separate ways. Will they get back together? I could see an ending where she wants to but he is already with someone new, and she realizes that once again she has lost happiness. Or, I could see the happy ending we expect.I thought Masterson was downright superb in her role. And, Mr. Slater surprised me, as well. In fact, the final scene -- where she expresses her need and he appears to think no, not again -- as fine a piece of acting as you're likely to see in a romantic film.Pamela Adlon is excellent here as the best friend. On the other hand, Josh Brolin has a pretty-much-nothing role as a sort of boyfriend of Masterson.So, this was a much better film than I expected (at least after the first third). If you like love stories, this is better than most. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly interesting","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I kind of love romantic comedy's because they're easy to watch and they'll always turn out to be what you expected them to be.This movie had the same 'contents' as all romantic movies do. Two people meet each other in a way people will never meet. She's hard to get, but he is so romantic, she falls for him. They turn out to be perfect for each other, but she's not telling something important. They fight. They get back together. They live happily ever after. But it turned out to be quite different than all the other movies at the same time. Actually, I think the storyline is really boring. It's just not complete. They both have difficult backgrounds, but those story's are just 'put in to the movie', without expanding them. It's like pieces of a puzzle which are put in the right order, but they're not actually put together.So, its kind of a boring story, but it really intrigued me at the same time. I think it's because of the actors, like people in other reviews have said. They make the boring characters alive. And maybe it's because they talk really little, in my opinion. And their faces tell the story. So I actually loved watching this movie, just in a whole different way than I expected at first.Maybe you don't understand what I mean, but then you have to watch the movie. Just don't expect a regular romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"It had its ups and downs","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I thought some of it was good, and there were some original lines that I will likely take with me and use in appropriate situations. Both Slater and Masterson are wonderful actors, but there just wasn't any chemistry between them.I was also bothered by the fact that the little girl in the play was adorable. Wasn't the whole purpose of the play supposed to be for the ugly duckling? She was not believable as a hard case. I realize that was just a detail in the story, but it's an example of the lack of follow through that the movie had in many areas. It was very sweet and romantic however, with some lines I will remember. "},{"Title":"OK as Romance Flick.. but, uh - where is last chapter of Script?","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" The sentiments of my wife and myself are echoed well by many discerning viewers here at IMDb Slater is great as a wonderful guy who loves people and falls in love with a girl he sees, for the first time, under 'unusual' circumstances (trying not to give anything away here). Masterson is a needy, but accomplished workaholic, who appears to have found the ideal guy. And the movie does have some nice set designs, warm family moments, and music.But, the Script is skimpy in places, particularly at the end!! I mean, my goodness - supposing the plane in 'Casablanca' carrying Rick's long-lost love away forever had to force-land at the Airport. Wouldn't you expect another 15 minutes of story to wrap up the loose ends? lol - supposing Bogart just walks off and says 'This is the beginning of a great friendship' to his policeman friend, and leaves Ilsa staring into the fog? yikes!Well, we couldn't believe in this case that the film was over!! huh? did we get a defective copy of the DVD? 'Sorry - great price on this DVD, but the last chapter of the Script is on Disc 2 (not included).' Actually, it is 'sort' of a happy ending, but I think FilmMaking-101 includes the rule Don't open up plot points you can't develop and wrap up satisfactorily.6/10 Guys watch with secure marriage mate, or watch NFL instead! (-- "},{"Title":"Brighten your day...","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie quite some time ago, and saw it again a couple of nights ago. It hasn't lost it's charm. This movie about a modern day prince charming and his frazzled, confused princess was just the thing I needed to brighten my day. Christian Slater is one of my favourite actors, and he shines in this film as the man every woman wishes she could have. This movie just plain makes me happy, and with all the dramas and tragedies surrounding us, I think it was just what I needed, and maybe what you need too, to brighten your day. I'm not saying there aren't flaws in the movie, but the feeling I get from watching it seems to erase everything that might be wrong, leaving only a wonderfully sappy movie. "},{"Title":"One of my Favorites","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" This is one of the best kept secrets of chick flick movies. It has long been one of my favorites, and every time I turn someone new on to the movie,it becomes one of theirs too. I highly recommend this film if you are a romantic or just a Slater fan. It is one of a dying breed coming from Hollywood....not the typical skin at every turn. A true decent film. I was very impressed with the story line and the true romantic nature of it. Slater shows his softer side and it really exhibits his versatility as an actor (of course I am a die hard Slater fan too). He is normally the bad boy in an action flick, or the bad boy of drama. Great movie for the dinner and a movie night for a couple. Check it out, you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"This is a nice film","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" A love story with a difference, Christian Slater and Mary Stuart Masterton play 2 lonely people that find each other. Christian is a bit of a stalker but he gets away with it where most people would not!!!. Is it not just a little bit creepy for a guy that you have never met before to know where you work and where you live and send you flowers!!! Also walking past your house at nice is a bit out of order. In this day and age he would have probably been arrested or served with a restraining order. Christian is so sweet as Lewis the Florist that you could forgive him anything. This is a totally lovely and feel good film and the ending is just how you wish your life could be. "}{"Title":"Hey, Watts is in this film!","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film quite by accident, lingering on it because the female lead reminded me of someone... then it struck me it was Watts the drummer girl! I hadn't got to see Mary Stuart Masterson after Some Kind of Wonderful, and tho I had a major crush on her at the time, somehow she had slipped out of my mind. It's wonderful to behold how beautifully she matured... The main problem of this nice little chick flick is that both characters and story are severely underdeveloped. But who cares, you get to see a lot of Mary, who is so beautiful it hurts! It would be fine for me if we just got to see her breathe for the entire length of the film.  "},{"Title":"Magical Masterpiece of sound and sight","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie for those of you who have given up on the magic of love at first sight.  Along with a beautiful picture score, this movie wakes up the giddy teenager that is inside us all. I mean how many of us can say that we were romanced on a garden rooftop in New York City? The character Louis is so mysteriously deep, it is often impossible not to fall in love with him along with Mary Stuart Masterson. This is one of my all time favorite love stories that I like to watch to wake up my inner feelings. The original motion picture score is also among my collection of music. Very inspiring! "},{"Title":"Very Touching!!!!!","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This Film was very touching! I loved it so much that I went out and bought a copy! the actors in this film were very touching! Plus all through out the movie christian slater would bite him lip! and I think that is just lucious! anyways to the MOVIETHIS WILL REVEAL A GREAT DEAL OF THE MOVIE!!!!! WARNING!!!Lisa is a woman who has had a hard life... to begin with she doesnt know her birthday and is afraid to share her past with anyone! Lewis see's her one day standing in a window crying! and him being a delivery guy! sends her flowers! there is no card so she sets out to find the secret admirer and they fall in love until he notices her address book and that says one name for Philidelphia and the name is stanley! her foster father... she now reveals her past to lewis! that stanley was a drunk and he raped her and how she didnt know her birthday! the thing is! when he asked her to marry him! she replies! I wish I could give you part of me but I.. Just... I cant its not something I have in my possession right now! the ending was great! but I'll leave that! and anyone who doesnt believe that! BED OF ROSES was a good flick! then you dont know good movies! movies are just stories! good plots! I am A #1 movie buff I've seen almost everything you could possibly IMAGINE!10/10 is what I give it! go see it!LISA IS PLAYED BY MARY STUART MASTERSON LEWIS IS PLAYED BY CHRISTIAN SLATERVERY GOOD MOVIE "},{"Title":"Good (not great) Movie -- One of my favorite soundtracks!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a solid movie for a night alone with the wife and a bottle of good wine.  I've been thinking of the movie quite a bit lately because of the fabulous views of the New York skyline, pre-September 11th.  Also, I think the soundtrack is wonderful.  It is one of those CDs that I keep returning to year after year.  Good stuff. "},{"Title":"For those who like romantic movies...","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Well written, excellent cinematography and musical score, very good casting and performances...a gem.  Both Christian Slater and Mary Stuart Masterson are wonderfully believable in their respective roles. Pamela Segall is most excellent in her supporting role, almost to the point of stealing some of the scenes (in a nice way). "},{"Title":"This was a very sweet film.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I watch this movie every time it comes on and was glad to see that it will come out in video next month. I thought the casting was well done. The story line was bittersweet and compelling. I get a bit tired of all the romantic/comedies that don't take much seriously. It's nice to see a tender love story reminiscent of the old movies like, The Apartment. "},{"Title":"good romantic drama","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This movie was nice.  I won't say it should have been a blockbuster, but I liked it.  It's the type of movie you might rent on a rainy day- nice, upbeat, and it leaves you feeling happy and content at the end.  It has a decent plot, and is enhanced by realistic acting. "},{"Title":"sweet and romantic","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  This a great movie for people who love romance. The story deals with ideas that don't usually appear in movies, but work together well. Christian Slater is HOT! This movie is very highly recommended. Sorry, no action scenes. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I felt this movie to be well acted.  It was a rather unique plot and was very touching.  Mary Stuart Masterson gave a brilliant performance  and was very convincing as a depressed woman who had no past.A+ "},{"Title":"Decent, well acted and beautiful!!!","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  A detached career girl is swept of her feet by a tsunami of roses sent to her by an unknown stranger.  She discovers that the stranger is a kind hearted florist  and indeed her knight in shining armor with loads of wounds under the armor.It is indeed a tear jerker in some ways and a decent movie if you like these kinds of movies. The chemistry between Slater and Masterson is mint and amazing to say the least. See the movie for yourself, maybe you'll Love it...in that case, cool!Maybe you will hate it, in that case, S*** happens.  "}{"Title":" I think our story is the best","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Mary Stuart Masterson is great as Lisa in this astounding romance film. The remaining cast is stupendous. The costumes are trendy. One of the good flicks in the genre, Bed Of Roses will bury the viewer in varieties of flowers. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Romans is wonderful!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie! I just saw it on TV, but I almost missed it! Beautiful story, good actors, wonderful flowers! A movie for everyone!I give this 9.5 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"I got hooked","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Here is my criterion for deciding if I like a romantic comedy. Do I, at the end of the movie, care enough to try to envision what might happen next if the movie were to go on? I did with Bed of Roses. In fact, I could envision Lewis & Lisa nearly breaking up again several times over questions like where and when to have the wedding. (Personally, if I were advising the couple, I'd recommend that Lisa ask her boss to give her away and set the wedding according to his schedule). These musings aren't the stuff of sequels, but they are the stuff of life and I have met enough couples like Lewis and Lisa to see real life in the struggles this couple had on screen. So I got hooked, and made the movie worth watching for me. "},{"Title":"Charming, sweetly sentimental, formula romantic stuff","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Bed of Roses is a light drama love story which tells of a man (Slater) who woo's a career female (Masterson) only to learn she's afraid of commitment. Yeah, it's sappy and full of Kodak moments but the two principals work well together and they can act as opposed to say, Bullock and Affleck which makes the buy-in a bit easier. Surf it, record it, and watch when you feel like a little love story with a happy ending. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Romance Movie Of All Time!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Best romance movie ever made!!This movie and Fools Rush In are my two most favorite romance movies ever made!! But this one has to come first.Christian Slater and Mary Stuart-Masterson team up in this wonderful romantic comedy!  The story is beautiful and both of them do a terrific job in it!!The best song in the whole movie is AN INDEPENDANT LOVE SONG.It's romantic, sweet, sad, and it's based on reality.So what you have to do is grab your guy for an evening of laughter and romance in this movie!!Enjoy! "},{"Title":"tingles in your stomach","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Do you know the tingle you got in your stomach when you got your 1st kiss. Well that is the feeling you get watching this movie. It is so sad but good sad and so romantic. When I watch it and i do all the time i always cry. Slater and that girl did an excellent job and they look so good together. If u like her acting rent Benny & Joon (Jonny Depp is in there too) another excellent movie "},{"Title":"Likable romantic drama","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Being forever single(not because I'm commitment phobic, but because most women don't give me the time of day), I naturally turn my nose up at watching romance movies, but I like to think it's because a lot of them have nothing real at the center.  The YOU'VE GOT MAIL's of this world are just interested in cheap sentiment, and as the line from the movie goes, I detest cheap sentiment.  But for the most part, there's nothing cheap about this likable movie.  It's about two people who have been hurt, one recently(Lewis - Christian Slater), who was career driven until he lost his wife, and now owns a flower shop), one early on (Lisa - Mary Stuart Masterson), the investment banker who hides a past of being abused by her foster father) who are brought together(Lewis sees Lisa crying and the next day sends her flowers), and we truly wonder if this can work, unlike movies where we're just manipulated into thinking that way.The character of Lewis is perhaps a little weak.  Or maybe it's because Christian Slater, who I like, seems at times like he's repeating himself from UNTAMED HEART (which I loved).  But some of his actions seem to be overdoing it, and some of his dialogue is over the top.  On the other hand, Lisa is perfectly drawn.  This is not the stereotypical career-driven bitch, but a complex woman who, understandably, is afraid to show her emotional scars, and would naturally be drawn to someone like Josh Brolin's character, who is the romantic equivalent of a night-light.  And Masterson doesn't play it in an obvious way, either, but gradually and subtly.  Why isn't she a bigger star?  I also liked the use of Jann Arden's Insensitive here too. "},{"Title":"Restraining order please...","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" I've tried to like this film, really. In watching it, all I can think is, This guy gives me the creeps, I would have gotten a restraining order. It also calls out CODEPENDENCE in capital letters. Was this really the conversation before making the movie? Let's make a film that puts two chronically depressed, socially inept people into a relationship which deepens their isolation and encourages them to complain about how bad their lives are! From what I've seen in life is that the last thing on earth we find attractive in a potential mate is constant self-pity. The mood of the movie is distinctly 80-ish; brooding and slow. Don't get me wrong, the film has its moments, just very few of them. "},{"Title":"Best movie I've ever seen","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  The movie was great! From the beginning on it was a very modern film of it's time and was a smooth flowing from start to finish. The music is nice and contemporary as if it were from a new age track, and the story line was superb. A very romantic date movie, with some comedic sparks and some dramatic scenes. A well planned, and carefully plotted storyline. Mary Stuart was great as the character Lisa, and she matched perfectly with Lewis. (Christian Slater) THis is not your typical love story that stems from the previous love stories. This is a new day and age love story that will either have you in tears or ready to grab the nearest box of tissue. Whether you are a hopeless romantic or not, this movie will definitely spark that twitterpation feeling you have when new love comes your way.  "},{"Title":"it's a really big step-up from 13 going on 30 and others.","Date":"24 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" Bed of roses was an excellent movie. after watching it I literally cried MSM and CS make a perfect couple in the movie.SPOILER although i think its awkward that CS walks nights looking into people's windows, creepy. it is cute that he's sort of like a secret admirer. he sends her roses after seeing her crying in her window (how cute). after they kiss and she shreds the flowers she goes back to him and he talks about his dead wife. well anyways if any of you love romantic comedy's than you should get Bed Of Roses, its a great movie. Spoiler at first i thought Bed of Roses was going to be weird but obviously I was wrong. i really like the fact that MSM has a Tazer (you need your protection) its funny that she carries it in her purse. believe me you'll love this movie. "}{"Title":"Nice Little Love Story","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" BED OF ROSES **** Writer-director Michael Goldenberg creates a nice little love story that plays well in the hands of Christian Slater and Mary Stuart Masterson, cast as two emotionally damaged characters stumbling their way into a relationship. He delivers flowers because he enjoys bringing pleasure into stranger's lives. When he crosses paths with a hard-working career woman, he may be able to give more than one short greeting with his plant delivery to her. Them drawing together somewhat changes her archetype of lifestyle - something that adds depth to their relationship. It's slow paced yet never loses touch on the effects one's hurting past can have on present events. "},{"Title":"Likable enough...","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  Likable enough romantic comedy starring Christian Slater as the perfect catch--a man who runs a flower store and sends his lover roses. I originally saw this on a flight from the UK to the US and so I don't remember much--but the ladies will love this and the men might get one or two chuckles in.** 1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"one for the romantics","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I was warned about this film (and the fact that Christian Slater starred in it) and I'm afraid I have to say that I didn't really enjoy Bed of Roses...and it's not because I'm generally a non-romantic-film fan.  Somehow, the concept of the film is just a bit unbelievable. Sure, it may be nice to receive flowers from an admirer, but in this case, it would just be plain freaky. I think the thing that most irritated me was the time-frame in which everything happened in the film (eg. Did Lisa and Lewis move in together in a matter of days or was it weeks? The writer could have at least put in captions or something to let us know). At this point, I have no recollection of how this film ended so, to say the least, try not to watch this unless you are a dead-set romantic. "},{"Title":"mediocre movie","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":" let's value it.entertainment a trashy script which has been typed by unintelligent people in front of typewriters a thousand times.. pathetic acting that is thwarted by the story...OK production value, including good set/location and gorgeous girl.. -rating 4/10 social message the movie has no social message. it's thought free... .but if I pretend I were 10, and my IQ were 70. I feel the message isdon't be afraid to love? -rating 0/10objectionable things nothing special, just the mild Jewish hedonic and arrogant attitude that is presented by the writer/director. generally speaking, good , nothing degenerate -8/10overall rating is 4/10 "},{"Title":"Attack of the killer roses (of boredom)","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Drama","Review":"  I can honestly say this is the worst movie I have ever seen, never has there been such an overplayed pathetic attempt at a romantic comedy. The funniest thing about this movie was the title! If you enjoy romantic comedies I recommend you watch When Harry Met Sally. Stay clear of Bed of Roses for all costs - or suffer horribly... "}]