[{"Title":"Great Timing and Pace, Full of Twists and a Great Entertainment","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The criminals Rock Keats (Damon Wayans) and Archie Moses (Adam Sandler) are best friends and have been stealing cars together for one year. Archie invites Rock to join the gang of the drug lord Frank Colton (James Caan) without knowing that Rock is indeed the undercover detective Jack Carter, assigned to get evidences against Frank. During the police raid against a heroin shipping of Frank, Archie accidentally shoots Jack in his head. Once recovered, Jack declares Archie his enemy, and arrests him. But the former mates have to join forces against Frank's gangsters and many dirty cops.Bulletproof is a very funny police story, with a great timing and pace. There is a great chemistry between Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler, the good story has many twists and jokes, the cast is charming, especially the gorgeous Kristen Wilson and this is the second time that I watch this film and I still like it. This movie seems to be underrated in IMDb, with some very unfair reviews, and it is a great entertainment. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) À Prova de Balas(Bulletproof) "},{"Title":"I thought it was funny","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie, I think, is one of Sandler's best and I laughed my A off. I've watched it probably 15 times and I still laugh. I think the characters were well formed and the comedic chemistry between Sandler and Wayans was really entertaining! I think Archie Moses was a cute and fun character(especially when he used this Budweiser dog as a hostage and then out of guilt he lets the mutt go).I also love it when he and Keats are at each others throats one minute and then best buds the next. My favorite line in the whole movie is when Keats and Moses are pulled over by the cops and Moses has to pretend he's mentally challenged and while pulling a dopey face he says Disneylaaaaaaaaahhhhhnd. Hillarious. James Caan made a brief cameo as Sandler's notorious boss, Coulton and that was cool too.This movie is no Academy Award winner, but so what! It made me laugh and dispite other reviews it is my favorite Sandler, tied with The Wedding Singer and Happy Gilmore off course. Very, very humerous. "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud!","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bulletproof is one of those movies that the critics are obviously going to give a blow and thumbs down, but in reality, I really had a good time watching Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler dodging bullets, cussing each other out, just basically getting on each others nerves.An undercover cop named Rock Keates (Damon Wayans) is planning to arrest long time friend Archie Moses (Adam Sandler) on drug accounts. When the bust goes terribly wrong, Keates is ACCIDENTLY shot in the head by Moses. Days later, Moses is arrested by the survived Keates and both are put into a danger situation with an airplane. After the plane crashes in the desert, Keates and Moses annoy each other the whole way down.Damon Wayans (My Wife and Kids) and Adam Sandler (Big Daddy) star in this hilarious comedy that will have you laughing! "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really didn't find anything that bad in this movie, it has some big names and really entertaining. I found Adam Sandler's character Archie funny, along with Damon Wayans formed a good team. James Caan as the bad guy was a nice choice. The only thing I didn't like about this movie was the ending, but nothing that big to gripe about this is worth renting if you like Sandler, cussing, and fun action. "},{"Title":"Not one of Adam Sandler's best movies","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is about friendship and betrayal. Both of the major characters in this movie are betrayed by their closest friends, and come to understand what it is really like to be betrayed. One of them is an undercover cop while the other is a criminal, but also quite timid, but has joined forces, and then earned the emnity, of a major drug lord.The movie opens with the cop and Archie Moses as best friends stealing a car, but we quickly learn that the cop is an undercover cop who is trying to bust a drug dealer who owns a huge car dealership. Moses then brings the cop to the factory and it is discovered that he is a cop and the police raid the place. The cop wants to protected Archie, but due to an accident, Archie shoots him in the head. Months later, the cop has fallen in love with his therapist and Archie is running from the drug lord. He is found by the police but requests that this cop return and escort him back.There isn't much to say about this movie other than how they begin as best friends, but after the truth is revealed, Archie cannot trust him anymore. The cop in upset because Archie shot him, but does not want to believe that it was an accident. We also know that somebody else is tipping them off, but we do not know who, but the movie is about the friend's betrayal, and is summed up in Archie's comment to the cop, now you know how it feels to be betrayed by a friend. The drug lord is interesting because he also owns a used car yard and we always see his advertisement on television. It is as if this guy is flaunting himself in front of everybody, and those who know the truth about him are frustrated because they cannot get at him. Archie has the evidence, but the guy wants Archie dead because of his relationship with the cop.This is not a bad movie, but Adam Sandler has done far better. It is not really a comedy, more of an action movie, and though Sandler does act weirdly, this movie does not stand out in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Not funny nor exciting.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think Bulletproof may be a better movie than Billy Madison, but outside that it's the worst Adam Sandler movie yet. First there are quite a few scenes of dumb dialogue none of which are funny. And second this movie has some bad action sequences. In the end this movie can't seem to make it's mind if it's an action movie or a  comedy and who really cares. *1/2 out of **** for Bulletproof! "},{"Title":"Mix of two genres doesn't come off","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Mixing hard, violent action and yuk-yuk humor is very difficult to do successfully, and this movie proves it. Though I like action, and I like comedy, I just don't find the sight of people being bloodily blown away hilarious, as this movie seems to think. The action scenes are bland. There is some humor, but it's pretty spotty. Bottom line only watch if you have nothing else to do and no other choice. "},{"Title":"A mindnumbing waste of time","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not only was this a bad action movie, but it was a bad Adam Sandler movie (Hey, that's a little bit redundant, isn't it?) But what I really wondered is why James Caan wasted his time in it. Why would a great actor who played in the Godfather movies want to embarrass himself in such trash?Sandler plays a conman who unknowingly befriends a cop, played by Damon Waynes. When Sandler reveals that he knows the kingpin behind a massive heroin ring, he leads Waynes to the location, Sandler finds out that Waynes is going undercover as a cop, and shoots him in the head (by accident). Nevertheless, he recovers. To make it so the movie's plot goes on par with the title, they put a metal plate on the wound. Bulletproof Get it? Ooh, that's so clever and funny! My sides are splitting.I won't tell what happens from there. If you're brave enough to tolerate mental pain from sheer stupidity, you'd see it for yourself. This movie wasn't only a rip-off of several other action movies, but the jokes were unfunny and offensive, many of them being sexist, homophobic, or racist.  "},{"Title":"Half action, Half comedy, TOTALLY ENTERTAINING!","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bulletproof is one of the funniest and action filled movies I have ever seen in a long time, and Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler are a great team, and James Caan is also good as the drug boss Frank Colton. The whole cast kept me laughing, and the action kept the adrenaline running.4 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Wayyyy Underrated","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I believe this movie was highly, highly underrated. Sandler and Waynes(spelling?) work amazingly together, in my opinion. It seems that for some reason this year this movie was overlooked, maybe because of Happy Gilmore, which is a possibility.Definitely one of the better action/comedies of the 90's, as you can see I feel strongly about it. The plot is very interesting, and there definitely are some twists and turns that do keep you guessing. As you can see from this movie Sandlers career went uphill, as Waynes seems to have fallen. This movie reminds me a lot of Nothing to Lose (starring Martin Lawrence) and other movies of the sort. I don't know what it is but I have a soft spot in my heart for the 90's action/comedies. "}{"Title":"Bad action sequences, mediocre acting, GOOD PLOT!","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Stuck somewhere in-between action, comedy, and drama, Wayans and Sandler seem awkward delivering more seriously- based lines instead of their usual off-beat quips. The action scenes are TERRIBLE, very unbelievable and EXTREMELY FAKE. There are also several minor actors who can't deliver a line worth a damn. Otherwise, the movie is VERY enjoyable, and includes several plot twists to keep things interesting. The duo, although a bit dry and out-of-place for this sort of thing do manage to pull things together and keep the movie memorable. Worth at least one renting.... ) "},{"Title":"comedy duo should be much better","Date":"6 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rock Keats (Damon Wayans) and Archie Moses (Adam Sandler) are petty criminals and best friends. It turns out that Keats is undercover cop Jack Carter working for a year to take down crime boss Frank Coltan (James Caan). The big arrest doesn't go as plan. Jack gets discovered and Moses accidentally shots him during the escape. It's a big bust but Coltan is not part of it. Now Coltan is after Moses for revenge. Moses gets arrested and agrees to testify against Coltan. Jack and Archie are not happy with each other but are forced to work together when Coltan's men come after them.This is trying to be 48 Hrs. with Wayans and Sandler. On the face of it, this should work. They are good comedians at the height of their popularity. Sandler is wisecracking while Wayans is being as angry as possible. It doesn't work. I actually like it at the beginning when Wayans and Sandler are buddies together. The bar fight is great and loads of fun. Everything after that is an unlikeable mess. I don't like angry Wayans and Sandler gets more annoying as the movie goes on. The characters don't like each other and I don't like them together. "},{"Title":"Not original, but not the worst movie in the genre either.","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not a big fan of Adam Sandler and I normally don't appreciate all those buddy / action comedies. But I have to admit that this movie wasn't even the worst in the genre. Yes from time to time it can even be quite enjoyable. However, there's already a huge list of this kind of movies and Bulletproof certainly isn't the best of them either. Damon Wayans is an undercover cop who works with an unsuspecting criminal, played by Adam Sandler, to catch the big boss of a drug cartel. What happens next is a mix of a lot of action and some fun parts. The action sequences are nice to watch, but not every joke in this movie works very well. Still, in the end it isn't too bad, but like many action comedies, this one is very predictable and sometimes also very much over-the-top. I guess this movie will be loved most by the people who like the genre or by the great fans of Sandler's work. Since I don't belong to any of these two groups, I give it only a 5.5/10. "},{"Title":"Ehh","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As a fan of Adam Sandler, I was expecting something a little funnier. I wont waste time going through the plot, but it was pretty good for an action movie. The movie in my opinion couldnt decide whether to be a comedy or a drama. The film starts off great, but slowly dies in the middle where it becomes serious. It jumps alive in the sandwich action sequence, and becomes funny again. The rest of the movie is randomly funny, sometimes going for long stretches without laughs. Now, seeing as I barely saw it, when it compares to other Adam Sandler movies made after it, its not that great. But as a follow-up to Billy Madison, its okay. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Weird film","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film has a really weird mixture of genres - toilet humour and action in one. It doesn't really pull it off - it should have stuck to one genre. The best thing I can say about the movie is that the dog in it is cute.The most disturbing sequence is in the middle of the film when Moses (Sandler) and Carter (Wayans) decide to stop off at a hunting lodge/motel. I'm not quite sure what the point of this sequence is - it just seems gratuitous in the extreme. The proprietor of the hunting lodge (Charlie) is a very nerdy looking guy. For some reason, Moses starts a conversation with Charlie about porno, jacking off, homosexual sex, sex in a threesome... Charlie's photo of his wife appears to be Charlie dressed in drag. There is no reason for this really juvenile dialogue and scene. Anyway, the whole scene seems to be directed to the moment when a naked Moses ends up with Carter's gun up his butt and Charlie sees them through the window. It all reeks of school boy humour about homosexuality - horrified and titillated all at the same time - which I don't find funny at all.I have a friend who is always raving about Adam Sandler movies. This is the first one I've seen - after this, I'm not sure I want to see any more.BTW, this is my husband's account - he's seen Happy Gilmore, and he tells me it's quite good - maybe I should give Sandler just one more chance.Countess Skogg "},{"Title":"AWFUL!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I haven't for a long time seen such a horrible film. I hoped that at least Adam Sandler could be funny... hopeless. Seems, like some teenager have written it's script and he's daddy pushed this so far, that someone agreed to shoot it. (Movie)World could be better place without this, whatever it is. "},{"Title":"I'm not sure","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler team up in this film about betrayal, loyalty, friendship, and getting a gun in your a**.  I actually found some scenes funny, but this type of film isn't really made for Sandler (or Wayans for that matter).  But, they try, and they succeed, sort of.  James Caan is good as a villain boss.  B+ "},{"Title":"Shoot It.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bulletproof (1996) Dir Ernest Dickerson / Cast Damon Wayans, Adam Sandler, James Caan, Kristen Wilson, James Farentino Here is yet another rehash of what has been done countless times before. Title represents a relationship that has gone through tremendous difficulty due to broken trust and lifestyles. It stars Damon Wayans as an undercover cop who grows fond of a street criminal, played by Adam Sandler until he is discovered wired. Police invade the location and bullets fly and Sandler accidentally shoots Wayans in the head in an attempt to escape. He recovers in the hospital with a metal plate in his head then he is assigned to transport Sandler until a parade of bullets intercede leaving them as lone survivors. The rest is formula with an ending similar to that of The Rock. Basically a series of corny situations to test Wayans's tolerance of Sandler. Directed by Ernest Dickerson who previously made the controversial Juice, and here does his best with the stale material. Wayans and Sandler travel material that nearly every buddy comedy duo sets foot on. James Caan is typecast as the villain. Kristen Wilson is also wasted, as is James Farentino as Wayans's superior officer who orders the transfer. Typical buddy comedy that is hardly bulletproof. Perhaps the best idea would be to use this film as target practice just to see whether its title stands. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Bulletproof","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have always have been feelings for the star of Big Daddy, because of a majority of his films have had negative reviews from critics, and myself, I saw that this film was rated the lowest of low by critics, but I do have a hobby for watching bad films on purpose. Basically in Los Angeles, small time crook and thief Archie Moses (Razzie nominated Adam Sandler) works for local drug dealer Frank Colton (James Caan), he is unaware that his best friend Rock Keats, real name Jack Carter (Damon Wayans), is in fact an undercover LAPD cop, who is seeking evidence against Colton, he befriended Moses to infiltrate Colton's gang. One night, Jack gets Moses drunk and manages to get information from him, the police are sent to raid Colton's warehouse, it is then that Archie that realises Jack is a cop, during his escape attempt an out of control crane hits Archie in the back of the head, he accidentally fires his gun, shooting Jack in the head. Jack miraculously survives, makes a full recovery with the help of physical therapist Dr. Traci Flynn (Kristen Wilson), Archie trying to flee the state is caught and arrested, brought into custody he agrees to testify against Colton, after his recovery Jack's superior officer Captain Jensen (James Farentino) orders him to escort Acrhie to the courtroom for the trial on the other side of the country. Jack feels bitter towards Archie following the accidental gunshot to the head, and the simple transfer becomes complicated when federal agents and Los Angeles Police Department officers have been bribed by Colton, learning of Archie's attempt to testify, whilst being chased by hired thugs and assassins Jack and Archie slowly rebuild their friendship. However Colton apparently has Flynn hostage and is blackmailing Jack to turning in Archie to save her, the two of them pretend to comply with this and shoot their way through Colton's guards, but it turns out that Flynn was responsibility for leaking their location, she is in fact on Colton's payroll. Jack distracts Colton after Archie gets a bullet in the shoulder, he apprehends Archie and Flynn and manages to kill Colton, Archie gives the incriminating documents about Colton to Jack, he is then let go, heading to Mexico to become a bullfighter, accompanied his mother and Jack. Also starring Jeep Swenson as Bledsoe, Larry McCoy as Detective Sulliman, Allen Covert as Detective Jones, Sister Act's Bill Nunn as Finch, Patch Adams' Monica Potter as Biker's Woman and Homeland's Maury Sterling as Skinny Guy. Wayans and Sandler are not highly convincing as the former friends fallen out and slowly building bridges, Caan gets a short time as the crime lord, the performances are mostly annoying, this has a pretty lame and predictable script and storyline, the jokes aren't all that funny, the violence is relatively okay, and the only dynamic moments are the shooting sequences and some chases, but all in all it was a rather dull action comedy. Pretty poor! "},{"Title":"A Wayans 2 Go With A Sandler 2 Boot!","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Watching the new disposable Ernest Dickerson action-comedy Bulletproof, a cops and robbers buddy picture with Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler as the buds, is like munching great junk food. You know it isn't what you should be eating. Nevertheless, it smells delicious and makes you smack your lips together when you chew. The action scenes, when the bad guys (sometimes even the good guys) get the cream puffs kicked out of them, contain a lot of crunch. The crude-oil Saturday Night Live comic scenes, which only anal retentive Neanderthals would savor as instructive, are uproariously self-effacing. Serious film genre scholars may give an appreciative nod to Bulletproof simply because it triggers happier memories from classic action pictures, such as Clint Eastwood's The Gauntlet (1977), Sam Peckinpah's The Killer Elite (1974), and the 1958 Tony Curtis & Sidney Poitier version of The Defiant Ones. Nobody but the average moviegoers who really knows the two perquisite words in movie-going&#x97;fun and fake&#x97;will truly appreciate this potboiler of a melodrama, with comedy tosses in a spice, for what it aspires to be.The corpses pile up as fast as the clichés in the derivative Joe Gayton and Lewis Colick screenplay. As Detective Keats, Damon Wayans is cast as an undercover cop who convinces Moses (Adam Sandler's dopey but likable criminal blunder brain) that he is his best friend. The trouble begins when Keats bonds a little too well with Moses. Keats feels personally committed to bringing Moses in alive and well. When they try to reel in the kingpin mobster, a wealthy used car salesman played with gleeful abandon by James Caan of The Godfather. Keats concerns himself more Moses' welfare than the bust. In a weird Pulp Fiction torque of events, Moses shoots Keats in the head but neither kills nor cripples him.Moses freaks out, leaves for Mexico, with his pooch (one of those magpie-looking Spuds McKenzie types) to become a bullfighter. The law catches up with Moses, and he agrees to testify against his boss (James Caan) on the condition that Keats serve as his bodyguard. Although Damon Wayans is a truly gifted comic, he could take lessons from his brother Keenen Ivory about playing beefy, tough-guys. Damon acts more like his Major Payne character here when he should have used his rugged quarterback hero from The Last Boy Scout. He is a cheese cake action hero here. But it is fun to watch the antics of Wayans and Sandler (a foul-mouthed, 1950s' era Jerry Lewis wannabe) as they blunder through a series of impossible obstacles. The filmmakers serve up seemingly non-stop action like a Saturday Morning television cartoon. They plunge our bulletproof heroes into several unreal but really predictable predicaments. Eventually, the action brings our buddies to the big shoot'em up in James Caan's palatial residence and at least one surprise. If you figure out that surprise before the Dickerson and company reveal it, you have obviously gone into the wrong theater.Juice director Dickerson got his start as a cinematographer for Spike Lee in epics such as Do The Right Thing, makes Bulletproof look more visually slick and sophisticate than it deserves to be considering how imitative it remains. Each shot contains imaginative compositional elements that you won't be able to savor on a small screen. The lighting is extremely well-done. Actor James Farentino, who plays Wayan's sinister police department superior, is lighted so evocatively that he appears suspicious.Dickerson's big problem here is that the headlong action must break intermittently at all comedy stops. Bulletproof employs comedy to insulate its audiences from the effect of thinking too much about the wildly improbable scenes of simulated violence that recur throughout the film. After somebody gets iced, a joke is delivered to make you forget that they've been killed or, in the case of our heroes, escaped certain death.James Caan indulges himself as the used car salesman drug lord. In one scene, he removes his toupee so it won't get dirty during a showdown with Wayans. Caan gives his villainy the appropriate inflection for the kind of hokum that pads out Bulletproof. He is nowhere near the bastard that he was in the Arnold Schwarzenegger thriller Eraser. The usual quota of souped-up car chases, gunfights, and four-letter oaths ought to delight hardcore action fans, but they may miss the more amorous matings that occur in the more dramatic male sagas. Composer Elmer Bernstein enhances the super-charged action scenes with some humming, hipster-cool incidental music, especially in the introductory urban car chase scene. Bulletproof is definitely no classic, but it has its share of entertaining moments. "}{"Title":"B-Grade B-Movie !","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is interesting case. The thrillers with 2 totally discordant partners are quite familiar since the start of the 1980s. The formula got (Lethal Weapon) in 1987, then the sequel in 1989, where the sense of comedy was so lucid, as semi-iconic example for the buddy movie which was all over the place during that era.Once we've had 2 actors whom can do comedy (Lethal Weapon), one actor and one comedian (48 Hours), one actor to be comic and one comedian to act (Midnight Run), or 2 comedians yet into comedy (Dragnet). Here, despite how poor the atmosphere was, the main problem remains in casting strangely 2 comic tiny stars, at the time, to be the lead of what supposed to be a thriller. And the personality of the movie went wrong since that. You can't settle.. Is that a slapstick comedy, or a violent thriller ?? I was really sad because of the potentials of this hot plot, they're totally wasted.Despite the efforts (Damon Waynes) with the beard made to look serious but sorry that was in the wrong place, he was mostly cool but everything wasn't. (Adam Sandler) looked tepid or slack and relied only on his funny charisma to do the whole thing for him. (James Cann) must've needed money hard, but not to wonder because after watching him in (Alien Nation - 1988) I became convinced that I can see him in anything ! At least he had not much to do. Furthermore, some slight provocative moments (Waynes) and (Sandler) escape from the police station after threatening the whole department so dozens of policemen run after them, and THEN they're both enjoying their time in a strip club !!?? There is some excessive buffoonery also, to have that tense between being a comedy and a thriller. The direction is idealistically not cinematic, handling the mission like a TV episode, or a sitcom.. A boring serious one too. All the scenes suffered of zero budget so the word poor came with so many meanings here. Look at the deadly climax (shame to call it one in the first place) to know exactly what I mean. Basically there are better straight-to-video movies than this one ! (Kristen Wilson) was the only pretty thing in here yet as the plot's potentials both were lost.So it's the case of a thriller comedy which having the comedians as Action heroes, with destitute action, and even off-color comedy ! It is interesting indeed as a perfect type for a formula with a disorder. It could've been good though, but in another movie. Generally, I can be wrong to say that it wasn't entertaining, but I can be fair to say it was lowly entertaining. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie was hilarious. i don't know how come it's got such a low rating. It's a comedy, it's not supposed to make you think about the meaning of life, but to make you laugh. And if you didn't laugh watching it..you have some serious problems..Or you are more than 75 and shouldn't watch it cuz u might get a heart attack . Anyway, besides Adam Sandler, the dog does an excellent job, especially at playing drunk when Adam Sandler gets busted by the cops on the highway. It's not as stupid as waterboy, Sandler doesn't act that stupid. It might actually be my favorite Adam Sandler movie, but it still has to compete with Anger Management and Happy Gilmore. And if we can rule out Happy Gilmore, Anger Management is another freaking hilarious movie.. Difficult choice. But i recommend it to every Adam Sandler fan who hasn't seen it yet. And to everybody else that enjoys a good laugh. If you can't laugh, don't bother to register and vote. You'll ruin it. "},{"Title":"An Action/Comedy all the way through with the two most clever and talented comedians Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler. What's not to enjoy?","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I had never heard of this movie before. I was looking in the Video Hire place one night and found the side cover of a movie called BulletProof. I knew I was gonna get it. So I got it straight away. Brought it home and pressed play. I was 99% sure it was going to be great. The second I started it, it was action. This movie never bored me once, not even for half a second. The direction is excellent. The acting is superb and the movie gets straight down to business. I don't know how it does this, but somehow it manages to be action and comedy all at the same time. It never gets boring. The laughs and the action keeps coming. This movie does consist of some pornographic material, but I wont go there, i'll keep this review appropriate. I recommend it to people who love action/comedy movies and who support and love the two main actors. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A contrived, mean-spirited waste.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What had the potential to be a pretty good action/comedy ultimately becomes a mess of a film.  There are less than even a handful of funny scenes worth mentioning.  The humor and thrills are both third-rate.  Final thought an uninvolving mishmash of the far superior Midnight Run and 48 HRS. "},{"Title":"Could have been a contender!","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first 30 mins of this buddy buddy movie are great, minimal dialogue, plenty of action, and a real sense of fun and energy.However, and perhaps by no coincidence, as the plane they're travelling in nosedives, so does the script, the direction, and the pacing, and up pops just way too much infantile dialogue by Adam Sandler.If you can imagine Lethal Weapon but with dialogue for pubescent boys, this is what you get.Wayans is great but the miscasting of the highly immature Sandler ruins it. For bored teens only. "},{"Title":"a good buddy movie","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I didn't think I would like the movie. but I found it pretty good.  Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler were pretty good buddies. It reminded me of the buddy movies of the 70' and 80'. There were some stupid parts like the  gunman hiding in the sunflowers in the desert. Come on. How did those flowres get there. I like the dog. neat pit bull. The ending was good. I would recomend renting it. forget buying it. "},{"Title":"So Sue Me #3","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is to date Adam Sandler's worst film by far. It just didn't work. It was really poor to be totally honest!The cast just don't provide. It's like one of those bad 80's action films but 10x worse!Nevermind!2/10 "},{"Title":"Wasting good weed......","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Rock Keats and Archie Moses are best friends and have spent the past year together performing various small time crimes. This all changes when they become involved in a major drug smuggling operation. Rock Keats turns out to be Jack Carter, an undercover police officer and tries to arrest Moses during a failed attempt to catch criminal mastermind Frank Colton. However, Moses ends up shooting Carter and makes an escape. Moses is later caught and agrees to turn state's evidence on Colton with one condition, Carter escorts him in. When they meet, both are bitter towards each other. Unknown to them, Colton's men have orders to take out Moses and arrive to shoot down the transport plane. Carter and Moses end up by themselves in the countryside with Colton's men closing in.........Back in 1996, Wayans was bigger than Sandler, but it was already changing, Wayans had a string of flops and Sandler had just done Billy Madison.Wayans got top billing, and this is probably why it flopped big time.But it's a really fun easy going movie at a running time that couldn't offend anybody. It a load of old cobblers plot wise, and the buddy buddy thing was dying a death, but the two leads are amiable enough and Caan wasn't too bad as the villain.It's not very memorable though, and it's full of clichés, but for Sandler fans and Wayans fans, this will suffice. "},{"Title":"It was a riot!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie wasn't the typical Adam Sandler movie, but there's nothing wrong with it.  The humor wasn't as funny as something you'd expect it might be, but it was a nice touch to the action sequences.  So to anyone who thinks this movie wasn't funny enough... maybe that's because it's an action movie. Whatever i thought it was a riot! hahaha  "},{"Title":"Combing all your hair down in front can hide a receding hairline","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Is Adam Sandler in an action movie? Was no one else available? Was he your first choice? On purpose? Is Damon Wayans an action star? Are you sure? Substance abuse can destroy a person's life, did they know that when they made this movie? I like to think about all of the States of the Union this movie wasn't filmed in, like for instance Mississippi, Florida, Wisconsin, Delaware, Kentucky, North Dakota, Ohio.... Most of this movie was made on a sound stage on some movie studio's property. Wealth and power collude to enshrine mediocrity, that's what are lives are sucked into, the sewer storm drain of society. The good news is at some point in time all of us will be forever dead. "}{"Title":"Wayans and Sandler are funny and talented - but not in this movie","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This has to be one of the worst movies I ever saw. I should have known by it's release date - September - I was in for less than a treat. That's after all of the summer blockbusters have been released and before the academy award possibilities start cropping up in October/November. And remember, 1996 was the year that the word blockbuster was defined by unwatchable schlock such as Independence Day and Twister.Jack Keats (Damon Wayons) is an undercover cop posing as a car thief in order to get information from a real car thief, Archie Moses (Adam Sandler). The two have actually developed a kind of friendship during the time they are working together. After gaining his trust, Moses offers to introduce Keats to his boss, drug kingpin Frank Colton (James Caan). Keats jumps at the chance to home in on bigger criminal game. Thus as Keats is meeting Colton for the first time, the police appear on the scene to make their arrests in the case. In the resulting chaos, Keats is shot in the head. Keats has a slow but sure recovery. On the bright side, he falls in love with the woman who helps him recover. On the negative side, he now has a metal plate in his head. Afterwards, when he is back on duty, Keats is assigned to escort Moses back to testify against his former employer Colton, a situation neither one is looking forward to. Keats is angry because thanks to Moses he has a metal plate in his head, and Moses is angry because Keats lied to him over the entire year that he thought they were friends and colleagues. This movie seems to be going for the buddy/road film angle, with the exception of the fact that Keats and Moses run into a series of attempts on their lives since Colton, the big drug kingpin, is out to kill them both. This forces them to work together to figure out why their every move seems to be known by Colton before they even make it.Both Wayans and Sandler can be very funny if given the right material, but neither has anything particularly funny to do or say here, since the material they are working with is totally lacking in the imagination and genuine humor that could have exploited the talents of the two leading men. Avoid at all cost. The only reason I remember this movie over ten years later is (a) it is incredibly bad even for a man movie and (b) my husband insisted we go see it. "},{"Title":"Dumb but funny","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I think Adam Sandler and his films are really underrated... They're not supposed to be masterpieces or films of an intellectual nature, they're just dumb comedies, but they still make me p*ss myself laughing every time I watch them. Sandler is great in my eyes, no matter how much he gets slated. I thought the acting in this film was fairly good, as were the action sequences. I mean if your looking for something deep, meaningful, or intelligent, avoid all Sander films, but if your just looking for a cheap laugh then Bulletproof does the job (as do Waterboy, Happy Gilmore, Airheads and Little Nicky). Speaking of Little Nicky I was surprised to see it got nominated for worst actor, worst screenplay, worst director, worst film etc. etc. I think that's a tad harsh. Anyway give the man a break, he's a really under rated comic. "},{"Title":"Adam Sandler proves once again he's the king of comedy.","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Even though Bulletproof is not one of my all-time-favourite Adam Sandler movies, it's still really great, because basically you gotta love anything with Adam Sandler in it. The man is the king of comedy.Here Sandler and his co-star Damon Wayans play Archie Moses and Rock Keats two best friends, who have spent a year together together performing small time criminal acts. Until, one day things change and there friendship is tested to the limit.Bulletproof is a great comedy movie and if you're a fan of comedies, movies in general or if you're just a fan of the brilliant Adam Sandler, than you should see seriously be seeing Bulletpoof. It's great and I give the movie a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Top action comedy type thing","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bulletproof was a very quiet release, not seen at many movie theatres and unreleased in England. It starred Adam Sandler and Damon Wayans, with James Caan in a supporting role. Note also a small part for Monica Potter, seen in Con Air and that other movie she was in.Bulletproof struck just the right cord between action, comedy and even a bit of drama, as the relationship between Wayans and Sandler changed,developed and grew.Right, enough of the fairly serious review, on with the funny linesDiisnneeyyyylaaand  I'm gonna get a whole farm to pi** on you   Hey Charlie, do you whack off a lot?  Please take that outta my a**!   The guy's going down on her, and she's eating an apple  I think they're eating fajitas Classic movie. If only it featured Austin Liversedge.  "},{"Title":"The best comedy team","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There is no better duo to find today as far as fun is concerned than Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler. The two guys have nothing in common but together they produce one funny scene after the other. Adam play a small dumb criminal who has shot his friend by accident but can't prove that fact. Unfortunately Damon doesn't believe in Adam and he's looking for revenge. A fun-packed story now begins and the two guys break every law you can break with a lot of humour "},{"Title":"So Awful","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't want to waste my time writing about such a god awful film! What possessed James Caan to be in this film? Oh that's right the guy was going though a career slump at the time! My bad!Wayans and Sandler probably could be a good duo but the characters in this partnership were stupid and naive in all areas concerned!The ending is pathetic and so is Sandler in many ways... And this is coming from a fan of the guy!1.1/10 "},{"Title":"Very good film","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is an awesome comedy starring Adam Sandler, who is ALWAYS fun to watch and Damon Wayans who I can stand. They work well together and this movie is really enjoyable, expecially if your in the mood for a comedy. Sure, the action wasn't that great, but it's not exactly bad. I liked this movie.. and I just want to say ADAM ROCKS!! My favorite scene - Adam singing I Will Always Love You while taking a shower. Lol, he has major singing and acting talent, and he's nice to look at too. Yum. "},{"Title":"Some funny bits","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have to say I'm surprised this film has attracted so few votes. With Adam Sandler pretty 'hot' comedy property at the moment, this movie must be a bit of a sleeper. Damon Wayans also has some comedic talent and, between the two of them, they manage to produce a moderately amusing movie. Of course, it is not at all taxing on the brain, and far from Oscar winning material, but for a bit of light-weight fun, it's alright. My vote 7/10 (mainly because I'm a bit of a Sandler fan). "},{"Title":"Poor even by the low standards of the genre","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Archie Moses and Keats are lowlife criminals, although Moses has links with big boss Frank Colton and helps his friend get involved.  However when the job goes down it turns out that that Keats is an undercover cop, Carter. In the middle of the action Carter gets shot in the head while Moses narrowly escapes from both the police and his boss.  When Moses is captured, he asks for Carter to escort him in to testify against Colton.  When the pickup turns into an ambush, Carter and Moses go on the run, unsure of who they can trust.Like so many other comedians, Adam Sadler had a stab at a cross over from out and out comedy into action by way of a standard buddy cop action movie. The plot here is just plain stupid and could have been written by a five year old.  The twists the film takes are just plain goofy and the plot prevents any real tension being created or action sustained.  The action set pieces are right out of A-Team except it seems to think that the audience will like to see men shot like meaningless sacks of meat.  As such the action varies between tasteless and pointless.  As far as laughs go, this is about as sparse as Sadler gets - and that's bad.  The buddy banter just continually falls flat and it just feels like it has been done so many other times and that this just tries to rip it off.Sadler does his usual shouting and rude stuff but he can't do the slightly imaginative stuff that I find funny - hence he is just annoying and really poor.  The fact that he has zero chemistry with Wayans is also a big problem.  Wayans is just so poor that he wouldn't have been able to link up with anybody here and his character and performance are so clichéd that it is pathetic.  Caan must have got well paid for this cause I can see no other reason for him to be here.  He has no character, no lines, no presence and very little time on screen.  Wilson looks good but her character is just stupid for so many reasons.Overall this is poor even by the pretty low standards of Hollywood buddy cop movies.  It lacks any sort of spark in any aspect.  The comedy is poor with few if any laughs, the action is just plain simple and lacklustre - barely enough to hold the interest, while the dialogue and plot are listless and could have been cobbled together by a group of children.  If you have to watch a clichéd buddy cop movie there are lots better than this to chose from. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is definetly Adam Sandler and Damoin Wayan's best movie yet. There is a perfect amount of comedy and action. This is about two friends, Rock Keates(Damon) and Archie Moses(Adam). Archie, who works for a drug dealer named Frank Colten(James Caan), finds out that His friend, Rock, is a cop. They hate each other after that. Archie escapes and gets caught buy the police in the desert. Rock, who's real name is Jack Carter, goes out into the desert to bring Archie in. Colten's men attack though, leaving Jack and Archie alone. They get on the plane. Archie fortunatly knows how to fly a plane, but they still crash because of lack of gas. They're now stuck in the desert. After that, it's just a huge bag of laughs while they try to get along with eachother, while trying to take down Colten. This movie is my FAVORITE movie. I'd give it 9 out of 10 stars. It's excellent, you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"funny and thrilling","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i liked this movie a lot, it was probably one of my favorite adam sandler movies of all time, it was funny and exciting, the acting wasn't the best but it was still a good movie and i hope anyone who hasn't seen it watches it,its a great movie for everyone i give it a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Sandler & Wayans are great together","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sandler & Wayans were really god together in this movie, their chemistry was just awesome, i guess cause they've worked with each other before on Saturday Night Live. This was actually the first Adam Sandler movie i watched when i was in year 9, which was at the end of 1997. After that i really got into all his movies. Personally compared to movies such as Happy Gilmore & Billy Madison i like this better, even though their both good movies in their own way. Acting was awesome by both stars, as was the script for this movie, this is one of the best Buddy cop action / comedy movies around. So keep in mind if your a true Adam Sandler fan you would love this movie & also if your a Damon Wayans fan this is one of his better movies. I give this a 9 / 10. Highly entertaining movie "},{"Title":"enjoyable action-comedy","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In the endless list of cop buddy action comedies, BULLETPROOF is definitely not the best, but its a very enjoyable film.  The two stars Wayans and Sandler are very good together, and there are plenty of shootouts and chases that are fun to watch.  There are some very funny bits as well, including several funny one liners.  Like many action comedies this one is predictable but it is still enjoyable and it is worth a look.  3.5/5  "},{"Title":"Adam Sandlers most underrated piece of art!","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ok, I rented this movie expecting Return of Going Overboard and dang, it was a classic. This movie was the peak of the buddy cop genre.The overview is a cop goes undercover (Damon Waynes) and tries to meet someone in the drug world to lead him to the main source. Poor drugee (adam sandler) actually trusts this guy. Feelings get mixed up and they are literally best friends! Every character in this movie is developed. If adam sandler had released this piece of art this year 150+ Million overall in box office. Even Sandlers mom (who overly is always high and doped up) is a comedic character. Get some buddies, eat some popcorn, and afterwards change your underwear from all the laughter!Nine Kilos out of 10 (joke from movie) *********/********** "},{"Title":"Not bad, but disapointing","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler, what a great idea for a movie.  I remember this came out over ten years ago, but I never got a chance to watch it until the other night.  Yes, it had some good action here and there, and I will admit, there were about two scenes that I laughed my butt off for the longest time...but the rest of the movie was very disapointing.  Neither character is likeable, and they are often given painfully bad dialogue which, considering the incredible talent from both Wayans and Sandler, seems really out of place.  I don't blame it on them, I blame it on the script.  There were way too many one liners that just weren't funny, and way too many action scenes that were incredibly cheesy.  This one reminds me of two other films, both starring a Wayans brother  The Last Boyscout and A Low Down Dirty Shame.  All three of these have that Lethal Weapon type feel, but all fail in comparison to it, though I did like The Last Boyscout and though 'Dirty Shame' was pretty good.  James Caan in this film was simply embarrassing.  It seemed to me that this veteran actor was going for a funny stereotype bad guy than a straight up evil crime lord.  Needless to say, like the dialogue, it seemed awkward and out of place.For an action comedy, save for 2 hilarious scenes (one of which involving a gun shoved up Sandler's keester), there wasn't very many funny scenes, and the action was all been there, done that type fair, seeming to just 'tack on' a few uncreative deaths here and there with inept bad guys who fire off dozens of rounds, and always, just miss the protagonists.  I will admit, the idea of having Wayans get shot in the head was unique, but as for the chemistry between the two actors, I just didn't see it, which came as a surprise.  At any rate, not a bad time waster, and not a bad movie...just lower expectations once you realize both Wayans and Sandler, two talented actors/comedians are in it.  The payoff is far less than the anticipation.  What gets me is that this movie had so much potential, yet, it fails from a very very weak script.  That's my story and I'm sticking to it.  6/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Definitely one of Sandler's best.","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had forgotten that this was in fact a movie that Adam Sandler was in. I've seen Wedding Singer, Waterboy, Happy Gilmore, etc. and was looking for something with him in it that I had not seen yet. I was very pleased with Bulletproof. It moved at an impressively quick pace in addition to having the outstanding comedy that Sandler is known for. He plays the part of Archie Moses so well, you feel like you know him just moments into the film. Wayans is also outstanding in this movie. The chemistry between the two is what makes this an outstanding film. Even if you're not an Adam Sandler fan or just a fan of comedies then check this one out. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC!!!!","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  (Could Contain Minor Spoilers, But nothing can spoil this movie)Adam Sandler at his best in his best movie yet! Rock Keats and Archie Moses are the best of friends and have spent the past year together performing various small time criminal acts. This all changes when they become involved in a major drug smuggling operation. Rock Keats turns out to be Jack Carter, an undercover police officer and tries to arrest Moses during a failed attempt to catch criminal mastermind Frank Colton. However, Moses ends up shooting Carter and makes an escape. Moses is later caught and agrees to turn state's evidence on Colton with one condition, Carter escorts him in. When they meet, both are bitter towards each other. Unknown to them, Colton's men have orders to take out Moses and arrive to shoot down the transport plane. Carter and Moses end up by themselves in the countryside with Colton's men closing in. Will they survive?...will their friendship?This movie has it all fantastic Storyline, Fantastic Actors and Fantastic Action & Comedy. It doesn't get any better than this. I've watched this movie over a 100 times and I think everyone should at least watch it once. I can almost Guarantee you will like it. It is also a must for all Sandler Fans of his other great films, Adam Sandler, Happy Gilmore, Waterboy. FANTASTIC!!!!!!!10/10 (You Know The Drill, Great Action, Comedy and Actors FANTASTIC!) "},{"Title":"Something against Adam","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay with all these 6.4 ratings on Adam Sandler's ratings. I'm starting to think there's people against him, how could everyone not like this film. I found it to be funny and have action in it at the same time, and Damon Wayons did a superb job also. I didn't find any flaws in this film at all, they made a great comedic pair. "},{"Title":"Dumb but fun.","Date":"6 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Drug runner Archie Moses introduces his friend Rock Keats to his boss, drug kingpin Frank Colton. Unknown to Moses, Keats is actually an undercover police officer. During the bust on Colton's factory, Moses accidentally shoots Keats in the head. He survives the wound & later arrests Moses. Dodging Colton's hired assassins, the duo must overcome their mutual hatred to survive.Adam Sandler's films are usually a hit-&-miss affair, with his comedies either loved by his fans or hated by everyone. This one is not as stupid as his other films, but still cannot overcome a lazy script. The direction is incredibly patchy, with fast-paced action sequences giving way to slow comic exchanges between Sandler & Damon Wayans. Some of the action scenes &#150; flying a plane with no engines, a car chase at night through a forest &#150; are quite absurdly contrived. The acting is the standard for this genre, with Sandler & Wayans making a good pairing. In short, the film is dumb but fun to watch.Grade C+ Review by M. K. Geist "},{"Title":"A crime buddy movie with guns for brains","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bulletproof is quite clearly a disposable film. The kind where bullet riddled good guys and bad guys are splatted everywhere, so much so that you really aren't supposed to see them as human. The yawns between the lines from Wayans and Sandler are extensive indeed. They try hard but , alas and alack, persona itself does not a good film make. Jimmy Caan plays a nifty villain but he's always had that redneck edge at the ready. My favorite's scene is the repeated clips of a TV ad in which Caan reveals the virtues of America can be shown to the world by having 2 cars in every garage. Aside from that it's a buddy movie with guns for brains. Pass on this one. "}{"Title":"This movie is awful!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw it on video. Predictable, horrid acting, film flubs. What more can be said, this movie sucks. The actors are annoying to say the least. This was suppose to be a comedy, but there was only one funny moment, other than that is was painful to watch for me.1 out of 10. PASS! "},{"Title":"Far too short","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My age 13Keats, played by Damon Wayans, and Archie Moses, played by Adam Sandler, are the best of friends and have been for a year.  What Moses doesn't know is that Keats is really Jack Carter, an undercover cop, who is waiting for the right time to bust Moses and Frank Colton, a major criminal who Moses is involved with.  When Colton and Moses find out that Keats is a cop, Colton wants to kill Moses, but he gets away after shooting Carter in the head, which does not kill Carter.  Moses is found by the cops and is taken for proof of Colton's wrongdoing.  But when the cops, including Carter, are about to escort him across the country on a plane, all the other cops are killed and Moses and Carter are alone in the desert.  Carter has to stay alive as well as take Moses in.A fairly average action-comedy, Bulletproof has a fair plot but a lot of the film is just plain stupid.  For a comedy, I found most of the jokes entirely unfunny.  But as an action movie, it has a few fairly good action scenes. Not being a good fan of either Adam Sandler or Damon Wayans, I found the acting and therefore, the characters, well below par.  The climax isn't really great, and the film is so unrealistic.  It is not entirely bad, but also not too good, and it is far too short.  Running below 85 minutes, I though there was another 15 minutes left before it ended, but there wasn't, and the film felt too short.  Overall not a complete waste of time, but I still wouldn't recommend Bulletproof.Australian Classification MA 15+ Medium Level Violence, Sexual References, Medium Level Coarse LanguageRating 56 out of 100 "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie came highly recommended, but I am not sure why. I am not really and Adam Sandler fan though, apart from in 50 First Dates where he departs from his usual angry man routine. Damon Wayans is an undercover cop and Adam Sandler is the guy he pretended to be friends with for a year in order to bust him. Naturally Sandler is rather angry about this betrayal. Cue angry shouting and silly facials from the king of variety. They end up on the run and of course they become friends again after a big misunderstanding (involving Sandler shooting Wayans in the head - he survives thus he is Bulletproof). Need I go on? You will work out what is going to happen if you do watch it anyway. When our DVD player kept pausing (hey it was $80 from the supermarket OK?) it was commented that the player knew the film was boring and was refusing to play it. "},{"Title":"Adam Sandler obviously need a new house because","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  im sure he doesnt need the money for a life saving operation or transplant. in all honesty i think this review qualifies as a better movie than 'bulletproof'. thanks for listening. "},{"Title":"Stars Make the Picture Work","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bulletproof (1996) *** (out of 4) After agreeing to testify against a drug lord (James Caan), lowlife Moses (Adam Sandler) ends up with the undercover cop (Damon Wayans) that originally busted him. The two end up out on the road with hit men and dirty cops after them trying to make sure Moses can't get to court but the biggest threat for the two men are each other. If you're looking for a smart and intelligent film then you're not going to find it here but if you're just looking for a good time then the two stars really deliver. There's no question that this is a B movie as there's nothing ground-breaking here and you're not going to have your life changed in any way, shape or form. BULLETPROOF has a simple plot that's just meant to give the two stars something to work their magic with. I think the strongest point of the film are its two stars because they share some terrific chemistry and really take the material and do something special with it. The majority of the humor is silly R-rated stuff like porn jokes, urine jokes and other things like that but the way Wayans and Sandler sells it makes it funny. There are some hilarious moments here including a Disneyland joke early in the picture and the constant banter between the two really works well. The two actors really make you believe their characters and this allows the situation to be funny and especially in the scenes where Wayans pretty much abuses Sandler over the issue that happened at the start of the film. Caan is pretty much just being himself and picking up a paycheck but he's always worth watching and it's fun to see him here. BULLETPROOF also contains some fun action scenes, is well-directed and really just delivers nice laughs. "},{"Title":"Horrifically unfunny. Was it intentional?","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bulletproof is one of the most homoerotic films ever made. Either intentionally or unintentionally, it comes across as an extremely sophomoric, clichéd exercise in tired comedy routines that were tried and tested since the '80s. It is yet another comedy of mixed ethnic races -- just like Running Scared, Lethal Weapon, 48 Hrs., Money Talks, etc. It's so poor that apart from an entertaining setup the movie becomes almost painful to watch.The movie stars Damon Wayans and Adam Sandler as an undercover cop and an unsuspecting criminal respectively. Wayans, whose first film was the glorious Roxanne, still knows his comedy -- it's just rather unfortunate that he has lowered his standards so far as to appear in low-grade trash such as this.Sandler, who is occasionally funny in the right role (Happy Gilmore, also released in 1996, is great), gives one of his worst performances here. He mumbles helplessly through the messy screenplay; there's a scene in which the two buddies find themselves inside a plummeting plane that had me laughing. Not because it was funny (intentionally at least) but because we are expected to believe that Sandler's character knows how to fly a plane as he takes the pilot's seat and simply pulls back on the throttle a bit to level it out. How humorous.Jack Keats (Wayans), who is doing undercover work and posing as a criminal to lure his way into a crime underworld with the help of unsuspecting partner Archie Moses (Sandler). After a powerful crime lord's operation is busted by Keats and his team, Archie accidentally shoots his so-called partner in the head.After a brief coma and a startlingly miraculous recovery, Keats is asked to transport Archie to federal protection. He reluctantly boards a plane with Archie, only to be pursued by hit men, etc. Their plane crashes, they travel a bit, uncover a crooked cop, and that's it the movie basically ends after all of this. It is a measly 84 minutes long and feels even shorter. I mean that as a negative comment. It's like watching a pilot for some sort of bad television sitcom loaded with foul language and violence -- stupid, dumb, revolting.The homosexual undercurrent I mentioned earlier is almost disturbingly blatant. Some of it seems disgustingly intentional. Of course, I'm not going to say that any movie dealing with homosexuality is appalling. But the manner in which Bulletproof goes about portraying its characters and their fetishes is most disturbing. Take, for instance, the scene in which Archie and Keats spend the night at a small-town motel, run by a nerd with thick-rimmed glasses and a face which is almost revolting to look at. For apparently no reason whatsoever, Archie goes into a long monologue asking the motel owner if he'd like to spend the night with Keats, that Keats is gay, that they should try having a sandwich sometime with the man's wife. This goes on quite appallingly for at least three minutes. All the while Keats is standing a few feet away but yet cannot hear what they're discussing? And that's just some of the film's more unappealing material. There's more, such as when Archie promises to do something with James Caan's crime lord figure that I can't even write in this review, and then later is asked whether he really said it or not. No, I don't think I said that. Then there's lines such as, I'm falling in love with you all over again, man, that indicate more than admiration between the two men. It doesn't sound as revolting as it does in the movie -- like Slackers this film leaves the viewer feeling dirty, rather than clean and uplifted. I have a firm belief that all the great buddy movies -- Planes, Trains and Automobiles, Lethal Weapon, Midnight Run for example -- primarily work because of the characters, the actors portraying them, and the screenwriter's ability to create realistic dialogue and have his characters actually go through progression. None here. Just lots of stupid chase scenes and unfunny buddy moments. If not for Going Overboard I'd call this Sandler's worst film. What a mess.2/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Sharp and affective advice about this film.","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For anyone looking for an amazingly brilliant comedy starring adam sandler then this is one for you. Everyone has heard of the wedding singer, the waterboy and big daddy but this film will make you hoot with laughter just as much as those. If you are an Adam Sandler fan then this is one for you. This film is fantastic and if Adam Sandler had released it now when he is a superstar then it would be a major hit.  "},{"Title":"Good cast on paper, but apart from some slickly shot shoot-outs, this is the anti-thesis of a good buddy movie","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I actually wanted to like Bulletproof, despite my general dislike for Adam Sandler, because I like buddy movies and James Caan is a great actor. I give Bulletproof some credit for some slickly shot shoot-out sequences, but other than that everything else feels wrong to me. When I think of a good buddy movie, I think of likable characters, juicy dialogue to savour and some dynamicism in the action sequences. Some people watching Bulletproof may find these things, and I do respect that, however for me what I found here was the complete opposite on all counts. I really didn't care for any of the characters, finding them clichéd and annoying, especially Sandler's character. In fact, I found myself rooting more for the villains, but wished there was more to them. Bulletproof just wasn't funny to me either, I love action movies with comedy when it is good, but apart from one or two mildly amusing parts the dialogue was corny and the jokes rather tasteless. There is nothing dynamic about the action sequences, they may be slickly shot but the way they are choreographed at times is inept and the complete lack of subtlety in the violence leaves a bad taste in the mouth afterwards. The story is predictable with very little coming across as truly thrilling, while all the performances fall flat. Sandler has definitely done worse and more irritating performances, but his performance consists of near-unintelligible mumbling and I found myself annoyed by his character right from the start. Damon Wayans fares better, having more charisma, but the dialogue is so lame, the chemistry between him and Sandler so forced and the character so clichéd, it comes across as a wasted effort. James Caan is a great actor, but the first thought that came into my head after finishing Bulletproof was, what on earth was he doing here? He tried, but deserved so much better. Overall, a movie I wanted to like, but apart from one or two small things it didn't deliver. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny...","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Funny, amusing and just darn watchable comedy about two crooks (Sandler and Wayans) who have to do a job for a kingpin (James Caan). Expected plot twists but fun to watch and Sandler doesn't do that bad. Wayans steals the show. 3 of 5. "}]