[{"Title":"A great Movie, Overlooked by too many","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"60 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie has 2 stories that that run side by side, depicting the same image of war from different perspectives.Denzel's story is one of sadness and guilt over the death of a friend during the Gulf war, a friend that he himself killed in a 'Friendly Fire' incident, during the confusion of battle. His country won't let him speak, and they shower him with medals; this only adds to the pain that begins to tear him apart.Denzel's Character is given an assignment to determine whether a female helicopter pilot (Meg Ryan) deserves the medal of honour.Meg's story, played out in flashbacks, is about a helicopter pilot and her crew saving a handful of soldiers, from the Iraqi onslaught. She is the first female to be considered for the medal of honour, and the question is, does she deserve what the American people would so love too see her receive.Denzel, determined to get this one right, collects evidence and testimony from Ryans crew and the men that were saved. The problem is, Denzel's superiors want this medal awarded, but the simple truth is difficult to unveil. Every shred of evidence leads to more and more uncertainty as to whether this medal should be awarded.Truly compelling direction and very special character portrayal make this an extremely enjoyable, very dramatic movie.If you've over looked it, then give it a try. I think you'll be glad you did.8/10 "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The story is a simple one. Washington is a Lt. Colonel responsible for some accidental deaths during a tank battle in the Gulf War. The experience leaves him feeling pretty lousy. He neglects his family and begins drinking. He's assigned to investigate the suitability of Meg Ryan as a posthumous recipient of the Medal of Honor. She was flying a medevac helicopter to a crash site when her aircraft was shot down by small arms fire and, apparently, she stayed behind voluntarily and ordered her crew to save themselves while she covered them. Washington interviews the crew members and gets different stories. In one story Ryan behaves heroically as described. In a second, she is a coward and collapses under fire. In yet a third, the truth emerges. Yeah, it's Rashomon, but not as original or subtle.Still it's pretty good. And, Gott sei dank, it is not a story in which a woman proves herself as a good as a man, despite the fact that she is a member of the weaker sex. (What condescension.) Meg Ryan is a capable and courageous officer who happens to be a woman. Her sex is important to the politicians who are positively drooling over the prospect of awarding her the decoration, but isn't really important to the narrative.The performances are better than I'd expected. Everyone, in fact, is quite good in their different ways. Matt Damon, in particular, gives a sensitive performance as a guilt-ridden medic, and looks the part, somewhat ascetic, his facial features askew with uncertainty. Meg Ryan doesn't have a chance to do more than shout orders with a Texas accent but she registers pain and determination well. Lou Diamond Phillips is perhaps the least articulated character, but that may be the fault of the role as written, which is fairly complex but a little obvious. Denzel Washington is the central figure. He's good as carrying that burden of guilt left over from his battlefield mistake but isn't too convincing as a drunk. In the end, he relieves himself of some of that torture by visiting the parents of one of the men he had killed and confessing his part in the incident. The first few times I saw this I kept thinking what some other actors would have done with this scene, but the last time I found his incarnate remorse rather moving. The battle scenes are well done, although a little confusing, as I'm sure they would have been at the time. Some generic conventions are adhered to. Four of our guys can slaughter dozens of them. The enemy runs headlong into a hail of bullets. But there are some interesting twists given to the situation. The Iraqis on the other side of the hill can be heard laughing at our boys (and our woman). And the ending is revisionist, but I won't go into it. Justice outs, let's say that.It's a worthwhile watch for any number of reasons. Craftsmanlike if not poetic. "},{"Title":"Profound, intelligent, and moving; one of Zwick's best...","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Edward Zwick's second war-based movie (following the successful GLORY) is almost as good as his first, and every bit as watchable. I have particularly liked stories that use different viewpoints to tell the same story (hence creating different versions of the same story). These types of movies stemmed no doubt from Akira Kurosawa's epic RASHOMON, and while films that use this strategy rarely live up to Kurosawa's original in terms of intelligence and portrayal (the most recent being the slightly-better-than-mediocre VANTAGE POINT), COURAGE UNDER FIRE is still a rewarding Motion Picture.Denzel Washington is near his brilliant best as the troubled Lieutenant Colonel on the verge of alcoholism due in part to his overwhelming feelings of guilt following a military procedure gone wrong. His depression and curiosity fuel his determination to get to the bottom of the 'mystery' even if it puts him out of favour with his Commanding Officers. Meg Ryan is equally superb, and as each re-telling of the story demands her to take on a different personality (similar to the female lead in RASHOMON), she manages to pull each one off effectively. Matt Damon puts in a reliable shift, even losing upward of 20 pounds to take on the role. For me, the biggest surprise is Lou Diamond Phillips who is actually quite watchable, and does not overact, as is his tendency.Zwick's COURAGE UNDER FIRE is an examination of war from a less visceral point of view, and will stay with the viewer long after watching the movie. It deeply delves into themes of responsibility, guilt, and truth in an overall compelling Motion Picture. The script is effective and the buildup to the somewhat sentimental ending is quite commendable.8/10. 3.5 stars (out of 4). Highly recommended. Should enter my Top 200 at around #183. "},{"Title":"The Method","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  America's sweetheart as a helicopter pilot? Most critics say she does an excellent job, but that's not what makes this movie so momentous. Neither is it the excellent performance by Denzel Washington, who had been expected by many to win an Oscar nomination for it. Nor is it the over the top performance of Matt Damon, nor is it the excellent contributions by any of the others in the cast. It's the way the story is told throughout the movie you see the same sequence, over and over again, and each time you understand what is happening just a little bit more, until at the very end the import of it all hits you like a locomotive. It's a unique brand of story telling, and eminently successful. "},{"Title":"Denzel Washington At His Best","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Courage Under Fire is perhaps the best illustration of how flexible and adaptive actors like Denzel Washington are.  What makes Courage Under Fire impressive is not so much its plot or storyline (which is somewhat inconsistent), but its portrayal of a lone officer torn between personal conscience and duty.  Denzel's overweight build and alcoholic demeanor create the highly credible image of a man barely attached to his life.  Basically the story of a budding Army officer re-assigned to administrative duties following a Desert Storm friendly fire incident, Courage Under Fire submerges the viewer into pure emotional hell as it progresses.  The stunning emotional catharisis portrayed at the film's end is incredibly dramatic and almost entirely unmatched.  Anyone who has ever been under the extreme pressures of stress or suffered cognitive dissonance following a bad judgement will definitely connect with this film.  A great psychological thriller and a tour-de-force drama.  Definitely one of the best films...if only it would be released on DVD!! "},{"Title":"A DESERT STORM-era update of Rashomon","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A DESERT STORM veteran, Lt Col Nat Serling (played by Denzel Washington), is assigned the task of recommending whether or not to award the first (posthumous) combat Medal of Honor to a woman, Capt Karen Walden (played by Meg Ryan). In investigating the inconsistent mission accounts of Walden's surviving crew, Serling constantly flashes back to his own searing DESERT STORM experience and the Army's subsequent attempts to whitewash the incident, resolving that his investigation will not suffer the same fate. As Serling tries to rectify the competing competing accounts it becomes clear that director Edward Zwick has crafted a contemporary Rashomon, complete with reminders that the truth is always subjective and our accounts of it typically affected by self-interest. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Courage Under Fire is a movie that will stay with me for a while. Denzel Washington continues to be one of the finest actors today and proves it in this movie. The premise was interesting and was entertaining. I was disappointed with Meg Ryan's performance. I usually like her but she got annoying with her constant shouting. Yet that didn't keep the movie down. It was extremely dramatic and my two favorite scenes are the scene with Lou Diamond Phillips in the car and when it shows what really happened. A great film and terrific acting by Denzel Washington. "},{"Title":"This movie helps heals me","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't care about the petty goofs or parts of the story that other people point out- this movie means a lot to me as a disabled veteran with PTSD. This movie is about many things, but to me, the story is about how Col Sterling is trying to manage his survivor guilt and PTSD from his incident on one hand, and deal with his task to validate the medal for his General, his wife, his kids, etc. on the other. He resorts to booze (like we all do) to try to cope. That's what this movie is really about how one guy is trying to come to grips with PTSD, which I can tell you first-hand is a challenge that I face every minute of everyday. And seeing this movie helps heal me. It reminds me that I too lost a promising career in the Navy, lost my marriage, lost my kids, and lost myself in the abyss of PTSD and alcoholism before I got help. That's the only negative I have on this movie- we don't see if Col Sterling got help. Otherwise, this movie has helped heal me in ways that no other movie I've ever seen has. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Courage under fire was an okay movie, the story was good enough to keep me interested. Denzel Washington was convincing in his role, I liked him much better here than in the last movie I saw him in Fallen. The other actors were pretty good, too, especially Matt Damon (I hardly recognized him, he was so skinny!). But to say that Courage under fire was a GOOD movie would be too much. Except for the fact that the story was about a woman, there was nothing really special about it. My vote 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Powerful Film","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *****  Warning ****  Contains spoilers ****Anyone interest in Desert Storm should see Courage Under Fire. It is a powerful story with great performances by the whole cast.  Denzel Washington really deserved an Oscar for this role, so different than the other major roles he's played such as Malcolm X.  What makes the story so compelling is that you see that war is not just a string of heroics, but is fraught with problems and mistakes as in any other occupation.  But in war, mistakes can cost lives.  We see the loyalty and courage shown by our troops as well as their human failures. Lt. Col. Serling (Washington), back at the Pentagon after commanding a tank division in the Gulf War, is assigned to investigate whether Capt. Karen Walden, a rescue helicopter pilot killed in action (Meg Ryan) deserves a Congressional Medal of Honor.  Serling is deeply troubled by his mistake which caused the death of an old friend.  When an unidentified tank appeared in the formation, Serling had to make a split-second decision whether or not to fire.  He does, and unfortunately it turns out to be one of ours.  His depression affects his whole life, including his family, and he notices that he is drinking too much.  His boss, General Hershberg, with whom he also served in Vietnam, tries his best to help Serling get over it.As Serling interviews the soldiers who flew with Captain Walden, her story is shown in a series of flashbacks.  We soon learn that there are major inconsistencies in the stories he hears, some of which imply she was incompetent.  Not content to do a superficial job, Serling digs deeper and finds that Capt. Ryan did indeed show leadership and courage, but that her death resulted from another accident caused by the insubordination of one of the men (Lou Diamond Phillips), and covered up by the rest of the crew.  Serling now knows that Walden deserves the medal.**** Contains spoiler ***** In the end, Serling is vindicated when an audio tape of his tank company's battles shows that his quick thinking led to the identification and destruction of another unidentified tank which got into their formation.  This time he brilliantly identified it as an Iraqi tank and fired, saving the rest of his tanks from the enemy. This film shows that war is not glamorous, not all black and white, but shades of gray.  This film has some of the best acting you will ever see -- the entire cast gave excellent performances.  Cast against typecast, Meg Ryan came across as one tough soldier, a welcome change from all her cute roles.  **** Contains spoiler ***** The final scene in which Washington marches up to and salutes Ryan's grave shows Serling's courage, loyalty, and sacrifice without a single word.  This is definitely a film worth seeing.   "}{"Title":"Not As Bad As It Could Have Been","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After suffering a tragic incident during the 1991 gulf war Colonel Serling is asked to look into the case of Captain Walden a female helicopter pilot nominated for America`s highest decoration The Medal Of HonorCOURAGE UNDER FIRE is directed by Ed Zwick a director who tries so hard to direct an epic movie that he loses all focus for narrative . GLORY suffered from this to a certain extent as did his later movie THE SIEGE . LEGENDS OF THE FALL  on the other hand collapsed under its own weight of sub stories that it left this viewer wondering what on earth was the main story . COURAGE UNDER FIRE could have suffered the same fate and I was suspicous as to where the story might have been heading . A tragic friendly fire incident features as does the traumatic and guilt ridden aftermath , a nosey journalist appears , then the story switches to the helicopter heroine . Should females serve on the front line ? Will she get the honour simply because she`s a woman ? With so many potential storylines for the film to follow the movie then decides to become centered around what actually happened to Captain Walden . I`m actually glad it became a simple  Whodunnit  plot because LEGENDS OF THE FALL SET IN THE DESERT  isn`t my idea of a good movie There`s only two things director Zwick should be criticised for , in fact one of them isn`t even his fault and that is the battle scene where the Iraqis surround the crashed helicopter , having watched BLACK HAWK DOWN several times I came to the conclusion the most awesome part of that movie is where the two Delta snipers Shughart and Gordon bravely but vainly try to stem the Somali hordes closing in on the Durrant crash site . Ironically this incident inspired the producers to make COURAGE UNDER FIRE but the battle scenes are very much weaker in comparison to Scott`s later movie despite being very similar , but let me repeat I saw COURAGE UNDER FIRE after seeing BLACK HAWK DOWN and most war movies would pale beside Ridley Scott`s action masterwork . The one thing Zwick should be blamed for is casting Meg Ryan . On screen the character of Walden is described as  Butch  and whatever you want to say about Meg Ryan  butch  is not an accurate adjective . Lyndie England now she is butch ... As for the other aspects of the movie it`s cast well enough . Denzil Washington plays his usual good guy very well while a then fairly unknown Matt Damon is almost unrecognisable . Perhaps the most refreshing thing about COURAGE UNDER FIRE is that it`s apolitical which makes a nice change from Vietnam where we get polemical movies like THE GREEN BERETS and WE WERE SOLDIERS on one hand and PLATOON and APOCALYPSE NOW on the other . Wait till Hollywood starts making movies about Gulf War 2  , boy are we going to be getting some opinions on that war      "},{"Title":"A great film, despite...","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Pretty great movie with an enthralling storyline which is made even more interesting because each member of the crew has a different version of what actually happened. Excellent performances here from Lou Diamond Phillips and a painfully (painfully) emaciated Matt Damon.Denzel Washington plays a Lt Colonel reviewing a female soldiers (Meg Ryan) candidacy for the medal of honor. Ultimately his quest reveals conflicting versions of the story from her crew.I have to say Meg Ryan was terrible in this, just painful to watch as Capt. Walden. The battle scenes also felt kinda cheesy (special effects wise) but this was still a great film, despite its flaws. 05.13 "},{"Title":"Mistakes","Date":"12 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I do not vote on movies. I have read most of the comments. There is talk of Rashomon, an interesting idea, an important idea and a technique in cinema. That is the style. The movie opens with a battle and a mistake. Serling orders fire on a suspected Iraqi tank. He is wrong, he kills a friend. The psychology is interesting. If only he had known. The truth would have saved him from killing his friend. Walden's mistake, after the crash in the night, Monfriez was right though for the wrong reason. He was afraid. He wanted to save himself. She wanted to save Rady. She thought Rady could not survive the carry out. In the end he did not die, he survived. Along the way to the end we have mutiny and accidental murder and long after, not redemption, but at least relief by suicide. I was puzzled by the end. Serling places his silver star on the grave. He made a mistake in battle and killed his friend. She made a mistake and in the end the price was only her own. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Film About The 1991 Gulf War","Date":"9 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Courage Under Fire is a film about the 1991 Gulf War.It stars Denzel Washington,Meg Ryan,Lou Diamond Phillips and Matt Damon. It is one of the first great films to depict the 1991 Gulf War as it tells a story of a US Army officer, despondent about a deadly mistake he made, investigates a female chopper commander's worthiness for the Medal of Honor.The movie was directed by Edward Zwick.Courage Under Fire has Lieutenant Colonel Nathaniel Serling involved in a friendly fire incident in Al Bathra during the Gulf War. He was an M1 Abrams tank battalion commander who, during the nighttime confusion of Iraqi tanks infiltrating his unit's lines, gave the order to fire, destroying one of his own tanks and killing his friend Lieutenant Boylar. The details were covered up and Serling was reassigned to a desk job.Later, he is assigned to determine if Army Captain Karen Emma Walden should be the first woman to receive the Medal of Honor for valor in combat in the Gulf War posthumously. A Medevac Huey commander, she was sent to rescue the crew of a helicopter that had been shot down. Finding them under heavy fire from an Iraqi tank and infantry, she had her men drop an auxiliary fuel tank on the tank and ignited it with a flare gun. Shortly after, her helicopter was also hit and downed. The two crews were unable to join forces. The survivors were rescued the next day, but Walden had been killed in action.At first, everything seems to be straightforward, but Serling begins to notice inconsistencies between the testimonies of the witnesses. Walden's co-pilot, Warrant Officer One Rady, praises Walden's character and performance, but was hit and unconscious early on. Serling then sees Walden's medic, Specialist Ilario, who also praises Walden. Staff Sergeant Monfriez, however, tells Serling that Walden was a coward. The members of the other downed crew also mention that they heard the distinctive sound of an M16 being used in the firefight during the rescue around the other helicopter, but Walden's crew denies firing one during the rescue, as theirs was out of ammunition. When Serling visits Walden's crew chief, Sergeant Altameyer, who is dying of cancer in a hospital. Altameyer manages to get some words out, further confusing Serling, before self-medicating himself into unconsciousness.Under pressure from the White House and his commander, Brigadier General Hershberg, to wrap things up quickly, Serling leaks the story to newspaper reporter Tony Gartner to prevent another cover up. When Serling puts pressure on Monfriez, the man pulls a pistol at him, then commits suicide by driving his car into an oncoming train.After finding Ilario, Serling discovers that Monfriez wanted to escape under cover of darkness, which would have meant leaving Rady behind. Altameyer was ready to follow his lead and Ilario was wavering, but Walden refused to go along, resulting in an armed standoff with Monfriez. When an Iraqi infantryman appeared suddenly behind Monfriez, Walden fired at him. Mistakenly believing he was the target, Monfriez shot back and seriously wounded her. Walden, however, regained control of her men.The next morning, Walden stayed behind to cover their evacuation, firing the M16. Monfriez deliberately lied to the rescuers, telling them that she was dead so she would be left behind. Altameyer, injured and unable to say anything was ignored. Ilario remained silent. A-10 airplanes then napalmed the wreckage.Serling presents his final report to Hershberg. Walden's young daughter receives the Medal of Honor in a White House ceremony. Later, Serling tearfully tells the Boylars the truth about the manner of their son's death. In the last moments of the film, it is shown that Walden had transported Boylar's body away from the battlefield.Courage Under Fire is definitely one outstanding film about the Gulf War.It tells an emotional and intriguing tale of a military officer who must review the merits of a fallen officer while confronting his own war demons that makes us feel for every character involved in the story.Also,the movie tells effectively the terrors brought about by war as well as its heartbreaking aftermath.It presents it treats with clarity and intelligence that truly makes it a brilliant film.Another good thing about it is the movie avoids the use of too much violence and swearing to present its story.The performances of the cast were great.Special mention must be given to Denzel Washington for he dominates a film with his quiet intensity and aura of introspection.Credit must also be given to Meg Ryan and Matt Damon,who tried his best to look realistic in his role by shedding many pounds to lose a lot of weight. Overall,Courage Under Fire is a movie that a viewer should not miss as it ranks up there with Platoon and Born On The Fourth Of July as outstanding war films. "},{"Title":"Stunning performances, great direction, fine story line","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Whoa!  Some of these reviewers bring so much of gender politics and national politics to their reviews, the movie itself is lost.  I wasn't going to add a comment until I found the one that said, We didn't know what this movie was about, so it's a bad movie; by the way, we wore earplugs all through it.Come on, folks, get the cotton out and listen up.  Matt Damon's ability and willingness to lose forty or fifty pounds in the course of his role is certainly above and beyond the usual call of duty for a supporting actor.  His expert embodiment of the fragility and shame of his character foreshadowed his leading-man career to come.  Denzel Washington and Lou Diamond Phillips merit the kind words other reviewers have left here, and certainly Meg Ryan deserves none of the harsh ones.Her performance was perfect, whether portraying the gutsy leader recalled by some narrators or the over-estrogened mess detailed by her bitter gunner.  Someone here complained she was too pretty -- please!  Pretty happens, even in the military.  Others here complained her voice was too high, no, too low, no... perhaps it's their expectations of female soldiers that are too high, too low, too wedded to or too opposed to gender stereotypes.One of the European reviewers here complained that this film was too pro-American and dehumanized the Iraqis.  I thought the director was showing that it is a universal tactic to assure yourself of your righteousness by dehumanizing and misrepresenting the enemy, whether it is the opposing force or a captain you despise for her power over you.  Remember, the film begins with a scene showing that the forces are so similar that they are literally indistinguishable -- though that point may not have been intentional on the director's part.  Certainly the point is lost as the film goes on to lionize every American life lost while placing only target value on the deaths of opposing soldiers.This was a war movie that acknowledged cowardice as well as courage, shame as well as gallantry, deadly mistakes as well as brilliant tactics, all in the same arena and sometimes all in the same individual.  One movie can only carry so much freight, and perhaps asking every war movie to highlight the pointlessness of war and the excesses of nationalism is asking too much.Aside from all that, the filmography and special effects were astonishing, both in the war shots (the napalm drop, the tank lines, the helicopters in the cliffs) and in the most dramatic domestic death scene. This was an excellent movie, with stunning performances, great direction, and a fine story line.  But if you're wearing earplugs or blinders, you're going to miss it.   "},{"Title":"A Superb Film With A Fantastic Ensemble Cast","Date":"5 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you enjoy watching fine actors excel in their craft, you owe it to yourself to see Courage Under Fire. This Gulf War drama skillfully develops two plot lines. U.S. Army officer Nat Serling (Denzel Washington) investigates the military actions of helicopter pilot Karen Walden (Meg Ryan) to see if she's worthy of receiving the Medal Of Honor. At the same time, Serling is wrestling with his conscience regarding his own combat-related actions in the Gulf War. What delights me most about this film is the awesome acting. Nobody wastes his/her time on screen. Washington is absolutely brilliant. Ryan (who has to show many emotions as her accounts are told in Rashomon style) is excellent. Supporting actors Matt Damon, Michael Moriarty, Scott Glenn, Regina Taylor, and especially Lou Diamond Phillips give top-notch performances. The only minor complaint I have about Courage Under Fire is that I don't believe we get to see what official consequences (if there are to be any) that Serling experiences because of his combat decisions. Kudos to writer Patrick Sheane Duncan for making the characters complex and creating a real sense of drama and mystery. Kudos also to Edward Zwick (Glory, Legends Of The Fall) for setting scenes that can look beautiful and lyrical even when the subject matter is ugly and brutal. ***NOTE Courage Under Fire was released in the Summer of 1996, which history shows is too early in the year to be nominated for an Oscar. In my opinion, of the five films that were nominated, the only movie that Courage should have replaced in the nominations was The English Patient, which won the Oscar.*** Courage Under Fire is superb, and is one of my 100 All-Time Favorite Films. I gladly rate it 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An average 'he said, she said' drama that has a better list of names involved than it deserved","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Nat Serling returns from the Gulf war having been involved in a friendly fire incident. Even though he is cleared, he still carries the guilt but is looked after by the army and helped into a comfortable job in the Pentagon. He is assigned to assess the nomination of Captain Karen Walden for the medal of honour &#150; an seemingly open and shut case that everyone wants to be passed for the public relations opportunity of awarding a woman captain the posthumous medal. However, when Serling starts to investigate he finds some minor differences in the stories and the more he pushes the survivors the more the story starts to fall apart. Despite the pressure from his superiors, Serling continues to dig for the truth.Looking back at this film now it is perhaps a little frustrating how little it seems to critically analysis the issues behind war and politics and instead just plays it as a straight thriller with the Gulf only serving as a background and not as subtext. With this aspect put to one side the film just about manages to work as a thriller but not a particularly good one. The plot is very much 'he said, she said' stuff and it is not as dramatic as it would like to think it is. The film tries to inject pace into it with a series of extreme actions by the characters and the excitement of the battle sequences but really it doesn't amount to a terrible lot. The subplot over Serling's incident never really feels relevant and was either tacked on or badly handled to the point that it seemed tacked on. Either way the plot is not as involving as it really should have been &#150; it does OK enough to make it worth watching once but it's no great shakes.The cast is impressive though and contains many stars as well as faces that have become a lot more famous since this. Washington is troubled and interesting, even if he has to occasionally switch on the worry on request. He is a good leading man and has good presence; his delivery goes part of the way to helping inject a bit of urgency into some of the scenes in this rather talky film. Ryan was a strange choice but I suppose she was desperate to have something to show her range. While it is easy to dismiss her performance, she is OK but it would have been a lot better if her performance had changed more that it did between the few accounts &#150; but I guess her range is not as wide as she would like to think it is. Outside of these two the main players are those in Walden's crew; Damon looks very young and does OK, Phillips is physically impressive but his character is difficult to totally swallow and Gilliam is a lot more understated than he was in Oz. The rest of the cast is populated by a large number of well-known faces including Taylor, Ivanek, Pinchot, Astin, Glenn, Thomas, McGill, Hall and Jenkins. Few of them have anything to do but their presence was rarely a distraction to me although I can imagine some viewers might be put off by the 'where do I know him from' factor.Overall this is an average drama that is talky and relies on the actors to try and inject into a plot that is really just about the different characters trying to cover their own backs. The cast are mostly good but Ryan's reach exceeds her grasp and they are mostly let down by average material. Worth a watch once for what it is but I can't imagine too many viewers will be returning for a second look.  "},{"Title":"Fairly lumpen melodramatic fare","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A military investigation into the supposedly heroic death of a woman in the Gulf War unearths a Rashoman-style rack of conflicting stories. Billed as the movie that made you take Ryan seriously, this is fairly lumpen melodramatic fare, more notable for its cameo turns by the likes of Lou Diamond Phillips and a fresh-faced Matt Damon than for its heavy-billed leads. Washington digs the dirt (both personal and professional) with his usual assuredness, but Ryan never really gets beyond looking like, well, like Meg Ryan really, having little more than a bad hair day in the midst of all the bullets and the sand. An average film drama, saved by the enjoyable cameo appearances of Phillips and Damon.  "},{"Title":"great multiple POV storytelling","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lt Col Serling (Denzel Washington) leads a squad of tanks in the first Gulf War. He accidentally destroys one of his own tanks in a friendly fire incident. Washington Post reporter Tony Gartner (Scott Glenn) is after the story. Serling is relegated to a desk job. He's assigned to determine if medical helicopter pilot Cpt Karen Emma Walden (Meg Ryan) should be the first woman to receive a Medal of Honor for combat. The White House is very eager. However, there is more than one version of the incident which resulted in her death.I love several things about this movie. Denzel is perfect as always. He needs to hold the center while having a compelling emotional story. Meg Ryan does the hardest acting of her career by bringing different versions of her character to life. Lou Diamond Phillips is great. Matt Damon is unrecognizable. It also has the Rashômon style of storytelling. I love that method. It feels more compelling than the straight forward way. It also feels more real with differing point of views. "},{"Title":"Solid war movie in the vein of Rashomon","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of those war movies where you feel how difficult it is to be a soldier in the middle of a war zone with bravery, cowardice, confusion, orders, and emotional turmoil taking it's toll on the human psyche while yours and your fellow soldiers' lives are perilously hanging in the balance during the first Gulf War. Showing why he is such a classy military actor, Colonel Denzel Washington encapsulates the emotional baggage of being participant as commander of a tank battalion that pulled the trigger in a friendly-fire scenario that continues to haunt him when he gets stateside. The PTSD and media backlash has pushed him to near-alcoholism as he is reassigned to basically rubber-stamp the posthumous Medal of Honor intended for the first female to receive the award for heroics in wartime. What transpires, however, is anything but a slam-dunk for the war-worn commander.There are two stories running simultaneously throughout the picture. The first - Denzel as commander of the tank battalion - is dark and understandably confusing. This lends itself to the realism and confusion of actual warfare where warriors are expected to determine friend vs. enemy at night while looking through infrared scopes while under intense fire. It is a daunting, and sometimes overwhelming, task to command.The other story is of a heroic helicopter crew, led by Major Meg Ryan as the pilot, who goes down while trying to protect another downed chopper crew. Over the course of the next 24 hours, the heroes come to terms with who they are under intense enemy fire. What starts out as a clear-cut give her the medal because the President and our government needs a female hero turns into a genuine mystery as to whether the pilot truly deserves it or not. There is very little difficulty separating the two stories. What becomes more complicated is how Denzel's character must overcome his own demons in order to objectively give America's most important wartime medal to a deserving/undeserving member of the service. Whether it would be the first female to be awarded this prestigious medal is irrelevant. It is right vs. wrong with a very important military mystery blocking Denzel's path to the easy path of just giving it to her.This is a clever did she/didn't she narrative with sides changing their story at nearly every turn. Since there are so few witnesses under intense enemy fire, it's basically one soldier's word vs. another's - and who is telling the truth when one of them is dead. It also is the story of redemption for two very classy, honorable soldiers who deserve more from their country - and their other brothers in arms. Denzel has done this character before, which also makes him a perfect fit for the tortured commander who wants to do the right thing against the powers that be. Meg Ryan was surprisingly excellent at portraying a character who, through the stories changing multiple times, must be both heroic, cowardly, and still maintain dignity and honor in the face of overwhelming odds. It's fairly inspirational stuff.This may not be the best war movie ever made. However, I believe it is definitely worth watching as a night's entertainment. I would place it on the same, well-done, stereotype-shattering heroic level as Men of Honor. Well cast, well acted, and well done. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Courage Under Meg Ryan's Miscasting.","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Courage Under Fire (1996) Dir Edward Zwick / Cast Denzel Washington, Meg Ryan, Scott Glenn, Lou Diamond Phillips, Matt Damon War drama about being under pressure as the truth bears down. Set during the Gulf War and starring Denzel Washington who gives orders to fire upon a tank only to discover to his utter horror that it was American. Unable to forgive himself he seeks refuge through alcohol. He is eventually given an assignment to investigate the metal of honor that is to be given to the daughter of a female helicopter pilot who died in battle. Director Edward Zwick tenses the situation through flashbacks. He previous made such films as Glory and Legends of the Fall. Washington is well cast as a man hindered by guilt yet through this investigation he may find forgiveness and peace. Meg Ryan plays the female pilot unlike her normal romantic roles. We know that she dies in battle but does she earn the metal? Lou Diamond Phillips delivers a tense performance as a squadron who was on edge with Ryan and is driven further over the edge when questioning begins. Scott Glenn is cardboard as Washington's adviser. This is an early film for Matt Damon who will go on the following year to heavy acclaim. While the film is well crafted, viewers may be divided due to separate genres but theme regards living with someone's death. Score 7 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Mistakes Were Made","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A United States Army officer (Denzel Washington), despondent about a deadly mistake he made, investigates a female chopper commander (Meg Ryan)'s worthiness for the Medal of Honor.Let's talk about casting for a moment. Bronson Pinchot is an interesting casting choice, though his role is small enough that it really does not matter. Michael Moriarty is interesting, too, if for no other reason than his strong conservative beliefs. How a conservative and a liberal view this movie could be very different...Lastly, Lou Diamond Phillips is incredible. He is probably most associated with La Bamba, but that is probably selling him short. Here he has a great emotional range, and when he comes into the story, everything gets kicked up a notch. "},{"Title":"A New Type of War Film for the Nineties","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Courage under Fire was one of the earliest films about the First Gulf War of 1991. (When the film was made in 1996, that conflict was simply known as the Gulf War as the Second did not occur until 2003). Lieutenant Colonel Nathaniel Serling, a US Army officer, is assigned to determine whether Captain Karen Walden should posthumously receive the Medal of Honor, making her the first woman to be given this award for valour in combat. Walden, the commander of a Medevac helicopter, was killed while attempting to rescue the crew of another helicopter that had been shot down.Serling goes about his task of interviewing the survivors of this incident, and at first everything seems to be straightforward, with the witnesses praising Walden's courage and coolness, but he begins to notice inconsistencies between their testimonies. Everything becomes much more complex when another survivor, Sergeant Monfriez, tells him in no uncertain terms that Walden was a coward and blatantly contradicts what the other witnesses have said. Serling then has to decide where the truth lies. A complicating factor is that he himself has been burdened by guilt ever since he was involved in a friendly fire incident during the war in which a friend was killed.The film was directed by Edward Zwick who was also responsible for Glory, one of the few great war films of the eighties. Courage under Fire represents an interesting development of the war film in the nineties. Although there are exceptions (such as Catch-22), most of the very large number of American films about World War II take an unashamedly heroic, patriotic view of that particular conflict. Most of the much smaller number of films about Vietnam take an equally unashamedly pacifist, anti-war position, The Green Berets being about the only exception. (Films about Korea tend to fall into both camps. Some, especially those made during or shortly after the war like The Hunters, take the standard patriotic line. Others take an anti-war stance, notably M*A*S*H*, which was made during the Vietnam War and has been seen as a disguised film about Vietnam). Courage under Fire, by contrast, belongs to that small group of films (The Red Badge of Courage about the American Civil War is another good example) which seek to illuminate the soldier's life in wartime without pushing either a strongly patriotic or strongly pacifist message. It also can be seen as belonging to another class of films, those which (like Kurosawa's Rashomon) attempt to tell a story from several viewpoints and show how the same events can be seen in very different ways by different people. The confusion of war, in which no person has access to more than a small part of the total picture, makes this method of storytelling seem particularly appropriate to a war film. It was this very confusion which led to Serling giving the order to fire on one of his own tanks in the heat of battle and which leads to some of the inconsistencies in the evidence about how Captain Walden was killed, although it must be said that some of the witnesses are deliberately lying to cover up their own less than honourable behaviour. When the truth finally emerges it becomes clear that Walden was far from being a coward, but also that not all the witnesses who praised her were giving a truthful account of events. Meg Ryan, Hollywood's official Girl Next Door of the nineties, might have seemed a strange choice to play a tough Army captain, but this was the film which finally showed there was more to Meg's acting talents than the ability to look pretty in romantic comedies. She had tried to show another side to herself in the neo-noir Flesh and Bone and the more serious romantic drama When a Man Loves a Woman, but neither is among her better films. Here, however, she gives a pitch-perfect performance, making Walden tough and determined, but never so much that she becomes unsympathetic. Denzel Washington is also very good as Serling, a very important role as the film is not just about Walden but also about the story of how Serling learns to forgive himself for his friend's death. Of the supporting cast, the best is Lou Diamond Phillips as Monfriez.Unlike the standard World War II film, Courage under Fire is not a gung-ho patriotic adventure story; it remains neutral about the rightness or wrongness of the First Gulf War. Unlike the standard Vietnam movie, however, it is not an anti-war diatribe either. It takes a respectful line on the men and, in this case, women of the US Armed Forces who put their lives on the line for their country and gives us a humane and intelligent look at the difficult circumstances of war. A new type of war film for the nineties. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Overly Sentimental and Top Heavy...But Above Average","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There is a strong Story here as an investigation ensues about a potential Medal of Honor recipient and the mysterious conflict of testimonies. It is given a twist with a shot of estrogen as the Soldier involved is the first Female to possibly (Posthumously) be awarded the Nation's Highest Military Honor.That should be enough to make this a riveting Mystery and through flashbacks we are shown some striking battle Scenes. So why add the conflict and strife to the investigating Officer. It is completely unnecessary and is the weakest part of the Film and almost drags it down with unconvincing situations of Combat guilt and Family Dysfunction. That could be a whole other Movie. But with that bloating aside there are some strong Performances by the young Cast (actually outshining Denzel) in supporting Roles as the Combat Unit in question. There is a back Story to everyone and it holds up quite well with the central Theme. It must be mentioned here that although, Meg Ryan is miscast as the Captain, she tries her best but cannot outgrow her limitations and convince as a tough Girl in a hopeless, self sacrificing situation.Overall, not a bad Movie and is worth a watch for the strong parts, but there is much too much padding here, plus the heavy dose of sentimentality finally drags this down from Great Movie to just above Average. "},{"Title":"Prismatic Gulf War drama","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A strong contemporary war drama examining issues of loyalty, protocol, duty and ultimately truth in an unusually constructed film within a film, at the same using multiple viewpoints ( a la Rashomon or Accident) to unfold the complicated truth at its heart. I'm not sure the somewhat contrived structure served the serious subject matter wholly convincingly, the cinematic devices detracting somewhat from the otherwise lifelike depiction of action in the Gulf War. I also thought Denzel Washington's framing role as the senior army officer given the seemingly straightforward task of reporting on the apparently automatic eligibility of Meg Ryan's posthumous award of the Army medal of honour detracted from the central mystery, especially as he wrestles with his own demons after unwittingly being involved in a tragic friendly-fire incident of his own. So Denz fights the bottle and walks out on his family, before uncovering the truth about Ryan's death and the way back to his own redemption.This final resolution and the underlying implication that the US Army welcomes openness is firstly too pat and improbable, especially in the wake of some real-life events that have come to light since then. All that said, the dramatisation of the war is very well realised and the acting is of a high order, Washington giving it strong and silent in a commanding lead role, but there are even better performances from a young Matt Damon and Lou Diamond-Phillips as two of Ryan's crew who survive the ordeal physically but not mentally.Ryan does well too and I was also impressed by the actress in the menial task of playing Washington's wife. Yes, the film ends up as you'd expect, replete with Washington's last respectful visit to Ryan's grave, but there was enough intrigue and grit in the tale to keep me watching throughout. A braver take on the story, inverting some of the discovered truths here might have made for a better film though, but of course there's no way that viewpoint would have been green-lighted in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Denzel Washington shines in this take on war is hell in Iraq","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When this movie came out, we were just 5 years past Operation Desert Storm in Kuwait and Iraq, and the 9/11/01 attack on the World Trade Center was 5 years in the future. I think that's important to remember when watching this movie, because it does refer to events in Iraq and things are very different now than they were then.Anyway the plot of the movie is very simple. The pilot of a medic-evac helicopter that flew into a combat area to rescue the crew of another helicopter, one that had been downed by enemy fire, is killed during the rescue effort after also being downed by enemy fire.Because the pilot's actions saved the crews of both helicopters from attack by Iraqis until a rescue mission could be mounted, the pilot is being considered for posthumous award of the Congressional Medal of Honor, the highest award given by the military services for valorous action under combat conditions.The twist in this movie the pilot being considered for the award is a woman, Captain Karen Walden (played by Meg Ryan), which would make her the first female combat veteran so honored.Denzel Washington plays the role of Lt. Colonel Nat Serling, himself a Desert Storm veteran, who has been tasked by his commanding officer, General Hershberg (Michael Moriarity) with investigation of the circumstances surrounding Captain Walden's death to determine whether her actions qualify her for the honor of receiving the Medal of Honor.Much is made of the fact that it would be a wonderful public-relations thing if Captain Walden receives the award. The pressure is on Serling to complete his investigation quickly and to affirm the circumstances of Walden's heroism so the President can make the award to Walden's family (she has a little daughter, who is raised by her parents, the father of her child evidently being some sort of deadbeat who bailed on his wife and child very early).Serling is fighting his own demons relating to something that happened under his command in Iraq, something we are shown bit by bit in a series of flashbacks. As played by Washington, we get the impression of a man who is barely hanging on as he represses anger and self-loathing. He's withdrawing emotionally from his wife and kids and self-medicating with alcohol to the point where General Hershberg is ready to come down hard on him if Serling doesn't get this investigation done quickly and without causing problems.And therein lies the kick Serling very quickly discovers that there are inconsistencies in the statements of the men who were in the helicopter with Captain Walden when it went down. It also becomes very quickly evident that there is something about what happened after the helicopter went down that the men do not want to talk about.And that sets up the rest of the action in this movie. Serling has to dig out the problem while coming to terms with his own issues and trying to do justice to the memories of those killed in Iraq-- and that doesn't just mean the lady helicopter pilot.Washington is superb in this role, and this movie is much more about him than it is about Meg Ryan's character. In fact, I think people who watch this movie thinking that it's going to be about Meg Ryan's character are probably going to be disappointed. While she's good when she's on screen, her performance isn't a standout. Washington's is.Two other performances really need to be mentioned Lou Diamond Phillips, who plays Staff Sergeant John Monfriez, and Matt Damon, who plays Medical Specialist Ilario. Both were on Captain Walden's helicopter when it went down. Monfriez went as the door gunner, and it quickly becomes clear that he did not like Captain Walden and that he wants to discourage Serling from asking questions about what happened after the helicopter went down. Ilario likewise doesn't want to talk to Serling; but where Monfriez becomes menacing when Serling confronts him, Ilario goes AWOL.Damon and Phillips are absolutely key in making this plot work, and they both deliver the goods powerfully and believably.In the end, the problems of the investigation and Serling's personal demons are both put to an end, and not necessarily in the way that the powers-that-be would like to have seen things turn out. Let's just say that the search for truth is successful.This is a must-see movie for Denzel Washington fans and works as a psychological whodunnit. It's also rewarding for people who admire the work of Matt Damon and Lou Diamond Phillips. The ending is upbeat enough to make most people happy. This is a very watchable movie as a character study, too. It isn't light entertainment, but if you want an interesting and thoughtful movie in the war is hell genre with a stellar performance from Washington and superb supporting performances from Damon and Phillips, this is it. "},{"Title":"Gulf War Drama","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Enjoyable Gulf War yarn about the investigation into the awarding of a medal of honour to a valiant captain who risked life and limb to save a troop of doomed soldiers trapped on the ground.Smart script and well-paced editing help, as do the great cast. Denzel Washington is always a must, and his performance here boosts his reputation. Strong support comes from a range of co-stars including Matt Damon and Lou Diamond Phillips (his best role since Stand and Deliver). It's fantastic to see Meg Ryan in a role that is such a departure for her, and her turn is a worthy one too.Finally a good film from director Ed Zwick, his first success since Glory (1989).Saturday, February 12, 2000 - Video "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've read other comments about this movie, and I can't quite understand how they could have been made.  All the actors were in fine shape, most notably Denzel, who had me in honest tears after his confession to the parents, Matt, whose incredible change from full-fleshed soldier to emanciated addict is a testament to his professionalism, and Meg, who, despite other people's ragging on her cutesy looks and reputation for girl-next-door-ness, I felt played her role very well.  And she wasn't pretty the whole time. The story didn't drag, even for an ADHD college student like myself.  And how everything came together in the end was done well.  Maybe I liked it because it appealed to the feminist thinker in me, with less attention paid to glory and action--though the multiple action scenes I thought were done very nicely--and more attention to the consequences, as Matt Damon's character put it.  Anyway, I give this sucker a good 8 out of ten.  I had myself a nice cry by the end of it, and thoroughly enjoyed my viewing experience.   "},{"Title":"Levels of Television","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is your only spoiler warning...First, Let's look at this movie on the surface.  The prologue TV footage is a military recruitment commercial.  The battles are made-for-TV in quality.  The interviews and character confrontations are primetime dramas.  If you want a film that can really push limits in the same setting, watch 'Three Kings'.Second, notice how now military assistance means zero credibility.  Uniforms are wrongly present, equipment is obviously props, tanks are notably spacious, and even the radio chatter is too clean.  'Platoon' has the best radio chatter I've ever heard, the mix of static and voice being the purest.  Iraq looks like Texas.Edward Zwick, the man who destroyed Denzel, tries making his 'Rashomon' with an emphasis on the characters, but that's not the point.  The focus is on reality and perceptions of reality.  Here Denzel plays Tom Cruise in 'Born on the Fourth of July'.Like 'Rashomon', this movie revolves around a woman and the interaction around her.  Thus, Ryan must play three different roles of the same person.  Like Julianne in 'Hannibal', she's trapped in an awful Southern accent.  Ryan manages to add a 'Catch-22' atmosphere despite the John Wayne surroundings.  These types of military movies love lies and cover-ups, the concept of truth.John Williams stole from part of Horner's score for his Last Battle composition in 'Saving Private Ryan'.Karen Walden is a single mom in a combat position.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material "},{"Title":"A hard look at the brutality and ambiguity of war","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Courage Under Fire is a fine war picture so it's remarkably low 6.7 rating by IMDb voters surprised me.  Denzel Washington as the tortured LCOL Nathaniel Sterling is, as usual, wonderful.  Following the first Gulf War, Sterling is assigned to investigate the death of a female helicopter pilot in combat, Captain Karen Walden, played by Meg Ryan, so that the Defense Department can accede to the White House's wishes that Captain Walden be posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor &#150; the first female ever to receive the award.  But it's not that simple.  As Sterling interviews the survivors of Walden's crew it becomes clear that many of the details in their initial reports of the helicopter crash, Walden's death, and the rest of the crew's rescue were untrue.  Matters are complicated by Sterling's own guilt feelings, and increasing problems with alcohol, over having accidently ordered the firing of a tank shell at one of his own tanks.  Sterling's miscalculation resulted in the death of one of his close friends and subordinates.  To make matters worse, the Army is determined to coverup the affair.  The retelling of these incidents from differing perspectives gives this movie a `Rashomon' like atmosphere.  It is like watching an onion being peeled.  As layer by layer is removed, the truth at last emerges.  And it is an uncompromising &#150; nearly cynical &#150; truth at that.  My only quibble with `Courage Under Fire' is the casting of Meg Ryan as Captain Walden.  Ryan is a fine actress, and proves it here with a solid performance.  Nevertheless, this was Hollywood miscasting at its worst, done to give a star a star turn in a blockbuster movie &#150; no matter how inappropriate she might be for the role.  Ryan at her best is the charming, perky blonde honey from central casting.  Watching Ryan on film, no one could forget that she was her high school's Prom Queen.  Thus, more than the ordinary amount of suspension of disbelief is required to accept her as a slightly butch U.S. Army helicopter pilot.  It's a shame really that Hollywood did this to Ryan, the movie and itself, because with a more appropriate actress in the Walden role, `Courage Under Fire' might have been a great film.  I recommend it highly anyway, 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Tight, Taut Drama that Keeps Essence of Novel","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I remember seeing the movie when it came out and being sucked into a compelling mystery.  In order to redeem himself and find some a way out of his own downward spiraling guilt (despite being cleared by the Army), Denzel Washington tracks down the truth behind Meg Ryan's nomination for the Medal of Honor.  All actors were in excellent form, particularly Meg Ryan for playing against type.  I guess one of the reasons why this movie didn't do better was America's lack of acceptance of Meg Ryan of anything besides the Girl Next Door; cute and perky.After seeing the movie, I went ahead and bought the book.  Even though I knew the ending, the book drew me also as each character relays what happens.  I recommend the movie and book to any who are interested in a drama not about the ethics of war, or if it was justified or not, but about the decisions people make and the aftermaths of those decisions.Just a thought  Perhaps one of the reasons why this movie didn't do as well is it that it doesn't leave the Army in the best possible light.  Three Kings did not either, but that was done more as a serio-comedy with light hearted tones and outrageous incidents that had a mocking flair to it. Courage Under Fire is a straight drama about tortured individuals.  Well done and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  so-so, so what?","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Courage Under Fire is a well-acted thriller that never gets particularly thrilling. It plays out like a murder mystery, but since we don't really care about the characters, and something about the intrigue doesn't create tension... I suppose I enjoyed it but sort of it didn't impress me as particularly interesting or original.Denzel Washington does well as usual. There isn't much to work with here, though. The film is plotted as though very high stakes are being played for, but it doesn't come across.Who should see this film-- Action/thriller movie buffs, but only on a rainy day with nothing better to do-- Anyone with an interest in military history, but only on a rainy day with nothing better to doI'll give Courage Under Fire a so-so 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I am mind boggled","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well I had seen this movie in the past but never all the way through. Today I saw it all the way through and I was taken aback by the way this film was put together.  There wasn't a single detail of the movie I hated.  It was a basic story line and had a good ending.  It ended happy and sad.  I am in fact a fan of most of the actors in this film.  I think that it shows some real acting skills.  I liked the way the film flowed and how it was put together.  The way that the flash backs were done was excellent.  They made it so that when you got to the present you wouldn't be lost.  I think the casting directors and other people involved in the selection of the cast was well done.  The main cast members such as Denzel Washington, Meg Ryan, Lou Diamond Phillips, and Matt Damon were wonderful.  Also the supporting cast such as Scott Glenn, Sean Astin, and Micheal Moriarty were also wonderful. This movie is really a wonderful piece.  I think that it was pretty well done and I haven't seen anything like it before.  One of the best I have seen.  Sad but good. "},{"Title":"Got overlooked at the Oscars!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was definitely overlooked by the Academy.  It could have and should have won some major awards, or at least been nominated.  The acting is first-rate.  Denzel Washington brings his usual quiet dignity to his role as a man with inner struggles; Meg Ryan demonstrates her range as an actress, showing that she can portray a serious, tough character just as well as the lighthearted, comedic roles in which we are used to seeing her. And Lou Diamond Phillips is especially impressive, giving a multi-layered performance as Monfriez, a troubled soldier.  He is the kind of guy you hope you never meet, yet you wouldn't know it on the surface.  Excellent film.  "},{"Title":"The War Criminal","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Medals of Honor usually are not bestowed upon war criminals.Captain Walden initiated a machine gun- and incendiary bomb-attack on an Iraqi tank and ground forces.  She did this while prominently displaying one of the two symbols of The International Movement of the Red Cross and Red Crescent.  In so doing, she committed a crime.Further, why was she nominated for The Medal?  What did she do to display Conspicuous gallantry and intrepedity at risk of life, above and beyond the call of duty . . . ?  Why not a Distinguished Flying Cross or, maybe, a Silver Star -- or both?Contrast Walden's exploits with those of Corporal Gump.  Forrest Gump was aware that a napalm attack had been ordered on the position.  Risking instant incineration, he repeatedly eschewed safety and went back to rescue his comrades, one after another. That is the kind of gallantry the Medal of Honor is all about.The premise of Courage Under Fire is flawed.  "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan badly miscast.","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Meg Ryan was badly miscast.  The character is tough, butch-like woman, and Meg Ryan comes across as if she is acting tough with a fake deep voice.  I like Meg Ryan, but not in this role.Also, the plot was so politically correct as to be annoying.  Please.  The first film about a woman in combat could have been so much more.  Next time I hope they cast a woman a little older and less cute.  "},{"Title":"Incredible Meg Ryan's Performance.Like Cpt. Walden","Date":"1 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" For people who just want to see Meg in the roles of this sugar romantic- goofy coms I guess that people were lobotomized by an actress and tarnish her, when she runs away from its stereotype and I'm outraged that they can not see versatility and potential Meg Ryan's polivalency.I just see the reviews, pure flattery these crappy actresses nowadays. Ask for Julia Roberts or Angelina Jolie Already piloted an US army chopper in a role? If Michelle Pffeifer or Goldie Hawn(Private Benjamin) played a role very perfectly and naturally of a single mother and determined who dipped the face on the war, and is required in command and demonstrates tight grip and mastery with weapons? without disparaging the Denzel Washignton, which signal, shone like Nathany when reports for soldiers a Karen Walden's deservering Medal of Honor, after Her death by Naphalms, but the episodes of drunkenness became a look dull and weak. Matt Damon,was terrific, skillfully retraced all the facts of 1991's Gulf War. Lou Diamond-Phillips was excellent as paper rebel, rough and impressive and opposite Cpt. Walden. whole more Credits goes to Meg Ryan & Lou D.Phillips, sure as Denzel is a Core person in this movie.Whatever, everybody stunned theirs performance ,But Meg Ryan razed ,and much. Meg Ryan deserves an Oscar. yet, once in her life gone to win.. If God willing.. She's Powerful and more Capable than Demi-Moore, Sharon Stone,and other contemporanies 90'ties Actresses,but Meg is overrated. "},{"Title":"Just saw this movie for the first time","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Although the movie is already considerably old, and we know that war movies changed dramatically after 9/11, I was pleasantly surprised as time went by and the movie just kept getting better and better. It is not the best or the most realistic war movie out there, but it made me think about aspects of war that one tends to either forget or ignore.The acting by Denzel Washington was superb, Ryan was great, Matt Damon was young then, does not look anything like he does today, but his acting was nearly perfect. Phillips was also at his best. Both men and women will enjoy watching this movie, regardless of their political views. "},{"Title":"2 thumbs down","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Another bad movie by Meg Ryan, although she did not occupy the full screen, she is the central figure of this movie.  Bad acting as a wannabee toughie captain.  What about taking a SAW bullet in the stomach and surviving through the night? What about the predictable end?  Poor Denzel, right guy in the wrong movie!!!  "},{"Title":"An ensemble cast choking in a B-movie war zone.","Date":"4 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I tried to watch Courage Under Fire, but I couldn't get past the completely amateurish opening sequence and the horribly miscast cast. Everything about this movie is bad, from the lighting, prop execution and poor use of body language to Edward Zwick's apparent inability to get his actors to perform to editor Steven Rosenblum's poor sense of timing and choice of takes. The execution of props, battle sequences and facial expressions would have been embarrassing in the 1980s. This sort of material has been done countless times before and since, and apart from third-rate, shoestring C-movies with unknown actors and obscure porn stars by wannabe directors, few other movies of the military genre were worse. "}{"Title":"Interesting movie - great performances.","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is one of the more interesting war movies I've seen. People have said that Meg Ryan's performance isn't a star turn - I disagree. This is by far one of her most interesting roles to date, a far meatier and more interesting part than her normal fluffy work. Damon and Washington are brilliant as usual, they are charismatic and engaging, Damon especially grabs attention in a minor which elicits the audience's sympathy with ease due to Damon's natural style. Several others are also outstanding in minor roles in particular Sean Astin in a brilliant performance with very little screen time done long before he was made famous by his breathtaking Lord of the Rings performance. Lou Diamond Phillips, who also has relatively small screen time, makes an almost immediate impression with a striking character with realistic vibrancy and faults. This film is well worth a few hours of your time and you might be surprised by what you see and enjoy yourself. "},{"Title":"Strong performances highlight a powerful film.","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Courage Under Fire is a mainly post-Desert Storm war movie.  Denzel Washington (Glory, He Got Game) has the lead role as a Colonel who is giving the assignment of reviewing a case for the first woman ever to win the Medal of Honor.  Washington is in a poor emotional shape because of a deadly mistake he made in the same war.  In order to review the case Washington interviews the other members of her team.  While they tell their stories we see flashbacks of the battle and the differences in their stories are played out in the different flashbacks.  Washington is excellent in the lead role. Meg Ryan (Sleepless in Seattle, City of Angels) is the woman up for the Medal of Honor.  Because she died during the battle, Ryan is only seen in flashbacks.  Ryan is solid in a total change of pace role for herself.  Good support work is turned in by Michael Moriarty (TV's Law and Order, Shiloh) as Washington's commanding officer, and Scott Glenn (Backdraft, Firestorm) as a reporter who helps Washington.  Before his big leading roles Matt Damon (Good Will Hunting, Rounders) gives a great supporting performance as Ryan's best friend and medic on her team.  But the performance of the movie belongs to Lou Diamond Phillips (The Big Hit, La Bamba) as another member of Ryan's team.  Phillips gives a wonderful performance as the most emotionally conflicted member of her crew.  Great movie, highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Finally got around to seeing this, or most of it, on commercial TV with way too many commercial breaks that hurt the film's sometimes intense flow. Not bad, and mostly believable, story about Denzel W., Meg R. and Lou Diamond P. as career soldiers caught up in a sticky wicket of a situation during the first Gulf War. Matt Damon is also in the cast, before he was a star, and gives it his best up against these well-seasoned actors. This was probably Philips' last decent role before he became a darling of made-for-video fare. Ed Zwick is not my favorite director by any means, but he does a reasonable job here telling a RASHOMAN-style tale of courage and cowardice under fire. Even in a bad movie, like that horrible thing he did about a demon jumping from body to body, Denzel is usually entertaining, and this film is no exception. "},{"Title":"For the kind of film it is, it's not bad","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" At the beginning of the film, someone makes a reference to Meg Ryan's character as being butch. I immediately thought, Yeah right. Meg Ryan, butch? Well, I was actually quite surprised with her performance, given the fact that she is a light romantic screen actress. Plus, she was once considered one of America's sweethearts, so it's hard to picture her in a role like this.Denzel Washington, a Colonol in the Army, is investigating the death of an American soldier who died in the field, during the Iraqi war. Whether she deserves the medal of honor, which she has been nominated for, is the reason for the investigation. There are surviving members of her crew, and each one has a different version of the story, and what really happened the morning of her death.The first twenty minutes of the film are slow, and a bit hard to pay attention to (or maybe that's just me and military movies), but once you get into the story, it picks up quite a bit, and becomes very interesting and worth the watch. I will probably never see this movie again, but it was entertaining enough that I was able to sit through the whole thing without being frustrated from boredom.Denzel Washington was good, but nothing special. I suppose it might have been his character, given the fact that it was a pretty bland role. Lou Diamond Phillipes was probably the best actor in the whole film, and blew me away with his performance. I'm surprised he hasn't done as much since this film came out.Again, Meg Ryan was good in this, but I wouldn't have chosen her for this part. I would have gone with someone a little more masculine to fill her character's shoes, perhaps someone like Jodie Foster.It was a good drama, and if you want to see a really young and good looking Matt Damon, this is your chance. Other than that though, it's not worth that much. It's better than most action movies, but then again, there's not really that much action as there is story telling, which I enjoyed the most out of the whole film. "},{"Title":"Objective unclear","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Soldiers do terrible things (in all senses of that word), nominally in the name of all of us.  If one soldier, who has not committed any atrocities, dies in combat but is given a technically undeserved honour, does it really matter?  In Edward Zwick's curious film, 'Courage Under Fire', we have to believe it does, as Denzel Washington's Colonel investigates whether an award should be given to Meg Ryan's deceased pilot after the first Gulf war.  It's all rather dull, and although he eventually (and predictably) unearths a shocking truth, there's little in his early inquiries to suggest such an outcome.  The plot justification for the importance Washington's character gives to his enquiry is meant to be personal, he himself has had a tough war and is now teetering on the brink of alcoholism, though this itself is odd as while the rest of the cast all notice this constantly, we virtually never see him drunk (or indeed, taking more than a single drink at a sitting).  The incident he is investigating is also peculiar, Ryan's character commands no natural authority but even then the reaction of her troops seems strange. Another contradiction is the way the film appears to want to honour the military, beginning with textbook action scenes and ending with sentimental reverence, in spite of the fact that the soldiers we see in action are all, frankly, pretty bad at their jobs. But a conspiracy thriller needs a bad guy, so top brass is attacked, for the crime of wanting to make good PR out of an apparently heroic story, while the troops on the ground are applauded for their incompetence and forgiven their errors. It all makes for a film with a very funny shape, which shows the failings of soldiers but passes up the opportunity to comment on the dehumanising nature of war in favour of commenting on the dehumanising nature of sitting in an office.  Far less profound than it thinks. "},{"Title":"A thoughtful look at the psyche of a soldiers","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I won't bother with giving a plot summary; there's plenty of those around. I found it fascinating how Courage Under Fire examines the many different levels of moral strength and courage, or lack thereof, among the main characters of the film. The battle scenes in Iraq which are the impetus for the movie's plot comprise a relatively small part of the film. Other, more interesting battles occur between Lt. Colonel Serling (Denzel) and the soldiers he is investigating, Lt. Colonel Serling and himself, and Captain Emma Walden (Meg Ryan) and the soldiers under her command. Every character is examined through the prism of honor and courage, probably the two most important criteria for a soldier. With the exception of the scene where Sergeant Monfriez (Lou Diamond Philips) commits suicide, the movie is expertly acted, directed, and produced. Courage Under Fire is a movie I can watch again and again. "},{"Title":"How to make friendly fire, less unfriendly","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Nothing much more to sayDuring a war, everyone has their own views of the immediate situation.Odd that the film concentrates on a mission, commanded by a female, the events clouded by the rest of the crew, and apparently covered up by the ones back home. The investigation is given to, and carried out with a great amount of gusto by a veteran of the combat, but with his own hidden guilt complex, hidden until the very end.Good performances by all involved fail to cover up the main story and the problems with the delivery, it offers little in answers.Wonderful, one day the news will really come out on the events that occurred during the first Gulf War, this film release is about conflict within the combatants of one mission, it in no way gives answers to the real events of the whole allied push into the region.As someone else said, 'disappointing' "},{"Title":"Promotes stereotypes and character myths.","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this movie mediocre. There were some good scenes, but I thought the characters were flat and predictable. I'm studying to be a counselor and I kept finding myself thinking,For goodness sake get over it! Am I a bad counselor, or is this movie bad? These were not characters acting like real people would, their solutions were too staged, one doesn't give up alcohol by pouring out the bottle (try rehab.) Suicide doesn't just suddenly happen when one is put under stress, or we'd all be dead. The woman was described as butch, a great mom and a hero, I guess they were trying to hit every stereotype. I was embarrassed by this portrayal of what men think a great woman is supposed act like.  "},{"Title":"UnderRated Denzel","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  No disrespect to Woody Harrelson, but I can't fathom how he was nominated for Best Actor over Denzel Washington.  Denzel Washington may not have deserved to win Best Actor for Courage Under Fire ( I didn't see Geoffrey Rush in Shine), but he darn well should have been nominated. (Especially over Harrelson in People vs. Flynt - give me  a break!)   This movie rips you up inside.    Not just because it's about war and about innocent soldiers being killed.  What pulls you apart is what the war survivors come home to deal with.  The responsibilities for decisions made that no one should be asked to shoulder.  The insane burden that we ask our soldiers (and their families) to bear, usually for unworthy political motives.                It sticks with you, this one. "},{"Title":"By the book blandness","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The concept here was pretty good.  The craftsmanship of making the movie was excellent, but somehow this movie fell a little flat for me.  First of all, Meg Ryan is about as believable playing a tough army commander as Goldie Hawn would be. Denzel plays his part by the book, but I never really ended up liking him very much.  I was rooting for the soldiers to outfox him. The movie seemed to hate the military, which is okay if you make a strong movie around it, but this one seemed to just miss the mark, I could see it being an 8 with a little better casting and maybe a little bit less of filming the battle scene from eleventy seven different people's perspective.If you're really into the military/courtroom/private eye type dramas then you'll like this okay, but you'll also know you've seen better. 5 or 6 out of ten.  "}{"Title":"great film","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an excellent character study headlined by the always great Denzel Washington. It's not without its flaws, but Mr. Washington and the wonderful Rashomon-like story overshadow all problems. I even thought Lou Diamond Phillips did a great job. I recommend this to anyone looking for an actual good Hollywood film as opposed to waisting time and money on drivel like XXX. "},{"Title":"Saving Private Meg Ryan","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  `Courage Under Fire' is both entertaining and thought provoking.  But I most strongly recommend it for those thought provoking elements some of which I want to comment on (I apologize if I stray a bit from the simple film summary and rating format).But I found it impossible to watch `Courage Under Fire' without looking at through the lens of the second Gulf War (I saw this film recently on HBO which is re-airing it - probably not by accident). The movie is riveting by itself  - the Gulf War would seem to function as nothing more than an historical backdrop for the dramatic themes explored in the movie.  Still, I am surprised that more recent comments don't even call attention to the latest military action in Iraq.  War movies, even if they are nothing more than action films or just military propaganda, never exist in an historical vacuum.  And as with `Three Kings', it may not be entirely historically accurate, but nonetheless encapsulates aspects of the ambiguity and nature of the war it depicts.  Furthermore, with advent of the second Gulf War you get an even stronger sense that the filmmakers were really on target here. If you haven't seen this movie in a while, I would recommend giving it a second viewing just for this reason.Specifically consider the real ordeal of Pvt. Jessica Lynch who, like the Capt. Walden (Meg Ryan), also happens to be a woman, and is being touted by the Pentagon as a war hero who exhibited extraordinary `courage under fire' (quotes for both movie and real life).  I mean, just look at Jessica Lynch and then think about the apparent `miscasting' of Meg Ryan, a recurrent complaint on this comment board. Were people looking for the stereotypical `butch' character (like Vasquez from `Aliens')?  Ms. Ryan is miscast only if you don't understand that the `butch' female grunt is itself a stereotype that is specifically addressed in the film.Moreover, just as in this movie, the official `story' surrounding the ordeal of the hero is not as straightforward as it seems.  In the case of Pvt. Lynch, for instance, the BBC, through their interviews with the Iraqi doctors and nurses who cared for Lynch, has brought the official rescue story into question.  I'm not claiming that the official story is not true and there is certainly little doubt about the heroism and courage shown by Pvt. Lynch through her ordeal.  But to paraphrase Lt. Col. Serling (Denzel Washington), `not to tell the whole story, the whole truth would be to dishonor her' and her rescuers, no matter how hard the truth is to swallow. The PR games on display in this film - being played out by the White House, by the Pentagon and Army Brass - would appear to be nothing more than a convenient subtext for exploring the human response to the chaos of war. But this movie, I believe, hits on something more than just a remake of Rashomon showing the confusion of war and memory.  At the very least it points to serious problems with the nature of truth in modern warfare, without simply reverting to simple military bashing - that truth, especially the truth of our highest values such as courage, honor, and duty - aren't always black and white.  These themes are never completely developed, nor would you expect them to be - yet in light of recent events (I can't emphasize this enough) this movie certainly deserves a second look.(Also I just have to mention the weird parallelism of Meg Ryan acting along side Matt Damon who played Pvt. Ryan in `Saving Private Ryan' whose title has been appropriated by the press as for the story of `Saving Private Lynch' etc.).  "},{"Title":"I want an official investigation...","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Into why this movie was made. It made no sense at all. I was a little groggy at the beginning, and by end, I was completely delerious with boredom. The tone, dialogue, and pacing of this film are out of whack. A shame, since this film reunited Denzel with Ed Zwick, who made the great GLORY with him, but would go on to make THE SEIGE, another film that probably shouldn't have been made. I can't imagine what the producers were thinking. Meg Ryan is credible in a pointless and underwritten role "},{"Title":"Surprise in a good way.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First several minutes into the movie I was skeptical and ready for another flag-waiving army commercial a la `Top Gun'. Well, I am pleased to admit that I was wrong. Although the characters played by Denzel Washington and Meg Ryan are way too idealistic, the movie itself is a good picture of what the ugly thing war is and how the bureaucratic war machine is operating, consuming lives and souls of those who joined it. Denzel Washington performance is stunning, if it was the Oscar for `Best performance in a badly written role', he would definitely deserve it. The rest of the cast also did a great job, but Meg Ryan should stick to movies like `Sleepless in Seattle' and `You've got mail'. Not because she is so bad actress, but because all her acting abilities completely backfired in this movie, and some unknown extra actress would look more natural here.  "},{"Title":"For Denzel only.","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  On paper this movie looked quite intriguing (different interpretations of the truth and such), but the mystery angle is actually secondary to the personal dramas, the battle scenes and the glorification of military ideals. The director drags his feet through the plot, while the music score swells and Meg Ryan (one of my favorite actresses) struggles with a role she is obviously miscast in. Denzel Washington, on the other hand, gives a very, very fine performance, making some moments (like his confession at the end) much more moving than they would've been otherwise. (**) "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan, Matt Damon, Lou Diamond Philips, and Denzel all give fine performances.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The setting in post-Desert Storm. Two parallel stories, Denzel investigating whether Ryan, as a helicopter pilot who died during combat, should get the first medal of honor awarded to a female. And Denzel coming to personal grips with having fired upon friendly tanks in the night and killing a good friend of his. As Denzel interviews different surviving crew, we see in flashback additional parts of the true story revealed, and not all crew tell the same story. Some say she was a hero, some say she was a coward. Also, Denzel comes to realize that sometimes good people inadvertently die at war.SPOILERS - when all the pieces of the story come together we learn that Ryan really was the hero, she was wounded by one of her own men who was trying to mutiny. And, during the eventual rescue, when she stayed behind to fire at the enemy, asking them to return with a stretcher for her, Lou Diamond said she was dead, so they left her and napalmed the area. During the subsequent investigation, when he figured they would learn the truth, he killed himself by speeding his car head-on into a locomotive.A really fine story and a fine film. No actor stood out, they were all superb. Matt Damon, a year before Will Hunting, was already in fine form. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie surprised me on many levels. 1)  The acting.  The acting was very surprising and the characters were excellent. 2)  The plot.  The plot is so interesting a very played out and doesn't miss a spot.  3)  The whole movie. The entire movie was great and I enjoyed this so much.   The plot follows Meg Ryan.  A dying soldier who just may get the Congressional Medal of Honor.  I'm not going to tell anything else but this whole movie was just great.Overall the acting, direction, and plot was wonderful.  I saw this at the movie theater and bought this immediately.  Rating 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent, Touching and Poignant Film","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Courage Under Fire is definitely an excellent, moving and tragic film and it certainly ranks as one of the most outstanding war movies that I have viewed. Denzel Washington provides an excellent portrayal of a military official haunted by his past and determined to discover the truth no matter what the obstacles are. Meg Ryan is excellent (as per usual) in her portrayal of Captain Karen Emma Walden. This film also benefits from a strong supporting cast and a touching storyline. I was near tears at the end. I would award Courage Under Fire a rating of 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"no offense Blair...","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Blair Campbell gave a lowsey comment of this movie.  Denzel gave an awesome performance as did meg ryan.  this is one of the most POWERFUL movies i have ever seen. i own over 370 vhs movies and i know a great movie when i see one and this is it. so, no offense Blair but this is a movie that should have been nominated for an academy award. "},{"Title":"COURAGE UNDER FIRE is a competent piece of Hollywood filmmaking in the vein of A FEW GOOD MEN.","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It dredges up the old Rashomon formula and makes it seem almost new. The same story is told from various points of view, illustrating that the truth can have many faces. Some of the family melodrama stuff is hokey, and the ending is pretty icky, but for the most part, COURAGE has muscle. Denzel Washington gives a moving performance as Lt. Colonel Nathaniel Sterling, a conscientious military leader who is assigned to the investigation of a female officer being considered for the Medal of Honor. Sterling has plenty of problems on his own plate, thanks to some friendly-fire casualties that occurred on a 1991 Gulf War mission under his command. The army has been covering up that incident. Now he is being pursued by a nosy Washington Post reporter (Scott Glenn), and can get few straight answers from his superior officer (Michael Moriarty). Sterling is losing his own family as he pursues his new assignment, questioning the soldiers who served under Capt. Karen Walden (Meg Ryan), the medal candidate. She is described by one character as butch. Well, compared to Richard Simmons, maybe. Ryan is just not convincing playing tough, though she gets credit for trying to shake her lovable-ditz persona. I still wouldn't bet on her in an arm-wrestling match with Demi Moore.  "}{"Title":"Good movie, think-maker","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was definitely a good movie. It's not the usual cliche movie from Hollywood. No big special effects, no lonely action hero who alone saves the world, no massive advertisement (I'm unsure, but I think it was never shown in theaters in Italy).The history flows slowly while an USA officer, tormented for having ordered fire over friends during the war, investigates about a medal proposal which is over-pursued for political reasons. He finds the truth is neither as most people want to be, nor just the opposite most people want to be - it's something more complex that must be pursued with passion, and it costs. But there are persons who accept the challenge.Denzel Washington was pretty good as usual, perhaps Meg Ryan was not the best choice for her role (not a problem of acting, she just does not match the character).There are perhaps a pair of details in the war scenes that does not make much sense, but they are not essential to the plot - this is not an action movie, but a think-maker. No surprise it didn't hit the top. "},{"Title":"Very moving","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought that the Movie was very moving and showed those of us that were not part of that war, what it was like. I enjoyed the mystery and the fact that it was not predictable, as are a lot of others. I always enjoy seeing Meg Ryan in anything she has appeared in and I also enjoyed Denzel Washington. I have a lot of respect for Denzel's acting abilities and look forward to many years of his films. "},{"Title":"Makes you proud to salute the flag...","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is not the greatest film ever made; but it is, nonetheless, a fine picture & a great vehicle for the talents of Denzel Washington.Ryan is great too (not sure about the accent though), but is rather under used.As for the plot - well, its fairly predictable; though there are a couple of interesting twists thrown into the mix.If you are looking for a film about heroism, the stress of war & honesty; then there are few finer. "},{"Title":"One of the best!","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've seen. Denzel Washington gave a very good performance as Nathaniel Sterling. I feel this movie should not only have been nominated for the best picture Oscar, but should have won it as well. "},{"Title":"Respect for Gulf War veterians","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The very beginning starts with the battle in the desert to stop the Iragies. In this battle a colnel (Denzal Washington) accidentally destrots one of his own tanks.  When he returns home the horrible images go over and over in his mind of his mistake.  The army give him an assignment to find out if a women capatain (Meg Ryan) is worthy of a medal of honor.  There are several flashbacks in the film of the tough situation the captain and her team are in when they crash their heelacopter saving a group of men who were in big trouble.  To search ou tif she is worthy of the medal the colnol talks with the men that were on the captains team.  He finds that they are haunted by what they went through.  The movie respects Gulf War veterians through the women and the end is very touching.  I have seen a lot of war movies lately and non of them came close the my favotite war movie Saving Private Ryan which I beleif is one of the best films of all time, but this movie was a good war film that showed some of the horrors of The Gulf War.  The acting is very good.  This is a very touching and moving film that you should see and maybe develope more respect for Gulf War veterians. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I found this film to be an intelligent film which respects it's audience. Someone said the premise is flawed.  Maybe it was, the the movie itself is beautifully done tale of courage and hypocrisy.  Denzel Washington gives a great performance, and Meg Ryan was good (if miscast).Simply stated but beautiful, I think this is one of the ten best of 1996. "},{"Title":"Patriotism and courage. Great movie","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one of the best war movies produced in a long time. Unlike many other war movies, this one brilliantly shows that in wartime, truth is sometimes dependent on the eyes of the beholder. One thing that I really enjoy with this movie is that instead of offering the typical liberal war bashing which really annoys me, it demonstrates to the full the sacrifice and courage displayed by the military and the men and women in uniform. After seeing this great and patriotic movie, I was truly moved. See it today!!  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Edward Zwick has had a hand in two TV series that I liked(MY SO-CALLED LIFE and RELATIVITY), and handled issues in a complex way whenever those shows addressed them.  But like so many TV-directors who jump to movies, his movies have often taken simplistic approaches to complex stories. Admittedly, he has a fine visual eye, and his battle scenes are quite good. The opening scene in this movie is a perfect example, capturing the confusion and horror of battle, making it believable that Nat Serling(Denzel Washington) would accidently fire on his own troops.  But then it turns disappointing.  Part of the problem is I read a novel version which the screenwriter wrote before the movie came out, and two of the characters(the one Seth Gilliam plays, and the one Lou Diamond Phillips plays) are combined, so the so-called RASHOMON-type view is blunted, because we only get two points of view, instead of three.  It also becomes too schematic and melodramatic, especially with the subplot about the reporter, which is unconvincing.It's a shame, because Washington is good in his portrait of a man who falls to the bottom and has to crawl his way back, and Meg Ryan is good as the late Karen Walden.  Lou Diamond Phillips, however, gives the best performance.  I just wish it had been in service of a better film. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'll be the first to admit that I am a sucker for military dramas. I am also a very big Denzel Washington fan. Thus, for me anyway, this movie had it all. The acting was superb across the board. Everyone both looked and acted perfectly for the part. Matt Damon lost about 40 pounds to look appropriately emaciated and strung out for the part. Anyway, I guess I'm trying to say that I do not agree with the other (previous) reviews of this film. Yes, the story ended predictably, but shat else do you expect from a story of redemption? failure? Nat Serling is a character we want to see overcome his demons, and he does. This does not make the movie a cliche. It is not the destination that counts, it is the journey that takes us there. The unfolding of the various stories of the drama of Karen Walden's demise is both intriguing and gripping. I can honestly say that when the truth is finally revealed that my jaw dropped, and that I walked out of the theater in tears. (small, macho tears, but tears none the less) My only bitch, other than a small tech goof, is that James Horner's soundtrack is very predictable by the numbers and gave me no joy, but then I'm fussy about soundtracks. As is obvious by my over-long comment, this is a great movie and a must see for any Meg Ryan or Denzel Washington fan, or for lovers of military flicks in general. "},{"Title":"sean astin rocks as Patella","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  it is cool.after i saw it i brought a new actor in to my life his name is Sean Astin "}{"Title":"Friendly Fire","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Being a fan of Denzel Washington and a huge fan of Meg Ryan I was keen to see this movie.  I was disappointed in watching it.  Megs Ryans performance was out of the box.  It was certainly different to her other roles.  Denzel Washington, well what can I say other then his usual brilliant performance. A good movie made even better by the actors. "},{"Title":"Hum...","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ah, the tortured soldier, home from the war, finds a vehicle whereby he can  erase his demons and save his soul... but wouldn't you think the American  military would be getting used to killing their own troops/innocent skiers/civilian  aircraft... Denzel, as always, does a creditable job. The movie takes some interesting  twists, and provides a happy - although fairly trite/cliched/predictable -  ending. Interesting to see an even more baby-faced Matt Damon. More could have been  made of the political - first woman recipient - aspect, and Meg Ryan's  abilities, but an interesting movie nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Great flick from a great writer","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Why isn't Duncan doing more work? He's the best writer in the world. Hollywood needs to embrace people of all colors, ethnicities, and races in the writing area.'COURAGE' is a film which never ceases to amaze me. The acting is superb, with Denzel Washington as the passionate and embittered essence of finding the MEDAL OF HONOR. Yhe wise, experienced, and ultimately uplifting leader, Meg Ryan who plays a subtly powerful and effective Captain. The supporting cast, including Lou Diamond Philips delivered wonderful performances as well, demonstrating braveness and determination in the face of danger. James Horner's score fits in PERFECTLY with the mood of the movie - it never ceases to make me feel a degree of compassion and love for the soldiers and the achievements that they obtain throughout the course of the film. This is an emotionally draining experience, I guarantee that you will be moved in some way for the better by viewing it. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED TO ALL. "},{"Title":"Raises new troubling questions","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just caught Courage Under Fire for the first time since its initial release. I'd forgotten how powerful it was and how superior the performers -- Washington, Phillips, the young Matt Damon, and especially Meg Ryan (proving she's so much more than adorable). More than anything, as I watched it I wondered Courage Under Fire (only seven years old) is, to put it mildly, skeptical of the U.S. military establishment. In today's rah-rah, jingoistic, lowest-common-denominator-pleasing megaconglomerate Hollywood, could a film like this ever get made? "},{"Title":"powerful and moving","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Washington is an aggrieved U.S. Army officer and careerist who, after a series of tragic events during Operation Desert Storm, is assigned to investigate the controversial and mysterious events surrounding the death of Ryan, a captain who has just been nominated for the Medal of Honor. As he gets closer to uncovering the truth, the Army just seems concerned with fighting off the media and ignoring the big picture. Some interesting twists, fine performances, and solid emotional depth keep the film moving during it's more melodramatic moments. Washington and Ryan play their respective roles perfectly in this gripping drama; a winner. *** "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever Made That No One Knows About","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Courage Under Fire is an intelligent, intense and ultimately excellent film from 1996 that was overlooked for reasons I cannot figure out. The film deals with an Army lieutenant (Denzel Washington) who is assigned to investigate whether or not a late helicopter command pilot (Meg Ryan) should receive the Medal of Honor posthumously from the U.S. government. The fact that no woman has ever received the honor makes it all the more imperative, but what really happened to Ryan and those she commanded in Iraq during Desert Storm? Washington must find out from those who survived and piece the facts together to determine if Ryan is truly worthy of the honor. The problem is each survivor has a different story. Who is telling the truth and who is lying? Another key factor is that Washington himself is fighting his own inner-demons as he unwittingly ordered a tank to be destroyed while he was in command of his own unit during the war. Courage Under Fire is just excellent in every way possible. The screenplay is dramatic and focused and Ed Zwick's direction is the best of his career. Denzel Washington is a guaranteed performance as usual. Meg Ryan does the best work of her career as her part is told in all flashbacks. Matt Damon, Lou Diamond Phillips, Scott Glenn, Michael Moriarty and Bronson Pinchot (!?) all are perfect in well-calculated dramatic turns. 5 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"Perfect Film","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Everything about this film was perfect. The mystery, the search to unravel it, the redemption quest of Denzel Washington's character. Everything.For me I had this as my best film of the year it was released for. It is a true shame that the film and Washington and Ryan were overlooked, because it was truly the best example of movie making for 1996. "},{"Title":"Candy and Bubblegum","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw the Scandinavian premiere in Stockholm. Twice. Both the 7 and the 9 showings. We had expected a lot first movie from Meg Ryan in quite some time, rumors that Denzel would get another nomination, posters about town for nearly a year.It was the first movie about the Gulf War that I had seen, and it proved to add something significant to what otherwise was quite an open and shut case.When Bronson Pinchot came on the scene a hushed whisper left the mouths of each of the 1200 viewers present SERGE!Ryan was up to par, even though some viewers might find it difficult to picture her in such a role. The production was spot on, unbelievably realistic scenes. And Denzel was in true top form, and yes, one wonders afterwards why he didn't get a nomination.This had been up to then the best picture we'd seen all year in a particularly dry 12 months. We had yet to learn that Mirimax would pre-empt the field with The English Patient, a movie we hadn't even heard of at that point in time.There is something about this movie which makes it small as opposed to big and blockbuster-like, whatever it is.On a final note, it must be noted how the audience reacted at the second showing. The back rows of the theatre were filled with little old ladies who had their little white hankies out by the end and were audibly sniffing in them. All the while a somewhat obnoxious teenager, unluckily placed among them, upon witnessing the crash scene, blurted out loud enough for everyone to hear At last! First halfway decent scene in the movie!Obviously not a movie for everyone. If you're still into candy and bubblegum, try Sly Stallone instead. But if you're interested in looking at one of the most sensitive issues in any war, often covered up just the way it's portrayed here, give Courage Under Fire a look. "},{"Title":"Gutless Under Cliché","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Yes, I know it's trying to be inspiring and heroic and poignant, but COURAGE UNDER FIRE is one of the most blatantly gutless movies ever made. About a soldier investigating whether a downed female United States helicopter pilot in Desert Storm deserves a posthumous Medal of Honor. So I ask you in which universe will America ever make a movie where a Medal of Honor is investigated and NOT awarded? So it's a foregone conclusion--all the mystery and mayhem and maybes are simply wasting our time more than the actual war this story was set in--as it leads inexorably to the melodramatic military funeral, the flags, saluting, tears of the family, proud shiny buttons and white gloves, the flyover with one plane breaking formation, and that bilious, bleating orchestra swell. And the Medal. The End. Cry me a river; cry me a patently meaningless award, military swine.Then the coda the investigating soldier visits pilot's grave, salutes grave, tiny flag, voice-over of dead pilot to American Pie Mom and Dad, talking of the Big Push and hero hero hero hero hero hero another blithering orchestra swell I'm going to vomit... Denzel Washington is the investigating soldier, with demons of his own. (Well, they're not really demons; they're roiling stabs of conscience he feels for stupidly shooting one of his own tanks during a skirmish, killing his own men in the hilariously black euphemism friendly fire, and then having the military cover-up his blunder.) And whenever he has visions of that po' boy he fricasseed in that tank (Mmm! Soldierboy, the other white meat!), he heads straight for the alcohol... uh, cos he's a hero, see.When he's asked to investigate whether Captain Karen Walden (Meg Ryan) is worthy of receiving the Medal of Honor for courage under fire, the story ends right there. Of course she's deserving of it. She's the first female officer recommended, she's regarded as a hero for sacrificing her life for her men--and she's Meg Ryan. As if the movie would go to all the trouble setting up her heroism and feminism and Ryanism and NOT award her the medal.And every cliché in the military lexicon is thrown at us like grenades lobbed into foxholes the tragic family; damaged goods investigating damaged goods; the novice (Matt Damon), the toughguy (Lou Diamond Phillips), the hero-worshipper (Tim Guinee) and all the other bumboys like the Benetton passengers of SPEED; the hospitalized guy (Seth Gilliam) whose seen one battle too many; the military cover-up. And everyone's got Movie PTSD.Denzel wants to find out what really happened, so COURAGE is constructed like a RASHOMON for rednecks, as we see all the alternate flashbacks with a coy Walden, an indecisive Walden and a butch Walden barking orders and trying not to look like a sex object. Not one of the scenarios is ambiguous about her Hero status--no matter if she threw Iraqi babies at walls or defunded the G.I. Bill. If we can call football players heroes, and people who jumped from the Twin Towers heroes, then this chopper pilot must be a shoo-in, so I ask again what compels viewers to spend 120 minutes *pretending* there's any doubt?Denzel visits Walden's helicopter bumboys, who all give differing accounts of My Night In The Desert With Captain Walden. Diamond Phillips claims he was the toughguy, as he lies and plies himself with alcohol and commits suicide (cos he's a hero!); Damon claims Walden was a strategic hardnose, as he admits to being a junkie and afraid to go flying again (cos he's a hero!); Guinee relates how Walden sacrificed herself for them, even as he reveals how she got them shot down by taking another pass at an Iraqi tank when she could have flown away--cognitive dissonance rules!--while constantly telling his wife to shutup for calling Walden butch (cos he's a hero!); while Seth Gilliam pounds his medication to numb himself out of the running as a reputable eyewitness (cos he's a hero, see!).What's in it for her bumboys to report that she was a coward? Nothing. But saying she was a HERO makes them vicarious heroes alongside her. Ooo-rah! And here's a note to all you military wardogs whose first reaction is to Spock-chop me for disrespecting you (such heroes, fighting for peace!) When are you going to realize your own government, who pays you hypocritical lip service, regards you with even less respect than I do? I just consider you deluded and egotistical and sometimes uneducated, while they consider you cannon fodder! It's the United States government that fools you into getting your asses shot off for them in the first place; it's the United States government that refuses you and your family financial benefits when you return from war; it's the United States government that stop-losses you, reneging on your stipulated leave time, over and over and over again; it's the United States government that cuts your medical funding; it's the United States government that evicts your family, that lies about friendly fire, that doesn't provide armor for you or your vehicles; it's the United States government that kicks you out for being gay after you've dedicated your life to them; it's the United States government that supposedly trains you for PTSD and then all of you return from war with PTSD (Who are the a-holes? You, who are either failing your training, or the government who are failing to train you properly?).Is that what you bitches call respect? Under fire from your own government, it's about time you showed some real Courage Under Fire and tell them where to shove it next time they want to exploit you for political gain. That is, unless you really are as dumb as they consider you to be.Ooo-rah! --Poffy The Cucumber "},{"Title":"Just wasn't that powerful or moving","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Okay so the main reason why I decided to see this movie is cause Edward Zwick directed it since I liked The Last Samurai. Much better film than Avatar hands down. This is one of those feel good movies and that is fine, but it's just not that gripping or touching for that matter. The plot is basically about Nat Serling(Denzel Washington) who is Lt Col a Desert Storm veteran that is going through a guilt trip for accidentally killing one of the guy on his team. And while this is going on he is assigned a task to investigate if Capt Karen Walden(played by Meg Ryan) deserves a medal of honor, since she would be the first woman to receive it. But there is some sort of conspiracy and things just keep getting deeper and deeper. So yeah it's one of those patriotic feel good movies, but I found most of it dull and sort of boring. It just wasn't a very interesting film, I didn't even think the film left a big impact or was that powerful as some reviewers claim it to be. It just didn't seem to worth that much in the end and felt like it was mainly about American heroism but just wasn't that powerful.5/10 "}{"Title":"Battle-scared veteran looks for redemption","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Not a bad storyline about the conduct of war as well as the impact on those that survive it. Courage Under Fire features one of the best American actors, Denzel Washington and he is supported by a support cast that will go on to big things -- fine actors like Matt Damon and accurately portrays the gulf between a combat veteran and those that haven't experienced war.Unfortunately, Meg Ryan is in the movie -- in the leading female role. Her (Texas?) accent is brutal as her acting. No wonder her crew left her to die. I only watch this movie via TiVo or on DVD -- so I can fast forward through her scenes. Oh, and I liked the way she never got helmet head -- even in Iraq. Sure it never gets tooooooo hot there! "},{"Title":"IF we have to go for emancipation, why not take something credible ?","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is story, which combines strong flag waving by showing the titled courage under fire with all the politics and background strong arming of the Washington bureaucracy and the motive of a failed leader to investigate on a dead hero, trying to bring the truth of her heroics to the light. That is where we are getting to the weakness. Casting Meg Ryan to that role blew the whole thing. IF it had to be a woman hero, why not take somebody, who could lend credibility to the role ? She surely can't and that is, where the movie is suffering. NExt to the overdone story of her crewmen, who all seem to have suffered a fatal blow in their lives during the events. And thru it stumbles Denzel Washington as the guilt-ridden officer trying to save his career and his personal life from falling apart after he presumably created mortal collateral damage during the first Iraqi campaign. A little bit to much and a concept, that didn't really carry a lot of years ago with Gary Cooper in They came to Cordura. Actually i a little short on alternatives of actresses, who could have carried this. Any suggestions ? "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie was excellent and I believe that Karyn was couragous and deserved the Medal of Honor without a doubt. Meg Ryan is a phenomenal actress and did a great performance for this film. She really fit nicely into the character. This film to me really is 10 stars! I think this war movie is better than others because it really shows what one woman accomplished in the war. I thought this movie was really sad and it brought tears to my eyes. I would watch it over and over again and not get tired of it. Meg Ryan is my favorite actress and I hope that she will continue to impress me with her great performances. I highly recommend this movie to others because it is just one of those movies that you just have to see. "},{"Title":"Admirable film with a couple of standout performances","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just for the record, at least here on IMDb, I think this is an underrated film. And I say that as a person who very rarely likes movies about the military. My dad was in the military most of his adult life, and when he would come home on leave he would always drag me to some war film. I hated it. So, I rarely watch a war movie. But this is a keeper.First, the cast. And let me review the actors in the order of how impressive they were in this film. Denzel Washington, as a Lieutenant Colonel investigating whether a dead female captain should receive the Medal Of Honor, and who himself may have been involved in friendly fire deaths, and who has an alcohol problem, is excellent. Lou Diamond Phillips, as a Staff Sergeant who was at the helicopter crash where the female soldier was killed, is superb here (I never knew he was such a hunk...just for the record). Regina Taylor, as the wife of Washington, is excellent! Meg Ryan, the helicopter pilot who dies, is good, but although her role is pivotal, this is not a very good showcase of her talents, and I do not see her here as the co-star to Denzel Washington. I found Matt Damon rather unimpressive here, but of course, this was just before his breakthrough role that immediately followed this film. Bronson Pinchot was an interesting choice as a White House aide, and he does okay. Michael Moriarty is good as a Brigadier General, as is Scott Glenn as a Washington Post reporter.While I can't say whether or not the Iraq battle scenes were realistic, they impressed me.Despite some inconsistencies, I think the story is a good one. And not a simple one, since the issues that Denzel Washington's character has are complicating his investigation of whether or not Ryan's character should receive the Medal Of Honor. Washington does an admirable job of mixing all these factors and fleshing out the character traits of his role. In fact, this was one of Washington's early films which convinced me that he was an actor that America should treasure.Despite a few flaws, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"I hate to burst your bubble","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I hate to burst your bubble about this movie, but Meg Ryan's character would not have been the first Medal of Honor RECIPIENT (you don't win the Medal of Honor). The only woman to have received the Medal of Honor was awarded it during the Civil War, and she was a civilian (also the only one). Here is the citationWALKER, DR. MARY E. Rank and organization Contract Acting Assistant Surgeon (civilian), U. S. Army. Places and dates Battle of Bull Run, July 21, 1861; Patent Office Hospital, Washington, D.C., October 1861; Chattanooga, Tenn., following Battle of Chickomauga, September 1863; Prisoner of War, April 10, 1864-August 12, 1864, Richmond, Va.; Battle of Atlanta, September 1864. Entered service at Louisville, Ky. Born 26 November 1832, Oswego County, N.Y. Citation Whereas it appears from official reports that Dr. Mary E. Walker, a graduate of medicine, has rendered valuable service to the Government, and her efforts have been earnest and untiring in a variety of ways, and that she was assigned to duty and served as an assistant surgeon in charge of female prisoners at Louisville, Ky., upon the recommendation of Major-Generals Sherman and Thomas, and faithfully served as contract surgeon in the service of the United States, and has devoted herself with much patriotic zeal to the sick and wounded soldiers, both in the field and hospitals, to the detriment of her own health, and has also endured hardships as a prisoner of war four months in a Southern prison while acting as contract surgeon; and Whereas by reason of her not being a commissioned officer in the military service, a brevet or honorary rank cannot, under existing laws, be conferred upon her; and Whereas in the opinion of the President an honorable recognition of her services and sufferings should be made It is ordered, That a testimonial thereof shall be hereby made and given to the said Dr. Mary E. Walker, and that the usual medal of honor for meritorious services be given her. Given under my hand in the city of Washington, D.C., this 11th day of November, A.D. 1865. Andrew Johnson,President(Medal rescinded 1917 along with 910 others, restored by President Carter 10 June 1977.) This is the citation for the one and only female and civilian to be awarded the Medal of Honor. "},{"Title":"Who is the film aimed at?","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was flicking through the evening movies a war movie came on and without reading about it first, i began to watch it, and then i thought i would look further into the film after watching it, given it left me thinking, i don't think it was based on Black Hawk Down, it may have been based on similar surroundings to Black Hawk Down a 1993 incident which eventually leads to the man in charge stepping down after winning his objective No this movie I thought involves a major part of the war machine from the scared people on the ground to the pen pushers with medals and badges galore, who turn to drink to forget their story's. But back to the movie after refusing to move on and possible loose a heavily injured soldier in the night she possible sacrificed her life to prove her point, and if you watch the film you will find out what her point was, and why she was in charge, and maybe that's why over 10 years later i hear via the news that soldiers don't like even leaving their dead comrades, they will even risk going back in possible loosing their lives, mad or stupid or heroes it is not for me to decide. But this aspect could be linked to a 1985 album - Brothers in Arms - Dire Straights. http//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brothers_in_Arms_(Dire_Straits_album) "},{"Title":"Very realistic portrayal of the Persian Gulf War","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am a Gulf War vet and I was very impressed by how realistic this production was. The uniforms, equipment and locations looked completely real.What was even more impressive was how the script and the actors showed the mental anguish of being put in position where men will die because of one's act or omission. Only a soldier or a perhaps a policeman can understand what a weight that puts on the soul. Denzel Washington plays a colonel who is devastated after accidentally blowing up one of his own tanks during a night battle. In a stunning new role for Meg Ryan, she plays a helicopter pilot trapped behind enemy lines. She heroically leads her soldiers to safety, giving her life in process. It's Washington's job to find out exactly how heroic she was so the dead captain can receive a Congressional Medal of Honor. Meg Ryans character is cleverly only revealed through flashbacks based on the memories of witnesses, all of whom have a different version of events. Ryan proved she can play drama as well as romantic comedy.The only flaw in the movie is the Lou Diamond Phillips character. When he commits suicide in front of the colonel it is overly dramatic and just not believable.It is an outrage the the studio has not seen fit to release this brilliant film on DVD in North America. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT","Date":"24 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Amazing as it might sound, this movie was not nominated for a single Academy Award. And it deserved many nominations. It is way better than Shine, Fargo, The English Patient, Romeo and Juliet, The Craft and most other movies released in 1996. Certainly the best of that year, in a tie with The Rock and Scream. Seeing Meg Ryan playing a character that is not stupid is such a revelation. Unbelievable and unforgettable movie. "},{"Title":"A resounding meh","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Do you ever watch those movies that just elicit no reaction from you? I'm talking about the kind of movies that are just so straightforward and so flat that they draw out zero emotions in you and your opinion of the movie elevates to nothing above indifference. For me, this was the case with Courage Under Fire. It stars Denzel Washington as Col. Nat Serling, an army colonel investigating the legitimacy of a post humous Medal of Honor award going to Karen Warden, an army officer who was said to have died heroically while fighting the Iraqis during the Gulf War. However, there are too many discrepancies so Serling is enlisted to find out the truth about what happened to Warden the day her and her platoon went down in their chopper. The film is told through flashbacks which recount the events from different points of views. It's a Rashomon type of story in the way that the events are slightly altered depending on who is recounting them. It's a clever plot device, but not clever or interesting enough to make Courage Under Fire a great film.Don't get me wrong, it's decent. The story isn't something you will see every day and I have to give props to any film that utilizes a more unique narrative style. Akira Kurosawa's Rashomon started this style of the unreliable narrator in film, and it's films like Courage Under Fire that keep the style alive. The problem is that the film doesn't do anything particularly interesting with this narrative style. It plays out how you would expect it to and the actual structure of the film is pretty redundant as well. From start to finish it is essentially Denzel Washington going from place to place, interviewing people about the events that ended Warden's life until he finally gets the truth. There's no real feeling in this film and it lacks any kind of atmosphere or visual nuance. The story presented is engaging to an extent, but there's nothing else to really grab your attention.The bottom line behind Courage Under Fire is it is just a forgettable film. Nothing exists within this film that makes me want to tell people about it, or think about it down the line, or rewatch it ever again. It does things right and it isn't by any means a disaster, but due to its lack of feeling, dull atmosphere, and monotonous plot it just isn't what I would call a fantastic film. "},{"Title":"Could have been much better","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I am always excited to see movie which stars Denzel Washington. The guy has the ability to transform ordinary roles into memorable ones. Courage under fire is good movie on war heroes. It starts out with Lt. Colonel Nathaniel Serling(Denzel) being assigned to investigate an incident that took the life of Captain Karen (Meg Ryan) during a rescue operation in Iraq (Operation Desert Storm). As Denzel questions different people involved with the operation, it emerges that each of these people have a different version to the story. At this point of time I was reminded of the Classic 'Rashomon' (Akira Kurosawa). This really got me intrigued and I started thinking is this a Hollywood version of the Japanese Treasure. As it turned out, I was wrong. The movie changed its course mid way and became a typical Hollywood nationalist cinema. It ended predictably with notes of national pride and Honour. Though it has impressive performances by Denzel and Matt Damon.But I was a bit disappointed in the end. May be my expectations increased mid way because of the resemblance to the Rashomon...Anyways it is worth a one time watch and I would give it a 7 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Simply missed this film completely and just recently viewed it on TV and was amazed at this great story of our fighting men and women who fought in the Gulf War under President Geo. Bush Sr. Denzel Washington, (Lt.Col.Nathaniel Serling,Man on Fire,'04 was deeply involved in bad judgment on his part in firing at the wrong enemy and was also involved in the background check of Meg Ryan,(Capt.Karen Emma Walden),Against the Ropes,'04. Karen Walden was an Army Pilot in a UH-1 Helicopter and was up for a very high Army Award, however, there was a great deal of mystery behind what really happened to her on the battlefield. Lou Diamond Phillips,(Staff Sgt. John Manfriez),The Trail to Hope Rose,'04 was a crew chief with Karen Walder along with Matt Damon,(Specialist Ilario),Syriang who knew what really happened on the battlefield with their commanding officer. Danzel Washington put his heart and soul into this film and it is a very much overlooked film. If you have not seen it, catch it the next time it is on TV. "},{"Title":"go night train, go","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've seen this movie many years ago and remember i wasn't impressed by it. This was the movie that sunk Meg Ryan for me. I just saw it again and no, it's not worth rememberingI think its starts being lame with the story itself. Why on earth does it have to be a woman? If they wouldn't have put a woman in the center and obviously even worse, cast totally wrong, then the story could actually be interesting, elaborating on different views on the same event. But no, someone decided it had to be 'emancipated', then cast wrong, then pile up a load of unbelievable facts (like downing a tank with a fuel barrel from a helicopter under fire, yea right...) Also unbelievable is the fact that one guy can't stand the truth, even though he had no part in what happened, since he was injured. The other goes on drugs, even though he had no time to think about, let alone react to the lie the third one says. Which commits suicide all of a sudden, when urged to tell the truth, even though his life is going pretty well. And all this is investigated by someone that unknowingly killed a friend in combat, under fire, bla bla. The guy has a wife, kids, great job, status, money, house, and so on, but he can't cope with this accident?It's not all bad. You probably won't fall asleep, but when you find yourself rooting for the alleged bad guy, you know something is very wrong. Go night train go! "},{"Title":"A Crooked Story of Heroes","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Edward Zwick calms down. Past his relentlessly invigorating stories of war he submerges into a story that claims heroism at it's best. The thing is spectators do not claim so.The investigation angle of the movie seems interesting. Then we are drowned into flashbacks with horrid set ups, Meg Ryan (a BIG miscast) and yes, a mountain of cliché expository speeches. Their intentions are very clear to create a story of heroism. Spectator should realize that in his own, not be guided and overwhelmed like this.If we want someone to teach us morals of the Army and about life; we'll call Grandpa. Soon enough will bury this into oblivion. "},{"Title":"Let's be realistic","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The movie has some interesting material, these are the plot and Meg Ryan. Why Meg Ryan? Because as you know she is the actress of romantic comedies, so to see Meg Ryan in such a thriller is surprising, even if there are a few similar examples more in her filmography. However, her character is the key character of the movie and she is a soldier. Why the plot is interesting? Because it is based on a female soldier which is a very rare thing. That's all. The direction is mediocre, the movie is not stylish at all, I don't know who cares this but. Because, it is seen that the movie is liked and nobody cares about the direction or lack of energy in acting. Denzel Washington cannot save the movie, you know, sometimes, the movie is mediocre, but you watch it for the actors's sake, but this is an exception. In other words, even great Denzel Washington is completely forgettable in this movie. It is extremely strange that according to some, one of his bests. By the way, this is not an action movie at all, I don't count one or two flashbacks which show the key event. To me, Basic can be called as the new version of Courage Under Fire. Basic was not a real good movie, but if you ask me better than this one and the ending was a bit shocking that makes it more worthy. Lastly, Courage Under Fire is not a popcorn movie (entertainment), because story is in the foreground by far, not action, not suspense, not direction. I highly recommend you, In the Valley of Elah, a great movie. "},{"Title":"Not bad aside from Politically Correct crap. (Spoilers)","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Come on, they make the female lead out to be some John Wayne type. This would have been immensely better if they made Meg Ryan's character a little less superhuman. Plus, almost all of the men in this movie are either weak or evil. It's as if the National Organization for Women wrote and produced this movie! Meg Ryan's character even gets shot and insinuates it hurts less than child birth. Plus, she single handedly holds off a platoon of Iraqis while the weak, cowardly men race to the rescue chopper. THEN, the evil men tell the officials she is dead so they can leave her behind so they won't get into trouble for their previous cowardly actions.Crap, Crap Crap.There's nothing wrong with making a woman's character a combat hero. But they made her an unbelievably perfect, flag waving, apple pie eating killing machine while making EVERY male character, including Denzel Washington, a cowardly loser.years from now, people will look back on this movie as an example of how social engineering influenced the movies. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Here we have another dumb movie set in the military about people trying to find out what really happened to woman that died in the line of duty. Denzel Washington energizes this boring material right to the breaking point, too bad because he's a great actor(although he's not very versitile). I found myself dozing off a lot after about 20 minutes off this film. A Few Good Men is a lot like this movie, and it's almost as boring.  Find something better to do with your time. *1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"It works, amazingly","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A multiple flashback courtroom-action hybrid thriller. And if that genre-bending wasn't enough we get Meg Ryan cast more or less against type as the contested hero-villain of an incident in a war theatre.Movie making is nothing if not storytelling and Edward Zwick (sensibly) does exactly that. Denzel Washington is the great moral monolith in search of the truth providing a well-judged conduit to the highly charged drama of the conflicting stories. Ryan fulfills her role although, rather like the film in total, she plays her character without much subtlety. I found the other performances unremarkable, with the possible, positive exception of the tortured Lou Diamond Phillips.Ultimately the film is a sober, sub-propagandist essay about the messiness of not only conflict but also the moral fragility of accountability. Zwick misses this target but scores with a well-rounde tale of rather more straightforward American heroism. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A bit of a bore","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" COURAGE UNDER FIRE is nowhere near my favorite Denzel Washington film. It's actually down toward the bottom, along with VIRTUOSITY and FALLEN. Having said that, I will give it some points for trying. It is a military mystery not all that dissimilar (I can hear the catcalls now) to THE GENERAL'S DAUGHTER, BASIC and RULES OF ENGAGEMENT -- all of them made within a year or two of each other, interestingly enough. Denzel is an Army officer investigating the death of an Army captain (a miscast Meg Ryan) during an enemy engagement. Differing versions of the event have him highly suspicious. He himself is under a cloud for having rained down friendly fire on a tank during battle. Maybe the FIRE script is too ambitious -- or not ambitious enough. I am afraid I just don't buy it, and the acting of some of the leads, Denzel among them, just does not seem up to par. In the end, FIRE ends up playing out like a poor man's RASHOMON. Edward Zwick, of THE SIEGE notoriety and LAST SAMURAI fame, directed. "},{"Title":"Courage Under Fire -> A lot of burning","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ** Spoilers **Meg Ryan gets napalmed - and before that she orders to drop/pour gasoline over an Iraqi tank and light it on fire - and there's Denzl who burns his buddy to death by firing at his tank and has nightmares of being on fire. I guess, the story writer has a real phobia of fire or something. Burning alive is prob. the writer's idea of the ultimate torturous death. Well, I take that back. When they gasoline and burn some Iraqis or napalm them there's not a drop of sentiment about that.OK, apart from that, there's Meg Ryan who's a helicopter pilot at day and takes care of her kid and prob. bakes apple pies at other times. It's a shock when she actually uses the MF word. OMG, Meg Ryan just said MF! Then, she dies and umm ... there's messages about how good it's to die for your country and also for people on your side. There's prob. a lot of stupid this would never happen in a real war scenarios and an expert can prob. make it more clear. Besides that, I don't know what the point of the story is. Maybe it's that you should tell how your beloved ones died (probably preferably in gruesome detail) rather than making it sound like a brave and gallant death. Maybe it's to get more women to join the army. The movie is about the gulf war but I guess it could have been any war. The Iraqis are just running around to pile up some body count.But, the best irony is that Meg Ryan's character says in the end that she is afraid that she's going to let her people down when in fact her people lets her down. The fact that the movie goes on with tear-jerking string music and some medal scenes and everyone is completely oblivious to the fact that people have died under very bad circumstances doesn't seem to occur to them.I watched the movie for Meg Ryan. Denzyl is trying to out talk everyone. Matt Damon is really skinny trying to look like a junkie but the bowel cancer patient guy looks well fed. Lou Philip is wearing weird underwear. What I'd really like to know is, Is Meg Ryan actually doing those push ups for real? It doesn't like she is.As a Meg Ryan fan and her movie completest, why did you make me watch this movie, Meg? Why? Oh why?  "},{"Title":"Stay away","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A gross and ham-fisted piece of brain-dead, xenophobic American propaganda.This film is just crying out for a savage spoof - something in the mould of Hot Shots - to deflate its stomach-churning sense of self-importance.A real pity, though, that undoubted talents like Washington, Phillips and Damon got suckered into this but I guess even Lord Olivier had to eat. Avoid!!!P.S this is one of the few I reviews from outside the U.S.  "}{"Title":"Zzzzzz. I would rather watch a 30-second loop of any part of Casablanca for 160 minutes than sit through this.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I only watched about half of this film--I just couldn't sit through it, no matter how highly recommended. I just don't have the time to waste for a film the director neglected to edit. The only character I found even remotely interesting was Kip, and I was well able to leave his inner life in his own hands.This film was about as riveting as a feature of my last grocery shopping trip, in slow motion. "},{"Title":"Does Meg Have The Right Stuff?","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Courage Under Fire is the first major film about the first Gulf War, the one that the first President Bush presided over. It's about men and women in combat and how they handle it. In fact George H.W. Bush, himself a hero from World War II has a peripheral involvement in Courage Under Fire. He actually sets in motion some of the events of this film.Bronson Pinchot has a small, but really great part as a bootlicking White House aide. The actions of a female army captain and helicopter pilot Meg Ryan saved the lives of several troops though her chopper went down and she died. Unsaid in the film, but no doubt the case, looking for the women's vote in the 1992 election, the White House has taken a personal interest in seeing this female soldier gets a really top drawer decoration, maybe the Congressional Medal of Honor. Pinchot's down at the Pentagon really pushing hard on this case with General Michael Moriarty.Moriarty assigns Colonel Denzel Washington to investigate the incident with Ryan. Washington's in a bit of jackpot himself, he was involved in a friendly fire incident and though he was innocent, he's waiting to be cleared officially.Ryan turns out to be as brave a combat soldier this country ever produced of any gender. In fact she was dealing with a whole lot more than anyone of the brass originally thought. In fact that's the story of Courage Under Fire.Matt Damon got some good reviews on his way up the Hollywood ladder of success as the drug addicted medic from Ryan's team. Lou Diamond Phillips should have been given an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor as the chauvinistic sergeant who is quite reluctant to cooperate with Washington's investigation.Above all this film belongs to Meg Ryan. She breaks type in Courage Under Fire, she becomes a feminist role model for all time in this film. It was quite a change from the romantic parts she usually is cast in. Meg's got the right stuff in abundance here.Denzel's performance is moving as well. He's getting it from all sides, from the Pentagon who want him to sign off on the report, from his wife, Regina Taylor who sees the stress this and his own situation is putting him in and his own conscience because he wants the report to be honest, fair, and thorough.Courage Under Fire joins the ranks of great war films and this review is now dedicated to all the women who now serve in combat for the USA to keep us safe and free. "},{"Title":"Very, very pretentious","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sorry, but I cannot stomach a movie that is pro-military when Meg Ryan, a devout Democrat and worshiper of John Kerry, the war-hater and devout liar, and Denzel Washington, a worshiper of President Obama and a devout Democrat who is said to be a devout Christian. One cannot be both...in 2011, the Democrats voted NO to have God inserted in their convention, in spite of the chairman's blatant lie; just one of 100 reasons.So, after my ranting, what about the movie? It is too hard to believe any of it because the actors are not sincere in true life. It would be like having an openly gay person portray Rudolph Valentino unless the movie was a comedy. Courage Under Fire does not pass as a comedy unless one forces one's mind to the point of insanity to see liberal war-hating actors and actresses pretend to be pro-military. "},{"Title":"Nothing to write home about","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Pretty average film.Denzel does a pretty ok job.Meg Ryan doesn't suit her role.I gave this a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Join the Army. You might win a medal.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Mediocre war flic which nevertheless showed the insanity of war, the reality check of the war machine's cannon fodder when faced with a real world combat situation, and the political goings-on designed to color the opinions of the civilian population. Not as sugary as the badly done G.I. JaneI'll bet this one upped the population in military barracks, but no award winner either.  "},{"Title":"What the heck was it about?","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's not often that when a movie is over I turn to my husband (and he turns to me) and we ask each other, Is it over?  What the heck was it about?  That's what happened w/this movie.  We really didn't understand it and also, we wore earplugs thru the entire movie because it was the loudest movie we ever heard.  I would obviously not recommend this movie. There was one good thing about it, though.  I always try to find a bright side to everything and this movies bright side would have to be Sean Astin.  He is terrific, despite the movie, he still shined thru like the shining star he is! "},{"Title":"Constant profanity dampens potentially engaging  but actually boring Gulf War tale","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I tuned in hopefully despite the language warning, normally being enthusiasts of both stars, Denzel Washington and Meg Ryan. The story sounded intriguing, a Colonel who makes a deadly friendly fire error of his own during Desert Storm, and is later called upon to determine the worthiness of a female helicopter pilot to be posthumously awarded the Medal of Honour. Her surviving troops each give a different depiction of the relevant combat events.However, be forewarned. Take the R language rating very seriously here. The movie seems attempting to set a record for use of the f-word and anti religion profanity, both alone and in sacrilegious combination. For those not comfortable with such language, this movie is not for you. The female chopper pilot, Captain Walden, may or may not prove as combat worthy as the boys, but she certainly proves that she's as foul mouthed. Presumably language used during tense combat situations isn't the best. However, isn't it amazing all the great war movies from bygone years that managed just fine without this sort of dialogue? By the way, the objectionable language is EVERYWHERE, not only during the battle sequences. Writing the screenplay wouldn't have involved much talent or ingenuity, and I note at least one other viewer also unimpressed with the excessive crude language.Neither did I appreciate the Colonel's comment after praying prior to leading his troops into combat, Now let's kill 'em all. Exactly what is the point here, other than to degrade faith? Another favourite Hollywood pastime.Personally, I didn't find Colonel Serling's situation as sympathetic as I might have imagined, given his troubled conscience about being coerced into covering up the truth about this friendly fire incident. His cold attitude toward his wife turned me off instead of eliciting compassion from me for his moral anguish. Furthermore, in keeping with the overall language, the Colonel himself seems quite proud of his own personal comfort with the f-word. I found the movie surprisingly just plain boring with the the main characters failing to engage my interest. Pity it hadn't been better done, with such potentially powerful themes of courage and honour in what might have been a captivating Gulf War story. I must say Denzel Washington went down a notch or two in my esteem. As for Meg Ryan, she should have stuck with her usual genre, the romantic comedy. She doesn't seem at all well cast here in her role as the chopper commander barking orders. "}]