[{"Title":"Entertaining, Thanks To Hackman & O'Donnell","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"40 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is not one of the more famous (author) John Grisham based-movies and it's a bit talky for my normal tastes, but it was interesting. You can thank Chris O'Donnell and Gene Hackman for two excellent acting performances which helped make this so entertaining in spots.O'Donnell plays young attorney Adam Hall (shades of Matt Damon's character in another Grisham movie, The Rainmaker). Meanwhile, it's no surprise that Hackman gives us another fascinating performance, this time as the attorney's brutally racist grandfather, Sam Cayhall. He's been imprisoned for a murder and O'Donnell is trying to release him from a death sentence. Hackman's performance elevates from a fair to a good movie. While O'Donnell is trying to do his job, a few revelations occur considering his Klansman grandpa. Faye Dunaway also is in here and has a memorable scene with Sam.Yes, the critics were right in that this could have been better but they were off base blasting this film. It's still an entertaining film, and they forget the value of that. "},{"Title":"Hackman's performance is stellar","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" For me, this is the best role of Hackman's career, and one of Oscar's most overlooked roles. His character was as revolting, cold, and repugnantly racist as a human being could be, but Hackman played Sam Cayhall as a person with a surprising depth and emotion that, although you couldn't exactly like him, you find yourself quietly hoping his death penalty will be overturned as he plumbs the depths of his evil deeds and confronts his past. The scene when Fay Dunaway's Lee Cayhall Bowen comes to see Sam in the hours before his execution is as good as it gets. Lee asks if Sam would have killed Joe Lincoln when she was young had she spoken up, Sam tells her yes. You KNOW, you SEE, that he wouldn't have, but in seeing the toll that the guilt of a lifetime of believing it was her fault had exacted from his daughter, Sam lied. Sam redeemed her sanity in that lie, gave her life the peace she never had and, in many ways, redeemed himself.Although Dunaway is only 11 years younger than Hackman, she handily pulls off the role of Cayhall's emotional, conflicted and alcoholic daughter Lee. She has spent her life hiding from whom she is, both from the community and herself, the crimes of her father, and the stigma it has brought.Chris O'Donnell is just as good as Sam's grandson, Adam Hall, who is now a lawyer. Hall's father had changed the family surname to also escape the stigma of being the son of the murdering Klansman Cayhall. Apparently by design, Hall works for the firm who handles his grandfather's case, although he keeps his grandfather's identity a secret until he requests to take on the final death penalty appeal. Along the way, Hall learns the unpleasant reality of who he is, the bitter hate and ugliness bred into his grandfather, and insight into the truth of why his father had committed suicide when Hall was a young boy.This film, although unpleasant in theme, is full of stellar performances and by far the most nuanced and conflicted character Gene Hackman has ever played. If you haven't seen The Chamber, get it, it's worth the watch. "},{"Title":"The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Idealistic attorney Chris O'Donnell (as Adam Hall) goes down to Mississippi, to take on the death row clemency case of his onetime Klansman grandfather Gene Hackman (as Sam Cayhall). With just 28 days before the execution, Adam sets out to retrace the events leading to the crime for which Sam was convicted. As the impending death sentence looms closer, Adam works quickly to uncover the family's history for any hidden clues. In a white-knuckle series of twists and turns, Adam discovers deceptions and dark secrets that ultimately lead him to the startling truth, according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis.White-knuckled? Indeed not. The Chamber (as in gas chamber) starts off very well; and, Mr. Hackman's portrayal of the yellow-teethed racist is worth a look. Faye Dunaway (as Lee Cayhall Bowman) has a showy supporting role. All in all, the film's personnel portends a much better story than the one which appears on screen. Building up a romance between blue-eyed Mr. O'Donnell and brown-skinned Lela Rochon (as Nora Stark) seems like such an obvious way to improve the story (whether or not it was done in the John Grisham novel), you've got to wonder how on Earth they missed the obvious.***** The Chamber (10/11/96) James Foley ~ Chris O'Donnell, Gene Hackman, Faye Dunaway "},{"Title":"The Gene-ius of Hackman","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Chamber is worth seeing for one reason -- a superb performance by Gene Hackman. As a Ku Klux Klansman on death row for the murder of a civil rights lawyer and his children, he is crusty, belligerent, alternately fierce and thoughtful, a man whose eyes often contradict the hate he is spewing. Unfortunately, The Chamber was helmed by James Foley whose direction tends to be heavy-handed and humorless. The result is to squeeze a lot of the style and irony from the Grisham original -- and to make what was good storytelling in print seem threadbare on screen. Chris O'Donnell does a workmanlike job as Hackman's grandson, a young lawyer who is determined to save Hackman from execution for murky reasons -- and who foolishly drops in on a good ol' boy rally to get his head kicked in . Faye Dunaway contributes boozy hysterics as Hackman's daughter who has made the jump from poor white trash to southern belle. Not a great movie. But watch it for Hackman and you'll see screen acting at its best. "},{"Title":"Secrets","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A movie that you expect to be a courtroom drama actually turns out to be the story of a family and its past, as young lawyer Adam Hall (Chris O'Donnell) finds himself digging through several generations of family skeletons after he takes on the case of his grandfather Sam Cayhall (Gene Hackman), a racist scumbag found guilty years before of a Mississippi bombing that killed two Jewish children and now set to die in the gas chamber in less than a month unless Adam can find some way of commuting the death sentence.The clear highlight of the movie is Hackman's performance. He was believable in a movie in which he's definitely cast against type. He becomes the epitome of the racist scumbag he's portraying, and yet the character's nature is also softened by the writers, who introduce uncertainties about Cayhall's level of involvement in the bombing and who raise the possibility that he may be feeling remorse for what happened. Cayhall in the end even does something somewhat noble. His daughter (played by Faye Dunaway) - who witnessed him murder a black man in an incident years before - has been haunted with guilt, believing that if she had let him know that she was present, he would never have killed the man in front of her eyes. She feels guilty, believing that she's responsible for the man's death and finally asks her father as she visits before his execution whether he would have killed the man if he had known she was there. He says he would have. It sounds like a harsh and cold statement coming from Cayhall, and yet he's really telling her that it wasn't her fault and she shouldn't feel guilty over what happened. I found that simple scene very moving - mainly because it seemed to be a lie. His body language seemed to suggest that he wouldn't have killed the man with his daughter watching, but he wanted to take away her feelings of guilt.Perhaps, though, that also serves as the great weakness here - to me at least. Cayhall was a bad guy, but there seemed to be attempts to excuse him - especially with the repeated refrain that he had no choice but to become a hateful bigot. His father had been one, his father's father, and his father as well. How could Cayhall have turned out differently after three generations of hate? The obvious response (which was strangely never voiced) is that Cayhall's son (Adam's father, who had ultimately committed suicide, apparently out of shame from the family's past) turned out differently in spite of the four generations of hatred in the family before him. The whole idea that Cayhall was destined to be a racist because of his upbringing grated on me because of that. Still, Hackman's performance was great, and Cayhall was an interesting character.Chris O'Donnell was overshadowed by Hackman in this. He was all right as Adam, but perhaps lacked a bit of spark that might have brought more life to the movie. The writers made a good decision in not developing a romance between Adam and Nora (Lela Rochon.) An inter-racial romance between the racist's grandson and lawyer and the governor's aide might have been an obvious direction to take, but it frankly would have been too obvious. The end result, though, was that Nora was a minor character. Her place in the story seemed ill-defined to me. There's a hint of some deep, dark secrets from the past that could come back to haunt some of Mississippi's political elite, but that never gets developed.Many criticize this because it apparently strays quite liberally from the John Grisham novel on which it's based (which I've never read I admit.) Well, this is a movie. Movies and books are different. You can't just take a novel and make it fit the screen, so adaptations don't bother me as long as the end result on film is good. This was a good movie, and I appreciated the fact that while Cayhall's character was softened over the course of it, there was no real redemption for the character. He played his part in the children's deaths, and he paid the price for it. Overall, this is pretty good. "},{"Title":"A Grisham Adapted Disappointment","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A few years ago, I read the novel The Chamber by John Grisham and I thought it was a spectacular reading experience. Then, in 1996, they released it in the theatres and I was hoping that the outcome would turn out on a positive note, just like the novel. Also I was hoping that very talented performers like Chris O'Donnell, Gene Hackman and Faye Dunaway would grace the screen like they've done before. However, the high expectations were sadly shattered. Nothing exciting happens as opposed to what's in the book, there's very little happening here, the acting is very wooden and the actors were woefully miscast. On a positive note, some stuff from the novel were brought into the movie. So for those who never read the novel or seen the movie, I won't give too much away. But those who expected an equally riveting novel to movie adaptation, you will be disappointed. One thing that upset me most here is the different characteristics between Adam Hall in the novel and Adam Hall (Chris O'Donnell) in the movie. In the novel, Hall is a typical attorney who's a bit green and does not know what to expect. In the movie, he's made like a big-shot who can get by in this case like a piece of cake. Okay, I understand we can't cram everything from the novel, because then it would take too long, and we're not all patient for a three hour movie; so I respect that. I think the movie had it's mind on cutting to the chase rather than unravelling the events that led to the scenes. In the end it's just better that you all should just read the book and forget about the film. "},{"Title":"Not a bad concept","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I just finished watching this after I just finished hearing about it. I'll say it's not great, but its definitely worth the time to watch.You have a very dramatic story of a murdering bigot's grandson (who's a lawyer) trying to save his grandfather (Gene Hackman) from his execution in 28 days. Just from their you know the plot is going to thicken.When I saw this movie had Gene Hackman and Faye Dunaway I said great I love those actors. It's also got Chris O'Donnell, OK not a bad actor (but does he remind anyone else of Matthew Perry?), and it's even got Bo Jackson.I was surprised by a few things. One was that, Bo Jackson, despite not having many lines, was quite good at acting. Another less pleasant was that, as much as I love her, Faye Dunaway did not do an overly impressive performance. Watch her in Bonnie and Clyde and then compare her to THIS role... you're not even on the same chart. Playing a rich Southern Bell is maybe more difficult for her, but she did have a few good scene's playing a drunk. One thing that didn't surprise me was Gene Hackman. Mr. Hackman is undoubtedly a great actor, is this movie he made no exception. He definitely needs to give thanks to his make up crew, but he certainly delivered the punches. The emotions he showed seemed so powerful, like he's really ready to join in a lynching. But he's also prepared, not ready, but prepared to forgive.Really i think that the only problem with this movies was the scenes without Gene Hackman. The rest of the scenes made everything seem more like a Made for TV movie. The chemistry between Adam Hall (Chris O'Donnell) and Nora Stark (Lela Rochon) was played off of more when they WEREN'T together. With better acting this could have been a much better film. But still it was not bad.Kudos to John Grisham for the novel, It's a good idea, it wasn't played out as well as it could have... But still, it's still worth while watching. "},{"Title":"slightly better than most people said","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" First, I should admit that I've never read any of John Grisham's novels. I've seen many of the film adaptations (which usually seem to be worthy, if absolutely nothing else). It seems like most critics - and much of the public - considered The Chamber the worst adaptation of a Grisham novel ever. When I saw the movie, I didn't find it terrible, though not a great movie either. Maybe it was just that many people - myself not included - counted A Time to Kill as one of the best adaptations, and dismissed this one.Anyway, Gene Hackman makes a pretty ugly Klansman (well duh, he gets into any character), and I'd say that he overshadows Chris O'Donnell (who just looks a little out of place in this sort of movie). I can't tell whether or not Faye Dunaway is just there for show. But overall, what I like about this movie is that it doesn't lionize Hackman's character, but it shows why he became a Klansman - sort of like what Dead Man Walking does with Sean Penn's character. Obviously, The Chamber isn't in the same league as that one. But still, I think that most people need to reassess this movie. Also starring Robert Prosky, Raymond J. Barry, Bo Jackson and Lela Rochon. "},{"Title":"Interesting political film","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Most reviews on this site, neglect to mention how vividly the film captures the racist politics of the American South at this time. The actions of all politicians reveals how difficult it can be to seek justice. They are always looking sideways. Also the crowd outside the execution site shows how easy it is to stir up mob emotion. Again, nicely laid out and captured on film. The film visually translated Grishelm's understanding of Southern culture and politics. I also thought Chris O'Donnell captured the intensity of someone who is confronting his family's past. The camera work, which holds on his face, assists in helping us to see the quiet determination with which he works. (The camera is a good replacement for the interior monologue of fiction!)I also liked the flash-backs which help him to comprehend just where his father came from and why suicide might have been a response. This film is timely today in lieu of the polarization of American politics. Scary stuff! "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just like the book, this movie is amazing.  The story is unique in the sense that it is very personal. A boy's grandfather is to be executed for murdering two small children, and as he investigates the crime further, he discovers more terrifying secrets about his grandfather and his past. He knows little about his roots because his father commited suicide when he was a kid, and this may be the only chance he has at discovering who he is, however unpleasant it may be. Chris Odonnel is great in this and Gene Hackman shines. I give this **** out of **** stars. "}{"Title":"an attorney tries to get his grandfather off death row","Date":"10 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Chris O'Donnell and Gene Hackman star in The Chamber, a 1996 film featuring Faye Dunaway, Robert Prosky, and Lela Rochon.O'Donnell plays Adam Hall, a young man just out of law school who takes on the case of a KKK member about to be executed for a bombing years earlier that took the life of two boys. Their father, who lost his leg, later committed suicide. The man in question, Sam Cayhall (Hackman), is due to die in the gas chamber, as he was convicted before 1984 and therefore isn't eligible for the chair. He's also Adam's grandfather.The bombing and the Klan history in the Cayhall line has wrecked Adam's family. They changed their name after the incident, and his father committed suicide and left his son a note with instructions to clean everything up before his mother got home. His aunt (Faye Dunaway) is a socialite who still lives in the south and has never told anyone who she is but has suppressed her pain with alcohol. Adam has no use for his grandfather, but he believes someone else made the bomb and wants to find out what really happened.The movie is based on a John Grisham novel and, despite the reviews, I thought it was good and powerful, mostly thanks to the performance of Gene Hackman. Somehow, he manages to create a real human being - a bigot, a Klan member, a killer, but somehow human. His monologue at the end of the film made me cry, which is ridiculous because he was a terrible man.Faye Dunaway was great; Chris O'Donnell is pleasant enough but he never seemed to me movie star material. I would have preferred to see someone like Matthew McConaughey, someone with a little fire, in this role.This is a story of a history of hate, the ghosts of the dead, politics, and a search for closure. Compelling. "},{"Title":"Intense thriller","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you like thrillers set inside the legal systems, the stories by Grisham is one of the best. He is a master of including both small and big twists and turns, writing in layers of secrets that can be revealed along the way. Although, according to the trivia, Grisham says this is one of the adaptations he likes least, I think it still is a very good movie that incorporates these layers and most of the essence in a Grisham story. Of course, the book is much more complex, much more intense, so if you like the movie I can really recommend reading the book.The Chamber is about the young lawyer, Adam Hall, that returns to his family's roots in Mississippi, where one of the family's dark secrets is hidden. His grandfather, Sam Cayhall, is on death row for a fatal bombing carried out by the Klu Klux Klan, scheduled to be executed in just a few days. Adam is his last chance. But Sam is not really cooperative, and even though the bombing was in the sixties, secrets are very much still in play, powerful and dangerous.I think the movie do capture enough of the book to be an intense and suspenseful movie, very much thanks to Gene Hackman's acting. Even though I have seen the movie a couple of times, read the book, I still find it intense. The movie is both durable and stands the test of time. That is the mark of a real good thriller.7/10 "},{"Title":"Unremarkable, but inoffensive","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers.This is a wholly unremarkable, but also inoffensive, adaptation of a John Grisham novel that serves only to make me believe I haven't really missed a lot by never reading any of the good Mr. Grisham's work. The plot follows a familiar template for the legal thriller the dynamic young lawyer taking on a lost cause (for whatever reason), the unsympathetic villain languishing on death row, the increasingly desperate legal measures taken by the lawyer to win the day, the behind-the-scenes political intrigues that assure as many obstacles as possible are put in the lawyer's way. Usually, the prisoner receives a last minute reprieve, but not in this case; here we join racist redneck Gene Hackman in his last few moments as he is strapped into the eponymous chamber and struggles to hold his breath while the poisonous gas swirls invisibly around him. Foam issues from his mouth as the gas takes effect, and you wonder why you had to see that. The only reason I can think of is because the film was made one year after Dead Man Walking.Gene Hackman is as good as you'd expect him to be; he must be one &#x96; if not the &#x96; greatest actors of his generation, and he makes young Chris O'Donnell look wholly insipid. To be fair to O'Donnell, there isn't that much in his character to grab hold of &#x96; the only characteristic he has is the desire to see his grandpappy saved from the chamber. And when the poor lad isn't being acted off the screen by Hackman he has to contend with Faye Dunaway giving one of the better performances of her later career as Hackman's alcoholic daughter, who is haunted by the mistaken belief that she may have prevented a murder she witnessed as a child had she not chosen to remain silent at the fateful moment.The Chamber isn't a classic by any measure, but it's probably better than its rating on this site might lead you to believe, although judging by some of the comments you might enjoy it more if you haven't read the book on which it is based. "},{"Title":"Mediocrity.","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If the title, The Chamber, is meant to be a pun, it's a pretty good one. There's the judge's chamber where decisions are made, and, at the other end, the gas chamber where those plans are executed along with the inmate to whom those judgments were passed down.In some ways, the title is the niftiest part of the movie. For John Gresham, whose intentions are always benign, it's a pretty weak story. (It shouldn't be, with William Goldman doing the adaptation.) It's Gresham's most pedantic. Condemned are both racist violence and the death penalty, the former more so than the latter.That's the bothersome part of the plot. Okay, Gene Hackman does his best with the role of the lifetime KKK bomber who takes the rap for the real killer of the two Jewish children. But he's miscast. Hackman is not an unreflective, defiant, redneck racist and murderer. JAMES WOODS is that character. Hackman is absolutely first-rate (without being a bravura actor) when he gets the right role, whether it's villainous or heroic, but he's never been good with accents and, man, does this role call for one.At that, he gives the strongest performance in the film, with support from a couple of seasoned players like Harve Presnell. Gresham's relatively innocent young idealist, Chris O'Donnell, does not convince. He looks the part alright but his voice and gestures suggest a weakness that the character shouldn't have. And he's the main man. Some of the supporting players, like Bo Jackson as Sergeant Packer, can't seem to act at all.The climax involves one of those detailed execution scenes I've come to loathe. I don't understand why they're there. In a short cinematic exercise in the early 1940s, Orson Welles used the first-person camera to guide the viewer into a gas chamber. Then, in the mid-50s, there was a detailed execution of Susan Hayward in I Want to Live. Then there was a hiatus for another twenty years or so before these tasteless scenes came back with a vengeance. Here we get to see Gene Hackman gassed to death, the foamy spittle dripping from his mouth as he expires. But what does this tell us? That execution is horrifying and painful? What else is new? So what do these scenes tell us that we don't already know? I understand some TV channels are negotiating with Texas to film executions for broadcast. (How long before the opportunity to pull the switch is auctioned on eBay?) What kind of audience do the writers and directors think they're addressing? The musical score is by Carter Burwell and it's fairly conventional, full of deep and ominous chords. He's a talented composer who has done quirkier work in better films like Fargo and The Spanish Prisoner. Judging from the movies that are based on his novels, John Gresham is in the not-uncommon position of being at odds with the values of the society he grew up in. A lot of other marginalized writers have also been prompted to explain the sins of their culture's past to the rest of us, beginning maybe with Nathaniel Hawthorne and running through the Southern giants of American literature and playwriting -- Tennessee Williams, Faulkner, and the rest. Gresham fits the mold and his work is interesting, but this is a failed effort. The legal aspects are confusing, the characters a bit muddled, and the story itself either too simple or too complex, depending on how you look at it. "},{"Title":"Inside a chamber, thats about to explode...","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Chris O'Donnell and Gene Hackman are true to the roles that they are portraying. At least they have every appearance of how I would see those kind of people in a trial. I have seen trials in person and in the media too. The K.K.K. own south and a man or a murderer. O'Donell is adamant and totally focused. The hatred is furious and blinding, as these not-so-good-Ole' boys gather, fight and even kill, under the belief of ' Racial purification '. But Samuel Kayhill (Hackman) is not what he appears to be. But as his time in Prison is coming to an end, the big 'ending', death, his grandson Adam Hall ( Chris O' Donell ) is running in fast motion to try and bring about an appeal, from the Govn. or a 'Stay' of execution. The performances are gripping and powerful and the directing is detailed and well crafted. I recommend this prison drama for drama and racial issues and a superb story. (****) "},{"Title":"Breaking the Cycle","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" On the surface The Chamber is about a young lawyer named Adam Hall (Chris O'Donnell) who is trying to save his grandfather (Gene Hackman) from the death penalty. But really the movie is about breaking the cycle of racism, hatred, and bigotry that got his grandfather put on death row to begin with.Although not one of Grisham's best, he still deserves credit for daringly going into a dark and despised part of American history. This movie may have stirred many people the wrong way and touched a nerve with others. I saw an excellent depiction of a torn young man desiring to help his grandfather in spite of his and everyone else's despise of that same man.The movie was compelling. Just one tale about the troubled history of Mississippi. As the character Nora Stark (Lela Rochon) said...Mississippi has bodies buried everywhere. "},{"Title":"If you spend half as much time trying to be a lawyer instead of trying to be Dick Tracy, I might not be dead in five days.","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Chamber is directed by James Foley and adapted to screenplay by William Goldman and Phil Alden Robinson from the John Grisham novel of the same name. It stars Gene Hackman, Chris O'Donnell, Faye Dunnaway, Lela Rochon and Robert Prosky. Music is by Carter Burwell and cinematography by Ian Baker.Young attorney Adam Hall (O'Donnell) fights to keep his Klansman grandfather, Sam Cayhall (Hackman), from the gas chamber.Grisham famously slated the film, even shouldering some of the blame himself, it's not hard to see why. It's a legal drama without any drama, it plods aimlessly along, getting by on Hackman's fully committed performance. At times it forgets its legal duties and gets wrapped up in family strife, which would be OK if this aspect of the story had anything worthwhile to say, it doesn't, and you can see the cast and director straining to make a two hour talkathon worthy of your time. It isn't, sadly, making it the poorest Grisham adaptation to screen. 5/10 "},{"Title":"racist Gene Hackman great","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sam Cayhall (Gene Hackman) is set to be executed for a bombing thirty years ago in Mississippi that killed two Jewish boys. His grandson Adam (Chris O'Donnell) has been avoiding the hateful legacy of his Klan grandfather. The young lawyer takes on the case. His investigation reveals that others were involved and he struggles to stop the execution.Gene Hackman is a great racist but his character is irredeemable. Chris O'Donnell has his boyish looks but I don't sense the substance. Faye Dunaway is simply horrible in this one. The story is flat. The legal thriller is ultimately meaningless. Other than Hackman, this movie doesn't have much. "},{"Title":"so-so","Date":"22 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I found myself thinking in bullet points so here it is1.Gene Hackman gives a solid performance, the rest of the cast are competent but the Adam Hall character could do with a better actor - less mechanical, more believable with a broader range of emotion. 2.An interesting story although it never really grabbed me and there are better ways to spend ninety minutes. 3.I'm sure the book reads well and the movie might well have been more watchable if Nicholson and Pitt hadn't withdrawn. 4.This is an old theme and if you've seen the theme before it reduces the entertainment value of the film. 5. The technology of the day should means that you shouldn't have to strain to hear the actors' mumbling, but you do - and no, it's not my hearing, age or TV to blame, I watch a lot of films.All in all, disappointing, sadly. "},{"Title":"Hackman Breaks Free.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Chamber (1996) Dir James Foley / Cast Chris O'Donnell, Gene Hackman, Faye Dunaway, Robert Prosky, Raymond J. Barry Title suggests past torments locked away. Chris O'Donnell plays an attorney whose grandfather is on death row for blowing up a building killing several children. He has 28 days to prove that his grandfather wasn't alone. Faye Dunaway appears as the victim's daughter who reflects upon her father's racial past. After the sentence, the attorney's father leaves behind a suicide note. While not the most pleasant film to engage in, director James Foley does a fine job at creating tension. O'Donnell carries himself well as the lead, who learns much about his family past as well as lure out the guilty. It is obvious that he will accomplish what he came for but the ending regarding his grandfather, particularly the nod by a black inmate seems contrived. Gene Hackman delivers a strong performance as the convict. Dunaway creates the only interesting supporting role as Hackman's daughter who gives insight into the past. Supporting roles are not very broad or interesting. Well made film based on the John Grisham book, and certainly in better standing than the corrupt A Time to Kill and its warped message. It isn't an entertaining outing but its theme of redemption and rekindled love make up for film's shortcomings. Score 7 ½ / 10 "}{"Title":"Light as the gas","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on the novel by legal thriller king John Grisham, 'The Chamber' deals with a hotshot young lawyer Adam (O'Donnell) who must defend his racist KKK grandfather Sam (Hackman) from the long standing death sentence for the supposed bombing of a Jewish legal firm. However, despite his grandfather's protests and nastiness, Adam suspects something bigger at work...Despite sleek direction and Hackman's stellar work as a despicable Klansman, 'The Chamber' feels like a lot of hot air. A film built around uncovering secrets and rocking the Mississippi boat wastes time on alluding to threads that are never explored, including possible corruption, political backstabbing and racial tensions, instead of focusing on the core story of a man coming to terms with his family's dark past. It's in the interactions between Sam and Adam that the film feels its sharpest, as despite their disdain, they do gradually grow closer to each other over the course of the film as both face less than pleasant aspects about their family history, and O'Donnell and Hackman work well together.When it's not there, however, the film just seems more interested in building up to nothing. There's a whole chunk devoted to a local KKK leader (played by Raymond J. Barry) that seems to imply him having some sort of influential power, and characters love going on about how Adam doesn't want to 'go digging into this', but in the end he gets taken in like a regular thug, so what was the point of making seem like the big bad? Indeed, any thread related to possible discussion of the still strong tensions among groups in the South is little more than window dressing, which is a real pity. I suspect replacing Bill Goldman with Phil Alden Robinson (credited as Chris Reese) during the writing had something to do with how choppy this script feels.Never boring, thanks to our cast (even Fray Dunaway as a ditzy Southern Belle isn't too bad) and veteran director James Foley handles tension with a sure hand, but it dramatically feels as light as the gases in the titular room. "},{"Title":"Lawyer Chris O'Donnell tries to save his grandad, Gene Hackman, from execution","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Chamber (1996) is mainly a story about putting ghosts of the past to rest. Gene Hackman, a man with deep racist and anti-Semitic roots that go back for generations, is on death row, due to be executed in 28 days. His lawyer grandson with a changed family name (Chris O'Donnell), arrives to try to get him another stay of execution after 16 years of appeals and motions. O'Donnell's ghosts include his father's suicide and Gene Hackman's role in it. They include the crime for which Hackman has been sentenced to death, a bombing of a lawyer's office in the 60s that took the lives of the man's two sons. O'Donnell has to come to grips with his family. Faye Dunaway, his aunt, has her own family ghost, which is having witnessed Hackman kill an unarmed black man over a trivial matter, a separate crime for which he got off without even being charged. We are made aware of Hackman's own ghosts as the drama proceeds.O'Donnell is an inexperienced young lawyer who tries his best, but his efforts are ineffectual. In fact, after we see Hackman blow away the black man midway through the movie, we as viewers are quite sure that he will be executed, even if O'Donnell succeeds in finding evidence that his grandfather didn't blow up the lawyer's office. A significant part of the movie is spent in this investigation, and that too proves fruitless in the end.Another focal point of the movie is the chamber, the gas chamber, and in particular that it's not an easy way to go. This is not really a strong anti-capital punishment argument because there are other ways to execute people. Neither is O'Donnell's argument that his grandfather was brought up to be a racist. The strongest anti-capital punishment material in this movie is that Hackman has experienced a change while in prison, partly due to being in the presence of black guards who don't mistreat him and deal with him patiently. In addition, as he confronts O'Donnell and Dunaway, with O'Donnell having learned that Hackman's pals in the KKK left him holding the bag, Hackman begins to soften toward the living relatives of the victims and to feel remorse over his crime and his life.Hackman is excellent, as usual. He makes the movie worth seeing. The drama is reasonable and comes across but we have to say that it's somewhat out of focus for much of the film. O'Donnell's part doesn't bring out his character anywhere near as well as Hackman's part, which is better written. O'Donnell is mostly involved in either investigating or making fruitless motions, and this doesn't really get into his feelings. Dunaway's part is significant, and she brings it out well. I think the movie's direction flagged when dealing with a script that was too diffuse, and that it couldn't tighten up the movie as was required to make it really hard-hitting throughout. "},{"Title":"Nice little treasure of the mid-90s I never saw or herd of","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not your typical law drama. It's about a rookie attorney trying to keep his KKK grandfather off the death penalty for killing a civil rights lawyer's kids.It's an interesting take on redemption as the lawyer tries to find a glimmer of light in a dark man and the ultimate underdog story as he represents a man who is without a doubt guilty and dislikedGene Hackman's performance is steady and though Hackman himself can play a likable villain like he did in the Superman movies, the character he played is hard to like which is exactly what you want. Chris O'Donnell did well, in this starring vehicle as a young rookie lawyer, who trying to grasp at his family history and finding it difficult. It was a good political law drama, that came out in a sea of good political law dramas, and though O'Donnell was at his most dashing and popular (a year after Batman & Robin) and Hackman was also around his peak, I think this movie got lost when you have to go up against Matthew McConaughey in A time to kill and following Denzel in the pelican brief and Cruse in A few good men.Which is sad because this movie was very intelligent and acted well be all involved especially O'Donnell and Hackman who had some interesting interactions in the film. Plus, a shout out to Bo Jackson who did some acting in the movie as well. Give it a shoot. "},{"Title":"Robin tries to help Lex Luthor.......","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Having survived the hatred and bigotry that was his Klansman grandfather's only legacy, young attorney Adam Hall seeks at the last minute to appeal his death sentence for the murder of two small Jewish boys 30 years before. Only four weeks before he is to be executed, Adam meets his grandfather for the first time in the Mississippi prison which has held him since the crime.....The only reason to see this film is for Hackman's central performance. Whenever he's on screen, he's mesmerising, and at times, pretty terrifying. But, the same cannot be said for the rest of the film.It's easily the poorest adaptation of a Grisham novel, and this was when his stories were being churned out every other month, much like young adult novels today.It's as if the studio threw money at it, plastered the writers name everywhere, and hope it would succeed, but it didn't.It's too long, the narrative and direction are terrible, and O'Donnell has the screen presence of that sandwich Tom Cruise ate in Minority Report. He shows no emotion, has no depth, and the final scene where he is running, is funny for all the wrong reasons.The support is there, but no matter how prolific the actor/actress maybe, they suffer because the character is so stereotyped.Come the end, you are. More relieved for Hackman, rather than shocked.One wasted opportunity. "},{"Title":"Disappointing star role in an otherwise decent film; early Grisham","Date":"8 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Ricky Nelson.No, he wasn't in the film. But as I was watching a not-ready-for-prime-time performance by Chris O'Donnell in this film, it was eerie how much his acting reminded me of Rick Nelson in Rio Bravo. The saving grace in Rio Bravo was that Rick Nelson had third billing under John Wayne and Dean Martin, and was further supported by the venerable Walter Brennan. Here, however, O'Donnell has the most screen time, and he was not a mature enough actor to carry the movie.Left to carry the film, and unfortunately only getting second billing, is Gene Hackman. Hackman is one of those actors I never wanted to like, from the first film I really noticed him in (The French Connection) to his very last film. But he's an inconsiderate guy...because almost every time I see him in a film, I've appreciated his performance ;-) . This film is no exception.Faye Dunaway's presence in any film is noteworthy, but unfortunately, her performance here is almost totally disappointing.In terms of the script, I certainly wasn't as disappointed in it as was, apparently its author, John Grisham. I thought it was a pretty good story, told at a good pace, and with some passion. But it was all ruined by the performance of Chris O'Donnell.Recommended, but just barely. "},{"Title":"Talented Cast Saves Poor Screenplay","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Based on a novel by John Grisham, The Chamber deals with a man trying to come to terms with his family and their ugly secrets.It stars Chris O'Donnell and Gene Hackman together with Faye Dunaway,Lela Rochon,Robert Prosky,Raymond J. Barry,David Marshall Grant and Bo Jackson in his first film debut. The film was written by William Goldman and directed by James Foley.Adam Hall is a successful attorney based in Chicago who travels to Mississippi to look into the case of Sam Cayhall. An outspoken racist and member of the Ku Klux Klan, Cayhall was convicted in the early '60s of the murder of a Jewish civil rights lawyer and his children. Pending a last-minute appeal, it looks as if Cayhall will finally go to the electric chair, and Adam has arrived to see what he can do. It hardly seems like the sort of case Adam would normally be involved with, until we discover Adam's secret he is actually Cayhall's grandson, and despite his misgivings about the man's racist views, he wants to see if he can spare his life. Cayhall, however, has little use for Adam and even less regard for his legal skills. As Adam spends time with his Aunt Lee, who witnessed Cayhall's execution of a black man years ago, he gets a more complete and disturbing picture of Cayhall's race hatred and the terrible toll it has taken on his family and the community. While the old man's life lies in the balance, Adam's motivation in fighting this battle becomes clear as the story unfolds. He fights not only for his grandfather but also perhaps for himself. He has come to heal the wounds of his own father's suicide, to mitigate the secret shame he has always felt for having this man as a grandfather and to bring closure, one way or another, to the suffering the old man seems to have brought to everyone he has ever known.The film has a story has that contains enough little surprises and mysteries to stay interesting, and the talented cast to make the film was good one.Unfortunately,it has a poorly written screenplay that the viewer may find it offensive considering that racist rants are being used for clichés and for the sake of entertainment. When a sensitive subject like racism is being used,it does not entertain at all.It was a good thing that Gene Hackman,an congenial actor,was cast for the role of the racist grandfather. But as for O'Donnell,he is sincere and honest in his portrayal of a young lawyer working for his grandfather.What only makes this movie interesting is it was based from a novel by John Grisham but nothing more. "},{"Title":"Good Film, but you should read the book of given the choice","Date":"13 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I know that probably goes for every book made into a movie ever made but for this one it really shows. The movie is good at times at portraying just why the book was so great and at other times cuts out some of the most important part of the film.The film gets the first 1/6th of the book done in about 10 minutes, fine, I can accept that, need to get to the center so people are not bored, it was only when after 2/6 of the book was after 30 minutes I started to get annoyed and I state this below...The middle just sort of cut to the chase and this bothers me, if anything, this is one of the worst things you can do to a book, they cut out a lot of the feel of the book in these first 30 minutes of the movie, and fans of the book should feel angered by this (Like Me).On the good side of the book, the film does pick up after the initial part, and by the end you have sympathy for all the characters (Much like the book). The film is definitely a tribute to the book by the end.Overall, fans of the book will like this movie after the initial stage, and while they do add a lot of stupid chunks of the movie (Adam Meets Rollie Wedge) the film does do well to the book.I rate this movie 62%.JOHN GRISAM RULES!!! "},{"Title":"The worst Grisham adaptation","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Schock-free, little suspense and a absolutely horrible performance by Faye Dunaway. This is what this movie has going for it.A grandson fights for his racist grandfather's life. This could have been interesting but we get little to no insight about the back story which led to the event. I will reveal that it has something to do with a murder and the grandfather about to get the gas chamber. I don't think it will spoil anyones enjoyment of the film or vice versa.The problem is that Gene Hackman as the grandfather is such a underwritten character and he is not portrayed enough as the monster he is supposed to be. Yes, he is a white supremacist and his own family resented him for it, but he comes off much too sympathetic as the plot goes along. He yells and resists at first, he mocks his liberal grandson and that's about it.Chris O'Donnell as the grandson doesn't really register either. We know his motivation but we don't really feel his pain of learning where he comes from. Again, the script is severely underwritten on his part.Then the worst of all. The daughter, played by Faye Dunaway. There is a scene at the end between Hackman and Dunaway that is so false, so unintentionally hilarious that I almost shut the film off.The ending is sad but it doesn't have enough emotional power either. Because Hackman has neither been portrayed as a total monster, nor has he been portrayed as monster with a heart, we could care less if he lives or dies. "},{"Title":"What A Disappointment","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have been hooked on John Grisham's novels lately, and just finished The Chamber. Naturally, I wanted to see the movie to compare (although I believe it is almost impossible to make a deeply descriptive and relatively long novel in an accurate movie). Right from the opening scene I could tell several parts from the book would be cut out. I was utterly dismayed at the poor job in the making of this movie. Without giving away things for people who have not yet read the book, I found huge differences in characters' descriptions (especially Sgt. Parker, Rollie and the added scenes of Nora), important locations changed for the movie(i.e. where Adam stayed)and the ending (the novel is MUCH better). Whereas the novel is very descriptive of characters, the movie is extremely shallow. The novel is nicely slow-paced the majority of the time, the movie is too fast with the dialogue and editing. I would rate the movie D+. "},{"Title":"Diluted, Dismal, and Disappointing","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Mostly a bore, it is a challenge to make Racism, the KKK, the Death Penalty, and the whole separatist Culture of the fight for Civil Rights South era seem uninteresting. This all plays like surface stuff and nothing really rings true. The lack of depth about any of the above subjects is this Movie's downfall. All of it is glossed over so unconvincingly that it a sight to behold. All of the Characters, except maybe Gene Hackman's internal combustion, are uninteresting and shallow.There is NO Courtroom Drama, very little insight into the workings or deviance of the Klan and the whole argument driving the Story is that the Death Penalty should not be instituted because this Good Ole' Boy is a product of his environment is woefully undeveloped and a desperate measure at best.Nothing here is intriguing, or the slightest bit engaging, and considering the subject matter, a total waste of time. Nothing is gained, learned, or even moderately explored in this Film and it is an unredeemable misfire, that aside from the horribly diluted Script, is doomed from the outset with the total miscasting of Chris O'Donnell. "}{"Title":"If you saw the movie, read the book.  If you read the book, don't see the movie.","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have not read much of Grisham, but I ended up reading The Chamber. Consequently, The Chamber was also the first Grisham movie that I saw after reading a Grisham novel.  I have not seen this movie in a long time (and don't intend to again in the near future), but I thought that the book was decent.  Anyone who has seen the movie and also read the book knows that there are two CRUCIALLY important scenes at the end that are blatantly omitted from the movie.  These two scenes reveal something about Sam in the end that leaves the movie watcher completely unaware of what Grisham truly wanted as a reaction.  It was inappropriate to do so in the ending, perhaps the most important part of any story.So, in order to honor Grisham's true intentions when writing this story, read the book and don't watch the movie.  "},{"Title":"this movie was a HUGE disappointment!!! (there may be a few spoilers)","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  i just finished reading grisham's book, the chamber, and it was one of the best books i have ever read.  i was excited about seeing the movie because of how much i liked the book.  this was one of the most disappointing and annoying movies i have ever seen! in the movie, sam and adam didn't really get to know or like each other. there was so much more compassion in the book.  Lee just freaked me out completely.. and why didn't adam stay at lee's house? that was so stupid.  gene hackman was alright, but sam seemed so different in the book.  sam o'donnell was cast nicely, but i think that he was very bad in this movie and just didn't have any emotions. he also came off like a whimp.  anyway, what the heck was with the whole thing with rollie wedge? that was so screwed up! For anyone who read the book, the end of the book was probably the best ending anyone could have thought of. when sam tells adam that he didn't do it in the observation room, and the very end when they don't actually tell you sam is gone, but then the grave digger goes towards adam and lee who were near Mrs. Cayhall's grave, which is where Sam is going to be buried.  any way.  i just think that the movie was a huge disappointment, and if you read the book and haven't seen the movie, do yourself a big favor and don't see the movie, because it really ruins the book. "},{"Title":"Hm, so that was it?","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have not read the novel this movie is based on, but judging the movie by itself, when the credits rolled, I was thinking Uh, so that was it?? The plot is shallow, and the acting is so-so. Quite possibly this is partly due to the fact that many of the character's motivations either remain obscure or are difficult to believe. Hackman turns in a decent performance, as he usually does, he has a good scene with Dunaway, and a number of good lines with O'Donnell. On the whole, Dunaway's character is paper-thin, and not terribly useful to the story. O'Donnell does not have the range to pull off his part, which probably adds to the monotone of the story.POSSIBLE SPOILERS BELOW But the weakest part is the story. As told in the movie, it is without any surprises whatsoever. Obviously, since it's a Grisham movie, we assume that nothing is quite the way it seems, but ultimately it is pretty much the way it seemed from the beginning, with a few additional details that had been swept under the rug by the powers that be, for obvious and totally unsurprising reasons. No drama, no suspense, no surprising plot twists, nothing. The grandson of the bad guy is digging around in some old files (including the sneaking-into-the-archive/library/storage scene, which in this movie passes without any tenseness whatsoever), connects a few dots that provide a little bit of background to the crime in question, but that's about it. There is a faint hint at larger-scale intrigue, but it is not elaborated, and remains entirely inconsequential to the viewer or the characters (well, except perhaps the guy on death row).Watch it on a Sunday afternoon for Hackman, and perhaps Lela Rochon (as yet another useless character) as eye candy. "},{"Title":"The book is *so* much better...","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've been hooked on Grisham novels the past few years and just recently finished reading The Chamber.  I was surprised to find out that a movie adaptation had been made.  I don't recall ever seeing any previews for it in 1996.  After watching the movie, I can see why.Though I do believe that O'Donnel and Hackman were properly cast in the main characters of Adam Hall and Sam Cayhall, respectively, I don't understand why Faye Dunaway was cast as Lee.  She was a bit overdramatic for many of the scenes, and her character wasn't so bubbly in the book.  Also, some of the other characters were either not as prominent in the film as in the book (i.e. Goodman, the warden, Lucas Mann) while other characters who were barely mentioned beyond a cardboard cutout in the book were featured prominently in the film (i.e. Nora, Rollie Wedge).  The plot is similar enough but many of the sub-plots and settings were totally different that I almost didn't recognize it as part of the novel.  Also, the pacing of the movie was strange since I never knew how long time had passed from the beginning when Sam had 28 days until his execution until the actual minute of his demise.  There were too many gaps that didn't flow very well.  Though I've only read one other Grisham novel that was adapted to film (The Pelican Brief, which stays almost entirely true to the novel), I've seen other Grisham-based films (The Firm, The Rainmaker, The Client) to know that The Chamber would have been so much better with a better production and writing team as well as lack of Hollywood interference.  The ending showing Wedge being captured by police was atrocious! "},{"Title":"Hackman wasted","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It is to bad that a powerfull performance by Gene Hackman was wasted in a poor paced, slow moving drama.  The remaining cast gave a good account of themselves but the script just lack any sense of direction or suspense. Being a die hard Grisham fan I was terribly disappointed in the end product.  "},{"Title":"are you kidding me?","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I realize that I am late to watching this movie and that I watched and edited version on AMC but after just listening to the entire book on CD I want to know that the heck happened!? There are so many things that were in the movie that were not in the book and things that were critical to the book that were left out of the movie. Just an example, Sam's daughter Lee(Faye Dunaway) never visits her father before he dies in the book, but yet in the movie they have her visiting him. Second, there is no bomb in Adam's hotel room. Lastly, and the part of the movie that really irritated me was that they never catch Wedge, even when he does visit Sam in prison. There was no direct confrontation between Adam and Wedge. Why do screen writers and directors feel the need to mess with a good thing? READ THE BOOK!!! "},{"Title":"Promises more than it delivers.","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie did not portray most of the characters in a believably authentic manner, although the  Hackman  character for the first 90% of the picture was fascinating. Breaking into the State Sovereignty Commission's files was gratuitous,unrealistic and added nothing  more  to the plot that a straightforward, legal examination of the files would have added. Fulfilling the death-row Last Meal request of Hackman for a bowl of Eskimo Pies by giving him Eskimo Pie ice cream pops, instead of the (nearly ) unique traditional Eskimo Pie seemed to underline what seemed like a lack of authenticity found throughout the movie.  Very disappointing. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but not at all like the novel!!","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have read the novel and seen the movie. I feel that if this movie were to be a true adaption of the book, it should've featured a lot more detail that made the book mesmerizing and enticing. The movie, though intriguing, was almost nothing like the book. I feel that if another name were attached to it, then I wouldn't have such a bias toward the movie. John Grisham did an excellent job at delivering a powerful novel with the in-depth character description and emotional details that made the reader enjoy every last moment. The movie, on the other hand, did an excellent job at expressing the emotional aspects of the novel, but did not have the edge of your seat details that the novel contained. Those details would've made the movie more of a surprise. I could almost guess the ending. I wish another movie could be made that stuck to the details of the novel. This one was almost a disgrace, if the actors hadn't did such a wonderful job. I do feel that the movie was a very intriguing film, if you didn't read the book. I mean the actors did a very believable job, and Chris O'Donnell is gorgeous!!  "},{"Title":"Not worth the time","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I did not read the book, I haven't read a Grisham novel since the nineties (when I was in High School)...That being said, I have enjoyed hiss film adaptations in the past--particularly Runaway Jury, The Rainmaker, and A Time to Kill.I just saw The Chamber last night on AMC and I have to admit it was incredibly weak. The acting was awful--Chris O'Donnell did not carry the lead well at all, and Faye Dunaway and Gene Hackman were also a great disappointment. In Dunaway and Hackamn's last scene together when Hackman starts crying I almost started laughing. This movie was completely unable to spur any sympathy in me for Cahall (Hackman).The screenplay was extremely cliché and boring. I have to agree with other posters on this site about the ridiculousness of the concept that the State of Mississippi sponsored murders in the 1960s. And Bo Jackson as the token black guy who sees the good in an old racist and proves that the old man can like black people is just stupid.This movie wouldn't have been cutting edge even if it came out in the seventies or maybe early eighties...sadly the clichés of racism and family dysfunction together with mediocre acting and writing makes this movie a snoozer. "},{"Title":"Gene Hackman was Fantastic","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Missed this film with Gene Hackman and greatly enjoyed his fantastic talents. Hackman, (Sam Cayhall) sure put his heart and soul in the character of a death row inmate who had all kinds of hatred instilled from childhood and many generations of his family who wore a hooded head, just like a clown or Timid Soul. It is hard to believe that such a group of hateful people could harm society, however, there is still plenty of them around in 2005, who have never grown up to love their neighbor as themselves. Faye Dunaway, (Lee Cayhall Bowman), played the sister to Sam Cayhall who witnessed a horrible senseless murder from a tree. Lee never got over it and became addicted to drink and a horrible existence. If you like Gene Hackman, this is a great picture to view his great Talents. "}{"Title":"Good story, good actors, good acting but BAD director","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  it's the worst Grisham-adapted movie ever !! too bad, good story from a novel about a man should be punished in gas chamber. The bad script ruins everything. This movie is a very good example of how a BAD director and a bad script can ruin a supposedly good movie with good story, good actors and good acting. The director who directed two Madonna-related movies At CLose Range and Who's That Girl (Which both suck) doesn't really understand the novel I think. I think he should've read some Grisham books and watch all Grisham-based movies The movie loses the touching and key points of the story of the original novel. This movie is such a Disappointment for John Grisham fans. But for those of you who haven't read the book, this movie might be entertaining for you at least with good Oscar caliber actor (Gene Hackman, Faye Dunaway) combined with a young fresh actor Chris O'Donnell.  "},{"Title":"Poor Actors","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The acting in this movie is skin-deep, with almost all the characters, especially the lead character, reciting their lines and motions as written. The actors aren't putting enough thought behind the words they say. And it's the director's fault for allowing it.Because of this, all other factors are spoiled. It has the story to be an interesting thriller, but this is a fine example of how poor, forced acting can completely ruin a movie.I voted 5/10. "},{"Title":"Young attorney defending his fascist grandfather","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The plot and the argument are worth for discussions more with the writer Grisham than with the film director James Foley. For me Sam Cayhall was a nasty racist, who killed Jewish, black people and any others without any mercy. Living in Europe, where capital execution is prohibited in several countries, and looking the way the things are in the context of the film, I may accept that his execution did not solve the problem already created, on the other hand killing him was like to kill Lee Harvey Oswald, i.e. not to have a valuable witness who may provide information of other guilty people, KKK men and racists participating in assassination of innocent people. Gene Hackman was as usual very efficient in the role of Cayhall while Faye Dunaway and Chris O'Donnell did their best.       "},{"Title":"A bad adaptation of the Book","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have read the book by John grisham and i was not greatly impressed by his work . But the book was a worth read, it had some nice moments and the mood throughout the book was good. I expected a good adaptation of the book in this movie even though the rating was below 6. But what i saw was the opposite. Right from the start there has been many changes in the plot. I do understand the movie would have been more boring if adam and sam had been just talking most of the time but it made sense in the book and the movie is senseless. A few characters in the book were totally missing here and some new characters have sprung up from nowhere which r not in the book. I didn't like the casting of sam as well. If u liked the book, so be it, don watch this movie.. Even if u din like the book, don watch it..It is no way near the book.. "},{"Title":"It's not bad, it's just not that far above average","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I haven't read Grisham's novel(nor really any of his others, with maybe one odd exception... and I do mean *odd*, the one I'm referring to is Skipping Christmas), nor watched too much other stuff of Foley's(Fear, and maybe one or two others), so I don't really know too much about either(but I haven't really found any of the latter's to be *amazing*). The plot is good, and it develops fine throughout. Story-telling is mostly reasonable, though there are a few places where it could really use help. The pacing isn't bad. The acting is usually great. O'Donnell is a surprise, a pleasant one, Hackman and Dunaway are magnificent(for the very most part), as usual. The film seldom, if ever, stoops to the lowest common denominator. Cinematography doesn't really impress. Editing is at times effective, and for the most part, it's sharp and, at the very least, sufficient. There are some good scenes in this, and it does tend to keep you interested and entertained. The continuing uncovering of the truth never lost me, on either of my two viewings. It doesn't really bring anything new to the table, or anything that you mustn't do without to the media of film. But that's not a crime, and you certainly could do considerably worse. I recommend this to fans of the people involved in making this, perhaps even fans of the author... even if he has said it's his least favorite adaptation. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I would say this one was just run of the mill as far as the overall picture. Gene Hackman, a staple of Grisham movies, is very good and most likely the saving grace. He plays a white supremacist bomber who is set to be executed because he supposedly blew up a one-armed Jewish lawyer and his two twin girls. Chris O'Donnell is Hackman's grandson who becomes his lawyer in an desperate attempt to save his life. I would say that O'Donnell's acting is adequate but not exceptional. Fay Dunaway plays Hackman's aged daughter and turns in a fine showing. The plot is well constructed but it leaves you wondering was justice really done? I feel the answer is the all too usual yes and no. On one hand the guilty were punished and yet no one is satisfied with the outcome which I suppose is true of most real life situations. Hackman's character is as bad as an apple that's been lying on the ground for three weeks but he at times does resemble an actual human being with real feelings and emotions. His character isn't sorry about anything he's done but is his own man. He assumes responsibility for his sins while detesting those who used him for their own ends and it shows when he angrily confronts his old comrade-in-arms who pays him a stupidly ill-advised visit in prison. O'Donnell's character does love Hackman in spite of Hackman's repeated abuse of him and tries everything possible to defend him from final judgment. I can't say I loved this film it was not a wasted experience just not a pleasant one due to the subject material but you can't be happy everyday. "},{"Title":"Utterly Terrible","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Undeniably the worst adaption of a John Grisham book...This film does just about everything wrong from start to Finish...Obviously Its trying to be another..Dead man walking..But fails under poor direction..And Hackman and O donnell(although both well cast)..are neither convincing nor interesting to watch I read the book and thought it deserved much better treatment...and it certainly didnt get it here....For example.Odonnell doesnt have one scene to himself..Hell he cant even go to the bathroom without someone else being there....And it features one scene that was never in the book...A scene where o donnell goes to a boxing ring to find one of Hackmans former associates and,For no apparent reason is beaten up by a bunch of thugs(even they dont seem to know why).And film cuts out many aspects from the book that could have made it better causes quite frankly,i dont think a good film is what anyone had in mind. Up till now,there has scarcely been a bad adaption of a Grisham book,with this film being the one exemption...Its is utterly terrible...and completely Dull.... Basically this Film Stank and I will say No more....(Oh accept,I love their attempts to make hackman look young in the opening scene...that was certainly good for a laugh,I guess) "},{"Title":"Gasshole","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I always enter into watching a movie on TV with my teeth clenched. What are these Standards and Practices morons going to hack out and will it render the film unwatchable?--there was a Penthouse cartoon from 25 or so years ago that simply shows a TV screen with the warning, This motion picture has been butchered for television. The Chamber, a barely passable John Grisham story of a young attorney (Chris O'Donnell) desperately trying to keep his Klansman grandfather (ably played by America's finest actor, Gene Hackman) out of the Mississippi gas chamber comes to television so horrendously mangled by the USA Network (or whomever did the editing; a pox on their house), that it has been rendered essentially unviewable.The Chamber is a crummy movie, from what little information I could gather watching it. It's cheap and tired, and tiring to watch because of the dullness of the courtroom and criminal proceedings. O'Donnell squeaks his lines and looks pretty while Faye Dunaway, as Hackman's alcoholic daughter, oozes a bourbon-saturated contempt that fairly screams she did this clinker only for the paycheck.The movie's only grace is Hackman whose voice is so filled with gaseous malevolence, whose appearance is so rotten with contempt that he actually convinces you that he really is Sam Cayhall, convicted of bombing a civil rights office and killing a Jewish attorney's kindergartner twins. He has such perfect menace in his grisled diction that you will be willing to watch him work the next time The Chamber is shown on the tube.Although I didn't like the movie, I actually took the chance that it would improve with the hunks and chunks not show on TV (for content and time allotment) and ordered a penny copy of it from Amazon.What the hell, it might be worth the penny. "}]