[{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"45 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An outstanding work &#150; the consummate Indie.A great, little satire that manages to make you identify with a homeless, hopeless druggie.Laura Dern is perfect as the indigent & insatiable Ruth. She brings an engaging hidden-beauty to the part, and with the help of Alexander Payne's brilliant direction, she nimbly walks the wire between comical hero and tragic pariah.This gem clearly demonstrates that, even though the production budget may be lower than a republican's principles - when great talent and artistic enthusiasm couple, a work of genius is likely to be born.Cheers, AB &#150; a staff member of Prospect Point Productions, Inc. "},{"Title":"Payne's underappreciated gem","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"41 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's truly gratifying to see that Alexander Payne has really made a name for himself in the art of film direction, having made nothing less than two fantastic social satires.  Election garnered him considerable praise as will About Schmidt, but in my mind, Citizen Ruth is the best.  It's not as funny as Election in the sense that there aren't the moments that make your jaw drop in terms of the delightfully vicious nature of the satire, but the script is just as thoughtful as it is funny, and Payne did a remarkable job satirizing what, by most accounts, is an un-satirizable subject.  Laura Dern really deserved some kind of award (you know the academy would never have the stones to recognize a film such as this...) as her performance is both touching and hysterical.  Some said the film started off great and then didn't really go anywhere, but I disagree.  The  final shot says it all with respect to the direction of the story, and it really amazes me that this film could be made without really taking a side on anything.  Ultimately, I was blindsided by the film's astute message, which was not even about abortion itself, but the selfish nature of the two sides arguing it.  Payne will undoubtably move on to make compelling films in the future that take advantage of higher budgets, etc., but Citizen Ruth deserves a place amongst the best first features in any genre.     "},{"Title":"Devastatingly, but hilarious view of Choice vs. Life","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Laura Dern gives what should have been an oscar-winning performance in this satire of the abortion controversy. However this movie is not for the main stream. She plays a homeless drug user and a user period. Not a nice person. She has four kids in three different places. The first scene depicts her trying to hit up her ex for money displaying only a token concern for her kids. But by the end of the movie you kinda like her (well, almost... you still would never let her come to your house). Anyway when she is picked up for the 16th time that year by the cops for sniffing household stuff (anything she can find glue, paint, brake fluid...), the authorities find out that she is pregnant. The DA charges her with criminal endangerment of the fetus, but hints that if she has an abortion the charge will go away. While in the city jail she meets up with the Baby Savers and a tug-of-war ensues between them and the Right-To-Choose people. The portrayal of both sides is so devastatingly accurate that I doubt either side would know they're being lampooned. This movie rates with Cold Turkey and Drop Dead Gorgeous for its cynical, but hilarious portrait of American Life. "},{"Title":"A Very Acid Social Criticism of the American Society Hypocrisy Regarding the Abortion Theme","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ruth (Laura Dern) is a young homeless glue-addicted street junkie, who is arrested again completely doped. The justice realizes that she is pregnant for the fifth time, and the judge offers her the option of an abortion. Ruth is released under the custody of a family and sooner she is involved in a pro-choice vs. pro-life (called 'The Babysavers') dispute. This is the first time I have seen this movie and it is a very acid social criticism of the American society hypocrisy regarding the abortion theme. The story does not spare any side, showing hypocrites persons on both sides. The pro-life are showed as religious fanatics and narrow-minded persons, the deranged family who lodges Ruth has a the father with sexual attraction in Laura and the mother a fanatic who does not see the behavior of her own daughter. The pro-choice group is showed as homosexual, but also faking a situation. In common, all of them are radicals hypocrites. And Ruth indeed is not caring whether she is going to have her fifth baby or not, abusing of drugs and alcohol and only interested in the money offered by both sides. And the rights of the citizen Ruth is the less important issue for both sides. Laura Dern has one of her best interpretations and in the very beginning of the movie, I did not recognize her. I believe she was not indicated for an Oscar due to the polemic theme of abortion. The performance of the cast and the direction are also excellent. My vote is seven, but maybe this movie deserves a better ranking after watching it for the second time.Title (Brazil) 'Ruth em Questão' (Ruth in Question')  "},{"Title":"Watch this one more than once!","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Occasionally you will see a movie that may take you some time to decide whether you enjoyed it. By the second time you see it, you're better able to fully appreciate the movie without becoming wrapped up in confusing or disturbing plot elements. Citizen Ruth is one of the best examples of this phenomenon I have ever seen. If you've seen it before, give it another chance. If you have not, give yourself some time to reflect after watching it. You will not be disappointed.Citizen Ruth is the story of a woman, Ruth Stoops (Laura Dern could not have been a better choice for this role), who has spent her difficult life making a lot of bad choices. She is a quick-tempered, irresponsible but naive junkie, who you can't help but root for. When she finds herself pregnant yet again, with no intention of giving up the model airplane glue and spray paint she regularly huffs, the judge makes it clear that with all of her previous run-ins with the legal system, Ruth had better take care of the problem or face serious charges.When the local pro-life group, the Babysavers (Kurtwood Smith was another excellent choice to play the leader of this group) catches wind of the judge's comments, they set out to save Ruth and her unborn child. This, of course, turns out in a hilariously disastrous way, when pro-choice gets involved to even up the playing field. Ruth's naivete makes her easy for both sides to manipulate, and neither pro-life nor pro-choice winds up looking very good.The ending to this movie is not, in my opinion, as predictable as it seems, and it really gives you something to think about - what is life and how much (both in material and ethereal terms) is it worth, particularly when it's placed in the hands of somebody who is in such poor control of her or his own? Is it ethical to take advantage of somebody's lack of knowledge for your own gain, or is it even okay to try to change somebody's mind? Is Ruth Stoops a bad person, or just a misunderstood and desperate woman? And what about her final choice?This movie is worth a second look, and at a $3 rental fee, what do you have to lose?  "},{"Title":"Obscure object of hype","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unlike every other young American filmmaker, buzzing like moths around the asthmatic short guy from Little Italy, Alexander Payne has a pleasingly atypical role model Luis Bunuel. His brilliant ELECTION sets down a number of Bunuel tropes in the chain restaurants and badly lit high schools of Omaha, Nebraska, and his first feature, CITIZEN RUTH, is even closer to the wall-eyed master's bone. The heroine, played by Laura Dern, is named Ruth Stoops, and that's an understatement. Ruth begins the picture as a dumpster-diving skank whose preoccupations are birthing bastards and huffing glue. Through a BEING THERE-ish chain of circumstances, Ruth finds herself in the hands of a family of Baby Savers (Payne's version of Operation Rescue), and then a squadron of mostly lesbian, bourgeois, goddess-worshiping, Frida-Kahlo-T-shirt-wearing pro-choice activists. Though the movie cannily found a home with the Sundance crowd as a satire of both sides of the abortion debate, the topicality is strictly surface. CITIZEN RUTH is a straight-up-Bunuelian demonstration of the hundred facets of human mendacity and venality, cloaking their shivering skins in the warm fabric of Morals. It's a cheerfully made thesis movie about the universality of hypocrisy.Payne has a curious, sure, light, on-the-money touch. Every detail you notice--from a Baby Saver mom's Tupperware samovar of cherry Kool-Ade, to Kurtwood Smith's Sav-On uniform (with a button that sadly screams Ask Me!)--is ever so slightly exaggerated and perfectly true. Payne's rendering of his home town Omaha, its wan, angry Christians, and the kinda-gay, kinda-liberal-artsy interlopers, makes the Coen Brothers look both pizzazzier and much nastier. The single-mindedness of the movie is oddly pleasing when it's mated with such a certain, gingerly approach. (Payne's tastes run gratifyingly wide his jokes, and his music, seem derived from the works of James L. Brooks.) There's a two-dimensionality about CITIZEN RUTH that makes it less deeply satisfying than ELECTION, but this is one smart filmmaker. As the millennium rolls in, the likes of Wes Anderson and Kevin Smith will be gagging on his dust.  "},{"Title":"Underrated Gem","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the wake of the huge success Sideways is garnering lately, everyone should look back at this incredible film from Alexander Payne, which shows off everything he and writing partner Jim Taylor are best at- the dark skewering of small-town America, rich with satire and heart. I had seen all of Payne's films except this one, and although I really loved all of them, this may be his most fully realized. This is probably because his targets are hit exactly dead-on, and the absurdity of the situations are in fact, achingly real. Laura Dern gives a wonderful and unflinching portrayal of Ruth, and the rest of the cast, especially Swoosie Kurtz, Mary Kay Place, and in a small role, Burt Reynolds, are exceptional as the targets of Payne's satire. Payne fills his films with little details of small-town life, and here they add so much to the point of the story. Take for example the grace that Kurtwood Smith's character gives, which is barely heard because of the roaring plane overhead. It is these details that are the crux of a story like this. So as Sideways continues to claim many awards (and rightfully so), I urge you to check out this earlier film from Payne, and experience a brilliant little film, and one of the gutsiest movies you may ever see. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is something about Citizen Ruth that keeps me coming back to it. I must have seen it 30 times and haven't tired of it yet. It is genuine and the people are so amazingly real. It's almost as if some of my neighbours seem just like the characters in the film. That says a lot in my opinion. The Mid-west is a land that holds a special place in the American psyche. I can literally count on my hands the number of films that truly capture its spirit. Citizen Ruth is one of those films. From scenes in the hardware store to large rear wheel drive Fords, everything fits perfectly. This film captures a place called Omaha which for better or worse Hollywood largely ignores. It also treats a controversial topic like abortion in a thoughtful manner. Excellent film. Highly recommended.10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A fun satirization of the life-choice controversy","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The title character of Citizen Ruth (Dern), an indigent and pregnant fume-head with a potty mouth and bad attitude, finds herself the unwitting cause of a clash of pro-choice and pro-abortion activists in this bitingly satirical look at the abortion issue in America. Dern makes an excellent centerpiece for this award winning comedy which mocks both sides of the life/choice controversy with a vanguard of comic stereotypes. CR should be an enjoyable and fun watch for those mature enough for strong language and not so brittle as to personalize the issues involved.  "},{"Title":"Harlan, a great, underrated character","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought Citizen Ruth was fine, biting satire and a movie that had to be made at some point in America's history.  Like all good movies, it is not really about the subject at hand - in this case, the abortion issue - but about something deeper and more far reaching. Citizen Ruth is about people who get so devoted to a cause they think important to humanity that they forget to consider actual human beings.Of course, the unavoidable problem with a movie such as this is that almost all of the characters are unsympathetic.  Regardless of what opinion one has on the abortion issue, both factions behave badly and they do it supposedly on behalf of the most irresponsible, irredeemable, unlikable (but still watchable) glue sniffer around, Ruth.  The effect can be a little wearing, especially at the end.The movie alleviates this problem by including one wonderful character, Harlan, the cynical Gulf War vet.  He unceremoniously plunks his prosthetic leg on the kitchen table.  He eats shirtless standing over a sink.  He sees Ruth as a person, albeit a diminished one, and is willing to give her what she really wants (money) in order to, as he says, level the playing field, even though he knows she will squander it in a matter of days and tells her so.  While he is on the prochoice side, he sees the humor in the situation, as evidenced by his wonderful grin and does not seem to lose track of his own humanity.  His dialogue is priceless. Where everybody else speaks in rhetoric he cuts to the chase. My favorite retort of his occurs when the sanctimonious Dale, a pro-lifer, spouts out some Biblical condemnation at him and he responds by giving the exact location in the Bible of the quote.  Naturally the actor playing the part, M. C. Gainey, deserves much of the credit for creating this appealing character.The movie has many other merits but Harlan is my own personal favorite  "}{"Title":"shades of Election, About Schmidt and Sideways (even of Terri Schiavo)","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In what has got to be one of Laura Dern's most interesting roles, she plays indigent drug addict Ruth Stoops, ordered to have an abortion at the risk of damaging her unborn fetus. That's when she gets taken in by a fundamentalist Christian, right-to-life family who starts using her as a rallying call. But abortion rights activists also see Ruth as a rallying call.Like Thank You for Smoking, Citizen Ruth shows the hypocrisy of both sides in a controversial topic, as they both want to use an individual for their own ends. This movie sort of predicted what would happen to Terri Schiavo almost ten years in advance. Moreover, director Alexander Payne shows the twisted sensibility that he would later bring to Election, About Schmidt and Sideways. You gotta agree with what Ruth does at the end. Definitely one that I recommend.Also starring Kurtwood Smith, Swoosie Kurtz, Mary Kay Place, Kelly Preston, Kenneth Mars and Tippi Hedren. "},{"Title":"Well laid out movie and very realistic","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie seemed so realistic, it was almost like being involved in it. After watching it over 20 times I still see small real things, like when the Judge asked to see Ruth in his office, he pushed to door shut, and immediately, for his own protection, opened it a crack before telling her If you want to see a doctor while in jail...you can go. He didn't want that to get out but it did. I can sympathize with the Judge, he wanted to save the state a million dollars over the next 18 years. Mr. Payne really had it together and didn't miss a beat. He was slick too, for at the end he made Ruth the bad guy and was able to keep the pro-choice and baby savers evenly balanced, not giving way to either. Norm worked in a hardware store, and like Harlan, was very realistic. Every person seemed so real...and I think some of the cops WERE real. I first saw this movie on TV by accident, nothing else on. The second time I taped it. This movie made me go and rent or buy every Laura Dern movie I could find. This is my favorite movie. "},{"Title":"There's a war on","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Its not often hot topic debates like abortion are made so hilarious. Alexander Payne has done a brilliant job with this using his character Ruth (Laura Dern who couldnt be funnier) to expose both sides of the abortion debate.  The story is clever and smart but its Laura Dern as Ruth who truly stands out.  Shes unsympathetic but likable, she makes Ruth stupidity and selfishness actually interesting and funny.  Citizen Ruth is probably the best satire of all time and owes a lot to the inspired performance of Laura Dern.  "},{"Title":"Delightful Laura Dern In A Shrewd Sexy Satire!","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie, a sly satire about a beautiful but dim-witted drifter who gets pregnant and finds herself accidentally scooped up as symbol by both sides in the abortion controversy. Laura Dern makes Ruth an irresistible anti-heroine, not only sexy and fun but poignant and lonely and even lovable by the very end.At first, with Ruth in rags and in tears, the movie is not much fun. It's a bit like TRAINSPOTTING, about a drug addict living on the street. But Laura Dern's Ruth is not a smug smart-aleck like Renton. She doesn't keep telling us she's cool or hip or better than us. She just lives her life, and we see how helpless and in need of rescue she really is. Where the film picks up steam is where we see how corrupt and hypocritical her rescuers really are.The script really points out that all political activists are users at heart. Just like A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, where the teenage hoodlum Alex is first brainwashed by the state and then rescued by radicals who snuff him out at the first opportunity, so here Ruth is pushed back and forth by Christians and feminists who show equal disregard for her thoughts and feelings. The fact that she herself is lazy, weak-willed, incurably dishonest, and deeply selfish, only adds to the fun. Ruth's need for pleasure and escape makes her a natural to become a drug addict, which of course she is. But it's also noticeable that she plunges headlong into each passing pleasure that comes her way. Watching her snore in blissful contentment in her first real bed in months, or howl with pleasure during a sexy feminist foot massage, you can't help but enjoy her zest for life. Ruth may be weak-willed and timid, but at least she has her human pleasures. The people around her are fanatical robots.At the same time, Ruth's story goes beyond A CLOCKWORK ORANGE into a much more American story of a loner who must choose sides in what really amounts to a civil war. The film brilliantly captures how abortion tears the town in half, just like slavery in the pre Civil War years. Ruth is caught in the middle, just like Tobey Maguire's Jake Roedel in Ang Lee's RIDE WITH THE DEVIL. The difference is that Ruth finds a way to fight on her own terms. By the end she's no longer a puppet, and you feel oddly impressed by her final get away and almost slapstick escape.(SPOILER ALERT) This is one of the few movies I have ever seen where the take the money and run ending really feels like a triumph. Note that this is EXACTLY what happens in TRAINSPOTTING. While the straight people make fools of themselves, a junkie walks away with a bundle of cash. But here it feels totally liberating, and fun. With Renton it was spoiled with his tiresome monologue, bragging about how he's just like us. No, Ruth is just like us. She's not always able to say what she feels, but she has human needs and she learns from her mistakes.CITIZEN RUTH is a great movie, and a real triumph for Laura Dern. "},{"Title":"It took too long before it was very clear that this was a comedy","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sometimes reality is better than the best movie and certainly when that reality is situated in the USA and talks about some moral subjects. Think of the legalization of the gay marriage, euthanasia, abortion,... All that has already been accepted in that little, unknown and unloved country that we call Belgium, but thanks to all those conservative religious fanatics in America that are against everything that might make life a bit fun or bearable, we always get some good laughs over here. In case you didn't know it yet most of us don't worship the devil, but are good catholics ... most of us, hahaha.Why this little text you ask yourself? Well, because this movie is about one of those subjects. It talks about a young woman called Ruth Stoops, a pregnant drug using and glue/paint sniffing junk who has already had her other children taken away from her. When she's convicted by a judge, she gets the advice to have the unborn child removed, because it won't have any future with its mother. In return she won't get convicted for child abuse. But while in jail she meets people who are member of the pro-life group the Babysavers. These people convince her (brainwash her is a better word for it, if you see the tactics that they use) not to give up the baby. And before Ruth really understands what is happening to her, she suddenly finds herself in the middle of a war between the Babysavers and a group that supports abortion...Most actors in this movie did a very good job, but personally I liked Laura Dern's performance most. She was very convincing as the drug addicted mother and was very funny to watch in the second half of the movie when she had to decide which camp she would chose. At first this movie was just too serious to call it a comedy. I'm not saying it wasn't any good, but it felt a bit too real to my taste. At first I had the feeling that this movie was created by some people who really wanted to give a powerful message against abortion to the world. Only late in the movie, I finally understood that this wasn't the case and at that moment I started to enjoy it a lot more. That's why I give this movie a 6.5/10 perhaps even a 7/10. I like the fact that they try to make fun of the subject, only too bad that they didn't start with that from the beginning. "},{"Title":"Ruth's character's more interesting than story","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Citizen Ruth satirizes the opposing sides in the abortion debate, as both focus on the case of a homeless, drug-addicted pregnant woman who has been charged with abusing her fetus by her constant inhaling of anything in an aerosol can. Ruth is played with psychotic charm by Laura Dern, who has the courage not to try softening an unsympathetic character, and it is her performance that carries the film, long after the story has revealed itself. She plays Ruth as thoroughly selfish, thoroughly manipulative, and completely unredeemable (which is fitting, as what might define redemption is part of the debate), and it's fun to watch her pull it off. Though much of the time we can see where the movie is going, Ruth keeps Ruth interesting to the end. "},{"Title":"Poor marketing spoils a great film","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Citizen Ruth is a poignant, thought-provoking and at times harrowing drama which is well-written and enjoyable to watch. Which is why I was confused when it was marketed on the VHS and DVD releases as a comedy, with comments branding it hilarious. There were humorous moments within the film thanks to the witty scriptwriting, but this serves as added depth to the characters of a film which is otherwise much more important than a simple story, but instead highlights the socio-economic problems facing us in the modern world, and for the most part does so with grim reality.Rent this out on DVD expecting laughs or a straightforward story and you're likely to be disappointed - instead watch the film for what it is - a superbly acted drama provoking discussions on important issues. "},{"Title":"Payne's circle of life trilogy","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The more I view Payne's pictures, the more I see them as a kind of Requiem, or Elegy, for humanity in the setting of Nebraska and the young and old who populate Omaha. Payne's first 3 films are perhaps valentines to his birthplace. I went back to review Citizen Ruth and About Schmitt, and found myself amazed in the subtle execution of loss and despair in the stories and characters. Alexander Payne has a good thing going in his work. In Citizen Ruth, Election and About Schmidt we perhaps have a trilogy that arcs through the life cycle of a human being.. Citizen Ruth...conception, birth and childhood. Ruth seems to embody all three...physically and emotionally (pregnant, but child-like in mind and action). The subtle sub-plots involving the child of Life Savers Norm and Gail Stoney (played by Sebastian Anzaldo III) is possibly the saddest depiction of a loss of innocence I have ever seen in a film, worthy of Stanley Kubrick (who filmed a similar theme in the first half of Full Metal Jacket). When Ruth hits the child, suddenly the wind is also knocked out of the film. The illusion of choice in the conception and birth process of mortal existence is all over this film. Election...youth and the middle aged... The youth struggle to grow up and the middle aged reach for a happiness lost in youth. I think Reese Witherspoon's character, Tracy Flick, goes through a steep learning curve, a process of change and understanding that benefits her and helps her come to terms with her loneliness, however damaged she may still be. She actually comes out better than the other characters IMO. Mr. McCallister, in contrast, spirals out of control...his inner creepy crawlies, hidden in the dark corners of a classroom for years, are suddenly brought out by the searing light of Tracy Flick. About Schmidt...old age and death. Regrets and redemption by proxy (the best gifts can be given and received in ways that we can never imagine...without us even knowing about it). Death is seen quite early in the film...and the bell tolls for Warren's life(as the clock strikes 5pm to announce Warren's retirement). While Warren is going through crisis and he desperately tries to make a difference by saving his daughter from marrying a loser, a 6 year old child in Africa is deeply affected by Warren's $22 a month donation. Warren is redeemed? I think Warren is redeemed after his Wedding reception speech earlier...it is also his burial...his last will and testament. The 6 year child's drawing is a sign that the circle of life will begin again...brand spanking' new. These films are so amazing I feel as if I'm participating in each. Great cinema. "},{"Title":"Relevant, Fair and Fascinating","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a huge fan of Alexander Payne's later films, I decided that it was about time I saw Citizen Ruth. Though easily the weakest of Payne's films, I found the social commentary in Citizen Ruth more nuanced and provocative than his more popular works.The film centers around Ruth, a down-and-out woman arrested for huffing toxic chemicals. It is discovered during her arrest that she is pregnant, and since she is a repeat offender with several neglected children, the judge in her case encourages her behind closed doors to have an abortion for everyone's sake. The judge's comments, as well as his charging her with endangering the life of her fetus, set into motion a battle between pro-life and pro-choice organizations. A well-meaning Christian family takes her in initially, exposing her to pro-life propaganda films and taking her to protests outside a clinic. After a pro-choice group wins Ruth over and takes her in, the pro-life group ups the ante, trying to entice Ruth to have her baby by offering her $15,000. A member of the pro-choice group matches the sum, but soon after, Ruth has a miscarriage, making the whole spectacle (which is blown up by the media and each warring interest group) completely undercut. Neither group is aware of the miscarriage when Ruth goes to the abortion clinic, takes the $15,000 offered to her, and escapes from the scene, leaving protesters from each side warring behind her.There are many elements of the film that could be improved. I thought the dialog was clumsy at times, which led to some mediocre acting. Laura Dern is fantastic, though, as the title character, making the character believable.What impresses me most about the film, though, is it's message about abortion politics. Essentially, Payne's commentary suggests that interest groups on both sides don't really identify with the people they claim to by fighting for; Ruth's interests as a person and her choice are undercut by rhetoric and high-minded principles that don't take her situation into account. Payne cleverly implicates BOTH the pro-life and pro-choice factions in this scheme of robbing Ruth from exerting her will. In the end, Ruth takes control of her own destiny, yielding to neither side.The message of Citizen Ruth is more relevant now than ever as pro-choicers face the challenge of a majority conservative supreme court. How will they appeal to the Ruths out there? And for pro-lifers, how would they deal with the consequences of an overturning of Roe v. Wade? Payne's film pointedly asks these questions, and only time will tell how each side will answer. "},{"Title":"Even years later, this is still a haunting, thought provoking movie..","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My change. I still look for a court objection when she went to Council Bluffs, Iowa. So where was the Budget Host, the abortion clinic (up a dirt road) and where was Diane's house, shown up a dirt road and a dying cornfield? Was that in Iowa, if so, it was a violation of her parole in NE.. Earlier I wondered what Ruth would do with the money after she made her getaway. Just recently another thought comes up!!! YOU can tell people what to do, but all this can change when it hits YOUR home. Norm Stoney was a powerhouse against abortion,but remember his daughter Cheryl, slipped out at night for drug parties and even once slipped a boyfriend out in the early morning while Norm and his friends were singing Jesus loves the Little Children. Now, suppose Cheryl turned up pregnant, without a clue as who the father was!! Would Norman still be against abortion??? or would he WANT his daughter to get an abortion? Don't get me wrong, Mr. Payne has created something big here and I have taken this very deeply. 9/08... Payne's sense of photographic scenes give us something special, especially the times Ruth's eyes look directly into the camera..you can almost see the brain wheels planning something! This is one of the best movies I've seen since High Noon!! It make you say What would I do, what would you do?? I still want Citize Ruth #2... don't you?? Finish it, Payne!! email milwhitt702@aol.com. Git 'er done, AP!!!! "}{"Title":"A Diamond In The Rough","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this film.  What I thought was going to be a Laura Dern chick flick turned into a really exciting, character driven political commentary in the league of BOYS DON'T CRY. However, where BOYS is extremely dramatic and intense, RUTH is comic and satirical.  No matter which side of the abortion debate you find yourself on, you'll recognize this rogues gallery of overly self-righteous fools and freaks that crowd our existence as well as Ruth's. Where another reviewer here finds the story predictable, I don't see how anyone could guess the end of this feature.  Not that it's some clever, ingenious twist like the end of the SIXTH SENSE.  It's merely not the way most movies end, and although slightly a fluffy ending, it's definitely unpredictable.  If you enjoyed BOYS, see RUTH as part of a weekend double feature.  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Cynic's Movie","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful film with Laura Dern providing a fearless performance as an irredeemable whiffer.  The movie does paint a few people with broad strokes, but the strokes are deft and very funny.No one comes across very well in this movie, and there is something to offend everyone here.What a wonderful way to skewer modern society! "},{"Title":"Laura Dern is great","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Laura Dern is one of my favorite actresses just for her work in Inland Empire and her stunning work in Enlightened. This film usually gets the least mentions within Payne's filmography and is probably considered his weakest, and so I was surprised and enjoyed it a hell of a lot, especially coming off of a big disappointment. Like Election, it's definitely more in the comedy-territory and while, again, it may not amount to all that much, it's still a hell of an enjoyable ride. And, of course, Laura Dern is great, she's proved she can play this sort of ditzy, unaware character and she nails it. This is definitely recommended and rather underrated "},{"Title":"It shouldn't be an epic aspiration to make simple human stories, but it is.","Date":"29 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pitiful, bedraggled Ruth is a forlorn specimen of hopelessness with more than a dozen arrests for illegal inhalation. She has just been kicked out by her one-night boyfriend and turned away by her fed-up brother-in-law. The arresting cops already know her name. Now she's told she is pregnant. You've been found to be an unfit mother four times! a flabbergasted judge tells her. Uh-uh, Ruth says. Two times. The judge charges her with felony criminal endangerment of a fetus, though submits in candor to drop the charges if she'll have an abortion. The displaced good intentions there are nothing compared to the ideological thicket that Ruth wanders into after her case becomes a national battleground for pro- and anti-abortion groups.Citizen Ruth, the feature debut of definitive contemporary film wit Alexander Payne, a filmmaker of rare intelligence who's on the short list of American directors with final cut rights for their films, is a satire with the reckless courage to take on both sides in the abortion debate. There are no positive characters in the film, certainly not Ruth, whose preferred state is oblivion, and who perks up only when both sides start making cash offers. Whereas almost every film has a market in mind, here is a movie with a little something to offend anyone who has a strong opinion on abortion.Who's left to market this movie to? Perhaps those diminishing figures who have a high regard for movies with audacity and sharpness, and do not demand to be gratified and bolstered by the characters on the screen. Some may find it too delineative to compensate more than a single viewing, but nevertheless a stimulating one-time wonder. Others see more ironic fine points upon multiple viewings. This makes it all the more valuable because what satire must do in order to work is take effective shots at both sides of whatever issue it holds to censure.The movie is an arcade of finely honed satiric sketches. Thrown into jail, Ruth finds herself sharing the same cell with hymn-singing Baby Savers who have been jailed after a protest at an abortion clinic. She is promptly taken under the wings of Kurtwood Smith and Mary Kay Place, who bring her home to an innocent milieu, innocent, i.e., until she finds their son's airplane glue. Gail oscillates between worship of life and acid disputes with her teenage daughter, who sooner or later helps Ruth slip away to a party.One of the Baby Savers is Swoozie Kurtz, who uncovers herself as a mole for the pro-choice side, and whisks Ruth off to the wilderness retreat she shares with her lesbian lover, Rachel, who sings to the moon. They organize for Ruth to have an abortion, however already the Baby Savers have issued a national alert, the network crews are camped out in the parking lot, and the national leaders for both sides have flown into Tulsa to make their stands.Shot in Nebraska just like Payne's exceedingly brilliant subsequent films Election and About Schmidt, Payne has a good eye for the character qualities of fanatics with the compulsion to control other people's lives. The leader of the pro-choice side, played by Tippi Hedren, is rendered as so hip and shrewd that you know it's a disguise for indescribable skeletons in the closet. And the leader of the pro-lifers is played by Burt Reynolds as a sloganeering fraud who glorifies the American family values crap while retaining a boy toy on his payroll.There is nerve in the determination to make Ruth an unredeemed dope-head whose sole impulse is to go for the cash. Though unjustifiably careless and ignorant as Ruth is, she becomes extremely funny via Payne's fitting of her into such incongruous surroundings as much as Laura Dern's hysterical performance. Attesting herself as a superb physical comedian, the in-shape and gangly Dern lashes and yells her way through the catastrophe that explodes over her quandary. And yet with momentous satirical elegance, this definitive sleeper watches how both sides exploit this oblivious nonentity's soul, or lack thereof, in a variety of endeavors to forcibly convey their stance to the American public. I have misgivings that the two sides in the debate would in reality undertake a bidding war, but that's what satire is for To take reality and broaden it into farce.The movie sheds light on the ways in which mainstream films condition us to count on formula endings. Most movies are made with the credence that no one in the audience can be counted on to think about more than one concept at a time, at the very most. I'm happily bowled over when it arises that there will be no good side and bad side in the mêlée over Ruth, and astonished when it seems that the movie will not turn up securely with a resolution to satisfy everyone. Some states of affairs, Payne appear to be contending, just cannot be reconciled to everyone's liking. Perhaps, for some viewers, that will make this not a comedy at all. "},{"Title":"very funny and moving","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to applaud this movie for being so neutral on the issue and showing us the hypocrisy and the cheap tricks and the inner contradictions present on both sides of the issue.Being what I call a sane pro-lifer in pursuit of a consistent body of bioethics, at first I was somewhat upset by the fact that the movie only portrayed the two prevailing opposite camps regarding the issue of abortion, with presumably atheist lesbians (who, of course, turn out to be goddess adoring pseudo-pagans) with their snobby and self-righteous rhetoric about freedom to choose all the while they try to control Ruth's body on the one hand, and the apparently prudish, sexually repressed, and oh, of course, hypocritical born-again Christians on the other. But then I figured, even though Ruth was the not so intelligent, politically incorrect, irresponsible, glue-huffing character who didn't seem to have any self-declared ethical concern for the issue, it was really through her naive outbursts that the movie seemed to point to a need for a more honest and human approach. What I loved the most, however, was the end scene where Ruth escaped the abortion clinic with all the money in the bag and no one even noticed. It really summed up the whole point of the movie for me - that no one really saw her - not just then, not ever at all. Everyone was so caught up in their own hysteria that it had never been about Ruth at all. You won't get bored with this movie. It's funny, it's honest, and the pace is consistent throughout. "},{"Title":"Good.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While listening to the commentary for Election on DVD, Alexander Payne noted things that are also on Citizen Ruth. With no hesitation, I went out and rented Citizen Ruth and I'm glad I did. While not as good as Election, Citizen Ruth is still a good film about the insanity of the abortion debate. I couldn't believe how far it got outta hand for a drug using, screwed up party animal. Both sides of the spectrum went out of control trying to decide for Ruth what's best for her. And believe other reviews, when they say the ending is rather sad. Payne is to good of a director to let the movie trail away like that. While waiting in line for the next Star Wars movie, I'll also wait in line for the next movie from Alexander Payne, especially after movies like this and Election. "},{"Title":"Alexander Payne's finest","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I refuse to see Jurassic Park 3 (written by Payne) and election wasn't all that good, but Citizen Ruth is quite a good movie.  The main character is torn by her lifestyle, Christian theology, Wiccan theology, and yuppie american families as they try to manipulate her life to save her baby.  No one is a good guy, but everyone has alterior motives to the saving of Ruth's soul.  A must see. "},{"Title":"The ending credits","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are 49 reviews and no one mentioned the ending credits? Maybe nobody waits for them to roll. The first 1/2 has typical end of the movie music. Then there is the loud sound of a cassette turning over. The cassette she was playing earlier about how to make money plays with lots of pseudo advanced theories about investing money from a small nest egg. Then the tape jams and breaks and the movie ends. Too funny. My Dad picked this movie. Reading the short description given of a comedy about both sides of the abortion debate I was expecting the worst. However it is a dark comedy that pulls off its subject quite well, making fun of everyone. That is rare for a movie made in the last 10 years. A movie such as this works best when the main characters don't come off too stereotypically. The movie only partly succeeds with this. This type of movie is so uncommon nowadays though that I give it a 9. "},{"Title":"No Sides Taken","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the best political satires to deal with the extremely volatile subject of abortion, first time director Alexander Payne gave a powerhouse first film to his repertoire with this bitterly acid black comedy. What I think everyone appreciates is that both sides of this debate are shown in equally unpleasant terms, but not exactly unrealistic ones. The conservative branch are a set of violent and mean spirited protesters, but they also have women who regret their own abortions, and people who sincerely try to help the less fortunate. The liberal side is characterized as a set of lesbian leaning protesters and a freedom fighting mercenary who care about the right to choose. In the middle of this blood sport for the sake of creation is the character of Ruth (Dern), who doesn't care about the politics that make her center stage in a tumultuous feud. Instead of caring about the sanctity of human life, or about the freedom to choose, she cares about what is best for her. She makes the film enjoyable because she cares about very little except getting a lot of money and getting high behind a convenience store. It's really interesting how each side is fighting for her rights in their own way, trying to give her the freedom to choose and yet both leaning towards a different end-game, and yet she only wants to know what's best for herself. It's this selfish attitude that makes for the best moments, especially because there isn't any morale and certainly not any lessons learned from her experiences. Ruth is continually given the chance to do right, but every time she enables her formal bad behavior so she can get away clean. This film illustrates that human choice precedes morals, intellectual discussion, and politics, and that human choice is subjective based on who the person is. I think this film is good for anyone, on either side of the political spectrum, not for educational purposes, but because it works as a great character study as well as satire for its own sake. "},{"Title":"Right on the money.","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Alexander Payne's debut feature film, and it's right on the money. Big kudos to the extraordinary performance of the wonderful Laura Dern, which really lifts 'Citizen Ruth' to a higher plan; how she puts both humor and drama into the role of an often deliriously haphazard, but also very headstrong junkie is pure craftsmanship.There are plenty of other actors that make great contributions as well, such as Kurtwood Smith and M.C. Gainey, while other roles are mostly pretty decent to simply adequate. The other main character (beside Dern) in this film is actually really the simple, but no less brilliant baring of a thorny issue, wherein two parties - pro and con - are ruthlessly portrayed. It's a bold choice to choose such an approach, but with the clever way of building up the plot and keeping drama and humor tightly tugging at both ends of it, Payne makes a truly clean getaway. Kudos (again, see my recent review for 'Election')!And finally, it's worth mentioning that the Nebraska settings, the clothing, and the overall (mostly bleak) look of the film really put in an extra ingredient to make this so much more true to life than your average movie. And watch out for those weird little shots, like the one where Laura Dern is checking out her leg in the bathtub, each time with the other eye closed. Cinematographic details of pure beauty! "}{"Title":"Uncommonly mature with its centrist ideology","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Before writer/director Alexander Payne was making deep, intimate pictures centered around eccentric humans playing a little game called Life, he was concocting explosive satires, bursting at the seams with originality and charm. His directorial debut, Citizen Ruth, is a little stroll through the eclectic-side of his days.Ruth Stoops (Laura Dern) is a rather despicable woman. She has had multiple kids and has been addicted to inhaling substances from glue to patio sealant for years now. When she discovers she is pregnant again, she tosses around the idea of having an abortion, so as not to give birth to another unfortunate, helpless soul. Having no family and no one to turn to for advice, she finds herself intrusively manipulated by pro-life and pro-choice groups from all walks of life, and his taken in by a well-meaning couple, played by Kurtwood Smith and Mary Kay Place. They will provide her with everything she could need, including protection from the media, so long as she doesn't give into the abortion.The remainder of the film centers around the asinine attention the media pays to Ruth and her family, and how she may be forcefully committed to one side because of their obnoxious manipulation.What is truly amazing, however, is how Citizen Ruth manages to perfectly keep a centrist viewpoint, showing both sides at their utmost ridiculous. Never does the film show a direct bias. From watching this, we can sort of believe that Payne's view on the entire abortion issue is simplified to something along the lines of, both sides are equally right and equally bizarre.Dern here is spectacularly, embodying a character void of any likability traits and sophistication as a whole. She is an unkempt, sorry mess of a woman and Payne portrays her exactly as that. While it may not be the most complete film out there, or even one of the funniest satires (especially when you put to along side Election, Payne's sophomore effort), it still is a reasonable compliment to say that Citizen Ruth does a splendid job of keeping a film about a controversial issue neutral and viable throughout its runtime.Starring Laura Dern, Kurtwood Smith, and Mary Kay Place. Directed by Alexander Payne. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie Should Do a re-release special edition","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I know the best Idea for a new Trailer would be to feature the Actors like Red from That 70's Show and Adeline From Big Love and you know the rest. The comedy is hidden in the fact that this movie was before the kind of comedy that is out today. I just watched it again the other day cause I remember this movie from long time ago and I felt like it should of been made last year. It has some flaws but it old what do you expect! I like this movie, and had to share it with my friends and family. I also like that it's a crazy story and pushes boundaries. would like to see more opinions about this movie cause some people don't like that kind of thing. "},{"Title":"A great way to come to your own decision about an issue","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was initially unsure what to make of this film, having missed the beginning, but it did make an impression on me. I have heard comments that this film is too unbiased but I actually find it refreshing when dealing with a subject like abortion. I don't like the pregnancy advisory section - as someone who is adopted, I've always been aware that it should be a woman's choice. I don't take one side or another because I don't see abortion as a black or white issue and this section of the film was almost Brave New World, also there is a big link made between pro-life and religion, which might possibly offend some Christians. I'm a Catholic but I believe every individual woman in this situation should make their own decision, so it seems Ruth is living in some sort of parallel universe (not because of her own personality but because of those around her).Abortion seems - from all I can gather - to be a polarised issue in the States, I can't imagine anyone protesting so fiercely in Britain, although I'm sure they do. (There are some definite stereotypes in this film, whichever side of the fence they're on.) It seems that Ruth's trying to make her own decisions and no one else will let her - at one point Diane says Let me try and control her and that's spot on. Whatever her problems, she's a grown woman and she clearly has a mind of her own, and you certainly get that impression through the set-up of some shots in the film. People are always bearing down on her or pushing her in a particular direction.Without giving anything away, I think it is quite sad how the story ends up (or appears to as she leaves Diane's house) - there is the briefest hint that the whole issue being debated, through a short scene when Ruth gets up one morning, suddenly becomes irrelevant. I think the public reaction demonstrates how far this issue has moved from being a personal one. The ending feels like a little triumph for Ruth because people are so wrapped up in the issue that she is ultimately unimportant, which is what she wants all along. "},{"Title":"I ain't no f*cking telegram, bitch!","Date":"21 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have seen Laura Dern in a few movies, but none that really showed her ability as this one.The was an outrageously funny abortion satire and she really shined as the huffer that gets pregnant and is the pawn of both sides in the fight over a fetus. Both sides - pro-choice and anti-abortion - were made fun of in this film. They were people that you would really not want to know.Mary Kay Place is a Baby Saver that hasn't got a clue. Her daughter is sneaking out at night, and her righteous husband is just a letch. She takes in Ruth (Dern) and gets her to those so-called counseling centers so they can work her over. Swoosie Kurtz rescues her, but Ruth soon finds that the other side is just as bad. The druggie and unfit mother soon scams them all in a very satisfactory ending.Dern plays a perfect white-trash Barbie that is out for herself. She really gives a great performance as she switches from booze to bathroom-cleaning fluid, and back to booze. Ruth is just out for Ruth and she manages to take care of herself. She sees money as a solution to all her problems, and Dern plays up her ignorance in a manner that is well worth watching.Burt Reynolds and Tippi Hedren play the national leaders on both sides of the abortion war. It really doesn't matter which side you are one, but you will definitely be pro-Laura Dern after seeing this. "},{"Title":"Biased, but enjoyable.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One leaves the room after watching Alexander Payne's 1996 satire about the not-so-funny abortion debate quite entertained, though the film fails to hide its bias, as it so fervently tries.Ruth, a huffer, and drug addict, having been arrested for substance abuse sixteen times in the past year, is charged with child endangerment. The twist the child she is endangering has not been born yet; it is still a fetus. The solution to her problem if she gets an abortion, the charges will be dropped. This sparks controversy among pro-life and pro-choice activists, who seem to care about Rut, but ultimately only care about Ruth's choice. She is taken in by a Christian family, but after offending them in more ways than one, makes her way to a farmhouse occupied by pro-choice lesbians, who are determined for her to have an abortion and send a message to women all over the country. The debate often has hilarious results, and each character is well-performed by every member of the all-star cast.The film is seemingly unbiased; it ruthlessly (yet hilariously, at times) attacks and stereotypes both opinions on the issue. First, we get a glimpse of the Pro-life side, filled with its fanatic Christians, protesting outside clinics and holding candlelight vigils; the men are discreetly perverted and the women have way too much mascara and hairspray. Then we see the Pro-choice partisans, including Wiccans, homosexuals, and other eccentrics, representing anything ranging from camp clout to guerrilla warfare. However, this unbiased approach is poorly attempted. Every character cares more about his or her own triumph in an ongoing debate rather than the actual person it will affect, which is really what this issue is supposed to be about, isn't it? The audience is forced to be apathetic of the title character, Ruth (played by the irritatingly enjoyable Laura Dern), who obviously cares about nothing besides what she needs at the given moment. The only real protagonist in the film is the secondary character, Harlan (played by M.C. Gainey), who is the only one that really cares about Ruth's personal freedom and choice, and shows this -- quite expensively -- through his actions. So this unbiased film, when really picked apart, is revealed to truthfully be a movie that really is Pro-choice, even if it doesn't follow the same standards of activism as its exaggerated pro-choice characters.With all that said, the movie does take a hilarious turn on the abortion issue, something that is seemingly impossible. Swoozie Kurtz hands in an amusing performance as a pro-choice spy, as does Kelly Preston as her zealous girlfriend. On the other side, Kurtwood Smith and Mary Kay Place give convincingly funny takes in their role as a seemingly sympathetic couple who take Ruth in, really only to prevent her from having an abortion. In cameo roles, Kenneth Mars, whose voice can be heard in many animated films (including The Little Mermaid), and soap opera veteran Kathleen Noone play hilarious Dr. Charlie and Nurse Pat, who counsel Ruth by giving her facts about abortion, the modern American genocide. Other cameos include Alfred Hitchcock alumnus Tippi Hedren, playing nationally renowned feminist Jessica Weiss, and her opponent, baby-saving evangelist Blaine Gibbons, played by Mr. Burt Reynolds himself. Laura Dern's lead character is very comical and although her shenanigans become unbearable by the end of the film, Dern still gives an enjoyable performance as a ludicrously senseless Ruth. All these characters are one-dimensional, but this is really the point that the film is trying to make. All in all, the film made a nice attempt at making a joke out of a serious issue, but I would have liked to see it not so veiled with an unbiased view.Overall rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"An effective satire.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Citizen Ruth' becomes an unwitting pawn in the middle of a heated national abortion debate in this pitch-black satire. Laura Dern's perfect performance as the glue-sniffing, alcoholic Ruth stands out in a movie full of great acting. The movie showcases the fanaticism of both sides involved in the battle over Ruth's unborn child. No one cares as much about Ruth as they do about 'the cause'. This film is an effective satire. "},{"Title":"Duh moral","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As interesting as Miss Dern's character is I was more involved in the subject matter. Much to my dismay no answers were given. It's still a tough argument. Glad I'm not the pregnant type because it's gotta be rough. This film succeeds in lightening the conscience load. I'll never push my beliefs in my daughter's face I'll just be there. Oh, I wonder what happened to Ruth.... "},{"Title":"Almost a good movie ... almost.","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie gets its title from a scene where Ruth (Laura Dern) is telling a group, I am a citizen, I have rights. In this movie it appears to be her right to either have her baby, or to have it aborted. This is a satire, does not take sides, portrays both the pro-abortionists and the pro-lifers as half-crazed zealots. In the end it doesn't matter because Ruth comes up with her own solution. The critic Ebert has a complete review.some SPOILERS follow, quit reading.  I'm warning you!!As the DVD liner notes say, Ruth is dumb as a cinder block. She may be, but she can also get focused. Dirt poor, and an easy knock-up, she lives for that next sniff of glue or spray paint in a paper bag. A bottle of cheap booze is a bonus.  No morals, no sense of social grace, she steals any time she gets a chance. She really wants a better life, a car, a house, but she doesn't know how. Until she accidentally starts listening to tapes that tell you how to buy a house with nothing down. The tape says, get a pencil and paper, so she persists until she gets a pencil and paper.The movie, even as a satire, is way over the top and ultimately disappointed me. However, there are some cute moments. Ruth is being played by the two factions, no one really cares for Ruth, they only care for their cause. She can get $15,000 if she says no to the pro-lifers, but they are raising money, now up to $27,000, if she will have the baby and let it be adopted into a good home. Her choice will depend only on which gives her the most money. She doesn't care about the baby, or the cause, only herself.  But her drinking, sniffing, and tumbling down the stairs causes a spontaneous abortion one evening, at about 9 weeks into her pregnancy. The $27,000 is no longer an option, so she sets out to the abortion clinic, to get the $15,000 waiting for her. However, she can't have an abortion, so she takes the money into the bathroom, sneaks out the window after dropping the heavy toilet back cover on the head of the guard, and with everyone so intent on their cause they are demonstrating for in front of the clinic, she simply walks away with the money.  "},{"Title":"useless human being made into a cause","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ruth is the most unlikable, selfish human being I have seen portrayed in a movie in a long time.  There wasn't one redeeming feature about her and yet she was the only one I was even close to rooting for in this depressing movie.The only character that had a clue about what she really was about was the Viet Nam vet Harlan.  The tag line to me was when he told her that they both knew exactly how long the $15,000.00 dollars would last in her hands, about 3 days.Everybody in this movie was unlovable, unyielding and closed minded.  "},{"Title":"Election is one of my favourite films, this was dull.","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this after watching Election several times and listening to Alexander Payne's commentary for that film. He keeps promoting his own work (this film) throughout so I thought Why not? I like to see good directors' early works. This is well made and well acted but I just didn't connect with the story. I think maybe it's because I'm from Britain where abortion is a non-issue and the main theme of this film is abortion v.s. essentially religion and pro-life. Since this is not a conflict where I'm from, I found it difficult to care. It's a bit like the original Alfie; a British film that came out 30 years earlier and tells the same story but with more weight. Just watch Election again and save yourself the hassle. "}{"Title":"Bizarre Tug-of-War","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An irresponsible, drug-addicted, recently impregnated woman (Laura Dern) finds herself in the middle of an abortion debate when both parties attempt to sway her to their respective sides.Alexander Payne makes his directorial debut here. Notably, he would go on to be Oscar-nominated for Nebraska, a film starring Bruce Dern (Laura's father). He would have other Oscar nominations for writing, but working with the elder Dern gave him that extra feather in his cap.While the film's overt subject matter is abortion, Payne has insisted that the film is more prominently about the human side of fanaticism. Elaborating on this, Payne said, People become fanatics for highly personal reasons. I mean, it's more about them and their own psychosis than about that cause. You can completely see this as the thrust of the film, as there is never any clear argument for or against abortion, and both sides pushed to their extreme with Ruth in the middle not giving a hoot.Oh, and Burt Reynolds shows up. "},{"Title":"Family Values.","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a hard movie to interpret. Not the story, but the intended message, because surely there is one.The story is straightforward enough. Ruth Stoops (Laura Dern)is a drug-abusing, loud-mouthed, selfish girl who has had a couple of illegitimate kids and is now pregnant again. She's been in and out of jail and rehab programs so often she can't remember how many times. Now she's picked up for sniffing glue again and the court puts her back in the slams and advises her, strongly, to abort this new child.But she is bailed out by a devout working-class family (Kurtwood Smith, Mary Kay Place) who want to save her and her baby. They're sincere enough. They have a tough time scraping together the $400 bail. The home they take her to is a stifling nest of conventional religiosity and hypocrisy. They don't smoke, don't drink, don't swear, say grace before each meal, and their teen-age daughter sneaks out at night to get drunk and party. And hubby can't stop himself from eying Dern's nubile figure when she's careless with her garb. (You know, I used to be quite a sinner, he tells her while they lie side by side in his old bed.) The family introduce her to a counseling agency who do their best to talk her into saving her baby. The medical staff congratulate her on her pregnancy and show her a doll about the size of the fetus she's now carrying. (It's even got a little thing on it, she says. Sure, because it's a boy doll!) They show her a movie of dead, aborted children, which compares abortion to Buchenwald and Auschwitz, and she winds up changing her mind. Gee, I slept on dumpsters. Maybe I slept on some babies. But she's spirited away by a pro-abortion spy (Swoozie Kurtz) who has been undercover in The Baby Savers movement, and she's taken home to be brainwashed by Kurtz and her girlfriend, who apparently worship Selene, the moon, because they keen a kind of folk song at the night sky. They massage the acupuncture points in her bare feet while they propagandize her and Dern loves it. Do my spleen again. So she decides to abort.But then The Baby Savers come up with a $15,000 check if she decides to save the baby. So she decides to have the baby. And then a Vietnam vet among the pro-choicers matches the reward, so she decides to abort. By this time the issue has become nation-wide and has drawn in the leader of the Baby Savers, Burt Reynolds, who ups the ante to $27,000 if Dern will save the baby. So she decides to save the baby. (During all this, she's been swilling and sniffing everything in sight.) I won't give away the ending except to say that Ruth steals some money and makes off with it before anyone notices. Final shot Dern marching off alone into the distance, accompanied by a triumphant theme, strong-willed, street savvy, a bag full of cash slung over her determined shoulder, still lacking in the frontal lobes that might allow her to plan for a future.It's a satirical look at the abortion debate, and more black than comedic, although it has its laugh lines. Nobody comes off at all well, except maybe the Vietnam amputee who sees through Ruth and offers his $15,000 anyway. That is, she's been planning on how she might spend the windfall. She'll make a down payment on a new house, then buy a new car, then maybe travel to Europe. The vet listens to this then tells her it's baloney, that both of them know the $15,000 will last her about three days.The cast is littered with familiar names, none of whom do an outstanding job but all of whom are competent enough. As a stimulus-hungry, self-destructive, mentally challenged teen-ager, Laura Dern is an attractive and sexy young woman but not a teen-ager. Burt Reynolds brings his usual role distance to the job. He proudly introduces the first boy he ever saved by adopting, the boy who's now about fifteen, the boy who fetches the ice for Reynolds' drinks, the boy who now massages Reynolds' tanned and muscular shoulders on command.But where is the movie headed? I was all in favor of the pro-abortionist lesbians but I don't think that's what was intended. Most black comedies at least give you someone to root for, even if he's not victorious. Dr. Strangelove was a black comedy, too, but President Merkin Muffley at least was sane and rational. Here, the Vietnam vet's role is far too minor for us to identify with him in any way. This reminds me more of Tom Wolf's Bonfire of the Vanities. Everybody in it is stupid and/or rotten. And the intentions of the producers is ambiguous, along the lines of one of Randy Newman's songs -- I Love L.A. or Short People. Is Newman really defiantly saying he loves Los Angeles, or is he kidding? Maybe the message is that of the Buddha, who was a very practical man. All things in moderation. Avoid zealotry. An excess of passion always leads to disappointment and pain in one form or another. "},{"Title":"What it means to be a pawn in a political struggle","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was supposed to be a comedy, but I really did not find it funny. It wasn't really black comedy as we were not laughing at death, and Ruth's situation was so appalling and stuffed up that we felt put off by her as opposed to seeing it funny.The movie opens with Ruth having sex with a guy and she isn't even enjoying it, so she is booted out. She is not allowed to see her kids, and everybody seems to hate her, and she is hooked on inhaling paint fumes. She lands up in gaol, and is charged with the crime of endangering a fetus, but can get off by having an abortion.This is where the comedy is supposed to come out for two groups, the pro and anti-abortionists. They make the anti-abortionists right wing fundamental Christians, and the pro-abortionists are bizarre, moon worshiping lesbians with huge Vietnam vets protecting them. Both are trying to force Ruth to follow their lead, but in the end she manages to escape. The one good thing about the movie, is they leave her walking away. She has not changed, nor has she redeemed herself - she simply has a choice now. She can choose whether to have the baby or not. Personally, she is probably going to abort it because she still has the charge hanging over her head.As I said, this is a disturbing movie in the way they try to make it a comedy about a person you really don't want to laugh about. She is alone, selfish, and addicted to drugs, and in the end, you really don't want to get to know any more about her. "},{"Title":"Good movie; great acting; disappointing ending","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Laura Dern was terrific. She was completely unrecognizable in the first few scenes; this wasn't due to makeup, but because she was so into her character that her face completely changed. The movie itself was quite good; always interesting and fun to watch. But it seemed to peter out rather than end; it felt like they filmed the first two acts but forgot to film the third. It's been a long time since the rolling of the closing credits surpised me so much. It's true that the ending was upbeat, and that it's seems impossible that any continuation of the story would have been happy, but that's no excuse. The ending felt lazy.Still, worth seeing for Laura Dern.  "},{"Title":"Billed as An Abortion Comedy","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Since the words Abortion and Comedy are never used in the same sentence, I just had to check this film out when it was initially released to see exactly how it was going to do it. And, well. . . hmm - I guess it does the only thing it CAN do, which is not to make fun of abortion per se, but to take satirical swipes at both sides of the abortion debate. In that, you can say, it is an equal opportunity debunker, as it savages each side with equal glee if the Pro-Life side is represented by uptight, goody-goody hypocrites, then the Pro-Choice position is shown to be, in many ways, equally unfeeling with its heavy emphasis on using human beings as little more than test cases or media representatives for their cause. Somehow, though, these grim and rather obvious stereotypes seemed both hackneyed and unfair after all, it's quite easy to make sport of anyone who holds beliefs passionately, easier still to cut people down by accentuating human foibles. In the meantime, the filmmakers themselves offer no clear position on the debate, which seems strangely wimpy and was no doubt done with an eye toward commercial appeal If nobody knows where we stand, we can draw in people from BOTH SIDES, each camp believing that we're making fun of the other! Thankfully, the ploy failed and this movie sunk without a trace.The point is, if you're going to do satire, then you need to come at it from a particular point of view - otherwise, you're just taking random pot-shots. And random is certainly a good description of this film - nowhere moreso than in the conception (no pun intended) of the title character, played by Laura Dern. I suppose having someone completely despicable and amoral as your lead is at least one way to center a film like this (in effect saying, Look how both sides are fighting their battle in the name of someone so unworthy - doesn't that make them both sick?) but it doesn't work because, if Ruth is meant to be a representative of some kind of middle position between the two warring camps, then humanity itself is in deep trouble.In fact, there IS no middle position in the abortion debate - you're either pro-life or pro-choice; it's one of the few absolute lightning-rod issues which still exist in American political life. To try and make a film which sits somewhere in the center, tweaking both sides while showing allegiance to neither, is seriously wrong-headed (as proof, just note here how the filmmakers spinelessly get around the issue of whether Ruth does or does not decide to have an abortion - it's the kind of evasion which is insulting to an audience and an absolutely perfect example of weak-willed witlessness).   "},{"Title":"Where does a citizen like Ruth come from?","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Abortion as the theme for a screwball comedy is a  mistake.  When Alexander Payne knows how  controversial the subject is, the last thing he  should be doing is poking dumb fun at the people on  either side of the argument.  The only one who comes  out looking like the screwball is the author.  If  Payne is painting unsympathetic pictures of every  single character he creates (although I suspect he  has a soft spot for Ruth), his treatment needs to be  darker, or it feels shallow--like a juvenile  delinquent caught redhanded, bellyaching about the  hypocrisy of adults to justify the crime, instead of  a woman bent on solving her pregnancy problem in the  worst way.  Or if Payne is going to do social  satire, he needs to stay closer to the subject and  dig deeper to the emotional truth of the problem  instead of being satisfied with the notion that a  woman's body is hers to do as she pleases, no matter  what the consequences are to her child.  And he  fudges even on that; we never know if Ruth has  aborted her baby or not at the end.  All we know is  that she wants to get away from the media circus  that Payne has concocted.  With her drug abuse,  you'd figure that the baby is close to being aborted  anyway, so why isn't Payne celebrating?  The movie  ends restively, but over what is not clear.  So it  feels like a throwaway--a nothing.  He might as well  be saying Why do we give women like Ruth the right  to choose abortion?  What he really is doing is  playing the coward--throwing his hands up at the  whole fight and not taking a stand.Payne also makes a bad choice in picking Laura Dern  as Ruth.  She looks too well-maintained to play the  part.  I wished that someone like Lili Taylor or  Jennifer Jason-Leigh had had a shot at it.  With  Dern cast, there isn't anything for a viewer to grab  onto except an occasional bright line reading.  With  Taylor or Jason-Leigh, the sense that Ruth had it  hard would be obvious.  It's a problem that there is  no mention of Ruth's family or friends; she might  just as soon sprung from the bowels of the Mother  Ship as from middle America.Considering the wealth of talent in this movie, it's  embarrassing how bad the acting is here.  Kurtwood  Smith and Mary Kay Place make the brightest efforts,  yet you know perfectly well that they are about as  inside the skins of their characters as James Woods  was in Ghosts of Mississippi.  Swoozie Kurtz is  just killing time here.  With Kelly Preston as her  soulmate and Burt Reynolds as an evangelist  pedophile.  Payne could have spared us this; if you  went by this movie, sex with minors should be a  pro-life pastime. "},{"Title":"Certainly not a light comedy.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is depicted as a light comedy.  It is a dramedy about the abortion issue.  While it portrays the extremes of the  abortion debate in a comical manner you can not truly make a comedy of such an emotional and moral issue.  If you are looking for a comedy avoid this movie.  "},{"Title":"Poor sociel commentary","Date":"2 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film suggests that it is trying to remain unbiased in the abortion issue, but flagrently fails, as it depicts all pro-lifers as overly zealous Christian hippies with big hair and a pension for stupid acts of violence. I hope someone has enough cojones to make a film from a pro-lifer's point of view, so both sides can be seen in a positive light. "},{"Title":"Misanthropic Comedy, very much a 90's time capsule","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very representative of 90's comedy and 90's journalism where everybody is self-centered, hypocritical, self-righteous, and not too bright.  This movies has no heroes, no ideals, and not much in the way of true acting -- that is, actors who actually believe in the characters they are playing. Even in farce, the farce can only be effective when the characters act consistent with the institutions being lampooned.  This just takes the shotgun out and goes for everybody and everything and who cares -- a 2-hour Seinfeld episode without Jerry's timing or talents.  "},{"Title":"Boring failure","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a hopelessly inept attempt at trying to produce a social satire at the serious social issue of unplanned motherhood and abortion.  The timing is hopeless, the setups are way forced, the characters totally flaccid; and the most likely response would be extreme moral outrage from the usual suspects or frustrating boredom - or most likely both.The only good thing about this movie is that it demonstrates what a magnificent film ARSENIC & OLD LACE is, which handles a similarly controversial issue with a lot more panache and personality that this hack job can pull off. "}]