[{"Title":"I normally hate Owen Wilson...","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"76 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In anything. But man was he great in this movie. I mean it was such a good performance. This movie is director Wes Anderson's (Rushmore, The Royal Tenenbaums, The Life Aquatic) feature directorial debut. It's about a group of misfit friends that decide to take up a life of crime. The group includes Anthony (Luke Wilson) just got out of the nut house and is searching for himself. Dignan (Owen Wilson, co-wrote the movie with Anderson) is the confident but bumbling ringleader who wants to be notorious but doesn't know how to execute a plan to save his life. And Bob (Robert Musgrave) the driver/look out who just wants a little recognition. The movie follows their misadventures of them robbing a bookstore, going on the lamb, Anthony falling in love with a Motel maid who instills joy back in his life, and Dignan's 'big score' that involves his former employer. The subtle humor and deliveries by the actors make the movie stand out in it's own little version comedy. The characters are losers, but lovable. You can't help but cheer them on even though what they do is illegal. I highly recommend this cool little film. It's an excellent introduction into the wonderful films of Wes Anderson.RATING **** out of **** "},{"Title":"debut full of charm from the experts in subtle comedy","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"41 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" While Bottle Rocket is certainly best categorised as comedy this might mislead those expecting the typical composition of one-liners, facetious mocking and exaggerated situational comic of mainstream Hollywood productions.Instead the humour derives from the quirky, yet lovable characters, their perspective on life and approach in dealing with the challenges of society.The quiet matter-of-fact absurdity present throughout the film will evoke a constant smile rather than burst-out-laughter. This is typical of all Wilson/Anderson collaborations (Rushmore, The Royal Tenebaums) where strong characterisation enables the viewer to develop understanding and affection for the protagonists as the story slowly unravels. In Bottle Rocket this is supported by strong performances, especially that of Owen Wilson, who proves his actor potential in an atypical role.Though not flawless, (there is a lack of narrative urgency at times), this movie leaves the viewer ultimately entertained and charmed. "},{"Title":"It ain't easy being a crook.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the off-the-wall comedy Bottle Rocket, Owen Wilson makes a scintillating debut as the creative force behind this tale of one man's struggle to realize his dream of becoming a crook in spite of his many shortcomings sensitivity, compassion, empathy, and just plain niceness. Luke Wilson plays straight man to real life brother Owen in this camp, light-hearted, and easy to watch little film about the gang who couldn't think straight. A fun watch for just about anyone into droll humorous subtleties. "},{"Title":"Fireworks","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"31 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"     A brilliant comedy, and yet cleverly subdued. This portrait of small-time  criminal is made masterful by the performances of Owen C. Wilson and Luke  Wilson. Owen's Dignan dreams of glory as an outlaw are almost noble. He may  have his inadequacies, but at least he is determined. While Luke's Anthony  lacks that kind of determination, what he has is at least a sense of his  inadequacies that Dignan lacks. But, while these two are never meant for  great things, they can still achieve all their dreams if they just keep  them small. Dignan is content with a life of small robberies. What he  maintains is great pride for that. And Anthony find happiness in love from  an unlikely woman. To find romance with the woman he does is much too  quirky to have ever happened in a Hollywood movie. Yet this film plays it  perfectly. And so, what makes this film so unique is that it is not so self -involved and moody like most independent films can be. And while it has a  bright appeal, it is more eccentric than campy like most mainstream  comedies can be. This is truly a unique comedy and I get the feeling that  one day, the lines of hipness will be drawn between who has seen this movie  and who hasn't. "},{"Title":"Low-key hilarity.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"29 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie.  It makes me smile and just feel good. It's about, primarily, a guy named Dignan, played by Owen Wilson, who has a 75 year plan of crime for himself and his friend, Anthony, played by Luke Wilson, and reaping the fruits of crime.  He wants to employ such interesting things as explosives, hot-air balloons, and pole-vaulting (!) in his outlandish plans for robbing bookstores and cold-storage facilities.  He's happy to fill small baggies with money stolen from a bookstore after closing and takes pride in getting the best room in the house and some road-side Motel-6 type motel to reward themselves for a successful heist.If you like quirky, subtle humor, this one's for you.  I give it 9/10! "},{"Title":"He's out. And you're out too. And I'm not sure I'm in either...","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"32 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a true gem.The Brothers Wilson have created a timeless masterpiece of friendship, loyalty and vision. Nevermind that their vision might not be what you'd do. The redeeming values Dignan and Anthony and Bob display far outweigh their faults.I taped this movie off of IFC years ago, and it's been watched to death... almost literally (it's getting kinda worn... I should find a *new* copy). Anyone I've ever shown this movie to loved it.James Caan gives his best performance since 'Misery', only this time it's funny.Watch for the scene where Bob's driving, they just left Anthony's sister's school (when he returned his mom's earrings)... Bob is going on about his miserable life, and if you watch Anthony in the rear seat, suddenly he straightens up in his seat and says ...ahh that was a stop sign...Very Very Very VEWWY good movie. "},{"Title":"What an interesting, yet hilarious quirky comedy!","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"28 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was watching the Roger Ebert movie show when he was giving his best films of the decade of the 1990's with movie director Martin Scorsese.  Scorsese picked Bottle Rocket as his seventh favorite movie of the decade.  From that point forward, I had to search out and find this movie.  Boy, am I glad that I did.The movie Bottle Rocket is a joy.  It is a caper comedy in one respect, but also an interesting look at how the bad brother can talk the good brother into doing the wrong thing.  The second idea sets up some great comedy bits. Owen Wilson as the bad brother, Dignan, is absolutely hilarious.  From this point forward, I will always be interested in seeing him in a movie.  His brother Luke Wilson as the good, yet naive brother, is also very charming.  James Caan shows up in the second half of the movie and is fantastic.  The writer/director, Wes Anderson (Rushmore), does a great job of telling an off-beat story and gives his characters great lines to say. All in all, Bottle Rocket was a pleasant surprise that I had never heard of. Thank you Martin Scorsese.   "},{"Title":"Bottle Rocket, good launch pad for ANDERSON.","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first and weakest of Wes Anderson's films, Bottle Rocket, is by no means a weak film. Co-written by then credited Owen C. Wilson, the screenplay is very intelligent and shows how the screen writing duo (Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson) has evolved. Starring the Wilson brothers, Owen and Luke Wilson, this small-budget comedy has what most large budget comedies lack, a perfect mix of drama and comedy. The film, about two friends that both were patients at a mental ward, portrays how innocent fun can sometimes hurt people. Rocket never becomes over-dramatic or slapstick in its comedy. It is clear that Anderson was experimenting with his style, and would not perfect it until his next film, Rushmore. The characters are clearly dysfunctional and like to take unnecessary risks at their own expense to make the script move along. This is not a fault in the script, but a blessing as this keeps the comedy and serious moments perfectly balanced. The cinematography is sometimes amateur with its unnecessary close-ups and wide angle panning. The soundtrack, done by Mark Mothersbaugh is excellent and just proves why he has worked an all of the subsequent films with Anderson. It seems Anderson and Wilson have an enormous talent when writing dialog for unusual, anomalous characters. This film is a testament to the fact that a good script, and a working knowledge of film work can create an original and enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"A new favourite for me","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I find it really hard to explain to people why I think Wes Anderson movies are so great. There's an air about them that's so wonderful and I always feel really great after I've watched them. When I tried to explain my friend said, a bit like the Big Lebowski? and I think that's the closest you can come to describing Bottle Rocket and Wes Anderson movies as a whole they're that sort of brand of movie.Bottle Rocket is the story of three guys who live in the suburbs who are trying to become criminals and not making a very good job of it. The film starts with Anthony (Luke Wilson) coming out of a voluntary rehab type place and instantly joining his friend Dignan in his very poor attempts to become some sort of criminal. They are joined by their friend Bob, because he has a car, and start by robbing a library. The film really emerges from that moment and takes you on this up beat, weird (but wonderful) adventure.Owen and Luke Wilson are really good together, with Owen Wilson probably stealing the show as the completely useless but very endearing Dignan. Bob, played by Robert Musgrave, is also excellent in his role as the lovable loser. The soundtrack is perfect, everything comes and goes at exactly the right moment. This was probably one of the funniest films i've seen in a while too. If you like the Big Lebowski you will love this film (my favourite is probably Anthony wake up, Bob's stolen his car). It also feels a lot longer than it is and whilst that's usually bad, in this case it was fantastic. At 30 minutes I looked to see how long I'd been watching it for and was amazed at how engrossed I was but also how much happens but yet the film manages to feel really slow and relaxed.Though I've said Dignan was endearing I guess the movie as a whole is endearing, its such a lovely film, I really don't see how you couldn't like it. Some how this just misses out on being a real classic on a level with Big Lebowski, maybe its because not as many people have seen it or something, either way its definitely in my top ten or top five or something. A must see, go and watch it! "},{"Title":"Great first feature","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket is Wes Anderson's first feature, and a remake of a short film he made with Owen Wilson as well. It bears all of the hallmarks of a Wes Anderson film (quirky characters, dry humor, precise and orchestrated cinematography, and a story about finding something beautiful in the flaws of the main characters, especially Dignan (Owen Wilson).The film has a simple story, three friends attempting to commit a robbery and go on the run, but like Wes Anderson movies it is not straightforward. The movie is not about the heist, rather the relationships between the main characters and their flaws. The best of which is Owen Wilson's 75 year plan he created for himself and Luke Wilson's character, describing when they would get married, etc.Dignan's 75 year plan and his heist plan are themes Wes Anderson carries throughout his movies. A main character is always trying to accomplish something well beyond their means and capacity (i.e. Bill Murray in Life Aquatic, Max in Rushmore, Owen Wilson in Darjeeling). They are always planning and scheming something greater than they can obviously achieve. This movie blends humor, and drama very well. It reminds me of Fargo with its dry and occasionally dark humor. The film ends as a tragedy (the tragedy of Dignan), which makes us feel bad for him. But you almost feel like he will be okay. His personality makes this bad turn of fortune not seem so bad. Bottle Rocket is one of Anderson's better movies and if you enjoy any and all of his later flicks then check this one out. "}{"Title":"truly a case of you get it, or you don't","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A love it or leave it movie, I think. Most people I know either absolutely love it, or don't really care for it. The jokes are funny, but sometimes on the subtle side, and usually of the dead-pan flavor. I for one, fall on the absolutely love it side of the fence. It's a movie I can watch over and over again and still laugh like it's the first time. I agree with some that the overall fun-factor drops off a little during the romance portion in the middle, but I don't think James L. Brooks and the rest of the production staff would've given a bunch of first-timers that big of a shot without a little romance for those who aren't into the humor.I gotta tell ya, I love Kumar. From his role as the inept safecracker in this one, to Mr. Littlejeans (Best play ever, man) to Pagoda, he does it for me every time. And for all the Wes Anderson fanatics it's always fun to try and spot his old buddies in his movies (i.e. Dignan & Tenenbaum). For whatever reason, the Anderson/Wilson Bros humor does it for me. And what's best about it is that it never really seems to get old. They make their movies in such a way, that there really isn't a year or exact date or place that their movies take place in. They all have that whimsical, fable type feeling that makes them, for me at least, timeless.*minor spoiler* - Futureman saying, Bob, you were told to thoroughly clean the pool this morning gets me every time. "},{"Title":"stunning debut","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1996's Bottle Rocket stands out as the arresting debut of director Wes Anderson, along with ongoing writing partner Owen Wilson. It immediately engages its audience in the ridiculous story of Dignan (Owen Wilson) and Anthony (Luke Wilson), two friends that aren't any good at being criminals - although they aspire to be. They work alongside their friend Bob Mapplethorpe (Robert Musgrave) or rather trick him into helping them due to the fact that he can finance their operations.What's so interesting about this film is the true heart that started in the script and then continued to shine through with the actors' performances. The characters were developed deeply enough for the audience to truly get a sense of who they were, what they wanted, and where they were going. Although the film tells the story of a group of wannabe thieves, it becomes clear that the reason why they are no good at pulling off these crimes is simply because of the fact that they are actually really nice guys, incapable of actually hurting anyone.The most remarkable aspect of the film would have to be in the brilliant performances featured throughout. Owen Wilson truly shines as Dignan, the group's leader - desperate to pull off at least one fantastic heist. He is hot-tempered, controlling, and he often lets his emotions get the best of him. Although he may screw up a lot, he is always quick to apologize. At the end of the film when he is sentenced to serve time, he claims to have no hard feelings showing a real growth in his character. Another standout performance came from Luke Wilson as Dignan's best friend Anthony. It's obvious that Anthony doesn't want to be a criminal, and that he simply participates because he doesn't want to make Dignan unhappy. After he falls in love with one of the maids at a motel they stay at, he realizes he can't work with Dignan anymore. Wilson's performance was outstanding - he was really able to convey both his character's indifferent side, and also being torn between love and friendship.Bottle Rocket was an outstanding debut achievement for director Wes Anderson, marking the beginning of a series of stunning films full of character driven scripts, great music, and aesthetically pleasing visuals. "},{"Title":"overlooked but quite charming","Date":"8 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This tale of three aspiring thieves has as much heart as any Wes Anderson film. As usual, Anderson presents flawed characters for whom you will feel compassion. But this comedy does not attempt to make you cry. Filled with dry humor, this script was the first of three to have been co-written by Owen Wilson and Wes Anderson. If you are in the camp that prefers Rushmore and Royal Tenenbaums, you will find that this script feels more like those films than Anderson's more recent work.Although this movie has a smaller budget than Anderson's other films, the director is able to put together a fun film. Anderson compiles one of his great soundtracks despite being unable to afford royalty-heavy songs.Perhaps not yet confident enough to take risks, Anderson does not engage in the visual experimentation found in his other films. Although you might miss the liberal use of vivid colors found in all other Anderson films, I think the fantastic sets and props (such as the submarine or the helicopter in Life Aquatic) are best left out of this simpler, more realistic film. "},{"Title":"perhaps the most innocent heist movie ever, with great characters","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket's plot isn't very heavy. Doesn't need to be; for Wes Anderson's first film he takes partly (in theory) a cue from Michael Cimino's Thunderbolt and Lightfoot. There too were the real oddball outsider characters, looking for a leg up but not with the same kind of zeal of a real hard-bitten criminal or neo-noir. In Bottle Rocket there's an ex-volunteer at an insane asylum and a guy who works for a landscaping company and the two are thick as thieves- only they're not good at actually being thieves, with one or two moments of exception. And yet Anderson doesn't mine for the easy parts for comic effect. His sense of humor is in the small things, little character traits or a moment that pops out.It may depend on how one sees the characters, and how much one is a fan of the Wilson brothers, Luke and Owen. But what Anderson does capture is that innocent feeling of being unsure of life and the things that make friendships kind of awkward at times. The three criminals, played by Anthony, Dignan and Bob bicker and converse and do whatever like normal folk, not real gangsters like, say, Mr Henry (James Caan), but they aspire to that, and Dignan gets the closest. Meanwhile, on the lam from a robbery of a bookstore, Anthony falls for a Peruvian housemaid and Bob has his own worries with his backyard pot growth. Their appeal, really, is in how the interactions are based around a solid theme of loyalty and friendship, and the film-making takes it to another level.It's hard to say if I found this a really great comedy- there's a few big laughs, one with a hilarious botch during a climactic robbery with a shot at someone unexpected, and little ones like a PB&J just lifted off the ground or a bad encounter at a country club- but it's an unusually amazing heist-character-drama. Well, drama of sorts; it's the Wes Anderson style already in full mode, and it's exhilarating to watch him make 90 minutes feel a lot fuller, a lot more alive than most at such a running time. I also liked the Wilson brothers, with the both of them in their breakout roles completely on top with their subtle, zany and quietly crazy roles. Loved the music, the cinematography, but most of all the emphasis on character over plot. In heist movies, or just young/lost-20-something generation movies, it's rarely this good. "},{"Title":"The Formula Works","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't even compare this film to WAs other films, if I didn't do the same thing, (being that I watch them over and over sequentially after seeing them initially). That is the problem with great suspense films or twist ending dramas, once you get the secret, there's no point reliving the moment.Wes Anderson has formulated a secret of knowing exactly when to have his characters move, speak, and live through his camera, that I could watch a thousand times. Bottle Rocket was an explosion of talent and ingenuity that lit the fuse with a wonderful script compilation by film newcomers, Wes and Owen. It's the little lines like you're the zero out in the car that just make you stop and review what you're watching. Bottle Rocket is like watching your least favorite aunt get slapped in the face with a fish. Right? "},{"Title":"you gotta get me one of these jumpsuits","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans. - John LennonThis one, Bottle Rocket, the first feature film of Wes Anderson is also and certainly Owen and Luke Wilson's very first feature and for a reason I had in my head that Dignan and Anthony (Owen and Luke Wilson's characters respectively) were brothers! After all they do were almost like brothers, they were a team, a team that never accomplished anything really big but that at least became a true team. Not very long time ago I watched the Woody Allen film Take the Money and Run and by watching Bottle Rocket I remembered that Allen film. So they are a team here and Dignan leader and the one with the ideas, with the plans, he has all planned for like the next fifty years! But once you see him in action well you will remember Woody Allen in Take the Money and Run, basically Dignan, during the heist to a bookstore, ends talking to the manger of the bookstore with a lot of respect! But well the three now are fugitives, both Dignan and Anthony and Bob (the only one who has a car) but is not yet a team, basically one will be in love, the other will be worry because of a family situation and the other is the only one who still is in the team. This film has what is probably the very best performance of Owen Wilson, he is usually very funny but here he is simply superb. He plays a very strange and very memorable character, Dignan is more or less like a big kid when is time for his plans and stuff, he is a likable character since the very first scene of the film, sometimes he takes himself very seriously, Grace (Anthony's little sister) defines Dignan very well I do like Dignan but he's a liar. At one point these two brothers will take different roads for whatever reasons, the fact is that Anthony will have a complete change in his life. We meet Anthony during his last day at a mental hospital, he was there because he wanted to be there, we know that is certainly a difficult time for him, he is unhappy but this will change. I think the scene that sort of defines Anthony is when he is together with Inez (Lumi Cavazos), the housekeeper of the hotel that they were staying in, in the laundry room, he is just fascinated feeling something that certainly was unexpected. So the team is now the least important thing for Anthony and when he returns to home he starts a new productive routine and with that he has no time to think if Inez love him or not or in anything from the past. Dignan is back in Anthony's life, certainly another plan but is Anthony in? he knows he has now something more but again is Dignan, a great scene, Anthony sees sort of a resume of how is Dignan's life, he is in and Bob too. Very hilarious but certainly also sad, the last part of the film is that as well as the entire film. Each member of the team ended very well with the others but only each member of the original team, the plan turned to be a mess, Dignan ended in jail with a sentence of 2 years (that scene in which Dignan tries to escape but finally is arrested by the police is simply a superb one, the music was great, one of my favourites scenes) Bob ended without most of his things but they ended as a real team, after all they're not really criminals but everybody's got to have a dream. Watch this one, probably my favourite Anderson film (up there with The Royal Tenenbaums) and hell it has James Cann (as a clever swine!).PD recently I visited Roger Ebert's website and in the main page there is part of his review for the film Revolutionary Road and he wrote at the beginning the John Lennon phrase LIFE IS WHAT HAPPENS TO YOU WHILE YOU'RE BUSY MAKING OTHER PLANS. I liked that phrase and I thought was right for this film. Anyway, Ebert gave to Bottle Rocket only 2 stars (and to Rushmore, the other Anderson film that for me gets a 10, only 2 and half stars) while for Martin Scorsese Bottle Rocket was the number 7 of his best films of the 1990's list from ROGER EBERT & THE MOVIES show #1426. "},{"Title":"Light-hearted but Lame Comedy","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In this debut feature of the writing team of Anderson and Owen Wilson, friends go on a crime spree. This started as a short and it does feel like too little material stretched too thin. Many good comedies are quirky. Quirky can be good. Quirky can be funny. Quirky doesn't work if it has to work by itself. It's obvious from the situations and the characters that this is meant to be a comedy, but there's hardly a chuckle to be had here. It's quirk without humor. At least the actors are trying hard. Whatever his failings as a writer, Owen Wilson brings a lot of energy to his role, and brother Luke is likable here, but it's not enough. It's light-hearted, but it's also lame. "},{"Title":"Three less-than-stable young adult boys' crime spree results in a series of adventures.","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The characterizations of Bottle Rocket are the best aspect of the film. Dignan Heartfelt nut. Both lovable and a little bit like a more dangerous Clinger from M*A*S*H, Dignan often has a small-time caper in the works. He unfortunately has bigger connections. Anthony Not-so-nuts mental hospital patient who is friends with Dignan. Sort-of along for the ride with Dignan, yet also slightly buying into his world, Anthony just wants to move forward in life and is a lover, not a fighter. He falls in love with maid Inez. Bob The guy with the get-away car. Bob is abused by his brother so seeks affirmation from men who are slightly off- keel. Still, there seems to be an element of real friendship between the men in the end.It is said Owen Wilson wrote Dignan as himself. No such self- awareness is possible with a Dignan character -- the mere writing of the character belies the claim. Once you become the patient diagnosing yourself as Dignan, you cease to be Dignan. But, the complexity of the fact that Owen Wilson created such a non- mainstream persona and then acted it out whilst also being able to later be a joyful character such as Lightning McQueen is remarkable. I think Owen Wilson is underestimated as a performer and as a writer.Luke Wilson is smooth. Not I-have-a-crush-on- Luke smooth, but the Anthony Adams character is so at peace with himself, it's unnerving. Robert Musgrave as Bob Mapplethorpe provides some of the best comedic energy in the film. Bob Mapplethorpe's reactions to Dignan's requests were, well, funny. I wanted Bottle Rocket to be shorter. The writing was crisp, the direction was innovative -- the characters were engaging. The story was too silent at parts for too long. I felt like watching the movie was like listening to one of the mixed tapes I used to make in the eighties where the spaces between the songs were accidentally too lengthy. Where Wham! ended, Duran Duran didn't start soon enough. I'm just saying. Dignan and Anthony could have fought by the side of the road in half the time, for instance. And the jumpsuit chase scenes didn't need to last the length of the song. And Anthony and Inez didn't need to clean all of the rooms for us to realize they were falling in crush. And. "},{"Title":"Wes Anderson Newbies&#x85;Don't Start With This One","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rookie Director Wes Anderson Delivers a Deadpan, Dead On Arrival Movie that Fizzled at the Box Office and took Critics by Surprise. It was so Laid-Back in its Slackerness that it Suffered to make a Blip on the Radar of the Intelligentsia and Bored Casual Moviegoers to Death. Anderson is an Acquired Taste if He becomes Tasty at all. To this Day His Against the Grain Films are Talked About Intensely and Loved and Hated with Equal Enthusiasm. But in Retrospect it's Hard to Ignore a Film that Martin Scorsese called One of the best Films of the Nineties.But Mostly Ignored it was and its Lukewarm at Best Receivership did Little to Boost the Confidence of Writer/Star Owen Wilson. But He and the Director Soldiered On because they were both Obviously Full of Self-Confidence Concerning Their Offbeat Vision of Film Comedy.This Movie is about as Inoffensive as Any Modern Comedy and it is with that Refreshing Style where it Makes its Mark. It is a Film that is Thinking all the time and Plays Out Typical Movie Stuff like Quirky Romances (that need an interpreter) and Street Level Criminals that Really should Find Another Line of Work.This is a Soft Heist Film and the Charm is in the Realness of its Characters and Their Unpretentious Take on Life. A Gaudy Jump Suit may be a Subconscious Wish Fulfillment for Dignan and He Brings His Friends Along with His Energetic Naivete. Note...If you have never seen a Wes Anderson Movie and wonder what all the fuss is about, its best to not start here. He is one of those Auteurs where it might be better to watch His Films in reverse chronological order. Makes perfect upside-down sense really. "},{"Title":"Sweet, simple, funny.","Date":"18 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Time to time watching complex film plots, narration patterns, and abstractness it is better to watch a simple film sometimes. They act like a dessert after a long twisting experience for the brain. Bottle rocket is one such film. The plot is very simple. The characters are funny. We have seen them countless times in many films. The film gives you sweet comedy which is sure to tickle your bone. The comedy is situational. Nothing is forced in terms of plot or actions by the characters. It is just the way things are happening to them which are shown happening very naturally. I have come across a number of comedy types and still I find this type involving silly characters who look normal, act natural and desperate to achieve something but somehow things never work for them. They never understand that also.The plot of the film revolves around three main characters, two of whom are just out from a mental hospital (but cured) and plan to attempt several robberies. The characters are natural, trying their best to do live life properly. Their plans are not hard core and neither is the difficulty too much. What the story focus is on their way of handling things which is way too amateurish and that's where the fun lies. This is one of the memorable roles for Owen Wilson and he without doubt steals the show.VERDICT A recommended watch. "}{"Title":"Bottle Rocket","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket is not only Wes Anderson's directorial debut, but also Luke and Owen Wilson's first feature film. I have to say, it is a pretty good start for all three men.It is a very entertaining film in and of itself, but Anderson fans should particularly enjoy seeing where he got his start. It's got many of the earmarks of the greatness that was to come fantastic writing and dialogue, a number of very memorable character, and a well chosen soundtrack. As I mentioned earlier, this is also the first film Luke and Owen Wilson made and both manage quite good performances. Owen plays Dignan, a man trying to start up a heist team. He is equally enthusiastic and naive but seems to have good intentions. Luke plays Dignan's often reluctant partner in crime who is love stuck by the housekeeper at the motel they stay at. Luke has always been my favorite of the Wilson brothers, but I have to say Owen steals the show in Bottle Rocket. He has many great one liners that he delivers with impeccable comic timing. Two other actors worth noting are Andrew Wilson and James Caan. Andrew Wilson, who plays Future Man, is one of the lesser known Wilson brothers. I can't remember the story of how Anderson got an actor of James Caan's caliber to co-star in his debut film. Caan plays Mr. Henry the boss of the crew Dignan so desperately wants to be a part of throughout the film. It's a great, and often hilarious, character in the final act of the film.Also included on my copy of the movie is the fifteen minute short film, also titled Bottle Rocket, that Anderson and the Wilsons shot two years prior to the feature length film. Its is the same basic story and even contains many identical line and scenes, but it is still an interesting companion to the full length version.Check out my other reviews and whatnot at notexactlyaquote.tumblr.com "},{"Title":"The simplest complex film I've ever watched","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" But that's a good thing. I actually had to record this to watch it because I wasn't available for TV at the time. Now, I'm happy that I did so. I love this film! I don't know why this tanked so badly at the box office. If you think about it as you watch it, it's very interesting. Of course, many people at the time had probably only heard the names of the actors in the film for the first time, with the exception of James Caan, so it may not have been a star attractor. Maybe that explains it? All I know is that I wanted to watch this again after the first view because it was that good.Dignan, played by Owen Wilson, is now a film icon for me. His name is not only the coolest name ever, but it alone spells out his dignity, passion, and aggressive will to hang on whatever he can get. Even though Anthony (Luke Wilson) makes a good main character, the film focuses on Dignan, for his actions motivate the other characters and keep the film going. Wilson's performance of this character was probably at his best and it is one of those very rare acts where the actor doesn't become the character, but actually is the character.As I said, it is the simplest complex films I've ever watched because the scenes are rather mellow and easy, not emotional and touching like most friendship comedy-drama films, but they still leave the audience with feelings. That's why the script is brilliant. It spares intensity from the screen and lets the audience find it for each person itself. It's very hard to achieve that, but Wes Anderson and Wilson do so.Each character is so well formed. Like Anderson's other movie, The Royal Tenenbaums, you can see the essence of each character just from their appearance, voice, and movement. Only for this one, I cannot quite describe how. The only way to know what I'm talking about is to actually see these characters for yourself.Almost like a Shakespearean play, every character shown plays a role. Even those who seem minor have an important part, so their appearances aren't wasted. An example is Grace (Shea Fowler), Anthony's caring but cynical kid sister who is deeply disappointed at her brother's chosen destination in life. At first, Anthony's happy to see her, to see that someone understands and knows him like the person he really is. But he sees that, over time, Grace has become unlike that, that her childish deceit has come in the way. She becomes a hard spot in Anthony's life and mind, which becomes resolved for a time by Inez (Lumi Cavalos).This may be a mere cult hit now, but I have a feeling that it will become something bigger in the future. It's become one of my favorite films and it has a special place in my mind. It's a landmark in comedy-drama and much more. Well done, Anderson. "},{"Title":"Crime doesn't pay, but it sure can be funny","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hyper, fast talking and wildly delusional day dreamer Dignan (a wonderfully lively and engaging performance by Owen Wilson) persuades his more laid-back best friend Anthony (the equally likable Luke Wilson) and their meek, mopey buddy Bob (an amusingly morose Robert Musgrove) to join up with him and become a crack criminal outfit. Naturally, things don't go exactly as planned, with comically disastrous results for all concerned.Acclaimed indie director Wes Anderson's debut feature is one of those subtle little comic beauties that doesn't really seem like much as you watch it, but gets funnier and more resonant when you reflect on it after seeing it. It has its own uniquely sweet and eccentric low-key charm, a certain offhanded grace and understated style that's both endearing and enjoyable in comparable measure. The smart and astute script by Anderson and Wilson shows a genuine warmth and affinity for this personable trio of lovable slacker losers with big time ambitions and no actual ability to effectively realize said ambitions. Standard crime film conventions are cleverly turned on their ear. For example, our blundering and constantly bickering threesome resort to crime not out of necessity, but out of misguided desire and sheer desperation; they're just trying to alleviate the numbing tedium of their drab, safe and comfortable suburbanite existences. The robbery sequences are simply sidesplitting, with our boys proving beyond a reasonable doubt that they just aren't ideal and suitable candidates for a life of crime (the book store caper is absolutely priceless). Better still, both Wilson brothers and Musgrove are terrific in the leads, with superb support from Lumi Cavazos as a nice and pretty Mexican motel maid Anthony falls in love with, Andrew Wilson as Bob's browbeating tool of a brother Future Man, and especially James Caan as hearty, jovial local crime boss Mr. Henry. Mark Mothersbaugh's breezy score and Bob Yeoman's bright, fluid, dynamic and picturesque cinematography are both on the money excellent. The leisurely pacing takes a little getting used to, but once you get into the film's quirky groove the movie overall proves to be a real fresh, funny and above all inspired and original treat. "},{"Title":"Don't let this happen to you.","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First, I adored both Rushmore and The Royal Tenenbaums.  Second, first films aren't supposed to be perfect.  If I had watched Bottle Rocket before knowing anything of Anderson's work I maybe would have found this to be a harmless throwaway.  It doesn't watch like a movie to me, but a collection of screened ideas.  Everyone in this film has done remarkably better work. What really rubs the wrong way is that the actress playing Luke Wilson's love interest had even done better work before this (Like Water For Chocolate- for one), unlike the Wilson boys who have since honed their craft (or at least established a niche for themselves, Owen especially).  I'm astounded at how many people are raving about this film here.  It's not bad, but if you watch a lot of indy film I just want to offer the warning I never got this is an amateurish, unfocused film with some laughs and good ideas, but is not even farm league in comparison to Anderson's other two films. I almost can't believe he's responsible for this AND the brilliance that followed.  I think that's why I'm harsh on this film.  If an idiot like Kevin Smith put this out I'd be that's okay, but Anderson is a real director and not just a guy with a camera crew.  I wish I could unwatch this movie because of how much I respect his other two films.  Don't let this happen to you. "},{"Title":"hysterical","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Perfectly filmed and written.  Good scripts go a long way.  Owen wilson and wes anderson start a good thing with this debut.  These two need to continue to write together for a long time.  Rushmore and The Royal Tenenbaums are nothing compared to this.  Tell your friends to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Save for a rainy day","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wes Anderson's first film, Bottle Rocket, differs from Rushmore and The Royal Tenenbaums. And though all 3 of these films are excellent films, I believe Bottle Rocket somewhat differs in storyline and style.Though it is a film that deals with petty crime, it comes off as cute and like Anderson's later outings, it ends in a nice manner. The characters are well-written and the soundtrack moves along with the film in a great fashion. "},{"Title":"One of the ten best films ever made","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I originally rented Bottle Rocket because it was from the same director and writers( Wes Anderson, Owen Wilson) of my favorite movie Rushmore. I'm glad I rented it. It turned out to my one of my favorite movies. Bottle Rocket starts as Anthony Adams( Luke Wilson) is being released from an asylum for exhaustion. Anthony meets up with his friends Dignan, an enthusiastic wannabe criminal( played by co-writer Owen Wilson), and rich, but depressed Bob Mapplethorpe( Robert Musgrave). Their first big robbery is at a bookstore, which is very funny because Dignan politely robs the store( Uh, do you have any bigger bags for atlasas and dictionaries, uh, sir?). This leads to the three hiding out at a hotel where Anthony falls in love with a maid( Lumi Cavazos), who can't speak English. I'm not going to give away any more of the plot, because I feel I gave away too much already. Now I'm going to say why Bottle Rocket is a great film It's original, funny( especially in the scenes involving Kumar Pallana as a senile safecracker), and with great performances by Owen Wilson, Luke Wilson, and another Wilson brother, Andrew, as Bob's bullying big brother. James Caan also gives a very good small performance. Bottle Rocket also have some great music in it, including a score by Mark Mothersbaugh, and the movie songs include two of my favorites The Rolling Stone's 2000 Man and The Proclaimer's Over and Done With. Definitely a must-see movie!  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's a very subtle film. It takes time and getting used to. But the performances are fantastic, and very dry. It's just a film that can make me smile just thinking about it. I started drinking Tom Collins after it, thanks to Dignan. And I agree with James L. Brooks, who said that Dignan is the greatest first name is movie history. Very comical, but it needs time to grow. "},{"Title":"Terrific Movie","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Superb movie about friendship, loyalty, love, and trying to find your place in the world. The humor is very dry, witty, and subtle. Owen Wilson's Dignan is the funniest/quirkiest character in recent memory. The movie gets better and better with repeated viewings as you laugh out loud at things you didn't catch before. The characters are extremely realistic and it is amazing the way Anthony looks out for and is loyal to his fellow friends Dignan and Bob Maplethorpe. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Bottle Rocket is perfect entertainment","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this very charming and very witty movie about the bounds of friendship and what we would do for a friend.Wes Anderson does a perfect job directing this gem and Luke and Owen Wilson are great.  James Caan, in one of his best roles ever, shines.  Great Great Great. 10 thumbs up! "}{"Title":"Dignan is one of the best characters ever","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A friend of mine said you have to watch the funniest movie ever and he was right the comic timing is odd, yet hilarious, Dignan is a heartbreakingly pathetic person, played to perfection by Owen Wilson. JAMES CAAN! great casting, The  Dignan character makes this only a little better than Rushmore, although Bill Murray was fantastic. A must see! "},{"Title":"A great little film--with a slow middle.","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dallas filmmakers Owen Wilson and Wes Anderson have crafted a delightfully subtle comedy about small-time criminal wannabes. Unfortunately, the film suffers somewhat from a slow, obsolete, obviously-tacked-on romantic subplot that has no place in a film this hip and fresh. Although James Caan was the film's only name actor at the time of production and it's one of his best movies in recent years, brothers Owen and Luke Wilson have since made names for themselves as actors as well. Rumors of swollen budgets and on-set tensions with infamous producers Kit Carson and Cynthia Hargrave aren't evident in the final product, which--overall--is a fabulous debut film for Anderson. "},{"Title":"They brought you Rushmore.  See this movie.","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Based upon a 13-minute short done by Wes Anderson, Owen Wilson in 1994, Bottle Rocket is a funny and creative movie. I was prompted to see it after seeing Rushmore (twice) and a friend of mine highly recommending it.Bottle Rocket didn't disappoint, but I think I might have disappointed it. You see, some of the humor is so subtle that you can easily miss it as I feel I may have. I caught enough of it however to know that Anderson and Wilson have put together quite a funny production.Owen Wilson is so damned funny in his portrayal of Dignan, a slightly off-kilter kid with bigger aspirations to a life of crime. James Caan is very good as well, in his small but essential part as the neighborhood crime boss.This film never takes itself too seriously and that is why it is so good. I hope to see it again in a couple weeks. And it has a good soundtrack to boot. "},{"Title":"Wes Anderson's debut movie shows his genius","Date":"16 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bottle Rocket, in a way only Anderson can do, is HUGELY funny, because we laugh at the characters as well as sympathising, and identifying with them. Everyone essentially wants to be good at SOMETHING.  In short, Bottle Rocket is an ingeniously clever film done by an up-and-coming director who will be paving the way for creative films in the same vein as the Coen Brothers.  "},{"Title":"Affectionate recommendation","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bottle Rocket is one of the most touching, and one of the funniest, offbeat comedies I've ever seen.  For some, its brand of subtle humor may be a bit offsetting, but the deep themes underlying the shallow asides create a terrific story on every level.  The movie, at its heart, is a brilliant take on love as well as the things people will do for those they care for.  While the character of Dignan (a truly inspired performance by Owen C. Wilson, who has since gone on to play shallow, surfer dude type characters in big budget action films) provides the central drive for the story, the heart of the movie lies in the character of Anthony, a man whose good nature, loyalty, and altruistic heart provides the thematic web on which the true force of the movie lies.  Truly a great picture.  I highly recommend one of my favorite movies of recent years.  Give it a chance; you won't be sorry.  "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It is a tragedy that so few people have heard of Bottle Rocket. I didn't know a thing about it until a guy I worked with mentioned it as one of his favorite films. It is one of the most intelligent, quirky, eccentric (?) comedies I've seen. The Wilsons are fantastic, and every time I see them in a new movie preview I am delighted as I'm rooting for both of them to turn out to be big stars. Owen Wilson in particular is brilliant in BR.It's the little details that I enjoyed about BR the most. For example, the scene where the three of them are discussing the book store job and Owen says Bob you're the zero and I'm the star over here. Also Owen's 50 year plan.It's a shame that Harvey Keitel can lend to his weight to Reservoir Dogs and Tarantino becomes a huge star, while James Caan appears in Bottle Rocket and no one has any idea who Owen Wilson is, even those who saw him in Armageddon and enjoyed his performance.   "},{"Title":"By far.. one of the best films ever","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Definitely one of the greatest films ever made. Perfect in so many ways. An absolute must see. "},{"Title":"A real original comedy","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wes Anderson's debut in Bottle Rocket may not register with some audience members, but in my opinion it is a genuine original full of witty humor. Quirky entertainment with lots of inside jokes and appropriate, clever use of music. Everyone is good in it especially Owen Wison as a real oddball tied up in the crime business. This one is very subjective to the viewer and their comedic intake, but for those that like off the wall material, they will definitely enjoy it. One of Anderson's more plot-oriented films rather than journey-oriented. A worthwhile movie from Wes Anderson with notable benefits for comedy lovers. "},{"Title":"The Early Wes Anderson Is Still Good Wes Anderson","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wes Anderson is probably one of my favorite quirky directors. With films such as THE LIFE AQUATIC WITH STEVE ZISSOU, THE ROYAL TENENBAUMS, and RUSHMORE in his repertoire, I feel the quirky title to be appropriate. Best known for Rushmore (1998), Anderson's films have a unique edge to them. Definitely not in-your-face comedy, their impact is much dryer and subtler (I remember the nude gal in The Life Aquatic just being there because some nudity was needed. And I remember Bill Murray driving back and forth over his enemy's bicycle in Rushmore then placing it back in its bike rack and how I knew this would influence the battle yet-to-come).I'd never heard of BOTTLE ROCKET until somebody pointed it out to me. Having enjoyed Rushmore tremendously, it came highly recommended. And after watching it, I can see why.This is early Anderson, and a film that helped launch his inimitable movie style. Released in 1996 and starring the newly found Wilson brothers (Luke and Owen), it goes to show that Anderson knew how to pick a good script and good actors to round out a chuckle-fest.Luke Wilson (MY SUPER EX-GIRLFRIEND) is no stranger to Anderson films now, having been given the lead role here and later strong supporting roles in The Royal Tenenbaums and Rushmore, Luke can celebrate his strong Anderson film trifecta and proudly point back to his roots in this film. Brother Owen (CARS) is one up on Luke in that he has performed in all of those, plus The Life Aquatic.Mental health issues abound for Anthony (Luke Wilson) and his buddy Dignan (Owen). In fact, Anthony has just been released from a voluntary psychiatric facility where he was resting after a nervous breakdown. Waiting for him in the bushes (literally) is Dignan, who believes Anthony is escaping from the psych ward instead via his own free will.The two quickly go back to their old ways. They decide to return to a life of petty thieving and even do dry-runs by robbing Anthony's family's home in order to see if they still have their robbing edge. They also decide to take on the strangest heists (from meat packing plants to bookstores). Since neither of them own a car, though, they have to get a driver and they pick Bob Mapplethorpe (Robert Musgrave) simply because ...well ...he has a car. Their first felony occurs at the aforementioned bookstore and they make quick their getaway, leaving town and scurrying across the state. They end up at a motel in the middle of nowheresville and decide to hold up. But the trio quickly turns sour when a pretty young hotel maid name Inez (Lumi Cavazos) catches Anthony's eye. Speaking no English, the Central American goddess fails to realize how messed up yet in love Anthony is with her (partly due to the language barrier and partly do to Anthony's fumbling ways).Word eventually comes to Bob (the driver) that a family member is in trouble and he has to return to town. Since he has the only car, Anthony and (more importantly) Dignan, flip out, telling him he can't leave. But he does and leaves Anthony and Dignan stranded at the hotel (which is fine with the love-struck Anthony). But Dignan wants to get out of there, so he devises a plan to steal a car and return to their lives of thievery. Not wanting to leave without his newfound love interest, Anthony tries to convince Inez to come with them. A misunderstanding ensues and he and Dignan are back on their debauched road. Eventually they take on a robbery at a meat packing plant and it goes horribly. Risking everything, eventually a choice has to be made about who stays behind &#151; and takes the risk of capture &#151; and who goes free.It is the strange and quirky (there's that word again) that drives this film. Owen Wilson's character (Dignan) is obviously an extreme case of an excessive-compulsive. He plans out items to the nth degree, ensuring that everything is okay decades later. Anthony (Luke) struggles to regain some sense of normalcy in his life but keeps getting dragged back down by his bond with Dignan while being tugged the other direction by Inez.In the end, all turns out bizarrely well. Dignan ends up where he belongs, Owen gets what he needs, and even Inez finds what she's looking for.Certainly one of the less known Anderson films, this one still comes highly recommended, just not as highly as his more recent works. "},{"Title":"Subtle but amusing low key debut from the Lawn Ranglers Anderson and Wilson.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Bottle Rocket' grows on you. An affectionate and wry look at three unlucky criminal wanna-bes, it is easy to underestimate this gem of a movie at first. Listen and watch carefully and you'll see its true worth. This a self-consciously quirky movie that brings to mind some of the Coens brothers efforts and also the similarly underrated 'Palookaville', but co-writers Wes Anderson (also director) and Owen Wilson aren't riding on anybodies coat tails, as their next movie 'Rushmore' would show. 'Bottle Rocket' isn't as spectacular as 'Rushmore', arguably their most successful collaboration to date, but it shares that movies genuine affection for its characters, something usually missing in most of todays so-called comedies. Owen Wilson also puts in the most impressive performance here as the indefatigable schemer Dignan, one of the most memorable and amusing comic characters of recent years. 'Rushmore' is definitely Anderson and Wilson's masterpiece, and 'The Royal Tenenbaums' is fatally flawed but still stylish and amusing, but don't let either of those more celebrated movies overshadow this quieter, yet equally noteworthy achievement. 'Bottle Rocket' is a wonderful debut that is full of charm and surprises. "}{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the wilson brothers are great in this film.  i see everything they do now because of this movie.  one of my five all time favorites.  little things in this movie make it so good.  you will like it if you like movies like raising arizona and european vacation. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece!","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bottle Rocket is one of the funniest, most underrated films of all time. The acting in this film is phenomenal, and the storyline is most interesting and suspenseful. Bottle Rocket is perfect on a day when you are feeling blue. Wes Anderson is a genius, and the Wilson brothers will never let you down.   "},{"Title":"Gem of a film","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this film when I was too young to appreciate it. Then, years later I gave it a second chance and I'm glad I did. It gets me right here man...(reference to the film).I think if you go into it thinking it will be like WEDDING CRASHERS or something like that you will be disappointed. It has very subtle and dry humor.Give it a chance as you may just love it. Pay attention, because the jokes are not in your face. This is a film that rewards you every time you see it.Ain't no trip to Cleveland...but a timeless and awesome film. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I feel this movie is way under rated. Owen Wilson and Wes Anderson work together like chicken and gravy and pizza. Which means this movie is delicious. A lot of the scenes were improvised by the genius of O-Dawg. If you haven't seen this, see it. It's one of my favorite movies ever. It's a little slow in parts, but in a good way. Having slow scenes rules. Kick back and get ready to laugh. Have fun with this masterpiece. If you don't like this movie, you suck a little bit. Get therapy OK? Take a couple pills and drink a beer. Relax and figure out what's funny. This move is funny. Go rent it dude. Owen Wilson is the greatest actor ever. "},{"Title":"Great Lines, Not So Great Film","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first heard about this film on the commentary on the 'Spaced' DVD. Having enjoyed 'The Royal Tenenbaums' very much, I'd been itching to see this film for a long time. All I can say is that I was unimpressed with the film as a whole, but loved some of the lines within. The situation seemed overly absurd, and the characters' motivations were sketchy at best. There are some wonderful scenes and I laughed out loud a number of times, but I was also on the verge of turning the film off one or two times as well. Never has my opinion of a film been so conflicted. Some films are 'love-it-or-hate-it', this one seems to be 'love-it-AND-hate-it'!  "},{"Title":"Don't forget the pillow and the 'blankey...","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   I caught part of this film on IFC, and had I known it was directed by the same guy who did Rushmore (Which I saw first) I would have stopped watching it. The main problem about this guy's movies is that they lack a plot. They have characters that are not only unbelievable, but get into situations which are unbelievable. Of course, there will be a small cult of people who call this kind of schtick quirky and claim that people just didn't get it, but, well, there's really nothing to get. Unless you are 100% absorbed into the writer/director's self-righteous/pretentious grandeur, you will most likely share my opinion. See work by DiCillo or Jarmusch for the true masters of quirky and quality filmaking. "},{"Title":"This is my favorite film of all time.","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's such a simple honest comedy, yet so delightfully layered as far as the characters are concerned.It has all the earmarks that became Wes Anderson's calling, but they're so effortless here.What can be said that hasn't already been said regarding this film.Best examination of male Peter Pan syndrome since J.M. Barrie penned it himself.Subtle, hilarious, intoxicating. This is the kind of movie you watch, and then are surprised that two hours passed by while you were completely enthralled. If you have a sense of humor that stretches beyond kick-in-the-crotch slapstick, you'll think it's one of the funniest movies you've ever seen. If you have any sort of imagination or education, you'll find this movie delightful in every way.Basically, this movie neatly symbolizes everything that went right with '90s film culture. And it gets better and better the more you watch it. "},{"Title":"Interior Visions Fail","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm fairly cool on Anderson's later projects. But this one is pretty perfect.I watched it with another film of this type and in a week with several others. Possibly the only way to make these things work is to find a new chink, a new layer between goofiness and endearing reality to invent. I say invent rather than depict because its all about where we place ourselves; if we can place ourselves new, that's usually enough to be effective, to connect.A large part of why this works is because it works toward an end that fails. Many movies are not about what we experience but what we remember, and the deal with this one is that we are left with someone who topples from any workable awareness. It reinvents that place where we are balanced throughout the movie. Even knowing the later films, I never wondered that this would end badly because the tone follows such a well established path, that one I've noted elsewhere. As with Legally Blond, there's a notion that earnestness will overcome inadequacies in all other life skills. One of the political parties in the US has appropriated this, so in a way this can be considered as a political movie.That last look is what this is all about, just as that first look of Jack Nicholson's in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.I came to this in part because of Owen's suicide attempt it adds context that matters.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Great, great movie","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film, Bottle Rocket, is great. It's got one of those great Tarentino-esque feels, but like Boondock Saints isn't a rip-off of the great Tarentino films. BR is entertaining to the very last scene. It keeps you thinking, and the dialogue is incredible. Actually this film may be better than many of Tarentino films. The acting is also great, and the story line is incredibly intricate and involved, any one that loves movies should see this one, and will fall in love with it in a heartbeat. "},{"Title":"Better than Prozac","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"28 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before I saw this movie my life was a disaster. It's still a disaster, but at least I have a sense of humour about it now.Ostensibly Bottle Rocket is about some guys in Texas who try to be outlaws. But isn't really about the robberies. It's about everything you ever wanted and more.Here are just a few of the key ingredients dynamite, pole-vaulting, laughing gas, choppers. Can you see how incredible this is going to be?See it and be happy.  "}{"Title":"Don't call me idiot, punk.","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What I expected from Wes Anderson's debut feature, having seen all of his other work and become a fan of his over the years, was something a bit less methodical and more fresh. The first thing that people think about when they see his name is of course his distinct style. This is something that is noticeable to even the casual moviegoer, even if they don't have the vocabulary to exactly describe or express it. And you see little hints of it here in Bottle Rocket. The hard angles of the frame looking down at objects being laid out for our characters to survey creeps up when Dignan outlines his 75 year plan to Anthony - perhaps not as rigidly as later Anderson. The characters are assigned snappy dialogue that is delivered with an air of nonchalance, particularly in situations of danger and risk. The motel, with its chic pink and white decor, is positively dollhouse-esque. And there are little details that would only later show up; here he is more likely to conventionally cut between subjects rather than use his trademark whip pan like a character turning his head. The biggest different, apart from this being his debut and still finding his stylistic feet, is the budget. Anderson's later features would later all have distinct colour palettes that bloomed in flat layers behind our morose main characters - as a sort of dramatic irony in their emotional distress that fails to recognise the beauty in the world around them. And he would have the financial freedom to dedicate huge amounts of detail into his production design for lavish scenes that might only last a few minutes; see the intro for The Royal Tenenbaums. To his credit, Anderson gets more than his money's worth in Bottle Rocket. The aforementioned motel looks like something out a faded postcard, still and pale in its serenity. Yeoman's strong yellows and reds punctuate each scene and seem to represent comfort in Dignan and Anthony's respective dress. Ultimately, the story of Bottle Rocket is a littler underdeveloped. Anderson twists the usual small-time crooks into these vivid storybook characters and fills them with his own brand of awkward humour. They plan an elaborate escape from the mental hospital, only to realise that anyone can walk in and out. They methodically canvas an empty house only to have revealed that it is Anthony's family house and that they have a specific list of approved and forbidden items in mind. A life of crime is more an inconvenience to them rather than a career path, and they are easily sidetracked. The plot moves quickly towards an end that is a logical failure. It doesn't seem to be too much of a concern because they are not vicious criminals but misunderstood grown up boys who have not yet found their calling in life. There's a sweet romance that blossoms as expected. The brothers quarrel and make up. They are scolded by the same people they rob, and take care to adjust the figurine display while they steal. While normal characters would be left speechless at their mentor robbing them blind, they shake their heads and chuckle. And there are those supercharged moments when one- liners are spit out and the soundtrack roars into recognition, but Anderson doesn't yet have that subtlety about his films. It's all about the Stones song. Nothing really seems to stick, and the lessons are vague and overly reliant on earnestness, as if this is enough to carry them throughout a lifetime. Their upbeat attitude won't be unseated. In the end, there's enough chemistry and natural charm to make it an enjoyable watch. "},{"Title":"Anderson and Wilson establishing their reputations","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I learned more in the 2 months I spent with Mr. Henry and this crew than I learned in 15 years of academic study.Bottle Rocket was not only the feature film debut for director Wes Anderson, but it was also the debut for Owen and Luke Wilson who both gave inspiring performances. This is where it all started for Wes Anderson and despite not being a box office hit he slowly built a reputation for himself by remaining unique to his quirky sense of humor. Many criticized the fact that these characters didn't seem real, and that is probably true for all of Anderson's film where he focuses on dysfunctional characters with a whimsical sense of humor. Anderson's comedies are very different and they aren't for mainstream audiences, thus the reason why the screening of this film scored the worst test screening points in the history of Columbia Pictures during that time. I am glad Wes stayed true to his style and didn't sell out because his next films share similar trademarks which he began establishing in Bottle Rocket. This is perhaps his most normal looking film if you take into account the cinematography, but the quirky sense of humor is pretty much the same as well as some other technical aspects of the film (the font title cards at the beginning and the slow motion shot at the end). The same can be said for Owen Wilson who kind of plays this dumb but nice guy character in most of his comedies. It's not Anderson's best work, but his quirky style began taking shape with Bottle Rocket. The screenplay was co-written by Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson from a short they had made a couple of years earlier. The film opens with Dignan (Owen Wilson) trying to help his best friend, Anthony (Luke Wilson) escape from a mental institution. Dignan has designed a great escape plan, but what he doesn't know is that Anthony can leave the institution upon his free will considering he voluntarily signed up for it after he had a nervous breakdown from exhaustion. This opening scene clearly establishes that Dignan is less sane than Anthony. He has established a long term plan for the two involving a criminal spree. The first step is robbing Anthony's mother's house but they can only take a few valueless items. The idea is that they get some criminal experience so they can catch the attention of Dignan's former boss, Mr. Henry (James Caan), who is sort of a legend in the criminal world. Next they plan a bookstore robbery, but this time they will need a getaway driver so they convince their friend Bob (Robert Musgrave) to join them. After successfully achieving their plan they hide out at a nearby motel where Anthony falls deeply in love with a Paraguayan maid named Inez (Lumi Cavazos). This is where the dysfunctional group of friends breaks down and things take a turn for each one of them.Bottle Rocket was on Martin Scorsese's list of his top 10 favorite movies of the 90's. The quirky sense of humor isn't for everyone, but fans of Wes Anderson's comedies will really enjoy this considering it was the birthing point of some of his technical achievements. It may be less depressing and cynical in tone than some of his other comedies, but the whimsy characters he creates are very familiar. You can clearly see the fascination he has for exploring these dysfunctional relationships of dorky middle to upper class people. It's a refreshing film and very different from your standard buddy comedy. It's witty and despite not having many hilarious moments, the film does manage to keep a smile on your face for most of its runtime. For a debut performance Owen Wilson really shines on screen and delivers his lines with perfect timing. I really enjoyed this offbeat comedy although I wouldn't recommend this to anyone who isn't a fan of Wes Anderson. I always recommend my favorite, The Royal Tenenbaums, to people who haven't seen any of his film. "},{"Title":"You're complicated aren't you?  I try not to be.","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is what Napoleon Dynamite must dream about as he polishes his glasses and irons his T shirt for the next day. Imagine being quirky, hip, exciting and fresh at one point, then a decade later still being all of those things &#x96; instead of the punchline to a million jokes and nothing more than fodder for the lamest and most dated of office jokers.Imagine that &#x96; Gosh.Bottle Rocket follows two friends (real life brothers) Dignan and Anthony through perhaps a few months of their life.Dignan is an over-zealous and under-equipped wannabe master thief.Anthony is open, honest and a little innocent (without being nave), he just wants to please everyone and not cause any trouble.These two characters can co-exist, but Anthony's simple goals cannot be met when Dignan is around, as Dignan's desire to commit pointless crimes takes advantage of Anthony's need to please, meaning he is constantly doing things he doesn't want to do.As we learn early Dignan is patterning his next carefully planned 75 years around teaming up with a gang of master-thieves lead by Mr Henry, who Dignan had the good fortune to work with for a short time while Anthony was in a voluntary mental health clinic. Along with Bob, a guy who just wants to be involved Dignan and Anthony pull an early heist, using unnecessary tactics and pointless and ineffective methods. Thankfully for them their small time crime is somewhat below the radar, though they still go on the lam and hide out until the coast is clear, and really this is where the movie gains steam.+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ While on the run, at least in their minds the team stay in a cheap motel. Bob and Anthony are basically relaxing and Dignan is plotting the next big move, acting like they just successfully pulled a heist on the Louvre instead of taking a couple hundred bucks from a closed bookstore.Anthony meets a young oddly-pretty maid named Inez, who doesn't speak English. They hit it off, or at least Anthony thinks so, there is quite a communication issue that Anthony seems content to ignore.When Bob has some home issues and scarpers in the middle of the night, taking his car and leaving the other two stranded Dignan is furious at the perceived betrayal. When reasoning fails Dignan and Anthony have a falling out and go separate ways.Of course the gang meets back up, meets Mr Henry at last and has more adventures, or at least one more.+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ But this is not a heist flick, or a crime flick, and definitely not a drama or thriller &#x96; in fact it is really not about much of anything. Like the best and worst of director Wes Anderson Bottle Rocket seems to indulge in just watching the characters as they deal with situations that range from extremely mundane to mildly involving. There are no big explosions in these films, no especially witty dialogue, no Tarantino-esque long stories and speeches and no big getaways or 43 killed in a hail of bullets action sequences.You either smile and chuckle as you watch the film and let yourself get involved in the story or you will be bored as hell, there isn't too much middle ground.To sum up Wes Anderson's work with one quote I always think of this brief exchange between Anthony and a random girl in Bottle Rocket Girl &#x96; You're complicated aren't you? Anthony &#x96; I try not to be. By not complicating matters and allowing the story to just be Wes Anderson may never get huge box-office business, but when it works his films are effortlessly charming and worthwhile. Bottle Rocket might just be the best example of that.Final Rating &#x96; 8 / 10. Wes Anderson may never make a truly great movie, but if he made more like Bottle Rocket that isn't a bad outcome at all. "},{"Title":"A great start to Wes Anderson's career","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was the first feature film from Wes Anderson, and his films have matured since his first. Bottle Rocket is a rather simple plot but thats sorta a good thing. Also the characters are likable (esp. Owen Wilson as Dignan), the dialogue is good, the story is pretty interesting, and the film doesn't try to be funny. The humour in this film is great- not laugh out loud funny but there are funny moments involving the situations and within the dialogue. The film was rated R but it was a light R rated film. There's not much violence and the language consists of only seven f-bombs. Though I felt that the ending could have been stronger and it seemed like an ending that was meant for a sequel. It left some questions unanswered. It may not be Anderson's best film but its still pretty good and a great time to fill in 90 minutes. So, Id recommend it to those who are fans of Wes Anderson and who have yet to see the film. "},{"Title":"Good but not THAT good.","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm really big into subtle humor which is why I like Wes Anderson movies in the first place. But Bottle Rocket doesn't have subtle humor. It has attempts at humor. That's where I find everyone just saying the same dribble about this movie that they say about his others. Oh it just has limited appeal or you just have to get it. No. It's just not funny. Yes you will chuckle at parts, but that's about it. It's almost too obvious that this script was watered down or padded some to make it a feature length. If anything is worth seeing, it would be the original short. Unless you're one of those claims to understand every indie film types of people, this probably isn't the right flick for you. Any one of his later works will be a better choice. "},{"Title":"Perfectly Titled","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket is the feature debut for director Wes Anderson, the screen debut of Luke and Owen Wilson, and the first movie written by Owen and Wes, who would later team up on Rushmore & The Royal Tenenbaums. I think Wes Anderson is one of the most original and talented directors working today; I LOVED Tenenbaums, The Life Aquatic, and The Darjeeling Limited. While Bottle Rocket is not on par with these great movies it is a sure sign of the greatness to come.This is a meandering, character-driven story, as social rejects Anthony, Dignan and Bob attempt to assert themselves in the adult world by embarking on a well-structured but inevitably dysfunctional life of crime. I love the fact that Owen Wilson is willing to play himself as a goof or a nutjob, and his little asides are probably the funniest thing in the movie. During the robbery of a bookstore he holds the manager at gunpoint and asks, Do you have a bigger bag? One you might use for atlases and dictionaries, sir? These guys are harmless but their emotional pain is real, and their decision to become outlaws seems like just a way to tell the world they're unhappy. What about? Like other Anderson/Wilson collaborations the characters in the film do not feel accepted, or loved. All they might really need is a father figure... the guys seem happiest not when they're pulling their capers but when they've been adopted by James Caan's Mr. Henry character, who serves- briefly- as the benevolent protector they so badly need.The title Bottle Rocket is in reference to the scene in the movie when the boys blow their robbery loot on firecrackers and throw them out the window of their car. It's a juvenile noise-maker, like their foray into crime, and a fleeting sparkle, like the first movie of a director headed for greatness. This movie isn't perfect, but it's sweet, and warm-hearted, and a must-see for anyone who enjoys Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson at their best.GRADE B+ "},{"Title":"A very well written and different caper comedy that works on many levels.","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket is one of the most original and unique films that I have ever seen. With witty dialogue and great on screen performances, this film is a massive hit. With his first performance as actor on the big screen Owen Wilson also co-writes Bottle Rocket. The story is focused on three young aged friends in their life of crime, robbing houses and planning heists.These three men; Dignan, Anthony, and Bob are not bad guys. They are just a trio of men looking for something fun and exciting to do in their mostly boring lives. Having no jobs Dignan, Anthony, and Bob decide to pull of heists for fun. Let me get to introducing these characters, Dignan is a somewhat dumb yet riskless man who has nothing going on in his life and he is the so called mastermind behind the plans. Anthony is Dignan's best friend who was rescued from a mental hospital with the help of Dignan. Anthony put himself in the hospital for self-described exhaustion. This man is not crazy. The last of the trio is Bob. Bob is a very dumb and stupid idiot. Bob is the getaway driver in the heists called on upon by Dignan. There is not much to really know about Bob, pretty much only one word describes him.....idiot.After making a road trip buying a few guns these men plan their next heist, a local bookstore. They manage to steal a small sum from the store and succeed in getting away safely. They then decide to spend the night at a hotel on the side of the highway. At the hotel, Anthony spots maid Inez and the two fall into a romantic relationship although she cannot speak English very well. Before leaving the hotel, Anthony gives Dignan an envelope for Inez. Dignan delivers the envelope not knowing how much money is inside. She also unaware of this. Dignan steals a car but quickly breaks down in the middle of the highway. Anthony reveals that the envelope he gave to Inex contained the rest of the cash from the heist. Coming to the anger and disappointment of Dignan, the two go there separte ways from there. I will not reveal the rest of the story to anyone, not wanting to spoil it for anyone. That was just a brief summary on the film's simple yet brilliant and original storyline.Bottle Rocket being witty and funny at the same time marks Wes Anderson's film debut, which is a fascinating indicator of what is to come. Being a cult classic this film holds up to repeated viewings to please fans every time. Bottle Rocket also stars Luke Wilson, Robert Musgrave, Lumi Cavazos, and James Cann all giving good performances. But Owen Wilson is the one that shines in the cast giving a terrific debut performance, which also holds true for Wes. Bottle Rocket is a truly great, brilliant caper comedy that will likely hold its fame for as long as I can think. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites ever","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this is pretty much the perfect movie. Owen as Dignan is Oscar worthy. He was born for the part. I love when he throws out a subtle clue to his inner insecurities I'm not always as confident as I look, or What, is it weird being into exercise? Do I seem weird?, and when he is just a goof, like yelling out in public places, Anthony, we gotta hide our identities!Luke is great as the foil to Dignan, and a truly caring, innocent guy...oh, and the guy who plays Bob gets the spirit award (to quote Dignan).Futureman (the third Wilson brother) is the perfect psycho sadistic bully brother to Bob.James Caan is funny and scary. He's good at that role. Kinda like Dennis Hopper, but with a 'fro.And Ines is adorable. Most importantly, this movie is hilarious and has a heart. Share it with someone sometime. "},{"Title":"Anderson and the Wilsons' firsts highlight their strengths in this likable film","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Movies about obscure characters doing obscure things can be pretty hit or miss. The key is tying that obscurity into something that people can understand and relate to. With Bottle Rocket, Wes Anderson (in his very first cinematic credits) establishes that he understands this must be done and he does it with relationships. While Bottle Rocket may not be all that poignant or satisfy the tastes of all movie watchers, it certainly does offer its own style of entertainment. For those familiar with Anderson's more mainstream work, this is a film that brings some insight into how he established himself as a revered director.Let's not forget the Wilson brothers either. Both Owen and Luke can thank this film for being a great resume starter. It highlights the very talents that they took with them all the way to the bank in the last ten years. Luke is Anthony Adams, a lovable, naive guy who finds himself in trouble thanks to those around him, namely Owen's character Dignan, the quirky, high-aimer who takes things to a comically serious level. You see attributes of these characters echo in nearly every role they've played since this film gave them a spotlight. Together, the two are small time crooks who consider themselves professionals and set out with their friend Bob only to further reveal to the viewer that they have no talent whatsoever. There's not a whole lot driving this plot. While part of that is the point, more could actually happen to make things interesting. Instead, this is mostly focused on how the characters all deal with their collective ineptitude. They argue like most friends argue, only most friends aren't amateur thieves. Like Anderson's films after this, the characters all wrestle between a group or family mentality and their individual desires. It's very easy to see for anyone who has seen most of Anderson's work. Fortunately for him, these characters and dilemmas only get stronger and more interesting as his career progresses.The film is also not much of a comedy. While Anderson never has done traditional comedy, the laughs come at the expense of some of the strange characters. They're not nearly strange enough to be consistently funny. Instead, the characters and the whole film is likable, but that's about where it stops. It never gets beyond likable. At least likable is better than bad and this film is definitely leaves a good taste in your mouth. "},{"Title":"Excellent debut for Wes Anderson","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket is distinctively a Wes Anderson film but it doesn't quite feel like he's fully found his footing here, though Bottle Rocket is still a very good film visually and an outstanding screenplay. Working, essentially, with a bunch of friends, it's no surprise that Anderson does well with the actors, with both Luke and co-writer/actor Owen Wilson acting as well as they'd ever act, not that they didn't equal this sort of performance later on, but they never exceeded it.The use of music is good, though even this not quite at the level of Anderson's later work. All in all Bottle Rocket is a remarkable film on several levels but also a flawed film, often betraying the fact that it was a cheaply-made independent film. Well worth watching, regardless, and featuring the first of many great Wes Anderson final shots.7.5/10 "}{"Title":"A rough sketch of what's to come from Wes Anderson","Date":"25 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If there is one recurring theme in any Wes Anderson film it usually involves a look into the lives of grown men who have not done much in the ways of growing up. In Bottle Rocket three best friends, all grown men living in a middle class suburb, find meaning in their lives by being thieves. It's not clear why they want to steal but they never bother to go legit. What we have instead of a plot driven narrative is a character study about men who still think they're thirteen years old. Don't take this the wrong way, I enjoyed the film for the most part but it clearly is a directorial debut for Wes Anderson as the film structure is very rough. Within the film you can kind of make out his style that we know he will ultimately improve in his other films but what I find interesting is that theme I mentioned.In Rushmore, although the protagonist is in High School, it's easy to see the immaturity of the adults that surround him (and what will become of him in adulthood?). In The Royal Tannenbaum's the adults of the family are dysfunctional because of the way they were raised so the character's have to come up with what they believe how grown ups are supposed to act. In The Darjeeling Limited the main characters act very much like they most likely did as children, with one character upset at the responsibilities of becoming a father.I remember when MTV had done a quick featurette on this film, shortly before it was released, it contained a quick interview with the Owen brothers detailing Cahn's dismay with not being able to get an answer as to why the film was called Bottle Rocket. The brothers got a kick out of it and it's no surprise that their sense humor in the interview is very much like the one displayed in the movie. Regardless, the film had piqued my interest but for whatever reason I didn't see it. Since then I have seen every Wes Anderson film, including The Darjeeling Limited and it wasn't until after seeing his last film that I decided to back-track and see this. In other words I did not witness his evolution as a film maker in any linear sense but now it's clear what he's been trying to do and say with his characters and I'm not sure I would have noticed it had I not seen his films in this order.Put it this way, because of his other films, I was able to appreciate Bottle Rocket and if you are a fan of his and have not seen it then you should do so as I think you'll like it. However, I'd be hard pressed to recommend this to someone who isn't familiar with his work. "},{"Title":"Dumbness for smart people","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wes Anderson's films are original, silly and deadpan. This one, an early effort, is about a trio of young men (one of them Owen Wilson, who is excellent as the gang leader) who rebel against their comfortable backgrounds to take up a life of crime, inspired by the criminal boss of a local landscape gardening company. It is funny - sort of - but a lot of the humour is very knowing, lying less in the story itself but rather in the way that the movie presents it without directly acknowledging its inherent ridiculousness. The result is fresh, but without any real emotional punch; it's enjoyable to watch, but there is a reason all movies aren't like this one. "},{"Title":"The Promise is Evident in this Early Wilson-Anderson Film","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is not the best Wilson/Anderson film. I mean, Tenenbaums or Life Aquatic or Rushmore are all probably better films. But considering this was the beginning of it all (before Ben Stiller), you can see in each scene that these three men were going to change the way we view comedies in America. (Think about your favorite comedies of the past 10 years and see how many have a Wilson brother.) In this one, two friends go out to become professional bandits. But things don't make it very far as one falls for a Paraguayan woman and their getaway driver gets away. The plot might be thin, but that has never really been the point if you are familiar with the antics of these men. The Wilsons need no plot.I enjoyed how much Owen Wilson seemed un-Owen. He had a very different sort of character than usual, more aggressive and unstable. It was a nice change. The Inez character was also very nice, someone you could feel bad for yet admire. The scene where Luke Wilson begins to fall for her is endearing and cute in that puppy dog way.Nothing more to say... watch this film. Unless of course you hated Tenenbaums, Rushmore and Life Aquatic (and I admit some people don't care for them). If you don't like those, this one will bore you to tears. (By the way, also watch The Squid and the Whale... Wes Anderson produced it and he could use a few extra bucks.) "},{"Title":"Dignin and Anthony are NOT brothers in the film","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The original reviewer of this film needs to watch it more than once, and actually pay attention so they realize that while Luke and Owen Wilson are brothers in REAL life, the are NOT brothers in the film. They are just good friends. I don't even know how someone could have possibly thought they were brothers. Proof of this comes in the scene after they rob Anthony's house and Dignin takes Anthony's Mom's earrings, and Anthony says Did you ever think of robbing YOUR Mom's house? Plus the whole Grace thing is another beacon. If you're going to praise a movie so highly, at least catch the vital details. Oh, and did you know that Ben Stiller dumped a girlfriend of his solely on the fact that she did not like Bottle Rocket? Heard it on a VH1 or MTV special on Ben Stiller. Wes Anderson is one hell of a filmmaker, but Owen Wilson is the most underrated actor in Hollywood. Without him you would have never heard of Bottle Rocket. "},{"Title":"A unique movie thats done well but does get a little boring at times.","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bottle Rocket isn't one of those movies the average person would like, its a lot like Rushmore & The Royal Tenenbaums. Wes Anderson has his own touch in all 3 of the movies which he has directed. Personally i liked Bottle Rocket a little more than Rushmore even though that was still a pretty good movie, Bottle Rocket is a bit of a slow movie & somewhat a little pointless at times. Owen Wilson is pretty funny in this & Luke Wilson is more serious but still funny. This movie really gets interesting towards the end of the movie, which makes you like the movie even more, even though a lot of the scenes at the start were pretty pointless. It's good how it's very different to most of the comedies that come out now, I appreciated this movie for what it is. Overall this movie is a good alternative movie for someone who likes something different. Thumbs up for this i'll give it around a 7 / 10.  "},{"Title":"a collaborative gem of indie film","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't watch this film expecting anything like the conventional heist film or action-comedy shlock that's so prevalent in mainstream cinema today. A great film draws viewers in on it's own terms and keeps them enthralled and entertained throughout. Bottle Rocket succeeds in this sense and it may very well be Wes Anderson's finest film - albeit a collaborative effort . One cannot overlook the contribution of Owen Wilson, who is hilarious here as Dignan. The best moments are the humorous exchanges between the principle characters as well as the minor ones (Kumar Pallana makes his funny debut here). The script is clever and minimal. The characters are likable and the film arguably plays as more of a buddy film than a heist-action flick. It's a thoroughly entertaining, rough gem that non-contentious viewers should enjoy.  "},{"Title":"This movie's great!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie's great. The original Owen Wilson/Wes Anderson film. Like their other work, this film is charming, and uniquely their own. Everyone should see it. Anyone who says otherwise doesn't know what he or she is saying. "},{"Title":"Charming Nonsense","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've always acknowledged that Wes Anderson's seriocomic films are all admirably creative but I've never really been truly humored by one (after seeing 'Rushmore' and 'The Royal Tenenbaums') until I got around to see his breakthrough feature 'Bottle Rocket.' Sure, his next two films display a greater maturity and perhaps a more acute examination of human nature, but 'Bottle Rocket' is - in my ever-controversial opinion - the funniest. It's incredibly stupid because it bases itself upon stupid characters and it ultimately falls into the clutches of the 'standard romantic subplot,' but it's also so damn hilarious at times that I just couldn't keep a smile off of my face while watching it, which is a true rarity.Perhaps the reason I found myself growing fond of this film is because the whole ridiculous whimsicality of it reminded me of my state of mind as a child. This applies to the character of Dignan especially, who I see as a guy who just never really grew up. As unbelievably stupid of a concept as this is, Owen Wilson manages to make it charming with his charismatic portrayal of this dimwit. Where the film doesn't really make sense is in the character of Anthony, who sort of borders between being a rational person and just as dumb as the rest of them by going ahead with these schemes for no convincing reason, and the sudden love story I guess is supposed to represent his 'awakening,' which is surprisingly uncreative for a Wes Anderson movie.But then I think back to the dialogue Anthony calmly asserting that he was hospitalized because he 'went nuts.' The whole 'nose tape' conversation between Anthony, Dignan, and the doorman. Dignan timidly asking the employee for a 'bigger bag for maps and atlases.' Dignan getting angry because Bob 'stole' his own car. Rocky ostensibly telling Dignan that he loves Anthony. Dignan promising that he'll get 'sadistic' on Bob. And certain moments Mr. Henry pouring water down onto Dignan from the rooftop. The whole heist-gone-awry at the end of the film and Dignan's subsequent attempt to get away - running into a room marked 'No Exit.'Wes Anderson was just developing his upbeat and energetic directorial style here, but it's clearly visible in certain sequences such as when cinematographer Yeoman's camera follows pacing characters front-on to Mark Mothersbaugh's background music. Overall - certainly not ignoring its ridiculousness and lack of anything much to really say - 'Bottle Rocket' charmed me a lot more than I expected.   "},{"Title":"images you won't forget","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dignan riding a minibike in a yellow jumpsuit...The smell of hot summer inside of the parent's large empty house...The unexpected James Caan, need I say more...Just like Wes Anderson's later films like Rushmore and TRT's, certain scenes stay with you and define pop culture for you and others whom get it too. "},{"Title":"Sublime","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the first Anderson/Wilson feature collaboration, and I think their best.  I saw it without knowing anything about it, and I was so pleasantly surprised. It's funny, but in a very subtle way.  The comedy here derives from nuances and atmosphere. You've got to watch closely, and you'll be rewarded.The writing and directing are good, but the actors make the film what it is. I don't know how much of it was improv, but the Wilson brothers are so smooth they make the whole thing feel spontaneous. "}{"Title":"Bears the marks of talent and Texas","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"      Although this small effort is not as entertaining as Rushmore, it was obviously created by sharp and witty collaborators--Anderson and Wilson.  I am not just saying that because I am from Houston and, like both of them, went to UT. (But wow, we really are so much cooler in this state.  This is one of those movies, like Fandango and Rushmore, that proves it.)     There is a kind of insight, independence, confidence, wittiness and charm in Texans that just isn't found in many people from other places.  Good job, fellas.     "},{"Title":"Very well done first effort for Wes Anderson!","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After reading about this film about 500 times in magazines and on websites over the last few years I thought why not go grab it and give it a shot.  I mean Rushmore was very enjoyable and The Royal Tenenbaums was absolutely fantastic so why not?!With that said; why did I wait so long to see this film??  This movie is great.  I throughly enjoyed the writing of Anderson and Wilson (AGAIN!) and besides, who does this quirky subtle humor any better these days than Owen Wilson??  The film was as well acted as it was written and I must say for a first time effort from Wilson and Anderson I was very impressed. Now I must admit that this film was not in anyway the saviour of quirky comedy or worthy of an oscar nod but this movie is highly underrated.  I'm surprised more people haven't seen it considering that Owen & Luke Wilson have both gone on to become very well known hollywood actors!  I mean thousands will watch Luke Wilson in Blue Streak but I can't find 3 people who have seen him in this movie???  Trust me folks, if you find Rushmore or Tenenbaums remotely enjoyable than give this one a shot.  You'll be upset with yourself that you didn't try it out sooner. I AM!! "},{"Title":"tell that guy how to spell tarantino","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the now iconized wes anderson`s first effort and nothing short of brilliant. the plotline, while quirky, does play on traditional conventions and to a traditional end -- but this is not meant to be the film`s strength.  it is anderson`s human creations the likeable buddy/bad influence, the abusive older brother (perfectly called futureman), and of course kumar the one who never really had it.  his true strength in bottle rocket(as in his other works) lies in his attention to these necessary and too often forgotten character details.  despite recent (now outdated?) trends to worship and measure all young-hip-writer-director types to the flawless face of macho-slackerdom, namely tarantino, i would contend that anderson is not of this breed.  he presents himself closer to a pynchonian fiction writer with his character tweeks and subtle macguffins.  bottle rocket is less about a botched crime than it is about inescapable pasts, impossible love, and unending childhoods.  see it, but not because you like tarantino.  "},{"Title":"love it more each time...","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so much fun. You honestly need to watch it more than once to truly notice all the subtle and hilarious jokes. It's a story about a group of upper middle-class 20-somethings (with way too much time on their hands) who, inspired by Dignan's (Owen Wilson) 50-year plan, decide to pursue a life of crime. I can't tell you how much I love this movie. The dialogue is so simple, yet so funny. It's hard to believe it's Owen and Luke Wilson's first feature (Wes Anderson's, too), because they are so good. I can't say everyone will love it, as some of the humor is so subtle, but I guarantee you'll catch more on a second viewing. If you dig Rushmore and TRT, do yourself a favor and check it out.By the way, I saw this one after Rushmore and Royal Tenenbaums, so it's very fun to go back see where it all started. Kumar never disappoints.Anthony Did you see what he had on?Dignan Yeah, it was pretty cool.Gold. Pure gold.  "},{"Title":"Bob Maplethorpe potential get away driver, GO!!!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bottle Rocket is about a bunch of guys who turn to a life of crime because they don't wanna get regular jobs. These aren't criminal masterminds however they are best described as lovable morons. This movie is loaded with sharp and witty dialogue. Luke and Owen Wilson are 2 of my favorite actors and since this movie have definately gone on to great things. Robert Musgrave as Bob Maplethorpe the spoiled rich kid is the best character in the movie surpassing even Anthony and Dignan. People have said the middle part of the movie, the part where they get to hotel, drags on. Personally this is my favorite part of the movie. Anthony and Inez(the hotel maid) relationships is fascinating to watch. He keeps talking to her and following her around even though she doesn't speak english. Funny stuff. The big heist at the end was somewhat unsatisfying. I wanted to see these guys pull it off. None the less Bottle Rocket is a good, small comedy with great characters and memorable lines that will never leave you. ***1/2 out of ****.      "},{"Title":"Interesting, entertaining, and often very funny.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Several friends of mine kept making references to this film, and I saw it because I got tired of missing inside jokes -- and because I'd heard good things about it.While I'm no movie expert, I *have* seen many films and I enjoy a wide range of genres.  I would categorize this film as a quirky independent comedy that's got a lot of sublety to it.  Reading through the reviews, I noticed a few comments like boring, or doesn't live up to its potential, but I don't feel that way.  I found the film thoughtful and thought-provoking, and I don't think I was ever once bored.  Its humor is sometimes overt, sometimes veiled.  I also enjoyed the music, the cinematography (if that's what you call what I'm thinking of), and the editing.The situations and characters are believable to me, even if, at the same time, they aren't; if you know what I mean.  The characters and the situations they get themselves into just sort of draw you in, regardless of how plausible they really are.  I found myself enjoying it quite a bit.This will probably become a top favorite for me (along with Groundhog Day, The Shawshank Redemption, Rain Man, The Hudsucker Proxy, Glory, and Lock, Stock, & Two Smoking Barrels, to mention a few).  I'd definitely recommend it to anyone who asks me.That said, and as others' reviews indicate, it just *isn't* for everyone. It's not so much that they don't get it -- it's just that some people just don't find certain kinds of humor that funny.  That's OK.  Take the risk and give it a shot, because you might really love it.  If not, oh well.IMHO, it's worth seeing more than once, and I don't say that too often. And the ending leaves you thinking -- in an enjoyable kind of way.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It's hilarious, and fun to watch.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"   I'll dig in to this one right away... First off, this is my first time viewing the film and I have already seen Rushmore (director/co-writers second film, this one being his first). I had not been able to find this to rent anywhere up until yesterday, and my interest to see it was at an all time high considering my adoration for Rushmore and heavy anticipation for the creative teams latest, THE ROYAL TENNENBAUMS. I went into this film knowing it was a low budget, indie film, and in that respect it fully delivers. In fact it reminds me how funny and simple films could be. It begins with a successful escape from a Mental Institute where Anthony (Luke Wilson) is staying. The mastermind behind the operation is Anthony's not so bright friend Didnan (Owen Wilson, proving his comedic timing in this film). You'll see why this is funny when you watch the movie, and it sets up the main characters perfectly. Wes Anderson co-wrote the film with Owen Wilson, as well as directed. I absolutely loved Rushmore and would say that it is one of my all time top 10 favorite films...ever! Watching this film was a treat (excuse the use of that word, but it really was). I smiled and laughed at the situations, all spread out and paced perfectly (perhaps a little too slow for others tastes, all depend on how you look at the film). Bottle Rocket is as beuatifully filmed as it is funny. The cinematography really helped this simple story develop and added depth to the situations. For example, the bookstore robbery scene, in which everything looks vacant...really vacant. You'll know what I mean, and why this scene works when you watch the movie. So watch it! There's also the introduction of James Caan's character, whose presence I seemed to find distracting at first more then anything else, but there is a pay off, and his low-key performance was right on. The dialogue is hilarious, and all the characters in this film have great chemistry. It's no wonder the director used many of them again in his latest efforts. I also enjoyed the odd romance build-up for Anthony, and it showed that the director truly enjoyed the subject matter since he went on to explore it further, and with much more importance in Rushmore. All in all this film follows a simple narrative leading to simple pay offs. The pace serves the story and its characters. These are people that just want to talk and live and do...something...anything. So they rob. It's hilarious, and fun to watch. I recommend you see it if your a fan of the creative teams present work. If not you should probably give these movies another chance.  "},{"Title":"True Gem of a Comedy","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first effort of the Wes Anderson/Owen Wilson writing duo, this movie gets better and better each time I watch it (I've seen it 10+ times).  But be aware that you need to watch it more than once to really enjoy it (in that way similar, in my opinion, to the Big Lebowski).The absurdity of the plight Owen's character Dignan to become a small-time criminal and his efforts to bring Luke into his machinations are priceless.Superb performance by both the Wilson brothers, as well as relative unknown Robert Musgrave (at least unknown to me).  I'd highly recommend this movie to any lover of comedies and those of us with small dreams that seem large to us. "},{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i wsa introduced to this by a friend who said it was his favorite movie so i rented it and was blown away. the first time i missed a lot of dialogue but caught it later, and died laughing, now i own and all the guys in my hall at school quote it daily.  truly a classic along with other owen wilson/wes anderson movies. "},{"Title":"you can't hate wes anderson..","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  but it is also a bit difficult to love his work.  he is pleasantly naive and you can always relate to his characters..  but maybe that is precisely where the boredom lies.  slightly amusing and his humor is very natural and impressive but nothing incredibly captivating.  i am very interested in anderson, and i will keep a close eye on his career, but this slow-paced film will never warrant a second viewing.  that is not to say that you should not see it; you should, because he offers something absent from other sophisticated films, wit that is never narcissistic but it rather inviting in its ease and commonality.  i absolutely love the scene between anthony and his young sister when she cynically asks, what is going to happen to you anthony? and vexed with her cynicism at such a young age he replies, what kind of question is that???!  ah, he has the realism and the plot but if only he could make his films a little more entertaining then he could make one helluva film.  and his career is young yet and i am sure that he will someday. "}{"Title":"Brilliant Film-Making","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bottle Rocket is a wonderful film that will bring a smile to your face. Prior to creating RUSHMORE, Wes Anderson created this character-driven comedy that has a place among my favorite all-time films.The characters are marvelous (Dignan is one of the best ever), the soundtrack is perfect, and the acting and writing make this a MUST-SEE. The framing in Anderson's movies is superb. This is great film. Go get it!9/10 "},{"Title":"Best I Have Seen So Far","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie on IFC on cablevision in NY and never have I seen something so funny. I think the best 3 lines in that movie are Driver, whats our ETA?, 730, ExcellentCheck out this movie.... "},{"Title":"Quirky by itself is not enough","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I looked forward to this movie because of the comments of a review in print. As the plot unfolded, It began to suck me in and I anticipated the payoff. However, I can't help but feel that the potential this film showed in the first half is unrealized. While I appreciate the character development and the entertaining aspect of their quirkiness, the second half of the film , instead of gathering momentum as a snowball rolling downhill, it kind of just peters out and leaves me with the feeling of unrealized potential. I classify it as another indie film made by someone that had the connections to go ahead with a film that was turned down by the major studios. And the result is in this case they were right. There were a lot of good ideas there but the execution fell flat. "},{"Title":"One minute it's running like a top, the next it's broken on the side of the road!","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bottle rocket is such a great great film. In a time where comedys are dumbing down to the lowest common digit just to keep the highschool jocks in the theater Bottle Rocket takes the high road, or dry road. The characters in this movie are people you run into everyday... Dignan the man with the plan but neither the intelligence or enough help from his friends to pull it off. This guy needs to be in a sequel. Every movie I see Owen in I still feel Dignan right below the surface. Luke as Anthony is perfect for the straight-arrow realistic man. The soundtrack is fantastic (pulling out an old classic from love scores many points) But overall the story of someone just trying to live out their dream whether it is being a rock star, or movie star, or in this case a robber... and not getting what they want out of it in the end... We've all been there and it's time to sit and laugh with some folks who have really been there. "},{"Title":"Fun movie, endearing characters....","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this lighthearted crime story. The cast in this film really enchanted me to endear the characters and their dream chasing lives. This is a fun, well written comedy about two dreamers and a guy with the car who attempt to make their big break into organized crime. Rich characters and smart comic delivery make this a favorite of mine. "},{"Title":"Its Wes...","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to be fair.  Wes Anderson has a fresh style.  Both Bottle Rocket and Rushmore are entertaining, smart films.  But the bottom line is the characters in his films bore me.  I sit there, impressed with his direction and writing (with Owen Wilson), yet I sit there waiting for the movie to end.  It is easy for me to get up and get a sandwich in middle of either of his films.  Perhaps it is analogous to walking around the Uffizi. Are you taken by Hans Memling or Antonio Allegri? Or does 16th century religious iconography bore you to tears?  Basically my boredom is not Anderson's fault.  Bottle Rocket and Rushmore have many memorable scenes and some fantastic dialogue but Repo Man entertained me more than either of them.  Sad isn't it...I blame society. "},{"Title":"The Wilson Brothers will make you laugh","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Owen and Luke Wilson take the screen for about 2 hours with a sort of different kinda humour.  I cant really describe the humour in this movie but for some reason it makes me laugh.  The film also features James Caan, who has a short role as Mr. Henry.  Anyway the film takes place after Anthony(Luke) is let out of a mental hospital.  He and his friend(Owen)then basically go around and do nothing productive, untill the end.I still cant understand why i like this movie so much but for some reason i loved it. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes movies that dont require hollywood rules.  "},{"Title":"A rave for Anderson's beautiful and innocent film.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some people say that Bottle Rocket is Tarantinoesque, but in truth Wes Anderson could not be more the anti-Tarantino.  He shuns irony and hipness, and has a compassion for his characters that is reminiscent of Nicholas Ray or Leo McCarey, and a deft touch that is somewhat like Lubitsch.  Bottle Rocket is a beautiful work of touching comedy that rests its unblinking gaze on its characters, who are as flawed and ridiculous as we all can be, yet there is little doubt that Anderson loves all of them.  His carefully (and practically) composed framing of the visuals suggests a world of its own--not the Texas we know, but a Texas in another dimension, seen through the eyes of love.Isn't it strange and beautiful how Anderson makes his films multicultural events without drawing attention to them?  Bottle Rocket and Rushmore have Asian characters, white characters, black characters, Latino characters--yet its done so skillfully that you only notice that they are people, not ethnicities.  Bottle Rocket suggests a vision of a world untouched by hatred, except on the very edges, where the core of a universe is one of honesty and compassion. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most innocent genuine comedy ever made.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the finest movies I have ever seen, the first of hopefully many from this talented group of actors and director. Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson work wonderful magic together, as can be seen on this film and their next, Rushmore. If anybody hasn't seen this film yet, you owe to it to yourself to see it tonight. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most innocent genuine comedy ever made.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the finest movies I have ever seen, the first of hopefully many from this talented group of actors and director. Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson work wonderful magic together, as can be seen on this film and their next, Rushmore. If anybody hasn't seen this film yet, you owe to it to yourself to see it tonight. "}{"Title":"Great portrayal of mediocrity","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sure, I enjoyed Rushmore better, but this was still a very enjoyable film for me.  I love Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson's focus on underachievers; it's very refreshing, honest, and sincere.  The people in this movie aren't glamorous movie stars with perfect bodies and sharp minds, but at the same time they're not depressingly unmotivated drug addicts either; they're utterly mediocre individuals and are very interesting because of it.  In particular, Owen Wilson's character is very interesting because, although he is a total underachiever, he thinks he is destined for great things--and rather than ridiculing him, like a conventional comedy may have done, the filmmakers have chosen instead to sympathize with him, or at least to portray him in an unbiased light.  In other words, he's depicted as a human being rather than a comic relief device.  All the characters in the film are very humorous, but they never feel like they're just funny factories that churn out one pre-fabricated joke after another without having any personality or emotional complexity.As with Rushmore, the soundtrack to this movie is awesome.If you like films with strong plots that really motivate the story, though, you might not like this.  I thought the movie was more of a character study or a road trip story than a film with a definite message or purpose. "},{"Title":"A path where righteousness and trust is a must.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hi said Dignan, Fired from the Lawn Wranglers I was. Don't say anything to anyone. All I must do is pull a job. Please help me Anthony and Bob So the robbed a bookstore,and left with bags of money galore. Full of joy was Dignan. At last he had begun. His 75 year plan was working at last, so all three friends had a blast. A motel in New Mexico was their destination,but what happened next was anyone's imagination. Anthony fell in love with the maid Inez, leaving Dignan in state of complete daze. Bob had a brother called Futureman, trouble with the cops had put him in a lurch. So Bob took off with his car leaving the friendly perch. We learn said Anthony, that crime does not pay! And so the 75 year plan had gone astray. Inez declined to leave town with Anthony, so he gave her all of their money. Now that ticked off Dignan to the boot, he thought, Anthony doesn't care a hoot. They parted angrily and separate routes they took. But friends always remain friends, always ready to make amends. No matter what happens , in the end they remain friends.(P.S. for more email me)  "},{"Title":"YES!  Now that's what I call a movie!","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the print ads, I had a feeling this was going to be something special, but I wasn't expecting it to be this good.  If you had opened up my mind and seen what kind of movie I wanted, it would look like this.  Bottle Rocket makes me happy.  It receives my highest recommendation, 20 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Shades of Rushmore","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you found yourself laughing out loud watching Rushmore, then undoubtedly you'll be interested in what Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson cut their comedic teeth on. 1996's Bottle Rocket is a tight and funny package that shows more-than-obvious structural bonds to their hilarious 1998 followup -- from the smart banter between characters, right down to the Mark Mothersbaugh xylophone-and-sleigh-bells score. And while Rocket may not be as crisp and consistent as Rushmore, it's still quite a rewarding experience. Brothers Owen and Luke Wilson are a quality tandem for a movie of this style as simple and quirky dimwits, and are strewn in among a whole list of good characters (Robert Musgrave as Bob is a standout). Definately a good, solid piece of work. Not great (Rushmore), but good (Bottle Rocket). "},{"Title":"Exceptional film","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't add much more adulation than has previously been given to this film. My only real comment is to watch for the Wilson brother's and Wes Anderson's other films. I'm certain another gem like this film will arrive in the future. "},{"Title":"Pure genius, and my absolute favorite movie of all time.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, I'm going to get on my soap box here, because this is my favorite movie, and not nearly enough people have seen it.  I don't even know where to begin...Written by Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson, directed by Anderson -- this is the same team that brought you Rushmore.  If you liked Rushmore at all, do yourself a favor and go rent Bottle Rocket.  The humor in Bottle Rocket is even more subtle than Rushmore, if that's possible.Like Rushmore, it's as much a character study as a story.  The leads are deep and genuine, but not complex.  They have simple desires, the most overriding of them being to do something, and do it together.The movie is quirky and eccentric, but it's not overdone.  It doesn't force itself on you as a quirky film at all.  There are no pop culture references -- these characters are just off in their own world, which is perfectly natural to them, and the viewer. Owen Wilson is great as Dignan.  His childlike ambition becomes honorable. Anthony Wilson is excellent as the true, quiet leader of the group.  Bob Musgrave (no relation) is perfect as the lackey.The humor is so subtle and ironic that it will take several times to catch it all.  I didn't come to love this movie until I had seen it two or three times.  One of the most amazing things about it, is that there are no wasted lines in the movie.  Every single line has some significance, some underlying irony, or is downright hilarious.  That's rare.  It brings to mind Max Fischer's line in Rushmore when he's directing the play Don't say it didn't matter.  Every line matters! or something to that effect.The actors are perfect, the settings are perfect, the colors are perfect, the music is perfect.  It's amazing how Anderson must have truly had everyone involved in the movie on the same page.  Everyone, including Mark Mothersbaugh of Devo fame, who was responsible for the music, 'gets' it.  It makes for a brilliant movie.Do yourself a favor and go rent this movie now.  Watch it, and don't give up on it.  As long as you are tuned in to this type of humor, watch it again. More will come out the second time around.  Once you know the ending and get a feel for the characters, its so much fun to go back and watch them again. The first time I watched it, I really just got a feel for the movie.  Each additional time, I was already tuned in to the kind of humor it presents, and it just gets better and better. "},{"Title":"A brilliant, subtle crime comedy","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When my friends first suggested we rent Bottle Rocket, I was totally opposed to the idea.  The movie just looked bad.  But, they rented it anyway, and we sat down to watch.  As the movie unfolded, I couldn't believe how offbeat and hilarious it was.  There is so much in this movie that repeat viewings are necessary just to get everything, like when Bob Mapelthorpe is talking to Anthony in the car, and drives right through a stop sign.  If you blink, you miss it, but Anthony's response is just so perfectly timed and the sound effects so well placed that it's a drop dead hilarious moment.  All of the actors give solid performances, especially Owen C. Wilson, who co-wrote the film along with the director.  His portrayal of Dignun is perfect-vulnerable and childlike in his obsession of becoming a criminal mastermind.  From it's opening frame to the hilarious robbery sequence, Bottle Rocket is a film that I'll always treasure.  And Rushmore is even better. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Comedy","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is probably one of the most brilliantly written comedies of the nineties. Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson are excellent writers. The Wilson brothers are all hilarious. This movie is a must for anyone who likes comedies. I also recommend the Wes Anderson movie Rushmore. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but slow in the middle.","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Entertaining, dialogue driven movie.  Very subtle humor.  Owen Wilson is very good in this film.  The beginning is very entertaining, but the movie slows down for the second third of the movie, but it picks up again.  To enjoy this movie, you must pay attention to it. "},{"Title":"Yes. Always!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this is the best movie I have ever seen. When this movie came out I saw one preview before it was out of theaters and that scene in the cold storage warehouse (What are you doing here? You're always at lunch now! - Not always. - Yes. Always!) was what drew me to look for it on video. It is true that not everyone who sees it will like it, but to those few I say - give it time. Someday it will become very clear what is so perfect about a movie as great as this one.      "}{"Title":"Great film","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bottle Rocket is the perfect film to watch if you're feeling alone or depressed, because the main characters are more than likely worse off than you are. It's a little gem of a movie, one of the best independent features I've ever seen. It has no explosions or car chase scenes--it's a cheaply made but effective film that is often amusing at times and contains great performances throughout. Check out the memorable quotes because they really are memorable. "},{"Title":"A different kind of feel-good movie.","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"     This was the most original feel-good movie that I've seen in quite some time. Bottle Rocket is a nice flick for anyone who is a big fan of good dialogue and satire. When watching this movie, I got the feeling that I was watching some sort of improvisation exercise at a drama class. While Luke Wilson gives a decent performance in the lead role, it's Owen Wilson who I was highly impressed with. His role as Dignun was a character who seemed to be missing some bricks in the building, but had an interesting form of intelligence that became appealing.    While the movie is really enjoyable for a while, the satire starts to become too much. It's hard to not keep from having a strong desire to ask yourself why you're watching this movie. Like in most feel-good movies, it's hard to keep rooting for a character who continuously has bad luck. James Caan is an excellent addition to this movie and gives it a badly needed jump start 2/3 the way through, but by that time, you pretty much don't care about the movie anymore. I gave it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ambitious","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Everything about Bottle Rocket was ambitious.  The film making was ambitious, the characters were ambitious. While I can't say this was a religious experience, Bottle Rocket was a good independent film, and I do recommend it.  I was lucky it was on IFC, but I plan on renting it again just to catch the dialogue.  The way that the characters take their crimes so seriously is so fun to watch.  Everyone seemed to be playing pretend, almost.  When Dignan talks about his plans for a heist, you almost wonder when mom is going to call him in for supper.  I truly enjoyed the acting of everyone, especially the Wilsons.  I have a problem with the way Luke Wilson delivers his lines, he's effective and believable enough, but there is something in his speech patterns that annoys me.  Anyway, I also enjoyed the music in this film! Every song seemed to hit the right mood- especially when Anthony and Ines are together. I thought some parts dragged on a little but it was worth it to catch the themes in this movie- the difference between the reality of Futureman and his friends, and the reality of the gang. Some of  the best movie lines were in Bottle Rocket. He said to me, 'Even though you are a F**k up, you're still my brother.' That touched me  or when James Caan says (more or less) I hope you aren't offended when I say, your brother's a C**kSucker. and then everyone in the room laughs.  I plan on telling all of my friends to see Bottle Rocket. "},{"Title":"The fact that it is simple makes it so complex.","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I once had a friend tell me that Bottle Rocket was too simple for him. But in my opinion, the idea that it is simple is what makes it so complex. The humor that is used in this movie is some of the best I have ever seen in a movie.  Not since Fargo have a watched and literally laughed out loud at the uniqueness and occasional stupidity of the characters.  Bottle Rocket have everything ranging from the over anxious pre-thief Dignan too the child-like Bob Maplethorpe potential getaway driver.  When I saw this movie for the first time I actually went out and bought it.  Bottle Rocket is easily on my top 10 list. "},{"Title":"jumpsuit for joy","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  this movie is awesome.  i have not laughed that hard in a long time.  Owen Wilson and Wes Anderson are excellent writers.  you will not be sorry for renting this film.  everything that happens is so bizarre.  from dignan breaking his friend out of the mental hospital, to the final heist it is full of great laughs.  i was already a big Rushmore fan before seeing this and i thought maybe my expectations were too high for bottle rocket.  wrong. it is GREAT! "},{"Title":"wes anderson is in a way....a movie god","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  after watching bottle rocket numerous amounts of times....i thought it was about time to comment on it.  i love bottle rocket...from day one...i awaited andersons next project.  bottle rocket was a breath of fresh air...the comedy was light, the romance was light, and the action was also light...a perfect movie...nothing was overdone, i give it 5/5 though i have to say i enjoyed the commedy in rushmore much more...it was a tad darker; the way i like it "},{"Title":"Exactly","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of my favorite films ever.  A true gem.  The humor is dry, nuanced, and low-key, but I laughed very very hard.  With shades of Catcher in the Rye, the Movie-goer, and the Sportswriter, no film better captures suburban ennui.  People either get this film or they don't.  Those who don't usually turn it off after fifteen minutes.  Those who do tend to worship Bottle Rocket with evangelical fervor.  In any case, this film is worth seeing.  You may find yourself a convert. "},{"Title":"An Outstanding Debut","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I realize all the genres are different, but I'd put Owen Wilson & Wes Anderson's debut film in the same class as Citizen Kane, The Producers and Reservoir Dogs.A very funny and offbeat film from beginning to end.  Our 3 anti-heroes take us on a wild and, sometimes thought provoking, road trip from the law. And Dignan (played by Owen Wilson), the groups leader, steals the movie with his unique perceptions of life and crime.A great cameo by James Caan, playing the criminal mastermind Mr. Henry, and his gang (Kumar & Applejack) make the big heist of the film one of it's more memorable moments (Who's that man?  Kumar, that's Applejack!).This is a must see for all movie fans and fanatics.  "},{"Title":"Soars","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Quirky little road movies are a dime a dozen; this one works so well because the quirkiness is so freshly realized, the writing so sharp and inventive, and the actors mostly right on target. Brothers Owen and Luke Wilson are screen naturals and I was especially fond of the luminous Lumi Cavazos (bringing depth and intelligence to a fairly standard love interest role) and the sweet natured Donny Caicedo(bringing subtle humor and a big heart to another role that could have been a throwaway); actors who deserve to be seen again. "},{"Title":"A debut that tops even _Reservoir Dogs_ and _Blood Simple_.","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Shades of Catcher in the Rye and On the Road permeate this masterful debut from Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson, sort of a_Badlands_ redone as a revisionist comedy.  Anthony (Luke Wilson) has dropped out of college and his posh lifestyle to find himself and travel down the road to maturity with his chronic screw-up friends Dignan (Owen Wilson) and Bob (Robert Musgrave). Together, they pursue Dignan's lifelong dream- to become career criminals. Don't mistake this as one of those smartass, pop ironic, too cool for school post-Tarantino pieces of eternal film school dreck. Anderson and co. pull off something much more daring, a genuine, lived in film that shows a genuine affection for its characters. For all of its lightness, this is a major, multi-leveled achievment, one of the very best films of its year, surpassing even _Fargo_. And the final heist sequence is a bravura achievement, on the level of the fireworks scene in _Boogie Nights_.  Of course, now even this feels like a warm up to the monumental _Rushmore_  "}{"Title":"A FILM FOR ODDBALLS","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'D  RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE TO EVERY PERSON WHO IS A MOVIE JUNKIE. DIRECTOR WES ANDERSON USES THIS ODD BALL TALE TO EXPRESS THE VALUES OF FRIENDSHIP, LOYALTY, AND DREAMING. THE SENSE OF HUMOR IN THIS FILM IS SO SUBTLE THAT IT WILL HAVE YOU LAUGHING EVEN MORE THE NEXT TIME YOU SEE IT. BOTTLE ROCKET GETS FUNNIER EACH TIME I WATCH IT. FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO WATCH THE MOVIE AND DON'T SEE THE HUMOR IN IT THEN YOU SHOULD PROBABLY STICK TO WATCHING YOUR SLAP STICK COMEDIES. FOR THOSE OF YOU LOVE IT...SPREAD THE WORD. ON THE RUN FROM JOHNNY LAW, AIN'T NO TRIP TO CLEVELAND. "},{"Title":"beginning of an era","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For me, MTV has never been much of a cultural beacon.  So it was quite a surprise when, as I was flipping through the channels, I caught them presenting Wes Anderson with an award for best new director.  At this time, back in 1996, I was but a promising but aimless high school student with a vague notion of what I might do in college.  Sometime later I found Bottle Rocket in a video store and gave it a try.  What happened then can only be described as a religious experience.  That was the day I knew I would major in film.  Though this film may be too low profile to have any more than the most subtle of impacts on the industry, I think that future films by this Anderson/Wilson team will change the face of comedy.  The likes of the Farrelly brothers will find themselves in straight-to-video B-movie hell before long.  I guess you could call me an optimist.  "},{"Title":"Funny, funny, funny...","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Anyone I've ever recommended this movie to has loved it.  It's understated moments are what make it such a gem.  Anyone who saw Owen Wilson in Armaggedon or The Cable Guy will appreciate 90 minutes of him in Bottle Rocket.   The three would-be gangsters have moments of physical comedy brillance that Trey Parker and Matt Stone would dream of.  "},{"Title":"A fairly uninteresting film with occasional peak moments of interest","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wes Anderson tends to be hit or miss for me. I love Moonrise Kingdom and Fantastic Mr. Fox, they both had a unique style, great performances, and well-written stories. Other times, I won't like his films such as The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou where the humor didn't work for me and most of the film lacked much of an actual plot. Nearly the same goes for Bottle Rocket, his first film. Digan (Owen Wilson) rescues (but not really, he was getting out anyway) Anthony (Luke Wilson) from a psychiatric unit and Digan shows his plan of being involved in heists and building an entire life plan from there. The entire movie doesn't actually have much of a plot. In fact, it reminded me of a movie like Slacker directed by Richard Linklater, except unlike Slacker, this movie involved all of the same characters being involved in conversations about a whole lot of nothing where as Slacker involved multiple people in random conversations.Owen and Luke Wilson definitely play there roles with some charisma and are fairly entertaining but the writing itself&#x85;is just kind of boring. The humor was lacking. I laughed here and there but it wasn't very often. And besides that, the plot is still so unbelievably empty. Barely anything happens up until the last 10 minutes which are arguably the most entertaining part of the film. The enjoyment of this film really depends on if you like the dialogue. For me, it kept me uninterested most of the time except the occasional peak moments of humor and the charisma from the actors. Spiced throughout the film, you notice Anderson's beginnings of his style from his music choices, some of his camera choices, amongst other things which was nice to see as a fan of some of his movies. Overall, I'd consider this a film a bit of a disappoint but I can't say I full-on hated it, it was an oddly relaxing film to watch, maybe due to its simplicity even if it is much too simple. "},{"Title":"Sweet entertainment, but not very funny","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Wilsons have their typical roles/characters losers with big mouth, neurotic actions and unrealistic hopes. You start to feel sorry for them in many ways as - in spite of being small-scale crooks - they are not mean or evil. Small people try to do something big and solve their problems, but they create additional ones in turn - and for others as well.The plot has its interesting twists, the developments are quite slow - and do not expect to have good laughs. In some ways, it reminded me several Woody Allen's movies. Not so deep and profound, but more interesting, however. "},{"Title":"Maybe I just didn't get the point of this film, but Bottle Rocket pretty much bored me.","Date":"7 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket is a movie I rented, due to everyone's raving over this film, and how it was such a cult classic. Well I watched it all, and I have to say I was highly disappointed. Nothing much happens in the film at all, giving me humor, that I didn't find particularly funny. I do like the Wilson brothers actually, I think they are both quite talented. It's just I couldn't really relate to them very much. Both of them are in there 20's, yet they are out robbing things? and even going as far as to do a heist, together?. The film is very low key, often too low key for my liking. I would often look at the clock, to see when this would end. I don't really remember much about Bottle Rocket, frankly I'm glad I don't.Performances. The Wilson's have charisma together, but they can only do so much with how there characters are written.Bottom Line. Bottle Rocket, certainly Doesen't take off like one, if you ask me. It's really quite a boring movie, that disappointed me heavily. Maybe I just didn't get it.5/10 "},{"Title":"Bottle Rocket Explodes with Excitement","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you are looking for a good movie to watch on a Friday night, look no further. Just to see Owen Wilson with his hair cut short, and his brother Luke together, this is the movie for you. One of the first Frat Pack films to be made, it was 1996, and the Wilson's along with Wes Anderson pulled it off.Owen has done some great acting in this film, as well as the rest of the cast, including the great James Caan. He plays a guy that once fired Owen's character, and then befriends the group, then robs them blind. It is really a great film, and is one that is sure to be a classic. Wes Anderson's direction is splendidly awesome! "},{"Title":"great","Date":"18 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie has all three Wilson brothers. what more do I need to say? the acting is great, the movie is hilarious, and it's one of those that you can keep watching over and over again.also, this is one of the very few movies, besides the coveted church ball, that andrew Wilson plays a big part in. some people think he's not as good as his brothers. i think differently. futureman shows the raw Wilson potential coming out in all of the brothers. being the first wes anderson movie, you can see where a lot of his filming tendencies came from; such as the normal-to-slow motion ending shot and the underwater view of characters. shield me from the bullets! they won't shoot civilians! "},{"Title":"funny but carelessly made","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" too many continuity and other mistakes in addition to everything on the list here I wonder why there's a police car with flashing lights in the residential neighborhood sitting in front of Bob's parents' house right after the three guys robbed the bookstore? Interestingly it's only there on one or two shots visible through the window, a minute later it's completely gone. Did the film crew forget to send the police away in time before they started shooting?! Very puzzling scene.other than that it is funny, mostly in the dialogs, rarely slapstick nonsense, so i understand that some people don't find it funny at all - the jokes are in the plot and the dialogs. it's convincing although it starts pretty ridiculous that the psychiatrist doesn't have a problem letting him out through the window. the end is surprising too. "},{"Title":"Humor, innovation, adventure and originality","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The teaming of the talented Wilson brothers and the illustrious Wes Anderson was a new idea in the mid-nineties, borne out of youthful exuberance, fresh ideas, and long-standing camaraderie. Bottle Rocket was essentially an independent experiment with such subtle humor that it is not received well by all audiences. The brilliance of this picture lies in its undertones, and that does not sit well for people who want immediacy, scatological humor, and famous actors. Sure, they were able to secure James Caan as the ridiculous, kung fu fighting crime boss, but Owen and Luke were unknown, and almost unrecognizable to their current Hollywood characters. This movie is so funny I bought it twice, after I loaned it to a friend who never returned the DVD. It is replete with layers of comedy, unforgettable quotes, and Anderson's signature direction, before it was replicated and mimicked by followers. Admittedly, this film is not technically as superior as the Royal Tenenbaums or maybe even Rushmore. However, it is the bare bones production that make the comedic performances in this film so apparently superior.If you see this film once and don't catch what everyone is talking about, watch it one or two more times and listen carefully. The next time, you may hear Dignan say, Okay. There, you see the star is me, right there, and I'll be in there. The X is Anthony. Bob, you're the zero out here in the car. "}{"Title":"Yellow Jumpsuits","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is Wes Anderson's 1st feature length film. In 1994 a short version of bottle rocket was released, something which i have not seen but plan too. There are a number of things that Wes Anderson does with his films that don't necessarily force people to guffaw and shriek with laughter, but rather invites the audience to appreciate intelligent dry humour. Because that is essentially what it is and what makes it even more appealing, is the fact that it's all tightly wrapped up in outrageous plots, sets and costume design. (a deep sea adventure movie, a family of geniuses, a revenge high school drama, matching scuba suits, red Adidas tracksuits and of course those yellow jumpsuits).Bottle Rocket is Simply put...Brilliant. The Wilson Brothers are masters in their own right both playing off each others strengths. Owen the typical high octane overambitious rascal while Luke is the more sombre detuned unsure character just following footsteps. The script is pretty much flawless with Anderson and O.Wilson harmonising perfectly and sides with a typical Anderson soundtrack.I urge everyone to check out this mans work, even if its not your kind of thing. People say that you either end up loving or hating it, which may be true but at the end of the day it all comes down to entertainment. If people can't get a kick out of a scuba team decked out in synchronized outfits or an obsessive father and his track-field children, all the while making it look serious then i don't know the meaning of funny.All i can say is Sign me up for one of those jumpsuits! "},{"Title":"Hilarity","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was great. I didn't expect much since it was early in all of their careers (Anderson, the Wilsons) but DAMN it was too funny. The character of Dignan was too too great (Played by Owen). The situations were perfect, nothing overplayed, all believable. I loved this movie, it was better than the Royal Tenenbaums. Dignan interacting with just anyone was great. From his attempt to steal a car with an unaltered coat hanger to his first robbery interacting with the workers, pure genius. The other characters were good as well. Luke bringing the love interest into the movie and a mutual friend who is rich off his parents, its like they are all a bunch of mid twenties kids interacting. This movie shows that age doesn't mean maturity and dreams are always accessible. "},{"Title":"Good acting, bad script.","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket is not a bad film, but it is a disappointing film. The movie is solidly made; good directing, especially considering this was Wes Anderson's freshman outing, excellent acting all around, especially Owen Wilson in his screen debut, and a nice look, visually, but it suffers from a pointless script. The dialog is fine and frequently fun and quirky, but the entire script was pointless and meandering. It had no direction or objective and had constant implausible situations (e.g.) they allow civilians into the yard to visit prisoners in a state pen? It would have been nice to have spent more time developing the characters and finding out why they are the way they are, the thing that makes The Godfather so superb. I understand that this is a film about slackers, but the stakes were so low and so poorly executed that I didn't follow it, didn't buy it or didn't care. The movie The Full Monty had a similar basis and executed the idea superbly, so I don't feel it was that I didn't get it. It is a pity because this movie has real potential. It is a fairly good watch so far as it is original and witty, but do not expect to follow any type of cohesive story, because there isn't one. Slight spoiler Like the subplot of the lead's affair with the maid, it is beautifully executed, but it goes nowhere.After watching Bottle Rocket I was left feeling like I had just eaten just one small hamburger at a drive in. It was good, but where's the beef? "},{"Title":"Don't go out of your way to see it","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket started off strong, with some big laughs, believable character interaction and amusing heists but seemed to lose its energy around the middle, with slow spots popping up everywhere. By the end of it, I wasn't horribly satisfied, but I didn't regret watching it. Owen Wilson plays a different, more angry / pathetic character than in most of his other movies, and his attempts with Luke Wilson to be criminals were a blast to watch. But somewhere along the line, it just became less interesting, with an unnecessary bully character who added little to the story, and a love story that got kind of annoying. Overall, it's not a terrible movie, but I wouldn't advise you to go out of your way to see it. "},{"Title":"What a brilliant film.","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film does not have the whole finished, polished Wes Anderson look that is evident in 'The Royal Tenembaums' or 'The Life Aquatic' but, you can certainly see the basis of what he develops to a further extent in Rushmore.The film was hilarious, although I had not expected it to be so as it was Wes Anderson's first film and it was slated (or so I hear) by the press. The whole mood of the film is almost surreal and the use of landscape offers effective shots which catch the viewer's eye.Interesting, too is Owen Wilson's first appearance and this also makes the film enjoyable as he is, from the first scene, excellent. "},{"Title":"like a fine wine","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" simply stated, this is my favorite movie. ever.wes anderson's attention to detail and penchant for subtle humor hold me captivated every time i hit the play button. this movie is not for everyone, however. if you are a fan movies such as dude wheres my car or scary movie, this is a comedy that will most likely leave you thinking when is the funny part going to happen? Luke and owen Wilson and james caan are great in the film. but owen Wilson owns his character so much its quite incredible.if you've ever enjoyed another wes anderson movie or if you are a fan of subtle humor, or if you like off the wall movies about growing up and awkward romance, i very VERY highly recommend bottle rocket. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic--Must See","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" So, you consider yourself an Owen and Ian Wilson fan. You've seen Old School. You've seen Zolander. You may have even seen The Royal Tenenbaums. But, have you seen Bottlerocket? Chances are good you've missed this cult classic. Irony, well executed comedy, subtlety-- that's what this movie has, that every great comedy has, but has been missing from nearly every comedy in the past five years. Remember the time when you could go back and watch a movie again and find more funny things you missed the last time? This is one of those movies. It demonstrates the talent of Wes Anderson, the Wilson Brothers, and really everyone involved in the movie. Go rent it, and watch it with your buds "},{"Title":"Watch this movie twice...","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" because you won't be able to pick up all the subtle but hilarious nuances in this film in one viewing. For instance, Dignan running the stop sign was something hilarious I didn't notice the first 2 times I saw this. Now I know that you have to be in the right mood to enjoy this, and that some people may never appreciate it, (oh, and it has a slow middle for about 15 minutes) but if you do watch this movie twice you won't be able to say that it's bad. Damn,10lines huh? Well OK, the quotes from this movie alone are enough to warrant a viewing. And don't worry if you don't like Owen Wilson, he's not over the top in this like he usually is. Highlights of the film include Kumar the lock-pick and the climax with the heist playing to The Rolling Stones 2000 Man. - You are in the army, yes? - No I just have short hair. "},{"Title":"Wes Anderson's debut is a delight!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't have the words to express how much feeling I have for Bottle Rocket. Bottle Rocket is a movie that I'm sure is sentimental to a lot of people. Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson's superb writing style is first sampled in this debut film from the original director. Anderson crafts charming characters such as Dignan, Anthony Adams, Inez, etc. This movie may be considered light hearted yet it still touches real life emotions such as love, friendship, loyalty, and insanity. In the opening of Bottle Rocket we learn Anthony Adams is in a voluntary mental institution. This is where we first get a sense of the hilarity that is Dignan. Dignan devises a master plan to free Anthony from the mental home. It is in the first scene we learn Dignan does not have such a high mental capacity but is dedicated, caring, and loves to scheme things. Throughout the film we meet memorable characters along the way. Even James Caan as Mr. Henry. The movie is filled with jokes and quotable lines from Dignan, mainly. Also the love story within Bottle Rocket is one of the key factors that makes it so dear to me. Anthony falls for a cleaning maid at a hotel he and his cohorts hide at after a bookstore robbery. The end climax is brilliant. Dignan, Anthony, Bob, Mr. Henry, Applejack, and Kumar attempt to burglarize Hinckley Cold Storage. This is where we get the classic They'll never catch me because I'm f------ innocent I can't help but smile throughout this whole movie. It shows the dedication and desire to make a picture about someone's dreams. Wes shows his aptitude as a director in several ways such as in the acting, the flow of the movie, writing, techniques etc. Wes develops a lot of his trademarks here. Fueled by an awesome score by Mark Mothersbaugh and an unforgettable soundtrack with such musicians as The Rolling Stones, Love, and The Proclaimers.An unforgettable classic. "},{"Title":"As Good As It Gets...","Date":"18 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wes Anderson's debut film brought something completely fresh to the indie/slacker films of the mid-1990s. While most of its contemporaries wallowed in the lack of motivation and desire in their characters, Bottle Rocket takes the exact opposite approach.The characters all try to define themselves in spite of the basic underlying existential dilemma they all find themselves in how does one do something with their life when everything is essentially meaningless. These are not slackers because they desperately want to make their lives worthwhile, but don't see the opportunity within the structure of today's materialistic bourgeois society. And so they embark on a journey of petty crime and each find their own transcendence For Anthony it is the love of a woman from a complete different culture and set of values; For Bob, it is the love of his brother and ties to his family. Dignan realizes that his own transcendence in a life of crime and adventure is contrived and yet still embraces it, bringing his action at the end of the film to a true act of heroism, not unlike that at the end of the Wild Bunch.What brings all of this together is Anderson's fresh take on the subject. Obviously inspired by Hal Ashby and Mike Nichols early work, Anderson exercises a restraint here that is absent from his subsequent films. There is less contrivance, less use of music as means to show off a new directorial technique. Yes, it is a quirky and off beat world. But unlike the worlds of Rushmore or Tennenbaums, it is at least grounded in some semblance of reality. And I can't help but think that James Brooks, the executive producer, had more than a hand in shaping, at least the emotional content, of the final product. I understand that many people enjoy Wes Anderson's completely constructed universes and find that the more eccentric they are, the more entertaining they are. I personally enjoy it when the form of the film COMPLEMENTS, rather than dictates, its content. There is nothing as off putting to me as when I feel I am watching a director trying to something deliberately cool or quirky just so that we're aware that we're watching something different. Bottle Rocket shows the promise of a very talented young director that has the ability to use an unusual style to bring his world to life. It is unfortunate that he does not seem likely to reign in this style anytime soon. "}{"Title":"Just barely OK","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is really a lot less funny that what I would expect from a funny guy like Owen Wilson... it has few funny jokes, most of the material just falls flat. The gags are also a bit lame, half of the time. It also seems to throw in to much love drama for a supposed comedy. The plot is OK, but the movie goes at such a slow pace that I almost fell asleep out of boredom. It barely entertains at all, using mostly used material. The acting is OK, but nothing special. The humor seems tired and worn out, it rarely gets as much as a smile out of me. It does have a few mildly amusing scenes though, among others, several of the robbery scenes had me laughing a little, at least. The whole romance thing never works when it's worked into the movie as clumsily as it is here. It also seemed so misplaced in this film; it might have worked had it been done with just a little bit more seriousness, in fact, the whole film would have had to have been more serious. Either that, or the romance had to be dumbed down. It just doesn't work well here. I recommend this to fans of Owen Wilson who really love his films, otherwise you probably won't like it much. I know I didn't. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Connections to The Catcher in the Rye","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, let me say this is my favorite movie. But what made it even better was the connections i noticed between this film and the novel The Catcher in the Rye. First of all, Dignan and anthony represent the dual nature of Holden's personality in Catcher. Dignan is idealistic, while anthony is cynical and sarcastic. Secondly, Anthony's red pull-over strongly resonates Holden's red-hunting hat, a symbol of his uniqueness. Thirdly, the way anthony relates to his sister, grace, is eerily similar to the way Holden relates to his sister, Phoebe. (by the way, grace has a friend named Bernice, there is also a character named bernice is Catcher) Fourthly, Holden and Dignan both drink Tom Collins. These points may be more clear with repeated viewing after reading the novel. I encourage anyone who wants to comment on these observations to post a message relating to them. on the road from Johnny Law..It ain't no trip to Cleveland  "},{"Title":"Laugh at the vignettes, search for the plot line","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Introduction/CharactersI rented this film after enjoying Owen Wilson's comedy work in such films as Shanghai Noon and the Royal Tennenbaums. I was hoping to see a few sparks of what became his signature...interesting little bits of humorous, off-beat dialog. For that, I wasn't disappointed. As in SN, you can't help but like his character. Dignan despite the fact he is simply a petty thief. Through he little dialogs and mannerisms, he is almost able to convince you he doesn't mean to do others harm, but is really just seeking a place to be be recognized and to belong.Like his brother, Luke Wilson also shows a little bit of what would come to be his stereotypical role. He plays Anthony, the earnest and honest follower who would rather settle down and find love then get involved in illegal activities. In this role he manages to convince us he only gets involved out of a sense of loyalty, rather than to actually gain anything for himself.I was a bit let down by the Bob character, played by Robert Musgrave. He reminds me of a jelly fish, both in his character and in his acting you see the vague outline of what he is trying to be, but in the end there is very little substance to hang on to. Bob apparently yearns for acceptance by his brother, but ends up looking like a man without a backbone.StoryThe loose plot revolves around the lives of three friends in their attempts to build lives for themselves. Anthony apparently is just looking for someone to love, Dignan is seeking a club to belong to and Bob desires a loving relationship with his brother. Together, they form a little gang with Dignan as the ring-leader.Overall, I was entertained by the various vignettes that make up the movie, but disappointed with the movie as a whole. The overall plot line, if you can call it that, does not really lace the movie together in a tight package. I felt like the conclusion was an afterthought rather than a planned event.ConclusionI can't really recommend this movie. It is awkward and uneven throughout and you come away almost wondering what was the point of this story?. "},{"Title":"interesting but don't watch if tired","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  No matter how many great things you hear about BOTTLE ROCKET, do not watch it if you are tired.  Cause I guarantee you will fall asleep.  As with the other 2 Wes Anderson movies, you have to be in that I've had two cups of coffee and things are now moving really fast type of mood to appreciate the humor.  Not to say, this movie doesn't stand out.  Trust me.  It does.  But just have a 16 oz Dew or something.  ps I would also like to say God bless Wes Anderson for loving the Stones. "},{"Title":"Fails somehow.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw this film, I truly enjoyed all of the original characters involved, and the story itself was also quite creative, but this has all worn a little thin with time.  We now know the Wilson brothers very well, and they play the exact same characters in each film that they participate in, which means that they have absolutely no acting ability.  And then there's director Wes Anderson, who has somehow evolved into the mouth-piece for upper-middle class youth.  He later went on to make painfully boring films that included 70s Folk Rock, painfully eccentric characters and truck loads of pretension.  But back to Bottle Rocket, this film does work on certain levels, and the only thing that really stays afloat is the story of aimless southern bred brats, who haven't any real interest in taking part in the rat race.  And so, they rob...but don't happen to be very successful at it.  Surprisingly, the Wilson brothers manage to bring these characters to life fairly well and the story, which is something that I have been returning to in this review, is highly original. "},{"Title":"Gets old- and runs out of steam too early.","Date":"11 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Even though I'm just not a Wes Anderson fan I was liking this movie at first. However it soon started to become obvious that the movie wasn't heading anywhere and all of its 'jokes' and its light laid back kind of atmosphere was starting to get old and annoying after a while.I like quirky but Wes Anderson is simply always overdoing things. He thinks it is enough to give a character a funny name and let him stare or walk. This still works for about 30 minutes (which much have been the reason I liked the shorter and earlier 1994 version of Bottle Rocket way better) but it starts to get old pretty soon. Especially when nothing else is really happening in its script with its story and characters.This really disappointed me. It's one of those movies that tries to be as simple and realistic as possible, like independent movies often tend to do. Like a random slice of life, except with the problem that it just isn't that interesting to follow for 90 minutes long. It attempts to make even its most crazy events look realistic, which is a part of Wes Anderson his sort of comedy but I would had liked to get some more substance in this case. I just got nothing out of watching this movie.This really feels like a movie that got made by a bunch of student buddies, who went out to shoot a movie. In some way that also really was the case with this movie actually. Wes Anderson, as well as the Owen brothers (who strangely enough don't play brothers in this movie) were basically fresh out of school when they did this movie and it was their first full length production. In that regard you perhaps have to give some respect and credits to this movie. It paved the way for their careers and it's also somewhat fun to see how they haven't really deviated away from their own style, ever since.Good for its first 30 minutes or so but after that it starts to run out of steam fast.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Doesn't explode, yet isn't a dud","Date":"5 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The story of Wes Anderson's Bottle Rocket goes a little something like this. Anderson shot a thirteen minute short film, featuring the three leads of this picture, showed it at Sundance, got the attention of filmmaker James L. Brooks, and he was one of the seven producers on the film adaptation of the short. While a box office failure, the picture launched the reputations of both Luke and Owen Wilson as actors and Wes Anderson has an eclectic director.We are taken to the upper-class Texas suburbs where Dignan (Owen Wilson) breaks his brother Anthony (Wilson) out of a mental hospital, and plan to conduct a series of elaborate heists with their friend Bob (Musgrave). Their goal is to challenge life in suburbia and rebel against the norms of recurring, everyday life. Haven't we heard that before.After they stage a pitiful robbery at a bookstore, the three go on the lam at a hotel. While there, Anthony meets and falls in love with a housekeeper named Ines (Cavazos), and Dignan fears that with Bob's continued incompetence and lack of loyalty, along with Anthony's lovestruck ways that their dreams of being robbers are over.One thing I was immediately impressed with was the warm look Bottle Rocket accompanies throughout its runtime. It's common to have a layer of cynicism in movies, but it seems that Wes Anderson's directorial effort is determined to fine the whimsicality of movies, the softness of their appearance, and the overall genial aspect of film itself. In short, the film always looks crisp and gentle. Not to mention, the actors are all flavorful, with both the Wilson brothers giving rather memorable performances, and the late appearance of James Caan is a pretty nice addition to the film.Though some marginally convincing performances, warmth, and identifiable whimsicality can not entirely elevate a picture, and that is where Anderson's Bottle Rocket flounders. It's so thin and trudges through its ninety minute runtime at a sluggish pace. The dialog scenes are nice, but rather uninvolving, as we learn that these characters truly have no motives of robbing random places other than to be difficult and stand out. As a whole, the film starts off slow, becomes vaguely amusing for a brief amount of time, before the experience ends and the whole thing is quickly forgotten. Sort of like a bottle rocket itself.Starring Luke Wilson, Owen Wilson, Robert Musgrave, Lumi Cavazos, and James Caan. Directed by Wes Anderson. "},{"Title":"Awful! Do yourself a favor and don't waste your time","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I wish there was a zero rating available for this movie. Never before has an IMDb rating let us down so badly! It was a total waste of the 40 minutes I forced myself to watch it before giving up. The movie can be summed up as an inane day in the mundane and mediocre life of a bunch of 20 something loser guys. Nothing much happens in the movie. You have to wonder if characters like these really exist in the real world. Pathetic and pitiful if they do. Argghhh! ... Sorry I'd even endure a slap stick comedy over this any day. I guess this is the archetypal example for not blindly trusting IMDb ratings. Avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"Wes Anderson's Early Meanders","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket is a mid-1990s indie film about a few quirky, mostly directionless 20 year old men who end up in a caper involving residential lawn care.This was the first film made by the assuredly brilliant, eminently (by now) accomplished Wes Anderson. Viewers expecting the same bottled madcap magic Anderson would later deliver in Rushmore, The Royal Tennenbaums, and The Life Aquatic  . . . will not find much here.Anderson critics building their cases against disappointments like The Darjeeling Limited will find in this film the seeds of the auteur's excesses sometimes getting the better of his projects. Combining the talents of Owen Wilson and James Caan with some (much) lesser lights, the film is amply kitted out with dynamic actors. But those actors are not given much of a story to tell. Rather, the film unfolds almost as if Anderson was out to prove he could make a film that doesn't try to do storytelling. And for the record, is this a comedy we are watching, or a Somerset Maugham homage, an existential commentary we should wanly smile at and droll along with? "},{"Title":"Unforgettable","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Because I enjoyed The Grand Budapest Hotel so much, I decided to go back to Wes Anderson and check him out some more. So I went all the way back to his first directorial debut (not counting something short done before) and was pleasantly surprised. Just as I expected, back than at the age of 26 he didn't have all the financial background he can command today and yes, it does look like it was done on a shoe-string budget but at the same time it bursts with youthful energy, enthusiasm and absolutely endearing earnestness. Basically ignored by industry back than, Bottle Rocket was made by bunch of friends and it is about bunch of friends, sweet gentle losers who decide to turn to life of crime and adventure (they have plan for the next 75 years). The problem is, they are not really so dangerous or brutal, these are just three naive guys who can hardly have a conversation without getting into arguments and fights with each other. Luke Wilson and Robert Musgrave just tag along behind wonderful Owen Wilson who is heart of the movie, he is so darn crazy and sweet and annoying simultaneously that you are not sure do you want to hug him or hit him over the head. Almost everything they planned (and much more than they expected) goes terribly wrong and you can't help but to love them seriously for all their confused efforts and sincere love between them. Its not funny in a roaring way, but it touches you really deep because they are basically three outsiders with their own problems who understand and support each other. At the end of the movie I surprised myself being genuinely touched and even teared up a bit. More I think about it, more I am convinced its one of those sweet, unforgettable little movies that nobody has ever heard of. Martin Scorsese paid attention. "}{"Title":"Great first film!","Date":"2 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wes Anderson's films are quite easy to spot. Stylistically, Bottle Rocket will be quite familiar to fans. It has great lines. It has witty humour throughout.The style of his camera-work is introduced in this film. We see Owen and Luke Wilson as friends who decide to take on a life of crime. Their choice is not relatable; yet, they are relatable because they seem very innocent about what they are doing. Outstanding writing and directing for a first full length film. It features a memorable role played by James Caan as the father figure/ hardened criminal. If you are a fan of Wes Anderson, WATCH this film. If you can, see the original short film Bottle Rocket as well. Don't expect the bigger sets, models of sets, clay-mation, or all of his frequent collaborators. What you will see is a charming, lower-key Wes Anderson gem with a great soundtrack and an already developed style of a great director. "},{"Title":"Not unless you have absolutely nothing else to do","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Recently I watch Moonrise Kingdom and found it to be fantastic bit of cinema! I liked it so much that I decided to see where Wes Anderson was coming from. I watched this movie....and kept waiting for something to happen. And kept waiting, and waiting. At one point I was so sick of the movie just seemingly building up for something to happen in the plot that I was about to throw in the towel. If you do choose to watch I guess you can see if it happens about the same time. 42 min into this I had all of the build up I could take. But, I forced myself through it....hoping something great would come of it. I didn't. It is virtually plot less. Also, in Moonrise Kingdom some of the camera angles, panning, etc are...a bit edgy but really work well! This movie seems to be Wes Anderson's first time playing with a new toy and these are actually distracting instead of artful. Too bad. Not worth your time "},{"Title":"Anderson fanatics only","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film only ranks a five based on the fact that it is Wes Anderson's first film. If he were to quit directing after this movie it would be at least a three. You can tell that Wes Anderson is clearly developing his style for cinematography and not for storytelling during this film. The entire premise of the movie is awkward and hard to watch since the Wilson brothers are frequently cast in more intelligent roles. Some scenes are boring, some scenes are confusing, but every once in a while you get a cheep laugh. I believe that Bob's condescending brother is the most humorous character in the film, besides maybe Mr.Henry, but they both play supporting roles. Acting from the main characters is dry, which is to be expected with any Wes Anderson flick. If you're a hip Wes Anderson fanatic, you would probably fall head over beard for this film. If not, do yourself a favor and check out Rushmore instead. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is definitely seen as one of Anderson's lesser films, seeing as how it's definitely a lot less Anderson-like in its approach and style. Still, it's pretty good and pretty entertaining. The actors do a nice job, especially Luke Wilson. While Owen has always been more talented when it comes to comedy, Luke really knows how to make the most out of his dramatic talent and he's able to nail dramatic ticks and notes in his character that I don't think I've seen him do since (not in film, but certainly in Enlightened). Overall, this isn't such a big deal and it maybe didn't show the kind of stuff Anderson would go on to do, but it's definitely good. "},{"Title":"Hit it out of the park, but somehow didn't make it to home plate.","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK. I was recommended to watch this film because I had a conversation about Wes Anderson with someone. I didn't know about his first film, Bottle Rocket, and my friend said she liked it because it was so laid back and appealed to her in some way.While I think it is a good first attempt for a film, and a good start for Wes Anderson. Although, I have to say that I got a good amount of the Wilson Brothers from the entire film, I thought it was admirable.It had it's moments and was shot decently well. There are a lot of problems with it. Motive for the story, the 2 dimensional characters with some important character traits, and a script that doesn't really work in the sense that it would serve to the story. This is long before Wes is making self aware quirky movies that pan to a certain type of trope or theme and it falls flat to deliver a solid movie with a plot that would make sense. It is incredibly well shot in a simple way and doesn't hit you over the head with anything, the performances feel a little forced, but it still all feels genuine enough to be believable.Once again, being that this is his first film, you can overlook a lot of the material and give him a pat on his back for what he was trying to accomplish. And he kind of hit it out of the park and began developing a style that some people would get under and truly respect. Anyway, that's my lightweight review of the movie. I don't want to bring up specific details of the film that bothered me or that I liked, but I would definitely give this a watch if you are interested enough in Wes Anderson as a director. "},{"Title":"What it is on the face value is a crime comedy film but what it actually is, is more fun.","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What it is on the face value is a crime comedy film but what it actually is, is more fun.Three friends want to do something big and quick even if it's illegal. They set out a plan execute it to failure, OK, if it's once that would have been fine but what if it fails the second time too. Is this a movie then, movies are not supposed to fail aren't they? Heroes should prosper and even if caught, they must escape and prove their innocence. This film has a different perspective than the above mentioned clichd trivial thinking.It has got all the ingredients of a good fun film. There is a love story, a friendship, envy and even deceit. It's the flow of the story that makes it a good film and a cut above the rest. The performances are strong and believable, the editing is precise and the cinematography is good. Keeping in mind the meager budget, this is surely a well made film with good production quality. The winner although is the story and the writing. This is the first Wes Anderson film and as a debut, he had done a fabulous job. A 3/5 for a film that is definitely good. "},{"Title":"Watch this or you're a darn fool","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Futureman is an angry older brother. Why does he harbor so much hate against Bob? Because he's the only one with a car. What the eff is this? It's a review. Bob has nothing to prove. He's willing to be a getaway driver, but don't ask him to cut his hair. Or Anthony. On the run from Johnny Law ain't no trip to Cleveland. The bandages on their noses during the robbery are the perfect distraction. Bring a bigger bag next time. This was just a practice. A warm up for the big league with Mr. Henry, a karate black belt trained by grand master Rowboat. Don't mess with them or you'll get water dumped on your head. Or worse&#x97;they will steal all your stuff while you're off with the Lawn Wranglers trying to rob a meat plant. "},{"Title":"A solid start for Wes Anderson","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" We all start somewhere and I had to go to the roots of a certain director named Wes Anderson. Bottle Rocket was the movie to introduce Wes Anderson to the movie masses along with making brothers Owen and Luke Wilson stars. As a first time feature, it's a solid feature although it does pale in comparison to his later features.Good The movie had a very easy going quality to it. It has the quirky characters and plot that we have come to know from Anderson only with a more restricted style. Owen and Luke are good together as the thieves trying to go for bigger things. The movie goes on a good pace and there is plenty of good dialogue.Bad The movie in general isn't bad, but it is rather above average. The plot doesn't really develop beyond the brothers attempt at pulling a heist and it just doesn't deliver much. There's also a love story that doesn't really work and pads out the movie a bit more.Overall, it's a solid comedy and a good start for Anderson, but I think that his later films deliver more on all fronts. "},{"Title":"Good start to unique visionary career","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Anthony (Luke Wilson) is released from a mental institution and hooks up with his friend Dignan (Owen Wilson) who hatches a scheme to rob his former boss Mr Henry (James Caan). Anthony falls for motel maid Inez (Lumi Cavazos).This is the first big screen attempt for director Wes Anderson. It has flashes of his unique style already. It has the camera work, some quirks and the music. However the story is a rambling mess of aimless people. While the group of friends have some quirks, they're not weird enough to be funny. The Wilson brothers are showing their charismatic banter. It's a charming indie where everybody is trying their best and having a bit of fun. "},{"Title":"A very long and low-key joke---and certainly NOT for all tastes.","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen several of Wes Anderson's films and think they certainly are NOT for all tastes. Some I really liked--such as The Royal Tannenbaums and Moonrise Kingdom. Some I did not like--such as The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou. But one thing these films all have in common is a very slow (glacially slow) pace and very, very quirky characters and dialog. Because of that, it might be worth seeing this film simply because there ain't anything like it! The film has a plot but doesn't really get to it until the last quarter of the film! Up until then, the plot just meanders very slowly and mostly consists of the Wilson brothers (Owen and Luke) doing lots of seemingly irrelevant things up until they go on a heist (such as a long and directionless road trip). This lack of direction certainly will annoy most viewers though the acting was quite nice. Eventually, the heist does take place and the film improves SIGNIFICANTLY. I liked how incredibly inept and stupid the robbery turned out to be. But, again, at times it also seemed to meander.So did I like the film? Well, I am not sure. SOME of it I liked and much of it seemed in need of editing. At least it gave me a chance to see Anderson's and the Wilson brothers' first full-length film.By the way, Bottle Rocket was originally a short film (1994). If you watch it, you can see a lot of the later feature and it is interesting to see how the short morphed into the full-length film. "}{"Title":"Anderson - The beginning","Date":"21 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Two life-clumsy friends Anthony (Luke Wilson) and Dignam (Owen Wilson) venture into a joint bird-brained heist (starting their new career by robbing Dignam's mother). Anthony was recently released from an asylum after a nervous breakdown, but in truth seems to offer more justifiable claims to sanity. Nonetheless, despite reservations, Anthony agrees to assist Dignam in his ploys together with ultra-moronic neighbour and getaway driver Bob (Robert Musgrave). After a semi-successful steal the threesome decide to hide out in a roadside motel until the dust settles. There Anthony falls deeply for the non-English-speaking Mexican maid Inez (Lumi Cavazos), thus necessitating a rewrite to the hapless plans he has already conceived.The feature length debut is much of the what Wes Anderson has incorporated into his trademark career as the king of quirkiness. Despite several attempts and a watch of every Anderson movie conceivable his critical appeal remains a mystery to myself, and Bottle Rocket, arguably the most chaotic and purposeless story from the director was an undeniable torment to watch. With the whole middle of the story a misplaced filler, which attempts to expand the same-titled short film into a feature, the whole affair is tiresome, only really catching fire in the first and in the final act. Overall watchable for the first 30 minutes, afterwards the shenanigans at the motel with absolutely no focus derail any construed interest in the premise. Not intent on heading anywhere Anderson basically offers a collage of laid back quirky individuals trying to eek out a laugh, instead increasingly causing the Wilson brothers to become irritatingly overwhelming.Without much more on offer than odd-balls and oddities this is Wes Anderson's worst movie, which won't win over any of his doubters, who are best to look for other of his works to decide on whether Anderson's trademark quirk-attacks are 'no-no' or 'gung-ho'. For me personally the achingly convention subversive capers, the indulgent humour and the goofy character construction on offer by Anderson are extremely outside of my wavelengths. "},{"Title":"Superb quirky comedy","Date":"8 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the debut movie of the king of quirky comedies, Wes Anderson. It is a story of three friends(the Wilson brothers and Bob Musgrave). Luke has just checked himself out from a psychiatric clinic. He joins Owen and Bob and begins preparing for a heist. In the meantime he falls in love and ultimately backs out from the plan. Superbly scripted, this is full of comic punches delivered in a great dead pan style by the actors. Owen Wilson easily takes the acting honors. He has one of the most innocent faces of tinsel town and when he utters the absurdities and the obscenities, you howl out loudly. The characters are quirky. A must watch for the Anderson fans. 3.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"BEWARE! Idiots on the loose!","Date":"23 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wes Anderson and the Wilson triplets have made a classic idiot comedy! DIGNAN LIVES! What a riot! I just could not stop laughing through this thing! I think my favorite moment is when they are all in the middle of the cold storage facility heist when Kumar, the supposed safe-cracker, suddenly looks at Applejack and says to Dignan, Who dat man? We know we are in BIG trouble now, don't we? But this whole thing is a continuous mental institution on wheels from start to finish! The little love story between Anthony and Inez is very touching, and provides us some relief from the non-stop insanity (or does it?). Anthony's loyal friendship with Dignan is also heartwarming, if you can stop laughing long enough to feel it! I just never get tired of watching films about idiots doing outrageously stupid things! Howsabout you? Are you in? "},{"Title":"Watchable, but should have been better","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think Anderson and the Wilson brothers have gifts for making good comedic farces. Bottle Rocket is not an awful or not even bad movie. But I was expecting more energy from these guys as I have seen them give it in their other movies. The other surprises that later turned into disappointments were one of it's executive producers is James L. Brooks who made and produced some unforgettable Hollywood box-office hits and gems such as Terms of Endearment Big and As good as it gets. He is also an executive producer on The Simpsons which I love. The Wilson brothers are also very funny so my question is why didn't all these guys use all their energy they have shown in other movies and do it in this one. If they would have this film would have been brilliant. The other thing I don't like about it is it takes it's characters to different places and settings and never leaves them in a couple of places for more than five minutes. Examples are a drug store snack counter, a motel, a barber shop, a country club and all sort of other places. If it would have left it's characters in those places for more than five minutes this film would have been much better. To wrap it up not bad but has so many low points that should have been made up for later on and they never did. For a better Owen Wilson film watch him in Meet the Parents rather than this. "},{"Title":"you're gonna see a side of Dignan that you haven't seen before. A sick, sadistic side&#133;","Date":"11 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket (1996), the first feature by Wes Anderson has become a cult favorite, and made the names of Anderson and Wilson's (three brothers, Owen, Luke, and Andrew acted in the picture, and Owen, the self-proclaimed troublemaker co-wrote the script with Anderson) popular, and their fans waiting for more. BR is an offbeat crime/comedy about three friends, Dignan (Owen), Anthony (Luke), and Bob (Robert Musgrave) who tried to pursue the career of the professional criminals. If ever three screw-up characters were less suited for becoming tough guys, thieves or bank robbers, I am yet to see them on the screen. Of all three, Dignan takes the cake - his brazenness, ineptitude, clumsiness and lack of any sense of reality in the combination with the true believe that he was born to become a made man (or something like that) and that the local godfather Mr. Henry (James Caan in a very funny cameo) would take him and his friends seriously are absolutely adorable. Andrew Wilson, the oldest of three brothers has a small role as Bob's obnoxious older brother. I personally don't think that Bottle Rocket is a masterpiece and the best movie of that year but it certainly has got some very funny moments, especially in the beginning (Dignan helps Anthony to run from a mental hospital and soon they pull a job of robbing the local book store; Dignan interviews Bob for a position of a runaway driver) and in the end when three friends are sent by Mr. Henry to the biggest (and the most hilarious) heist that would be the apotheosis of their careers. Owen Wilson's Dignan is a reason enough to see the movie - so hilariously deadly serious about his absurd plans, schemes, and ideas he is. "},{"Title":"More sad then funny.","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Three bored rich Caucasian guys become crooks. The main character is a delusional not so bright guy who thinks he's a mastermind. The 2nd character is aimless, follows out of loyalty and physically stalks a woman whose English isn't very good until he wears her down (not so romantic). The third character is so broken by years of physical and mental abuse he seems to accept the orders and abuse as accepted fact.While there were a few funny lines, the dialogue wasn't particularly interesting, sometimes it tried too hard to be clever and often it was hard to hear. Before you dismiss my review as just one of those people who rate their movie by # of explosions or just don't get it... I do like Wes Anderson films. I like quirky/indie. I like subtle films where not a lot happens. This one just didn't work (for me).Worth watching if you're a Wes Anderson fan (and you want to see hist first film) or a fan of any of the actors. There are a few gems to be found if you feel like sitting through it. "},{"Title":"Bottle Rocket (1996)","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Director Wes AndersonCast Luke Wilson, Owen Wilson, James Caan.An interesting and funny debut from Wes Anderson that tells the story of two men bored of their regular lives so they decide to start robbing people. As they try to make it a career they run into various distractions and incidents and find leading a life of crime much harder than it seems. Luke and, especially Owen Wilson are solid as the two crooks. James Caan also has a short but very funny role as a man the two and some others pull a job for. The script by Anderson and Owen Wilson contains some great dialogue. Recommended if you are a fan of offbeat comedies. 91 min. Rated R for some language. "},{"Title":"the best movie ever made?","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think that this amazing movie could actually be the best movie ever made! I love the expert direction and Luke and Owen Wilson are absolutely superb in their roles. This film was excellent footing for Wes Anderson and the team to continue making films for hopefully decades to come. I just saw The Life Aquatic and I certainly wasn't disappointed. I welcome the next one, but they always seem to take ages to come to our screens. I think everyone can connect to these wonderful films, I know I certainly do. Does anyone else feel like this? Even though Bottle Rocket is completely flawless, I still feel that 'The Royal Tennenbaums will always be my fav Wilson/ Anderson collaboration to date, but you never know do you? Scarlet x "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" not bad at all, in fact it was fun for me, because i saw The Royal Tenenbaums before i saw this, and i thought this was fun to see how Wes ANDERSON got his start, and i didn't realize that Owen Wilson was as good of a writer as he is. i hope to see these two pull at least two or three more movies out of their butts. these kind of comedies are great because it is pretty funny stuff that doesn't force you to laugh, and doesn't force you to look at the people watching it around you to see if they are laughing too. i thought Luke Wilson's character was clever and funny, and Owen Wilson's character was a little too all over the place at the begginning, but once he calmed down and we got to the bottom of why he is the way he is, i found it sort of touching, not Tenenbaums touching, but touching. i thought the entire motel stay in the movie lagged on a bit more than it should have, but was completely necessary for the film. "},{"Title":"Best comedy I've ever seen.  (possible spoilers)","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is probably the greatest comedy I've ever seen. From the mental home breakout, to the robbery at the end, it's just so perfectly done. It made me laugh all the way through, that doesn't happen with many movies to me. Wes Anderson is perhaps the best writer in Hollywood but saying that you cannot forget to mention Owen Wilson. The romance between the woman at the hotel and Luke Wilson is both touching and funny, giving the movie that type of hilarity and lovingness that every movie needs. It has a good blend of drama and comedy and the fact that James Caan robs that guys house is funny all its own. Applejack and Kumar are absolutely historical and Owen Wilson's character is probably my favorite character of all time in any movie (except for Mike from the Godfather). I give this movie 10 stars out of 10. Beautiful film. "}{"Title":"One of the finest movies ever made","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie invokes what comedy should be. Its witty and irreverent and just something completely outstanding. It shows that Wes Anderson is a complete genius and its hard to mistake a lot of his work cause its all essentially written in his way. Luke Wilson is brilliant and even though i do not like Owen Wilson as an actor in The two Wes Anderson movies hes been in hes be utterly flawless. This movie is a complete gem and i loved every second of it. I look for movies like Bottle Rocket but its very rare to find one this cynical and this amazing. Everything about it was perfection. From the script to the actions of the characters. Robert Musgrave who made his film debut in this movie is very likable. And the extras that Wes Anderson uses in all his movies are as unforgettable as the movies themselves. Thank you Wes for making such an impact with three great movies.  "},{"Title":"Cracking little film...mind..","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was tops, cracking cast and extremely enjoyable even though I had a stinking hangover when I first watched this and I ended up falling asleep. When I awoke, feeling sooo much better, I restarted the DVD and the smile didn't leave my face, even occasionally laughing hysterically; the scene where Dignan lets the smoke bomb off during the robbery is just mint. In fact that whole robbery sequence is priceless. Also great is the whole love interest thing between Anthony and Inez which comes across so naturally. Not sure why somebody compared this with El Mariachi by Robert Rodriguez, pretty much like comparing Casablanca with Pulp Fiction I'd have thought. If like this person, you tend to think far too much and over analyse everything instead of just kicking back and enjoying something unfold before you, then give it a miss, not to be recommended though as this film's a treat.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly funny movie for lovers of idiosyncratic and subtle humor","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I couldn't believe some of the bad reviews here. I just read a post which said most of the material just falls flat. The gags are also a bit lame, half of the time. Wow....all I can say is that I have a totally different opinion!This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. I suggest you read some of the quotes from the memorable quotes section on IMDb and if they don't peak you're interest, stay away as you're probably among the bad reviewers here whom I guess have a more mainstream view of what is humorous.But if you like Rushmore and the Tannenbaums, there's a chance you might like this one even more.I also don't understand the reviewers who say the movie is not good because it doesn't have a point or the plot is not so great or not a good ending....huh?????....did you people see and like Rushmore and Tannenbaums? These are subtle movies, if you want a nice ending go watch some more Hollywood dribble and don't pan movies that aren't your cup o' tea!  "},{"Title":"If you liked Rushmore or The Royal Tenenbaums, you'll love it","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Owen Wilson and Wes Anderson's finest. The humor is sometimes outlandish, sometimes so subtle you barely catch it. Owen and Luke Wilson's on-screen comedic chemistry is great! This movie has become my all-time favorite, and a perfect cure for a bad mood. The music is perfect for the film, though I can't really describe why. It's good. It's good, cause it hits me right here. "},{"Title":"Auteur in the Works","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So, I caught this movie on cable, and was pleasantly reminded ofRushmore -- without knowing Wes Anderson was the director ofboth movies. Definitely a good sign, although the scene of OwenWilson being lead off in handcuffs is almost exactly visuallyduplicated in 'Rushmore', so let's hope he isn't the kind offilmmaker to pillage his own corpus. In any event, not quite aspolished as Rushmore but still well worth the investment of anhour and a half.Owen Wilson is much better off playing the geeky wannabes thanthe would be hunks. I guess I should go see I Spy (but Bill Cosbymight not forgive me).I kept waiting for the joke to gel about the character named BobMapplethorpe (same name as the late, controversial  photographer) but it never came...oh well. "},{"Title":"Owen Wilson never stops being funny","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the dialogue, the acting...just a really funny movie.  owen did a great job writing it and luke did a great job too.  so many quotes in that flick i'll be sayin for a while.  i definately reccomend this anyone who appreciates odd humor. "},{"Title":"a Wes Anderson fan disappointed","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to say I was disappointed with this effort from Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson.  I have seen Rushmore and the Royal Tenenbaums, and I am a huge fan of both of these films.  However, Bottle Rocket doesn't seem to be at the same level of quality as these two later films.  All of Wes Anderson's hallmarks are there  the theme of not fitting in, unusual and well chosen soundtrack, a veteran actor for a genial partriarch (James Caan for Bottle Rocket; Bill Murray for Rushmore; and Gene Hackman in the Royal Tenenbaums), and the Wilson brothers.  I'm also concerned there is a trend of female characters being less important in Wes Anderson films, and being relegated to the role of the exotic and unusual love interest.  This wasn't as apparent in the Royal Tenenbaums as it is in Bottle Rocket and Rushmore.It was hard to for me in this film to care about the characters, somehow, something was missing in them for me to really care.  All of the scenes that should have been funny just seemed empty and too contrived.  To give Bottle Rocket the benefit of the doubt, perhaps I do need to watch it again to fully appreciate it.  "},{"Title":"Great nap movie","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you are looking for a mid afternoon nap, this is a perfect flick. I tried to get into this movie three times. Extremely boring. Not funny. The more I tried to watch, the sleepier I got! Also great for late night insomnia... If you are looking for a mid afternoon nap, this is a perfect flick. I tried to get into this movie three times. Extremely boring. Not funny. The more I tried to watch, the sleepier I got! Also great for late night insomnia... If you are looking for a mid afternoon nap, this is a perfect flick. I tried to get into this movie three times. Extremely boring. Not funny. The more I tried to watch, the sleepier I got! Also great for late night insomnia... "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  more drama farce than comedy","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bottle Rocket reminded me of the films Rushmore and The Royal Tenenbaums, because the actors play it serious, and there's no cartoony quality that hints that no one's really going to get hurt. It's tough for me to laugh when someone's emoting real pain rather than cartoony pain. Also, the film is slow-paced and has many sentimental scenes, and it's hard for me to get sentimental when the protagonists are total losers.However, Bottle Rocket is definitely a comedy, and there are some hilarious moments. I once read Chuck Jones' autobiography (the guy who created Bugs Bunny) and he said that comedy is when the film is about a straight man getting mixed up with a weirdo. Farce is when the film is about the weirdo. He didn't say why, but for some reason comedy works and farce doesn't. Pee Wee's Big Adventure is a good example of a farce, as is Mr. Bean. A Fish Called Wanda was a comedy (the straight man was the John Cleese character).So I guess Bottle Rocket was a little too farce for me. I couldn't identify with the protagonists and therefore wasn't that interested in the drama bits.Who should see this film-- Drama film buffs who like comedies. (But I'm not sureif you'd find this film arty or just off-key.)-- Comedy moviegoers who aren't expecting Generic Hollywoodor Fast Paced Zany Comedy, and that's OK with them.I'll give Bottle Rocket a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A small gem of low-key comedy","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Having seen ( and loved) Rushmore, I was determined to see Bottle Rocket. Fortunately, my university library had a wonderful laser-disc copy. This is a Beautiful film. The acting, the script, and the cinematography are near perfection. If you are looking for a series of loud guffaws and obvious jokes, this movie isn't the place for them. What it is the place for is subtle, rich, dry, low key humor. There are a few well timed side splitters, but most the jokes are of the smiling kind, NOT  the laugh out loud kind.This is a terrific movie, and it is one of the few times that the egregious Michael Medved has been right in the assessment of a film it does herald a new, unique vision and sensibility. "}{"Title":"It's just boring","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't like this movie. It's not really funny, and there's no big plot. When I watched it I felt like everything just happened without any big reason. The characters do have some kind of task in this movie, but it's nothing special. In fact I barely remember how this movie ends.The actors are great for their roles, but it doesn't help the story. It just keeps going on with no real target. I didn't laugh that much, and if it wasn't because I had a cold while I watched it, I probably wouldn't have watched it till the end.Maybe the problem is that the humor of this movie just wasn't me (I couldn't find much humor in it..- if any at all). "},{"Title":"Bottle Rocket's fuse went out","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Its a good thing writer Owen Wilson knew somebody in the business (Kit Carson) otherwise this hunk of junk would never have been made. Hundreds of scripts of this quality are submitted each month to Hollywood and are tossed promptly aside. They spent 8 million making this film, but it only made 1 million.The plot is sluggish, spending entirely too much time at the hotel where the boys, fresh off a botched robbery, are hiding out without a clue as to what to do next.SPOILER The movie has a good hook (three bored suburbanites try to become crooks) and the plot twist at the end is a decent idea (while running a job predestined to fail, the boss robs the boys blind), but the writing is pretty weak and the directing worse. ENDSPOILERI am actually glad Owen Wilson made it into the business as a comedic actor, but I can see why he hasn't written another film.I don't recommend this movie, unless you are really bored, are a big Wilson Brother's fan, and like to have a movie running while you clean the house.Bubba Joe Louis "},{"Title":"Best movie ever, man.","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is excellent, as are all 3 Wes Anderson movies. I can't wait to see Life Aquatic. Those who don't understand the humor of this movie don't understand wit. It's refreshing to watch a movie that doesn't have to slap you upside the head with the humor. You have to be intelligent to get it. Many who have commented about this movie say they loved it, but they recognize it caters to a certain type of humor. I personally think that if you didn't think this movie was funny, you just need to go watch it again, because you probably missed everything. Wes Anderson uses a subtle humor which is easy to miss if you're used to the regular humor. However, unlike most movies, this is one that is funnier every time you watch it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is pure gold. If you watch this movie and get it, you will thank god you watched it. If you did watch it, and didn't get it, then you probably have a very different taste in film. This movie was awesome. The two films that have followed since, Rushmore and The Royal Tenenbaums have carried on the brilliant smart sense of humor. Congrats to Wes, Owen, and the gang. "},{"Title":"What you get when a bunch of friends get together and make a short film.","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't quite share all the high praise for Bottle Rocket, although the title is apt. These would-be heist artists fizzle out just about as quickly as a bottle rocket does. The whole film comes across as either a very, very good college project, or as a somewhat amateurish low-budget independent film. It is both, made by Anderson and the Wilson brothers, friends from college. It is nowhere near as interesting or creative as Robert Rodriguez' low-budget El Mariachi. However, I was, for the most part, entertained by its 90 minutes' run time. The love story between Luke Wilson's character and the maid at the cheap motel was cute, because how often does a man passing through town fantasize about a cute maid? And the bumbled attempt at robbing the meat plant, partly because their crack safe-cracker didn't really know how to crack safes. Or the fact that real criminal played by James Caan was stealing all the furniture from one of their homes while they were attempting the robbery.Know all those slick heist films where everything works out right and the crooks get away with it?  Well, Bottle Rocket is just the opposite. Nothing ever goes quite right. Enjoy it for its zaniness, but not much else. Director Wes Anderson from my town, Houston, also directed Rushmore, filmed here, and Royal Tennenbaums.   "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First movie i saw from this team and is definatly the best of the bunch. Dignan is the greatest character ive seen in a movie, the dialog is excelant. Please make a part 2!I didn't enjoy Royal Tenebaums, Rushmore was pretty good, the actor selection is outstanding in all of their films. "},{"Title":"Wes Anderson is a great film maker! 10/10","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved Rushmore, I think The Royal Tennenbaums is amazing, but Wes Anderson's best film continues to be his first Bottle Rocket.The film is filled with an amount of energy and wit that is rarely seen in films today.  Owen Wilson in particular is in top form, as the off-the-wall Dignin.  Even the usually underused Luke Wilson gives a credible performance.Witty, zanny, unpredictable, and most of all fun!  Not to be missed.  James Caan is great with his small role. "},{"Title":"Everyone wants to know what's next...","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  May I enjoy this moment? This is the best play ever, man, and you should always remember its voice.You DON'T hate on this movie. THAT's inappropriate, THAT's inexcusable, THAT I DON'T forgive.Did you bring that grappling hook? You're going to need it for the original Anderson/Wilson plan for the future, which involves dynamite, pole-vaulting, laughing gas, choppers. Can you see how incredible this is going to be... hangliding. Come on!You reading this review, and I'm sharing these ideas I won't back down from. It's just how I expected...Now rob the video story immediately and remember to ask for larger bags for atlases and dictionaries. GO! GO! GO!Success... full success. "},{"Title":"Miserable & Unfunny","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The heist theme keeps this movie mildly interesting, but these characters' existences are so miserable and unfunny that sitting through an hour and a half of this was almost unbearable. Also, the soundtrack did not appeal to me, and it was over-played throughout the film.In light of today being the Marine Corps Birthday, I found this bit of IMDb trivia interesting, as well After the movie bombed at the box office, Owen Wilson seriously considered joining the Marines, convinced that acting held no future for him. He may have missed out on some good money, but he would have gained a whole set of awesome skills and a band of badass brothers & sisters. Oo-rah.For more reviews and a kickass podcast, check out www.livemancave.com "},{"Title":"Offensive to anyone of New World origin","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Groucho Marx once said that that he wouldn't belong to a club that would accept him.  There are similar concepts concerning musicals and Robert Goulet.  I've discovered that if James Cann is in a recent film the same concept applies.  That is, James Cann's appearance is a desperate attempt by the producers to draw in viewers from my age bracket.This film is totally disjointed and has little redeeming features.  Perhaps other films with the Wilson crew are worth seeing but not this one.  The treatment of the service personnel who are hard working and the aggrandizement of the the rich mis-directed whites in this file is disgusting! "}{"Title":"Dignan Rules!","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  BOTTLE ROCKET (1996) *** Luke Wilson, Owen C. Wilson, Robert Musgrave, Lumi Cavzos, James Caan.  Wonderful independent made movie about three misfit buddies who decide on a lark to begin a life of crime when they have seemingly nothing to do.  Slacker film aside the low key and amiability is a welcome entry  in the buddy/road film genre.  Produced by James L. Brooks and directed with ease by newcomer Wes Anderson. "},{"Title":"Ultimately failed.....","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" We are keen moviegoers, and have our own home cinema. we saw this movie was on our satellite channel and looked up on IMDb the reviews to see whether this was worth watching, having never heard of it before. we are always willing to watch a movie, irrespective of who is the cast, always willing to believe there is a good performance in any actor (except Keanu Reeves). having seen the score of 7.4 we settled down for what we thought would be an above average movie, usually agreeing with the votes on this site. What can we say, are we missing something? apart from a couple of genuine moments, like the foiled robbery & James Caan's excellent parody performance we were left wondering how can this film score so high? Now i am sure some people will disagree......let me leave you with this thought....this film scores higher than Planes, Trains & Automobiles (7.3) i defy any person who appreciates movies that this is better than John Candy's & Steve Martin's classic performance? "},{"Title":"My Favourite","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's dance!  'Cuz Bottle Rocket is the kickenest jig I ever did see!What I mean to say is that this movie is touching, hilarious, versatile, charming, and downright enjoyable from frame to frame to frame.If you consider yourself a humanitarian attuned to the tiny, incredible detail of human experience, take a chance on this nugget.It's incredible. "}]