[{"Title":"The Simple Ideas are the Best","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  American Buffalo is an example of David Mamet's ear for dialogue and his way with the gritty underbelly of society.  Perhaps no other movie has so deftly demonstrated Mamet's unique sense of rhythm in spoken language.  The movie is engrossing and entertaining, all the while using only one location and three characters.  Dustin Hoffman is revoltingly slimy as Teach, and Dennis Franz perfects the conflicted role of Don that he originated on stage many years ago.  A must see for any fan of Mamet or student of the human condition. "},{"Title":"Great, solid acting and brilliant dialogue.  A supreme pleasure!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watching this film on screen and on stage (I imagine) wouldn't be a hell of a lot different.  It's still a 3-character film that revolves around the same setting--most of the time.  But when you see great acting like this, how can you complain??  Dustin Hoffman is great at whatever he does, and he's perfectly believable as the foul-mouthed Teach.  He has some of the greatest lines.  My favorite is Guys like that, I'd like to f**k their wives.  He is rude and obnoxious with barely a sympathetic quality, but he's the guy you love to hate.  I just recently started watching NYPD Blue and just from watching a few episodes, I can say that Dennis Franz is one of the best actors I've ever seen.  He deserves to be on the big screen a lot more, because he has abilities as an actor that only few TV actors also possess.  He delivers every line and every emotion with such power that your eyes are wide open with amazement every minute he's on screen.  Even young actor (I assume he's now in his late teens) Sean Nelson is perfectly cast, blowing me away with a performance I'm sure very few young actors can pull off just as effectively.  He only has about 20 or 30 minutes of screen time, yet he's the character you most feel sorry for at times, despite the fact that he lives an unclean life, dealing with thugs and earning his money via dishonest methods.  You can just sense that he didn't have any parental leadership, and he wasn't sure what path in life to take, so he took the most easy one--and also the most dangerous one.  In a way, the two guys are like his surrogate parents.  I've never seen the play, but when I see the name David Mamet under the writing credits, I immediately know that I'm gonna hear some priceless dialogue.  I don't know how he does it, but he just has a relentlessly quick wit when it comes to creating dialogue.  Like a play, this movie is composed of 80 % dialogue, but the dialogue is so great that I don't really care if there's no exciting visuals.  And last but no least, I loved the opening and closing theme song.  It just has that grungy quality that perfectly fits the tone of American Buffalo.  If you're a fan of superb acting, this will be a real treat!  A real treat!  My score  8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"A play on celluloid...","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  American Buffalo is definitely a curious little film, basically a play committed to celluloid, with only three actors and almost all taking place in the one location. However due to good direction by Michael Corrente, a great dialogue heavy script by David Mamet (based on his play) and a trio of excellent performances it works, and works more or less perfectly.Dustin Hoffman here is at his peak as a small time crim, while Dennis Franz is excellent as his pawn shop buddy and Sean Nelson is also more than holds his own and is very good as young wannabe scammer. But basically this is Hoffman's show, and he is quite something to see as the explosively tempered, ranting, whining, complaining 'Teach' firing off a hundred words a minute. In fact his performance alone is worth the price of admission...which is good as the crux of the story, while thankfully well told, is admittedly somewhat slight.American Buffalo is definitely not for everyone, however for those looking for a great, superbly performed drama and don't mind the fact that it relies more on talk than action need look no further that this great slice of entertainment.One man's opinion. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent if you can take it","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a way this is almost like a pornmovie, but instead of sex you have talk. The movie is a 90 minute long filmed conversation. But to me the movie is more entertaining than many actionmovies. It's definitely not for all viewers hence the bad overall ratings, but I can still recommend it. The acting is over the top. Hoffman and Franz is a very funny combination. Seldom have I seen someone make so much out of so little. As oppose to other movies the climax isn't in the ending, every scene is equally important. Not as good as Glengarry glen ross though. GGR was both a character study and a good movie. This is just an excellent character study, but with these actors it's enough to make it worth watching.   "},{"Title":"A good movie if you're a fan of the stage play","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Your average movie goer will not enjoy this film. With a small cast of three main characters, the majority of the film takes place in a single room. This alone may explain why the film never took off as the blockbuster it should have been with actors such as Dennis Franz and Dustin Hoffman. The direction of the film could have been much better that it turned out to be. Like other critics have said, the film was shot like it was being acted on stage. This is very true. The film has no unique directing style nor does it have any strong motif to add to the films creative look and style. The acting in the film, on the other hand, is wonderful. Franz and Hoffman are excellent together. With a stronger movie maker in the director's chair, the movie could have been much much better. "},{"Title":"Excellent Adaptation of an Award-winning Play","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  American Buffalo is an excellent example of how a director with a breadth of vision can take an established, award-winning play and expand it to mesmerize big-screen and VHS audiences. All the action takes place in an inner-city junkshop, where Donnie (Dennis Franz) and Teach (Dustin Hoffman) plot to steal a valuable coin collection. From the movie's opening lines to the closing scene where one of the characters is being wheeled to the hospital, American Buffalo makes plain that, in America, people's business interests often turn them on one another, and sometimes turn them violent. The real star of the show is Dustin Hoffman's flawless and addicting interpretation of the character Teach, once again showing Hoffman's dedication not just to the craft of interesting filmmaking - but to presenting the minute details an actor can reflect when given such a well-written character.  "},{"Title":"What, No Ricky Jay?","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A movie about junk. Worthless Lives that have hopelessly ended up in a junk store along with formally useful stuff that has also ended up in a junk store. The store has one thing of value, a rare Buffalo Nickel and one life of value; Bobby's, a young kid who does odd jobs helping out around the store. The store's owner Donnie, loves Bobby like a son and he represents the potential for success and happiness Donnie no longer has.Dustin Hoffman plays Teach, Donnies friend. Hoffman's overacting is the only problem I found with this movie. If Hoffman had taken it down just a notch his charachter would have earned some well deserved sympathy. I wouldn't change a word of Mamet's excellent dialog, just have Hoffman calm down. The fact that the ending leaves the movie with no payoff was fitting and showed how the charachters lives have no payoff. "},{"Title":"A little long in the tooth.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brilliantly acted.  Hoffman's performance is reminiscent of his role in Death of a Salesman.  Unfortunately, the ending is a let down.  I was hoping for more of a shock.  Still worth watching if only for Hoffman and Franz and if you love Mamet.  "},{"Title":"Great script, great acting...","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...so why couldn't they find a more imaginative director?  Michael Corrente's direction of this would have seemed static and lethargic even if it had been done on the stage, which it practically was.  If you're going to do a filmed staging, do a filmed staging.  But if you're going to go through the motions of making a film, try to make it the least bit visually interesting.  What does this guy have against moving the camera, for chrissake??  It's a shame, really, as Franz and Hoffman are flawless, and really have a handle on the tough delivery of Mamet dialogue.  To see how easy it is to make Mamet-speak sound odd and out of place, check out the performance of Pinky in the recent Heist.  Mamet is as difficult to act as Shakespeare, all submerged rhythms and unusual language.  American Buffalo is a powerful work, and the performances reflect the power of the text...but all that power crashes to the ground like a 747 with Corrente's static presentation.  I'm giving this a 7/10, simply because the script and performances were SO brilliant.  If directing  were all I was taking into account, it'd be a 3/10.  So disappointing. "},{"Title":"It's not worth a nickel","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A film starring Dustin Hoffman, plus the chief super from the Hill Street Blues, from an adapted script by screen writing legend David Mamet, at a pocket-money price? Why hadn't I heard of it, what was wrong with it.Nothing - except it's more a filmed play than a film, with almost all the talky dialogue taking place in a dusty old New York junk shop. Dustin Hoffman is superb, mixing a florid torrent of irrelevant comment, swearing and unease that is not a far cry from his brilliant turns in Rain Main and Midnight Cowboy. Dennis Franz, meanwhile is the shop's proprietor and is an almost opposite, a masterclass in understated body language as the rants from Teach (Hoffman) have become like water off a duck's back.A third character, black youth Sean Nelson is the dog's body of the outfit and has his own agendas to deal with. The U.S coin of the title is one that might be worth a lot of money, or is it? Having sold it for more than they thought it worth, do they steal it back, just in case it's worth thousands?Mamet's dialogue crackles with a crisp reality - Teach swears like a trooper, with F and C swear words jumbled up along with everything else. He's harmless, you conclude, if not obviously emotionally damaged. Donny, (Franz) says as much and as little as most shopkeepers say; only when it's needed to get a deal done; to clarify a point.It undoubtedly would have had more impact and urgency within the confines of a set in an actual theatre, but on DVD it's OK. The shop, at least looks like a proper shop with a plethora of junk, the clutter adding to the feeling of messed up lives, somehow.Sadly, this won't appeal to everyone. There's no real action to speak of, no pretty women to break up the squalid male-ness and like Teach's dialogue, the story goes round in circles. However, this tale of emerging bitterness and feelings of underachievement is palpable and engaging, if you let it. Personally, I'm glad I chanced upon it. "}{"Title":"Great acting, no special effects, reflection of real life low life.","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Because I see so many references to 'David Mamet's American Buffalo' in the monologue books I leaf through and with my thoughts on becoming a professional actor, I rented this video. It was an old fashioned movie the type I grew up with (I'm 47), a thinking man's film.  No shoot-em-outs, no special effects, no dramatic symphonic crescendos.  The vulgarity was a little much, but I would imagine these characters actually talk like that. Hoffman portrayed a through-ably hate-able character, god what an unpredictable slimeoid.  The guy from NYPD Blue perfectly portrayed a character with many shades of emotion.  You could 'see' him being swayed from what 'Teach'/Hoffman was telling him and what Bobby was claiming.  The actor playing character Bobby, uh, it was really hard to tell exactly what was going on in his head.  I also enjoyed this movie because one doesn't discover what happens to Bobby, ie., no predictable happy ending.  "},{"Title":"Land of Opportunity","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From the 1975 play, common people spout philosophy and psychology in street slang. By attributing middle-class hang-ups like greed, paranoia and vanity to losers, Mamet dramatizes our similarity to them (we all have our investment bubbles) and vice versa. Luckily for the audience, this is done within the context of a deceptively simple (if we can piece it together from the fragmented conversations) crime story (touches of O. Henry) and some uniquely funny dialog and situations. Good acting, esp Nelson. In a recent interview, Arthur Miller had decried how difficult it had become to be a serious Broadway playwright. Apparently Mamet saw the writing on the wall and turned to screenplays, and has managed to appeal to a sufficiently wide audience. Many writers have been less successful at that transition, as satirized in Barton Fink. "},{"Title":"Well-handled dialogues","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ever since Twelve Just Men, including such pieces as Death of a Salesman (not the Hoffman version which I have not seen, I refer to a version way back in the 60s) or the tremendous Whatever happened to Baby Jane? and more recently Peter's Friends, there has always been a certain appeal to me for theatre pieces converted into celluloid versions &#150; especially if the job is well done. I think we can add American Buffalo to this list. May be it does not have the British subtlety for theatre, but at least it gives us an indication of where North American theatre has been going ever since Tennessee Williams or Arthur Miller. With only a cast of three obviously the accent is on interpretive skills; I can't help thinking Dennis Franz, in the rôle of a sleazy junk-shop owner and small-time criminal, gets the better of Dustin Hoffman, who tended to overact the difficult part of a no-good bum-parasite from time to time during the film. The third member of the cast, Sean Nelson, plays his part of an adolescent doing odd jobs around the shop more or less with correctness. Full marks for Michael Corrente's directing, but who really gets my vote is David Mamet whose dialogues (from his own play) are excellent - if one can overlook the (necessary?) use of strong language &#150; and well handled by both Hoffman and Franz.  "},{"Title":"How Mamet is done!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Back before he was The David Mamet, a struggling playwright in Chicago scribbled out this groundbreaking work of trust and deceit.  It established the trademark Mamet style of dialogue (called eloquent stammering by a critic at the time) and played like a locked closet full of backbiting hounds.  When poverty gets so extreme that there is no one to feed off but your own kind is when the story starts, and from there wanders into the dark corners of the human psyche.  Con erodes into cheat and friendship dissolves into necessity as Franz and Hoffman are terrifying in their ferocity.  I'm not talking the ooh! look how much fun we're having jumping in our chairs while we eat our popcorn in this nice safe theater where the monsters aren't scary.  I mean the kind that makes you look twice at everyone you see for weeks on end.  For fans of his work this is a must. "},{"Title":"incredible movie","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There's so much in this incredibly fast-paced movie that I have not yet grasped and in order to do so will have to see 50 more times.  But one thing I do get out of it is the idea of working class wanna-be thugs creating a destructive mass delusion in order to make meaning of their lives.  When the movie starts out, the characters talk about gambling and other low-life activities in such a way that you'd think they're exciting mobsters but really, they're a couple of losers who are stuck with humdrum lives amidst a bleak anonymous city-scape.  One thing that's very captivating is the fact that there are only three characters despite the fact that they allude to different people who are continually influencing them in one way or another. This underscores the crippledness amidst the plight of the three characters; makes them seem all the more determined and hopeless.  It's a shame that so many action-movie fans are utterly incapable of appreciating the subtleties of the amazingly forceful, desolate, power-hungry, contradicting dialogue in this movie. "},{"Title":"I found this movie riveting.","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yes, it feels like a play centred on conversation- and what lively conversation- between just three people little action. I don't think that disqualifies it from being a great film.Does a movie have to be all action? I was reminded of Beckett's Waiting for Godot (waiting for Fletcher). I watch TV late watching and normally fall asleep during the most vigorous movies. This film kept me sitting on the edge of my seat all the way through. If you enjoy people and seeing how somewhat depraved characters- even extraordinary characters like Teach- have some goodness deep down this movie will have meaning for you. The acting is first class "},{"Title":"Mamet outdoes himself this time","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Adaption of Mamet play is even better on screen. Dustin Hoffman gives the best performance of his career as the protagonist Teach. Dennis Franz is equally good in his first leading role as Donnie, owner of an antique shop. One hell of a well acted movie with great cast, great script, great direction, great plot, great music, and great location. What else could a intelligent moviegoer ask for? "},{"Title":"Acting At It's Best","Date":"21 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are some plays and movies that are not about sitting there for 90 minutes or more just watching something that makes you laugh or tense up due to the action involved. Instead they offer an actor the chance to use the skills they have developed to bring life to a character, good or bad, that makes that character come alive. To watch that isn't necessarily something you watch for pure entertainment. It becomes a combination of that and being pulled into the lives of the characters on screen. Those actors become those characters.On top of that there are certain writers who can bring forth a story and screenplay (or play) that offers actors the chance to do just that. One of the most exciting of these is David Mamet. In numerous screenplays Mamet has provided actors with the opportunities to show just how great they can be. The language he chooses may offend but it is the language of the characters he is writing about. It's real.In 1996 two actors performed in a movie based on one of Mamet's hit plays, American BUFFALO. Both of them displayed such amazing jobs of acting that you come to a point where you have a hard time differentiating between what is real, what is acting, and what is a movie that you are watching. Between the written word and the sculpting of the characters both bring life to what could have been boring.Dennis Franz is Don, the owner of an inner city junk store and part time thief who has just learned of a possible big score. Having resigned himself to the daily grind of running this business he now has a chance to put something away, make a large haul for himself and for the person that tipped him off to the score, Bob (Sean Nelson). Having overheard a conversation at the nearby diner across the street, the two are making plans for this once in a lifetime deal.Into the pawn shop walks Teach (Dustin Hoffman). Teach is a professional criminal by trade, a small timer who talks big and who thinks he knows it all. Where Don has resigned himself to the daily life he leads, Teach constantly makes plans to be the big man on the block. He recites rules that should apply to all criminals and yet follows none. He might talk about how a smart crook knows not to share information while at the same time pressuring those around him to talk. Such is the case as he pushes Don's buttons trying to find out just what he's planning, what the score is. While punching up how great he is he tells Don that Bob is too young and unskilled to be a part of this score.Throughout the movie Don is on edge, wondering if they can pull off this burglary or not, wondering who he should trust, being manipulated by the fast talking and ever present Teach. He knows Bob is a young kid but is Teach someone he can actually trust? As the film moves forward the arguments back and forth, the discussions of what to do fill the 88 minutes we're watching with a sense of dread and concern for all involved. They may be crooks but they are also human beings. We watch as they crumble before us and hope that in the end things will turn out all right.The movie takes place in the junk store from start to finish with only a few moments with the characters stepping outside into the street taking place. It feels claustrophobic and tight matching the wordplay that goes on between the characters. What goes down between these three men in the course of one night makes for some tense moments and some fascinating back and forth dialogue that has you mesmerized from the start.I remember seeing this years ago when it first came out and thinking how boring it was. But I was younger than and unappreciative of the display of skill that was taking place by the actors on the screen or the dexterity of the written words that Mamet had woven together to create these three characters and their world. Watching it now I wish I would have appreciated it more at the time and now look forward to watching it again.Recently released on blu-ray from Twilight Time it shows their care in the choices they make to bring to blu. Extras, as are normally the case with Twilight Time, are limited but good choices none the less. An isolated score track, commentary track featuring film historians Julie Kirgo and Nick Redman and the original theatrical trailer are what is offered. "},{"Title":"Talking the talk","Date":"31 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Struggling junk store owner Don (superbly played by Dennis Franz) suspects that a customer purchased a rare nickel from him for a minute sum when it was actually worth ten times in value. In order to rectify this wrong, Don plots with weaselly lowlife would-be thief Teach (a bravura performance by Dustin Hoffman) to break into the customer's house so Don can get his coin back.Michael Corrente's no-frills direction wisely eschews flashy cinematic pyrotechnics in order to place a key emphasis on the well drawn and astutely observed main characters. David Mamet's compact and incisive script, adapted from his play, not only offers a fascinating and provocative dissertation on ethics, friendship, loyalty, and betrayal, but also paints a bleakly compelling portrait of two hopeless small-time losers who are fatally undermined by their own pathetic intrinsic fallibility. Franz and Hoffman act off each other exceptionally well while Sean Nelson more than holds his own as Don's eager young protégé Bobby, who isn't nearly as naive as he seems to be. Richard Crudo's sharp cinematography wrings plenty of claustrophobic tension from the cramped primary location. Kudos are also in order for Thomas Newman's spare bluesy score. Granted, there's virtually nothing in the way of action, but the poetically profane rat-a-tat-tat dialogue and spot-on stinging insights on the cruel manner too much talk can betray people by revealing their shortcomings more than compensates for this. "},{"Title":"A constrained adaptation of Mamet play, pointless in spite of talented actors.","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Perhaps my expectations were needlessly high, given the pairing of Hoffman and Franz, and the fact that David Mamet penned the screenplay from his original Broadway play. But after forcing myself to watch the entire production, I had to go online to figure out if I had missed something crucial that might have some redeeming value.Unfortunately, what I found online only mirrored what I had experienced. This film has very to little to offer beyond non-stop dialog delivered at a machine gun pace, much of which is missed given the speed of its delivery. And there's no let up for the viewer, no moments to pause and reflect on the content. You can't afford to, lest you might miss the significant development that has to be in here somewhere, the one you keep wishing would finally appear.But the payoff never comes. But it finally just ends, mercifully, allowing to viewer to wonder why they just wasted their time watching this mind numbing display of a very meager plot augmented only by earthy dialog and very little else. Mamet fans might find some redeeming value here, but for the average viewer, there's very little there, there. Given a choice, sorting my sock drawer has more intellectual stimulation. "}{"Title":"Very different in a bad way for some, but in a good way for me.","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I love films like this. Limited, resourceful, and yet makes mountains out of molehills. I also love David Mamet and I could listen to his expert dialouge for hours on end. So how could I not love this film? Sure if you dissect it, it has some issues, but I can't help but love everything it does. The movie only has three characters. Dustin Hoffman is Teach, a bitter and cynical man whose friend is Don, played by Dennis Franz. Don owns a junk shop and also looks out for Bob, a street kid with a lot of issues. When Teach and Don learn that they might have been jipped out of some very valuable coins they decide they're going to go steal the coins back. The plan reveals the dark inner turmoil the three characters feel and it is ultimately their quest to find meaning and purpose in a world that has hung them out to dry. It's a story of futile human desperation delivered through snappy and quick witted dialouge that I found fascinating.It's imperative to mention that this film is only dialouge. There is no action, no special effects, and not even a change in scenery. I might be crazy for saying this, but I loved it. It was an extremely interesting watch to see what could be accomplished on an existential level with so little tangible material. The film was originally a stage play written by David Mamet that he adapted into a screenplay with little to no changes in his near perfect dialouge. Because of the little change in location and the unusually small cast of three I get the feeling the film works better as a stage play, but having never seen the stage version, the movie was a great watch unto itself. Everything is kept very simple and all of the focus was on the actors and the dialouge they delivered making the movie very unconventional, so much to the point where it doesn't really feel like a movie. But this uniqueness is what I enjoyed so much about the film, just out of personal love for the strange and different.Now I will admit that if the film had not had good actors to back up Mamet's sharp edged dialouge, American Buffalo would have been an awful, dreary, and pathetically boring film. But the three main, and only, actors in the film keep it lively and interesting from start to finish. Hoffman and Franz work together as a perfect duo and their contrast in characteristic give the film a lot of its deep perplexity on the human condition. Nelson isn't in the movie as much as Hoffman and Franz, but when he is present he does a great job, and his character is very important to the progression of the story. The actors do a lot of justice to the ingenious dialouge of this film.There isn't much more to say about American Buffalo. There isn't a whole lot to the film, but what elements it does possess are fantastic. The dialouge and acting is brilliant, and there isn't much more to the movie. I honestly loved how different of a movie experience this was, and can give the movie nothing but props for making me think and delivering to me such a unique experience. "},{"Title":"The Score is Layered in Simplistic Chicago Blues Undertones to help set the mood,","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Chock Full o' remarkably well acted, meat and potatoes' dialog,American Buffalo renders shades of , One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, in a satirical Forum. As the two main characters are masterfully fleshed out by Franz and Hoffman. This dialog is so tight that I manage to arm My own verbal arsenal with, what I deem as, Social Pet Phrase Ammunition, in a single viewing! To draw on a few key points, has me doubled over with side-splitting laughter! Please pardon my allusion, yet you must see it - To relate. Further more you can set your Wrist Watch to the remarkable timing, captured on screen, of this Rare Duo's, seemingly natural, performance. Don't get me wrong, in terms of there being an absence of opposing thematic content towards plot. The acting definitely saves the movie. Although, it's probably not for your average movie goer. It's become one of my top 20 Dialog driven classical winners!This is a fine example of, You don't need a billion-dollar budget to make a quality Motion Picture. "},{"Title":"What Was That About?","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mamet captures the psychotic terrain of the complete loser.  It is actually painful to watch and listen to...especially if you have a family member whose brain skids all over the place as does Teach in this film.  How easily the Franz character was influenced by this nutcase.  But I know these people.  Life does this to some of us.  Mamet captures that.  Subconsciously it tells us a lot about human nature we would rather not know. "},{"Title":"Dreary?","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yep, this is a dreary film set in a dreary junkshop in a dreary city. It is the perfect material for the pre-Prozac set of depressed souls. This play reminded me of No Exit to the extent that I imagine the characters going through these deliberations and recriminations every day into eternity. Unless the viewer is interested in exploring obsession and depression, it is not likely they will find much here. Mr. Mamet is so good at finding a moment, a glance, an expression and, climbing inside of it, he turns it inside out and expresses almost geometric variations. If he were not a playright he might have been a jazz musician. "},{"Title":"If you can't sleep, here's a drug free solution","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm not sure what the appeal of this movie is, but I couldn't find it. It's a really long, barely credible, hardly lucid conversation between three guys on one set. It doesn't move anywhere, the characters are just totally bizarre, the underlying plot equally so. It's lost on me, definitely a walk out movie.The one thing that keeps you from walking out is the ever unrealized possibility that it might have some kind of point or meaningful climax, and the fact that, all irritation aside at the banal personalities, they're acted quite reasonably. But you have to brace yourself for endless dialog, wishing on many an occasion that Teach would just shut the %*&* up for a moment. "},{"Title":"Boring!!!!!","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After previewing this movie, I can't imagine why Dustin Hoffman allowed it to be distributed. If I were he, I would have paid to keep anyone from seeing it. This is the only movie I have ever walked out of before the end. I wouldn't mind a movie that has little action or special effects, but I do prefer one that has a script. My friend and I both love Hoffman and Franz, but the dialogue was not that good and the movie was going nowhere. After twenty or so minutes of incredibly boring conversation,we looked at each other, stood up, walked and never looked back. I have never regretted that decision; I only wish I had asked for a refund. "},{"Title":"Saw it on stage. Amazing!","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen American Buffalo in Romanian, during a theater festival this summer. It was amazing, the two hours seemed like 20 minutes. I personally don't like when plays try to be catchy through swearing, but this one took my breath away. The anxiety was crazy, even though I knew there were only three actors playing I still expected another character to appear. I believe this is a masterpiece, but not for anyone. You have to understand the typologies created in order to enjoy them truly. I agree that it is better played on stage rather than in a movie. However, even in the hall me and my friends seemed to be the only one enjoying it. Nobody else was laughing, many thought of it to be boring and very obscene. That was when I realized that not everybody knows how to see the greatness in the really incredible things. So kudos to whoever knew how to enjoy this movie/play! To the others is your loss! 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Uninspired direction","Date":"15 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've never seen this play performed except for that time in college when I directed a scene from it. I deliberately avoided this movie at the time so as not to color my direction any particular way. The way I see the play is a couple of old guys sitting around a resale shop talking about stealing a guy's coin collection, sort of fooling themselves into thinking they're even capable of such a thing. My ideal cast would be (undead) Lemmon and Matthau, but it could also work with some very young people who don't know better. The point is, the crime is that distant idea which is captivating, but an impossibility. It's like folks who dream about winning the lottery and imagine what they'd do with those vast riches, but know inside that it'll never happen.This movie's mistake, in my eyes as a one-time director, is that it almost makes the crime plausible. Don, owner of the shop, and Teach, his talkative buddy, go through the plan of what to do when they get to the guy's house. How do they get inside? Go through a window the guy left open. What if there's no window? There's always something - kick in the door if you have to. Okay, where does the guy keep his coins? In his desk drawer. How do you know? C'mon, they have to be in there. If he's got a safe? Find the combination written down somewhere in the house. What if he didn't write it down? Everybody writes it down! How do we even know he's not home right now? They call the number and are shocked when someone actually answers. But they dialed the wrong number anyway. The long discussions these two have about the plan is a lot like some little kids having a play war in the backyard. No detail of the fantasy is too small and if things don't work out, you can always whip out an imaginary sword and gut your enemy, just like Teach plans to somehow find a safe combination hidden somewhere in a whole house.This play always worked better as a sad little comedy to me. The movie's director, one Mr. Michael Corrente, has turned it into a real caper movie! That's too easy a choice to make, too on the nose, and it doesn't allow the audience to see the irony of these washed up crooks trying desperately to convince themselves that they've still got what it takes. I never saw these guys as taking the whole thing too seriously as an actual thing that they were going to do. I just see Lemmon and Matthau trying to entertain themselves with the notion that they're going to commit a crime together, like the old days. Maybe Teach thinks it's a real thing, but not Don. Don is just the one who plays along with Teach's wild fantasies. Not in this movie. Here Don is every bit as committed to the theft as Teach, and just as devastated when it looks impossible. I didn't laugh as much at this movie as I did at the play in my mind. This thing is just depressing.http//www.movieswithmark.com "},{"Title":"Pointless, plotless, and typically Mamet","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  American Buffalo is a pointless dialogue-intensive claustrophobic character-driven drama which take place almost entirely in an inner city junk shop and involves two guys ruminating incessantly about a heist they're about to pull. A typical love it or hate it Mamet screenplay of the ilk of The Big Kahuna, Jerry & Tom, or the much better Mamet Glengarry Glen Ross, American Buffalo showcases the talents of Hoffman and Franz and will likely appeal more to those who appreciate acting for acting's sake than the general film-going public. "},{"Title":"Not Worth a Nickel!","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was beyond disappointment. Well acted story that means nothing. The plot is ridiculous and even what story there is goes absolutely nowhere. It truly isn't worth a nickel, buffalo or otherwise..pun intended! "}{"Title":"Fabulously well acted, not an action packed movie, just a great story","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  They play two complete dirt bag scummy guys&#133; who truly believe themselves to be criminal masterminds. Dustin Hoffman is totally convincing as a greasy know it all 'brains' of the operation as they plan to steal back a valuable Buffalo Nickel that was snagged by a customer at Denise Franz's hole in the wall second hand junk store. Most of the film is the interaction between the two main characters debating philosophy, ideology, while tripping over their own lack of intelligence and trying to hide the simple fact that&#133; they are both totally incompetent idiots. Their arguments are thoroughly entertaining as they plan the big heist&#133; will they, can they pull it off&#133; just watch.  "},{"Title":"Talks itself to death.","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Overly talky and often tedious and annoying (especially at the start), American Buffalo seems to be going around in circles. Mamet's dialogue is occasionally amusing (like in the wrong number scene), but cannot completely cover up the fact that nothing much happens - by the time the film ends, not one thing has changed in the characters' lives. There are some tense moments and the performances are good, but I can't imagine more than 10% of any given audience enjoying this film. (**) "},{"Title":"Frustratingly bad","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film features both Dustin Hoffman and Dennis Franz acting in keeping with their excellent reputations, but to no purpose.  The three-man script is gritty, but pointless.  As many great scripts as Mamet has written, this one is a dud.  "},{"Title":"Marvelous","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm more than surprised that this is a much ignored movie in the internet, underrated maybe?...I finished seeing it and I was mixed with emotions, with possibilities that could have started at any time in the movie so I watched it again right there.Marvelous dialogs, I think this is a Mamet and Hoffman thing. But I couldn't find more feedback on the internet about the plot and the outcomes. But be careful because I read some comments that were too much sure about it.I believe this is what David Mamet's genius is about. And people with a lot of talent putting it in front of you. "},{"Title":"You can buy a lot with a nickel these days","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When two low life dirtbags see an easy score they spent many worrisome hours figuring out how to run the game. So engrossed were they in their greed that they were unable to look at the score with any degree on intelligent planning. Hoffman's character was a particularly odious goof totally unable to consider anything but a speedy, easy job. Crazy film; thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Great 3 man cast, but not Mamet's best play.","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mamet's plays are usually more interesting than this one. Take OLEANNA for example. Here we've got these 2 guys and a black boy, obvious losers from the start, who plan to burgle the house of a customer to retrieve a valuable coin. This was sold to him at what they now consider too low a price. But all they do is talk, and sometimes get a little violent with each other, especially with the black kid who seems to be double crossing them.What is Mamet's purpose in all this? Is it his idea of a film noir? These guys are certainly losers, a prime requirement of that genre, but this play, and the film, is rather tedious despite the good cast work. I am an enthusiastic Mamet fan usually, but this one rather lost me.Incidentally, the only buffalo nickel worth very much is the 1918 minting, with 8 stamped over the 7. In the 1960's it was listing at $160 in fine condition. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dustin Hoffman and Dennis Franz turn in fine performances and those looking for them to strut their stuff will find some of that stuff in this film, but Hoffman has explored this terrain more effectively and memorably elsewhere. The character Bobby is never fully integrated into the film, and is not well acted. The cinematography is occasionally superb and one has the sense that there is a very good film lurking here somewhere -- but where? I never found it.  "},{"Title":"goes nowhere, says nothing.","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well acted dreary Mametpiece that may work on the stage, but on screen is a disappointment. It was not entertaining, or enlightening, and unless you're a dedicated Mamet fan, I'd look elsewhere.  "},{"Title":"Great movie - the best made in the 1990s","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the best movie made in the 1990s. Despite the criticisms that it has no content, it transmits a feeling of uneasiness and tension in a magistral way. I am sure almost everyone who criticizes this movie didn't get its content at all.   "},{"Title":"Warning! David Mamet films can cause depression in lab animals.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember driving through New Providence, New Jersey with my family in the fall of 1963 as a 16-year-old expatriate from the suburbs of Detroit, Michigan. We were relocating to this community because the large corporation, which had employed him as a personnel manager and labor relations mediator for years, had transferred my father.  On that day, riding in the backseat of our two-tone ghastly green, pre-Iacoca Dodge, I caught my first glimpse of the dark side of unrealized human potential.  This jarring insight triggered a shifting of the youthful tectonic plates of my &#145;Happy Days' Weltanschauung and has remained in my memory with a stark, persisting resonance for over 40 years.  In fact, the benign hypocrisy I associate with this memory, probably laid the cornerstone of my assault on society's most sacred cows as a student later in the &#145;60s. On the street corner, stood an older man of indeterminate age with raggedy clothing, needing a shave and being more toothless than not.  He was waving a cane wrapped in shredded newspapers and grinning idiotically at all that passed. I recall vividly how incongruous and puzzling this scene was to my young mind. I asked my parents who is this man&#133; what is he doing&#133; why is he like that?  They responded nervously and, I thought, rather inadequately.  I don't remember how they explained it, but I was perceptive enough to know that a) they didn't really know b) they didn't want to know and, more importantly, c) he represented something that repelled them and stirred their deepest insecurities as adults.  Now, as an adult, I know about homelessness and alcoholism&#133; about shattered dreams and failure.  I understand the fears that all adults have about the interconnectedness of social, economic and emotional life and its fundamental frailty.  We all hope to create meaning and security for ourselves.  The old man was an irksome anthem to all the &#145;crazy old uncles' in the attic, untethered to established melodies and outrageously adrift from convention&#133; a poster boy for the well known adage, `There but for fortune go you or I.'&#145;American Buffalo' with Dustin Hoffman (Teach) and Dennis Franz (Don) are two guys in a junk shop planning a theft of a coin collection.  The plot involves a rare &#145;buffalo' nickel and plotting about a totally speculative coin collection that they plan to rob.  Pathetically, this collection may not even exist. The heist never takes place.  All that does happen is a descent slowly into a world of plans and paranoia, more plans, contentiousness and self-delusion brought to us by&#133;you guessed it&#133;.the dark side; the side of handguns without permits, the side where transient hotels are euphemisms for &#145;flop houses', and everybody seems to be aimlessly strolling toward that street corner in my childhood memories, each with their own cane & newspaper flag.  In spite of all their pugnacious, animated posturing, it's just another glimpse of those same insecurities that challenge and motivate us all.  It's why we all work so hard on &#145;Maggie's Farm.'  The dialogue is the &#145;thing.'  It is tangential and circuitous.  It seems to lead nowhere.  One senses that these are routine exchanges. The Franz character emits an occasional spark of redemptive compassion, but Hoffman plays a man consumed by the code of the &#145;streets' and he harangues Franz for being so weak.  This is a brave and challenging play put to the silver screen but I'm guessing that its dialogue-dense script would better engage on stage.  However&#133;bear this caveat in mind, afterall David Mamet wrote it.  This film is a sad and stressful &#145;black tie' film of the interior and requires a companion mood to suit the color.  I was left feeling raw and hollowed out by the poverty and folly of human endeavor.  The viewer should dress their affect accordingly.  "}{"Title":"Three losers plan a robbery - who cares!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well-acted slice of life piece that unfortunately plays its characters so well that most of us couldn't care less about them. Probably will serve as good historical record for certain strata of society 100 years from now. "},{"Title":"no redeeming characters, but not terrible","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" American Buffalo is definitely not a movie for everyone. A downer in every sense, it portrays three pitiful characters with nowhere to go in life. I guess that overall, there's little to be said about the movie. It's little more than a way to pass time. The whole thing has the distinct feel of a play (it all happens pretty much in one room), but Dustin Hoffman, Dennis Franz and Sean Nelson have little to do here. Still, it might make you ponder your own direction in life.I have to wonder about that coin featuring the buffalo. When you think about it, that coin went the way of the buffalo. Maybe I'm the only person who notices that. "}]