[{"Title":"Why did they have to ruin it?","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Movies like these do not need sequels. Part of the advantage of Don Bluth moving away from Disney is that he didn't need to suffer their endless tirade of straight-to-video, poorly animated cash-in sequels. But apparently it was someone's brilliant idea to make a sequel to All Dogs Go to Heaven, so we get this.Charlie Sheen replaces Burt and he's not really as good. Most of the film is just a poor excuse for a sequel and it isn't nearly as dark, different or entertaining as the original.I feel sorry for future generations who are going to have to suffer endless sequels like this without ever knowing what it was like to have a time when Hollywood didn't totally rely on successful films as a crutch to release banal crap.Please, no more sequels to kids films that don't need 'em. "},{"Title":"Why Does the Cat play the Devil?","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" First and perhaps foremost, I would like to remark that this goody-goody sequel really took away from the original ADGTH movie, with all its dark bittersweet sentimentality, its beautiful insights of the Afterlife,and its heavy undertone of the criminal underworld.Also, why must they characterize the cat as a demon? For certain children that come to mind that believe cats are evil, no-good animals out to serve witches and devils, this does not help. To cast the cat as an average villain is one thing. But to cast it as the Devil himself?! I mean, if the plot were turned around, would they cast the dog as the Devil? That point aside, I didn't care for Charlie Sheen as Charlie B. Barkin and Itchie's one liner role really didn't cut up. Annabelle lacks any spunk, as she had in the original. There are certain scenes and songs that touched me. Such as I Will Always Be With You. And the end scene was sweet. I did approve of the Guardian Angel theme, while I didn't agree that Earth would be better than Heaven. 3 out 10! "},{"Title":"A few good moments can't save this embarrassing sequel.","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" How could they take such a beautifully animated gem like Don Bluth's All Dogs go to Heaven and bastardize it with a charmless, cheesy, uninspired sequel. The haunting music and delightful characters are gone, now replaced with tacky animation and an unimaginative plot.The Pros Charlie Sheen is sometimes fun as Charlie, but he lacks the charming tough guy attitude that brought him to life by Burt Reynolds. I did particularly enjoy the songs I will always be with you and It's too Heavenly here.The Cons There seems to be no connection between this and the original. In the beginning Charlie is chums with Carface, but wait a minute. Isn't this the same character who was responsible for Charlie's murder and kidnapped the sweet little orphan he loved? I guess that all changes in Heaven but why isn't Anne-Marie even mentioned? If Itchy makes it to Heaven, wouldn't Flo and Killer make it too? What is with Annabelle the whippet's voice? In the original it sounded feminine and charming and in the sequel it sounds like a whiny, bitchy, parrot. The new characters aren't all that great (except Sasha). And the animation is better compared to a generic Saturday morning cartoon. The constant cartoony humor is flat and unfunny and the heart just doesn't work when compare to the original, which had such a moving unsubtle touch that makes me cry every time.All Dogs go to Heaven is one of my all-time favorite films. How Don Bluth allowed this sequel to be made is beyond me.BOTTOM LINE Not all sequels go to Heaven. "},{"Title":"Not awful, but not great either!","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I do like the original, despite one or two flaws. I did feel it was a little too dark for children, but it was beautifully animated and moving. This sequel is definitely inferior in comparison, but there were a few redeeming merits. The animation is not very good, there were a number of colour changes and very flat backgrounds, and I felt that the animation on Red was a bit too frightening for children. The songs were very pleasant, especially I will always be with you, but not memorable. Then again, neither were most of the songs in the original. I did like the singing voice of Charlie, provided by Jesse Conti, not so much Charlie Sheen speaking-it just wasn't Charlie. Also Sheena Easton was lovely as Sasha; if you want to know a little more about her, she sang A Dream Worth Keeping(FernGully) and Now and Forever with Barry Manilow.(Pebble and the Penguin, which I like more than this to be honest)I loved Mark Watters' incidental music too. I liked the character David, but I found Anne Marie a lot more likable, I cannot watch the end of the first film without getting teary-eyed. Likewise with Carface, Vic Tayback was definitely better, but Ernest Borgnine did a very good job with the voicing I felt, but Carface lacked the calculating manipulation that made him so memorable in the original. Bebe Neuwirth's Annabelle did little for me too, I preferred Melba Moore's angelic interpretation. Now another flaw, and the main flaw, was the story. It was a good idea, with some neat subplots, but it was told way too fast. The studio should have focused on accuracy and detail rather than piling on rushed subplot and another. Now for the main villain Red, a bit too frightening for my liking, but I liked his song, with the Spanish flamenco like rhythms. George Hearn did more than adequately with the voicing,very menacing at times like in his song, but I felt he was out of character. I wouldn't initially associate Hearn with villainous roles. A more inspired choice would have been Tim Curry, as long as they didn't make him do a phony accent that they tend to burden him with. The script wasn't bad, but it did need a lot more work, whereas Borgnine and Dom DeLuise provided the laughs, Sheen and Easton were a little less convincing. In conclusion, a disappointing sequel to one of the more memorable Don Bluth movies, but it is not as bad as the Secret of NIMH sequel, which was so awful I didn't know what to say. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Story Line Was Bland and this film has too many mistakes","Date":"7 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" First, they ruin it with the uniquely bad animation quality, then, they get voices that sound nothing like the original. They make sooo many movie mistakes. When Sasha is singing in Count Me Out, the drummer disappears and then reappears, Itchy's shirt keeps changing color, his hat keeps changing position, one of the bridge is white, everyone in the background appears fat, halos keep changing colors and appearing and disappearing. Even heaven appears different. I don't give a damn if this is a low budget film, they shouldn't cut corners on animation. They completely ruined the first ADGTH. The only good thing about this movie was the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"This movie is good and I still love it","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" OK whats with all the bad reviews yes I am sick of all the bad reviews about this film on youtube and IMDb I thought this movie had a really good story and the plot made me feel happy why are you people saying its a bad sequel to a very good movie I thought it was just as good as the first one and I love the girl dog she is so pretty and the songs are really nice thats one thing I love the most the songs kept the movie in a good touch and by the way David wasn't a bad character I kind of like him because I wasn't familiar with the first one and I saw this one before the first one and I LOVE IT its a good sequel and I don't care if some people are not going to agear with me its better then most sequels like crappy video sequels that did not make sense at all and by the way their is an old saying don't judge a book by its cover and that means don't judge this movie by its looks or why the actors are different I just love this movie and I disagree with any one who hates it and I was so annoyed with all those bad reviews so I went watch the movie and calm down so their you have I went from angry to nice to calm and by way their is a girl at my school who does not like the things me and my friends like so if she does not like this film then she should just get STUFT this movie is good I love the songs and the animation and the soundtrack this is a really charming movie I love the song I will always be with you wahaaaaaaaaaaaa and love the girl dog her name by the way is Sasha Tee Hee Heee their is nothing wrong I don't like about this film so if you want to agree with me that its a good movie press yes but if you disagree then press no I give it a 10 out of 10 LOVE THIS MOVIE Thank you Charlie Sheen All Dogs 2 is another better sequel. "},{"Title":"Possibly the WORST sequel ever made!","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I loved All Dogs go to Heaven so much that I went to see the sequel in the theater, and I can't remember being more disappointed by a movie. The story stank worse than an over-aged sack of manure. I mean, come on! How could Carface possibly imagine being able to get revenge on an animal so much bigger than him, no matter how angry he was. Plus depicting Satan as a CAT?!?! How cliché can you get? So much for the story. Is it any wonder that Don Bluth, Burt Reynolds, Melba Moore, and Vic Tayback wouldn't touch it with a 10 foot pole? The animation was absolutely wretched. The colors were all washed out, and I can't count how many times I was able to see through objects that were supposed to be solid. It had to be the worst animation I've ever seen! I usually like animated movies, but not this BOMB! "},{"Title":"Direct to video sequels did not start until much later on","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" MovieAddict2007 wrotePart of the advantage of Don Bluth moving away from Disney is that he didn't need to suffer their endless tirade of straight-to-video, poorly animated cash-in sequels. How so? When Don Bluth left Disney in 1979 the Disney Co. was not making direct-to-video sequels, so that could hardly have been one of Don Bluth's reasons for leaving. The direct-to-video sequels (Return of Jafar) and the spin-off TV series like TailSpin (which used Disney's Jungle Book characters) didn't start until the Michael Eisner era. I'm not a fan of the direct-to-video sequels from Disney or these things like All Dogs Go To Heaven 2 or the seemingly never-ending Land Before Time sequels but let's keep the history of these things straight. Disney didn't make sequels until long after Don Bluth had departed from Disney. "},{"Title":"Uniquely Bad Sequel to a Decent Movie","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  All Dogs go to Heaven was a quirky, funny movie; With good name talent who's voices lended an adult familiarity to a cartoon basicly for kids. It was just interesting enough to be likeable by adults aside from something good for the kids to watch.Unfortunately ADGTH2 is a valueless sequel trying to make a bit of cash rideing on the coattails of the first. Charlie Sheen is a passable replacement for Burt Reynolds in this second movie and Sheena Easton's voice in a few of the movies lovely but forgettable songs makes her a worthwhile pick as a co-star for this. Add Dom DeLuise from the first movie and you'd think this would be a decent mix to make this sequel at least relatively decent compared to the first one.Unfortunately even with the addition of other good voice actors such as Bebe Neuwirth in the horrible role of Anabelle, this movie cannot be saved from the atrocious production values and animation skills (or lack thereof) present all over this movie. Horrible editing, syncronization of the voices, and flat out spaces where characters mouths should be moving to dialouge but are not combine to make this movie look like a college interns animation project instead of the decent sequel it could have been.All in all i'd say unless you were a very big fan of the first movie i'd give this a very large PASS.  "},{"Title":"Cute for the kids, but it ruins the whole point that the first film left","Date":"8 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" My cousin and I watched the All Dogs Go To Heaven films yesterday and we both liked them. But he's 6 years old and looks at this film as Oscar material, to be honest I wasn't expecting much since I was very satisfied with the way the first one ended. While I agree that this was not any where near up to par as the first one I still thought that this was a cute movie. As far as sequels go, you have to admit that All Dogs Go To Heaven 2 is better than most. The voices were actually closer than usual and the story was still pretty charming. Even though the first one seemed to have an official conclusion, this was just a new introduction for those little one's who might have missed All Dogs Go To Heaven.Charley has a new friend in Heaven, Itchy is there to join him. But Charley is getting a bit bored with the whole purity and typical days of being there. Carface has won an award for being the most turned around angel and it seems like things are working out for him, only he's really after a horn to give to Satan, or at least the Satan of dogs. But when Carface drops the horn, it goes down to Earth, Charley and Itchy are sent to get it, but Charley is quickly distracted by a beautiful dog, Shasha, who is taking care of a homeless boy, David. Since Charley is an angel, they can't see him, until he finds out that Carface, who is also down on Earth, has a special collar that will make him and Itchy visible, but Charley should watch who gives him that collar, he might be expecting something more in return.All Dogs Go to Heaven 2 is over all a cute movie. Even though that it was silly and not needed, for the kids it worked very well. The animation is pretty much like the same, but the new characters are very sweet and lovable. It's just a sweet little family film and I feel the rating is a little bit harsh, but I understand for the fans of the original. Like I said, it destroys the point of the first one, but I'm not going to spoil that for you. But I would recommend for you to give this a shot, but it's OK to just stick with the first film, that ended the story just fine.6/10 "}{"Title":"This. Movie. Sucks.","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" If you just watched All Dogs Go To Heaven, and learn that there's a sequel, don't watch it. It's horrible. It's absolutely awful. They rush the characters to develop. Sasha, for example, begins singing about how you can count her out for love. And at the end, this seems more like a dramatic romance flick than a comedy-adventure film. They rip Charlie out of his character and replace him with a gushy, soft, but still rebellious version of himself.The humor behind Carface's character is just completely lost. He's a totally different dog. He doesn't have a cool voice anymore, he isn't that villain you love to hate anymore, he's just a wimp voiced by none other than Mermaid Man from Spongebob. Speaking of voice actors..Charlie has a completely different voice. And while it isn't horrible, I don't like it. It's terrible in comparison to the excellent job that Burt Reynolds did for the character in the first film. Dom DeLuise is wonderful as always, as Itchy. That character stays true, and that's why this film gets a 3/10. Purely because Dom DeLuise was still voicing Itchy.Oh, and my last complaint. I know Ann-Marie's movie was done and gone, she has parents now, etc, but did Charlie completely forget about her, or what? No mention at ALL of her in the second film. I mean, even a small mention from Itchy would have been acceptable. (ex. Charlie, we have to get back. You can't take care of every kid that needs rescuing.) Or something of the sort. I mean, he died living with her, she deserves some kind of mention.Don't watch this if you're looking for a wonderful sequel. "},{"Title":"So much better then the Original","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Going through these posts I see that many have made mistakes when it comes to the movie --- though these mistakes are understandable. You have to pay real attention to the movie.I love this movie and I've always loved it more then the Original (I know this is VERY rare) Let me tell you my reasons why.1. The songs are much better this time around. I love them all dearly. The ONLY song that I liked (and I barley like it) is the song that Charlie and Annabelle sing when Charlie first gets into heaven. All the other songs are dull.2. The plot. The plot in the first movie was mostly about revenge...it wasn't nearly has good as the 2nd movie. It was nice to have Charlie fall in love with someone and end up being alive.3. Many think that this movie makes it seem Heaven is 'boring' which isn't true. The first Heaven was dull...there seemed to be nothing, but clouds and a area filled with clocks. In this movie you can do whatever you want anytime you want. I think Charlie doesn't like heaven, because he feels as if he is missing something(I think when he dies later on he'll be happier in heaven because at least he figured out what he was missing..which was love) 4. The cat is NOT the devil. How do I know this? At the end of the movie when Carface comes out from where he was hiding he asks where Red was. Charlie then says his BOSS wanted him back (Or something like that) If Red was the Devil...he wouldn't HAVE a boss. Nor would he get sucked back into hell (He was getting sucked up BEFORE Charlie blew the horn...so it wasn't because of that) Overall it was a beautiful animated film that I adored. There really isn't anything that I don't like.Don't get me wrong I love All Dogs Go To Heaven, but the 2nd one will ALWAYS be my favorite. "},{"Title":"They're Back! (And where are they now?)","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Did any remember the old characters from the original movie, All Dogs Go To Heaven? Now, I've heard it. They're have returned in the sequel. I was expected whom known those characters...(clears throat)....characters that do not appear in this sequel are Killer, Anne Marie, Flo and the other puppies. Killer, as we said again, later appeared in the TV series and the Christmas special. And I was on the hunt. The plot Charlie and Itchy end up in San Francisco, then new friends....never mind. I'm not going to have it on my comic strip, Kody The Fox! Well, otherwise, I watched it at Judy's and she has the movie, I'd wish I would have the movie at my dad's, or would I rent it? The heroic fox has signed off to ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN 2. "},{"Title":"Plenty of Emotion and Adventure","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" To say the least I have seen this movie probably 50 times since my childhood days. Even now at 18 years old I still watch it. The story is simpler and easyer to comprehend then the first which I think makes it better. I just admire the character of Charlie, whom Charlie Sheen does an excellent job in voicing, Even their characters match! Charlie Barkin is a pimp, sheen is a pimp. Charlie is indeed a cool dog who's good at breeding like he says. To me the songs are preety memorable as well, their catchy and evoke a lot of emotion. I can honestly say that their is not a single corny line within this movie that I or my girlfriend can see (she just loves it when charlie and sasha kiss). In all its just a sweet adventure movie with two awesome K9's that manages to throw a preety sweet romance with another K9 as well.My advice don't take the score of a 4 seriously, watch it for yourself and either love it or hate and while you do that. I will be singing I Will Always Be With You to my wife. "},{"Title":"NOT a good sequel","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm glad that I did not expect too much when I saw this sequel to one of my favourite childhood films. The storyline was dull and unconvincing as were the characters, and I was disappointed that some of the characters in the original were not in this sequel. I also did not think that the characters themselves were similar from the previous film. Charlie had changed, and now, he has a girlfriend. The first film had some good music, but the music in this film was unmemorable. In short, this film just did not do it for me. And, looking at other user feedback, it looks like it didn't do it for a lot of you. It's not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Not bad as far as sequels go....","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  A lot of kids I know liked the original Dogs movie. They did NOT like this sequel.I've seen both, and I don't have the advantage of youth, but....I kinda liked it.Dogs 2 doesn't have the same setting as the original, and Sheen is a far cry from Reynolds as Charlie B. Barkin.  But the songs are catchy, the animation is bright and Itchy was as bright as he ever was (DeLuise's voice was a welcome sound).And the romance between Charlie and Sasha (Easton) was cute.And this still didn't do very well.  I guess the world just wasn't ready to see Burt vocally replaced so soon.Six stars.  Go buy it, and put it on Carface's tab.  "},{"Title":"Full of Character... Despite the Mistakes.","Date":"21 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film to me is one of my favourite childhood films, where I remember watching the film over and over, falling in love with it more. After revisiting it, I still found it particularly charming, due to the storyline and the characters. The storyline is just right for the younger audience... easy to understand. In my opinion, the musical aspect of the film isn't the best I've seen from a film, but I can still remember the lyrics and the tune to this day. Reviews for the film have hounded it's continuous mistakes throughout the film, and changing of actors from the original. The organisation and planning of the film didn't help its potential, due to moving from one studio to another. Finances didn't help this film either from which is demonstrated from the overall quality of the animation. There are plenty of mistakes in this film, which has harmed its reputation. The actors chosen for each role, in my opinion, were sound choices despite some criticism choosing Charlie Sheen over Burt Reynolds. I'm my opinion however the film should've been better planned, organised and received better funding from MGM, then the film would've got the reputation it deserved. I believe it is full of character, which is why I remember it so well. The songs are good, despite irregularities, mainly focusing on I Will Always Be With You which is a beautiful and brilliant duet, despite Charlie's singing voice being clearly different. 7/10 is what I will give for this film due to its brilliant character and potential, despite the poor organisational planning leading to the mistakes evident in the film. "},{"Title":"Ewww, this was so dopey!","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Alright, I understand that this is a children's film. But I hated it just as much as a child than as an adult.Flaw #1 I'm not religious but in every religion heaven apparently has other animals, and people, so why is it depicted in the movie as a bunch of pink clouds full of flying cartoon dogs, nothing else? Where are all the people? Or is there a special heaven for just dogs? Did the dogs eat all the human angels? We'll never know.Flaw #2 this is a kids' movie, right? Well, the part with the yellow dog singing at the abandoned building (which has an uncanny resemblance to a strip club), while she dances suggestively and receives whistles and cheers from older male dogs was a little much. It appears to serve no purpose.Flaw #3 the lax security at the police station, where you can just wander in with a trio of dogs and have no one notice, and then have only one cop chase after you when it's realized that you're a wanted missing person.Flaw #4 cartoon dogs is bad enough, but there is really no need to incorporate all the preachy god stuff in there, it's pointless and a pathetic excuse of a movie.Flaw #5 The parents never put out an amber-alert for the runaway kid or anything? Wow, now that's responsible! How come when he was street performing to make money not one person realized he was the missing kid? All that being said, regardless of those issues the voice acting is really bad, all the dog-love garbage is in there pretty thick and the whole heaven concept is pretty lame. The excessive singing annoyed me the most, it was really bad and off-key. I don't recommend watching this film or showing it to your kids, it is a really pathetic movie. "},{"Title":"People are overreacting, this is not that bad.","Date":"17 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Why all the negative reviews? People are seriously overreacting and blowing this whole thing out of proportion. Is ADGTH 2 as good as the original, no probably not. But that doesn't mean this movie is bad. (Spoilers) Charlie is in heaven and Itchy ends joining him. Carface is also in heaven. He is acting all nice and innocent but is really plotting to steal the Horn of Gabriel. He steals it and goes back down to earth by using the horn to open the gates. Meanwhile Charlie is bored with heaven while Itchy is ecstatic about it. Charlie and Itchy are sent back to earth to get back the Horn of Gabriel. They get there and Charlie meets Sasha, whom he falls in love with, and David, a magician. I won't go any further than that. The Cons, Burt Reynolds is deeply missed as Charlie and the voice replacement of Carface is also a big loss. Anne Marie is not mentioned, perhaps because of what happened to the voice actress but it still would've been nice if Charlie had mentioned her. Also this seems to take place in the mid-80's-early 90's era but the original was in the 30's, that's a big plot hole for sure and the animation had a few glitches. But if you can get past all that, the movie is good, it was to me, and i'll say again that I don't understand why people are overreacting about this. It doesn't deserve all the bad reviews its gotten. I give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not as great as the original, but it's still a decent sequel","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When the Don Bluth animated classic, All Dogs Go To Heaven, was released, it did an okay job at the box-office and became a classic.There has been some sequel's to Don Bluth's movies and most of them were terrible (Secret Of Nimh 2 for Example). But in 1996, MGM studios released a sequel to the original called, All Dogs Go To Heaven 2. It did a bad job at the Box-Office and got a lot of negative review's from critics and fans of the original. But for me, I thought it was a decent sequel.The movie had some good animation even though it wasn't as good as the first one, it had some nice voice acting from Charlie Sheen, Sheena Easton, and it had Dom DeLuise returning as his character from the first one. The song's were also not that bad, even though I didn't care for, Count Me Out and On Easy Street.Beside's the fact that I didn't like the song's, Count Me Out and On Easy Street, I also thought the villain, Red, was weak and the story wasn't that good. The story was okay, but I wish it had Charlie and Itchy seeing Anne-Marie again.All Dogs Go To Heaven, is not a bad sequel but it's not as great as the original. If you're a fan of the original, then this film is not for you. If you're someone looking for a good animated film for your kids to watch, I recommend renting the original and this one. "}{"Title":"Bad 'dogs' spoilers","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  While ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN was  touching, funny, and enjoyable ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN 2 isn't any of those. The premise ridiculous premise is a horn falls down from Heaven and Charlie and Itchy are sent down to Earth to retrieve it. Carface returns, but he is a sidekick this time. He's the sidekick to a villian that is so scary that he has no place to be in a kiddie movie like this. It could have been a lot better. "},{"Title":"A VAST Improvement on behalf of All Dogs Go to Heaven 1!","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I seem to be one of the few people saying this, but All Dogs Go to Heaven 2 is actually a MAJOR step up from Bluth's 1989 original!Charlie Barkin and Itchy Itchiford are reunited in Heaven, after the latter chokes to death on a chicken bone. Charlie is bored of life in Heaven, but soon the heavenly hounds find out that Gabriel's horn has been stolen and is now in the heart of San Francisco. Charlie and Itchy must rival their old enemy Carface (who stole the horn in the first place), thwart Carface's new boss, Red the Cat Demon, and help a little boy, named David, find his way home.This is a great sequel! Great music, great characters, and a story MUCH easier to follow than its predecessor...8/10 stars! Highly recommended!!! ) "},{"Title":"Like most films involving Heaven, this one is to be avoided *may contain spoilers*","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Hollywood's take on religion is usually not that nice, and this film, about a dead dog who gets bored with Heaven, is no exception, especially since the character is supposed to be the likable hero of the bunch.The dog ends up getting sent back to Earth to rescue the Angel Gabriel's horn, which a very bad dog, who also somehow managed to make it to Heaven (they're obviously not kidding when they say ALL dogs go to Heaven)stole before HE somehow managed to float back down to Earth. The good dog finds he enjoys the Earthly life that he missed. He even meets a girlfriend and a potential new owner. Audiences are supposed to be very happy for him, especially when.....*SPOILER*In the end of the film, the dog is casually allowed to live back on Earth....*End spoiler*Nice way to confuse and trouble any little church-going children that might stumble across this film. What kind of a moral message is that, anyway? Basically people are being told that it's far more pleasurable to live however carelessly and selfishly they want on thrilling old Earth. Far better that than stifling old Heaven. It doesn't help that the Angel whom the good dog occasionally communicates with (and rudely snubs) is made for audiences to laugh at. I wasn't laughing. I was more thinking about Michael Medved's book, Hollywood Versus America, which this movie would have fit in very well as a discussion piece.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think that this is a disappointing sequel. I miss a lot of the old characters (King Gator, Anne Marie, etc.), and I don't like it due to the fact that not even half of the original voices are back to do the characters. A lot of personality was lost in Charlie, and the villain Red is not even half as bad as Carface was in the first one. If you're a big ADGTH fan like I am, it's worth seeing just to see how the story is continued, but don't count on it being 5 stars in your book. "},{"Title":"You're IN heaven watching this movie","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm going to do something i don't do very often. i'm going to gush for a moment. i LOVE LOVE LOVE this movie. This is one of my favorite animated movies ever and it puts the first one to shame. OK. gushing over. point is, i love this film.This is much better than the first for several reasons. 1. it's not nearly as dark. i had a problem with that. the first one kinda scared me. it was creepy, i didn't like the girl, and the puppies thing was weird. 2. the animation is so much smoother. the first looked gritty and gross looking, but this one has incredibly smooth lines that flow easily and that gains major points in my book. 3. the characters are much friendlier. i LOVE annabelle's new look and i think sasha, while i usually don't like the random addition of a love interest, pulled it off well. and David is a HELL of a lot less annoying then the chick from the first. 4. the music. holy crap is the music good in this movie. i've had these songs stuck in my head for 10 years. and that's just fine with me.I could keep making a list, but i feel you get the point. This movie is golden. if you want something to show to your kids, or you just feel like watching a good movie, pop this one in. you won't be disappointed. if i had to make one nitpick it would be that the villain was a bit lame. but that only makes it slight imperfection. If more animated movies were like this, i would have no reason to watch live action at ALL.So let's break the story down. Charlie doesn't want to be in heaven anymore. itchy dies and joins charlie. they both get sent down to earth after carface steals the horn of gabriel. they get some weird collars from an evil looking dog that carface introduces them too (they don't know he took it yet) and charlie meets sasha singing onstage (probably the only bad song of the movie) he then follows her back to find David a boy who ran away from home because his stepmom is preggers. he meets up with charlie, who since he's from heaven he can talk, uses their one miracle to let sasha talk too. and after convincing David he's a guardian angel, they're off to retrieve the horn. after a crazy scene at a police station, they do, and they go to make David money as a street magician. David sees how hard it is and wants to go home. but uh oh, charlie's collar wears out just after he finds love with sasha and goes back to get new ones. the dog gives it to him in exchange for the horn who turns into a demon cat. Carface kidnaps David for the horn and charlie goes to go rescue him. After a cool boss fight scene, Charlie wins, everyone is reunited, carface is sucked down to hell (don't worry, he's OK in the TV series) and anabelle lets charlie come back to life while itchy stays in heaven and they live happily ever after. that is unless you count the awesome TV series where itchy comes down to earth to help Charlie do good angel deeds. but that's a different story.This movie is just great. do yourself a favor if you're feeling down. Watch this movie. you DON'T have to watch the first. just stick with this one and it'll brighten up your day. guaranteed.This movie found its way to easy street. with a 9. out of 10. "},{"Title":"Do all sequels go to Heaven?","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" All Dogs go to Heaven (Bluth, 1989, MGM/UA) is one of my favourite animated films of all time. Bluth is a genius, already kicking all kinds of balls in the animation genre before Disney did. I love Disney, but Bluth has some BIG cahones; dogs drinking, gambling and double-crossing each other, rats made super intelligent by animal testing, a young orphaned dinosaur leading his friends to Utopia while grieving the death of his mother. Heck, even Anastasia (a film I love by the way), took risks for just existing, and that was Bluth's attempt at being Disney! Yet, it is not only Disney that has suffered the rath of the unneeded sequel. 90% of Bluth's movies have had sequels, TV shows or both adapted from them, ALL without his input. Except for Bartok The Magnificent. The Land Before Time is the most known example, with 12 sequels and a show, and another sequel coming riding on the tailcoat of Jurassic World. Many people of the 80s and 90s are aware of the American Tail franchise. Ditto Secret of NIMH 2. Then there's the All Dogs go to Heaven franchise.OK, most people know there's a sequel, but there was also an Emmy winning show and TV movie. Also, a really fun PC game. Judge me.Why? Why do Bluth movies get exploited like this? I mean, I love Bluth and his work, but his movies weren't critical babies until Anastasia came along. I mean, they were well received, but made little money EXCEPT on home video... oh.ADGTH was one of the highest earning home video releases at the time, so it makes sense that somebody would take this unique little gem and milk all of its heavenly cloud juice. However, is the sequel, appropriately titled All Dogs go to Heaven 2, with Charlie's New Adventure added in some cases, really bad? In my opinion... no. It's OK. Not great, but watchable.The story starts off in Heaven where we see Carface (Ernest Borginine) having a shady phone conversation, before heading off to the Guardian Angel crowning thingy for perfect angels. Here we see Charlie (Charlie Sheen), the lovable rogue who redeemed himself by putting a little girl's life before his own. In a clever allusion to the song Let Me Be Surprised, Charlie exclaims he's bored with Heaven. When his best friend, Itchy (Dom DeLuise) arrives in the afterlife, he bemoans his boring angelic life. So it makes perfect sense when Gabriel's Horn falls from Heaven, that he (and a reluctant Itchy) volunteer to retrieve it.So after once again conning the Heavenly Whippet, who now has a name and is stupid as heck (Bebe Neuwirth), Charlie and Itchy are sent to Earth as ghosts to find the Horn, which has fallen because Carface, who for some reason got a medal for being top notch angel earlier, made a deal with devil-cat Red (George Hearn), who wants the Horn to open the Pearly Gates so he can capture all of Heaven's dogs and lock them in Alcatraz so he can make Heaven Hell, I guess? Charlie and Itchy end up at a club where Charlie is smitten with smexy Irish Setter, Sasha LeFlur (Sheena Easton). Being the Casanova that he is, Charlie attempts to put the moves on her, only he can't, because he's a ghost. So Charlie and Itchy meet Carface, who they don't know is still evil, find out he got a life collar from a friend, which, well, makes him alive. Cool concept. Charlie, despite Itchy's reservations, goes to this friend, gets them both a collar, and goes to swoon over Sasha, before the collar's power wears out the next day. Of course, the friend is Red disguised as a dog, who is going to use the collar to control Charlie into leading him to the Horn. Oh, and the Horn is forgotten... for now.As it turns out, Sasha is not interested in Shepherds and is looking after a runaway boy named David (Adam Wylie), who is feeling understandably gypped because his dad and stepmom are having a baby. So he runs off to become a magician. David thinks Charlie is his guardian angel, so Charlie, in order to impress his new boo, plays along. So in between looking for the Horn, helping the kid do magic tricks and getting him back home, defeating the evil devil cat thing and falling in love, plenty of stuff goes down.It's all entertaining enough, the acting and music are good, pretty damn good actually. The animation isn't as polished as the original, but it's serviceable for a sequel, despite the NUMEROUS errors. Carface is now a pansy, which sucks, but Red is fun enough. Itchy is still funny. Even though Sheen can't replace a role literally made for Burt Reynolds in mind, he does a good job. The story isn't too bad either. But why, why is it set in 1996 San Francisco when the original was set on the brink of WWII in New Orleans? How did Itchy live that long? Where's Anne Marie? (I get that little Judith Barsi was murdered before the original film was released, so I guess that was a nod of respect for her). Why does the film exist other than to make money? Why does Charlie trust Carface when he MURDERED HIM IN THE FIRST MOVIE???!!!! The original had a passion quite akin to The Lion King; yeah it was risqué but we have a story to tell and God damn you if you don't like it! ADGTH 2 is harmless enough and moderately entertaining, but when compared to the gritty classic like the original it's based on, it's like comparing wet kibble to dry. This sequel ain't Heavenly, but it isn't Hell. It resides in Limbo, and that's fine too.6/10. "},{"Title":"Comes to prove not all 'dogs' go to heaven.","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" My Take Harmless yet childishly corny. Calling it a family movie is an overstatement.This sequel to Don Bluth's anti-Disney fable ALL DOGS GO TO HEAVEN is appealing but weak. The animation, when compared to it's admittedly better predecessors are colorful but falls short of the product they've come to expect. Combined with weak musical numbers (even with Sheena Easton lending her vocals) and even weaker characters and a lack of a better story results in a lively but completely forgettable fluff.A popular cats-list of voice actors including Charlie Sheen, Ernest Borgnine, Sheena Easton, Dom DeLuise and Bebe Neuwirth team up to provide a rather appealing star power to this weakling of an animated adventure. After the legendary Gabriel's Horn, which unlocks the doors to Heaven's Gate, is stolen, Charlie Barkin (voiced by Sheen) and his buddy Ithcy (voiced by DeLuise) go back to earth to retrieve it, where they also follow old buddy Carface (voiced by Borgnine), who happens to work for the evil cat wizard named Reginald (voiced by Tony Jay), who wants the Horn for himself.Two sub-plots are provided, but either one doesn't really help much at all. One includes a romance that goes on between Charlie and an Irish Setter singer (voiced by Easton), and the other, concerns the dogs helping a little runaway boy named David. The story is fairly weak, even considering the standards of weak non-Disney effort. Bluth will most likely find his way as a Disney successor, but he has hardly succeeds here. Even if he has a way of entertaining kids, Bluth has yet to discover the trappings to appeal adults. The result is a film that will appealing to the kids. Adults should stick to something else.Rating **1/2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"blander and more non-sensical that the original","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  this movie is even more bland and badly animated than the original. as is the case with most sequels, the plot is basically the same as the foregoing part. please don't waste your time on this! when will cartoon-makers learn that kids don't appreiciate ''new voices''?  "},{"Title":"All Sequels Go to Heaven?","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" ... because this is yet another dead one.  Lifeless voice acting, second-rate animation, contrived and un-funny songs (although the bit sung by the Devil would have been worthy of Tim Curry), and a weaker plot than Land Before Time 99  Fossils On Parade.I have to admit, I haven't seen the first film.  I'm not a big fan of movies involving Heaven or dogs, especially not in combination.  Still, I hope to see the first one soon, as there HAD to be a reason someone would create such a God-awful sequel.If I didn't get this movie for free, I wouldn't have it at all.  For a 'heaven' flick, the only good thing in this was the Devil. 2/10. "},{"Title":"Kids movie that's not for kids","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is very scary with scenes where the Devil uses Gabriels horn to open Heaven and pull the good angel-dogs out and imprision them on Alkatraz. The devil sings and dances to a few songs about the joys of being bad, and at one point, eats a live rat.We got this movie free with a pizza.  You get what you pay for.  "}{"Title":"Kids movie that's not for kids","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is very scary with scenes where the Devil uses Gabriels horn to open Heaven and pull the good angel-dogs out and imprision them on Alkatraz. The devil sings and dances to a few songs about the joys of being bad, and at one point, eats a live rat.We got this movie free with a pizza.  You get what you pay for.  "},{"Title":"Not all that bad.","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Of course it's nowhere near as good as the first, but it's not as bad as some of the other sequels.The one thing that sticks out the most, which I think makes this movie decent, is the music. The songs actually fit with the scene and they don't throw off the movie, and that's a good thing in my book. Something Disney needs to work on with their DTV garbage.One other thing I'm glad they didn't do was mention and/or have Anne Marie. It wouldn't feel right, and if you know what happened to Judith you might have an idea where I'm coming from. Plus David wasn't that bad of a character. "},{"Title":"All Dogs like Charlie and Itchy deserves to go to Heaven.","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  All Dogs Go to Heaven and All Dogs Go to Heaven 2 were great combination for Charlie and his friends. But some of the characters from All Dogs Go To Heaven didn't show up in All Dogs Go To Heaven 2 including Anne Marrie, best friend of Charlie and Itchy on All Dogs Go to Heaven.Thanks to God,to the Author, performers, actors and singers who made this movie fantastic and emotional. I rated this movie 100%.Being Heaven is the most wonderful and priceless gift by God to humans On Earth "},{"Title":"The Adventure Continues","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  In  All Dogs Go to Heaven and All Dogs Go to Heaven 2  the music was great. It made the movie emotional, also it reminds me that good will always prevail against evil.All Dogs Go to Heaven 1 and 2 made the characters funny, enjoyable except for the Villains including Red and Carface. "}]