[{"Title":"Feel-good, positive film","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"71 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those great British dramas set in a typically grim environment but shot with positivity throughout. Having grown up around the area in the film and being only a few years older than the featured boys, it was a joy to see life there depicted in the film. I agree with all previous comments about the actors and how true-to-life it feels. Although slightly exaggerated in places, this film is a great comment on London working class life as well as being focused around a gay-based storyline.However, I wanted to add that this film also comments on the complex class system in the UK which explains why Tony was dropped by Sandra. Many non-British viewers may not have picked up on this. Thoughout, Tony is shown as a middle class character who doesn't really fit into the working class environment. He uses different slang words to the others, has a 'posher' accent and has slightly different attitudes to all the other characters. He and Sandra come from different worlds. As Sandra says, she has been fighting all her life, whereas he has had evertyhing given to him on a plate. Ultimately, this relationship was never going to last. Life in London (and the UK) is still spilt into different social classes, although they do mix a little more than they used to. But you can often tell where someone is from by their accent and their choice of words. This was used to great affect in the film.Overall, a light-hearted look at life on a London council Estate with some great performances... one of my favourite films.  "},{"Title":"Self discovery and first love","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"68 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gay or straight, this is one of the finest movies ever made about self discovery and teenage love.  Albeit the end is a little wishful  and optimistic, the characters and situations are perfectly developed and  realized, ringing true in almost every scene.  This movie makes me smile on  every level...from the way the two boys discover their affection for one  another, the wonderful comedy relief from the next door neighbor Leah (and  her relationship with the entire tenement population), and the perfect  choice of soundtrack music from Mama Cass that, at times, seems written  specifically for certain scenes and works on both a nostalgic and  familiarity level.  This movie gets better with every viewing...and I'd  love to see what happened to each of the characters in a sequal.This movie is, without a doubt, very personal to all gay men and women who  came out during their youth and a favorite of all of my friends, both gay  and straight. "},{"Title":"Glad To Be Gay","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"67 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Glad to be gay - that's what this movie made me feel. I came out of the cinema feeling ecstatic. At last, they let us have a movie with a happy ending!! One where we weren't crippled by prejudice or dying of AIDS or mincing around in a feather boa. Awesome!It's not realistic - lets be honest. And this despite its gritty setting and ripe dialog. But who cares. After 100 years of cinema we deserved a Hollywood ending.I hope straights get as much out of this as I do from a great straight romance movie. No reason why they shouldn't. We've been watching their stuff quite happily for years.Oh, and a quick nod in the direction of Mama Cass Elliot. Her musical legacy - one that had been largely neglected prior to the movie's release - provided the film with its awesome soundtrack. I bought the movie and CD. Her voice is enough to brighten up the dullest of days. "},{"Title":"The Brits do it again...","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"54 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It seems when it comes to gay-themed movies, the Brits outdo us Americans hands down. This movie is another example of this fact. This movie rates as one of the best in this genre.  Get Real comes a close second.The young actors that play Jamie and Ste do an extraordinary job sometimes forgetting how well they pull off such complex characters throughout the movie.  I think any gay man growing up can relate to Jamie. He doesn't excel in sports, and almost too smart for his own mother.  He is comfortable with his sexuality, and he doesn't give a damn what the world thinks of him.  Ste, on the other hand, fears his older brother, and his father made his life miserable. As he states in the film, they made me ugly. Ste is not all ugly, and Jamie realizes this, and is attracted to his brash, manly demeanor. Unfortunately, Ste's own demons and his insecurities are present throughout the film.  At one point, Ste ashamed of rumors of his questionable sexuality, denies it to a heartbroken Jamie.Obviously, I enjoyed this movie. The scenes between Jamie and his mother and likewise, between Jamie and Ste, are perhaps the best parts of the movie. I understand having Leah in the movie to provide the supporting role of comic relief was a necessity in most film requirements, but in this one, it distracted the viewer to an extent. I was so glad when it came out on DVD, so I can put my last VHS tape to rest, but disappointed that there were no cast interviews or extras at the end. Granted, the movie was made six years or so after the DVD came out, but you might think the film makers would find something of interest.So England what will be the next great gay movie ? "},{"Title":"Extremely Moving","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"50 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful story of gay teenagers that is ideal for parents to show their children; so that they understand that gay people may be different, but not bad. Faithful to the play, great music score and gives a real feeling of English tenements. "},{"Title":"Two male teenagers discover love.","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"41 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never have I seen such a simple film that was so satisfying. The screenwriter dealt with the issue of homosexuality among teenagers in a realistic and smart manner. Every time the film becomes a little too dramatic, the director has something funny happen to lighten the atmosphere, which makes for a sweet and touching film. Also, all the characters are complex, so that bad characters do good things and good characters do bad things. Nobody is perfect and nobody is all bad, which makes the film even more realistic. It's similar to the more recent Get Real, but Beautiful Thing is definitely better. This is without a doubt my favorite gay film. Only the British can make a film this good! "},{"Title":"A Truly Beautiful Thing","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"41 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A Truly Beautiful Thing to watch. The whole film is fantastic, for all areas, the hard-working, loving, caring single mother, the shy, nervous, unsure child, the popular but insecure, frightened, abused boy, the crazy neighbours, everything!The film has some amazing scenes in it, especially the scene in the woods with the music - makes me cry and smile every time, the two young lovers are just wrapped up in themselves with no care in the world and it really shows through the acting and reactions of the actors, who obviously have such chemistry about them - and the music as well was fabulous and so poignant.This is probably my second ranking film of this genre (possible my second favourite in all) the first goes to Get Real that applied more to me than this film did, though the film affected me in a similar way to Get Real. Get Real changed my life, Beautiful Thing helped it along.I give this film a very good 9/10 (I never give 10 it may prevent others from trying to match or better it!) "},{"Title":"Excellent Gay Romance","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"37 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" BEAUTIFUL THING is a unique drama - presenting an adolescent gay couple as complex individuals, within a greater setting (an English housing project) that also captures a bit of a slice-of-life feel. I like the working-class setting, and wasn't bothered by the accents - as an American it required me to pay attention - a good thing as there are many subtle details that make this a very rich drama.It does tug at the heartstrings a bit, and it lays on the cuteness a bit more than it should, but I loved the characters anyway, and the setting and context (very nicely detailed film-making) keeps those minor gripes minor.There have been so many cynical or clichéd gay dramas released during the last decade or two, especially in the US (gay film from elsewhere in the world often seems so much more fresh and lifelike) - in many ways this film was (and remains) a real breath of fresh air. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I shall enjoy again & again","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Once again, I am overwhelmed by the excellence of British film-making & acting. I truly bow to the British honing of the craft of acting, which is brilliantly presented in this film. Storyline aside, the acting of the mother Sandra is superb; you feel every emotion on her face as she struggles to make a better life for herself and her son, as well as accept her son's growing awareness of his own sexuality. Remarkably, she is my favourite character in this film, notwithstanding the performances of the 2 boys, who are superb. The boyfriend, Tony, is also wonderful as a supporting character. My favourite scenes are actually sequential first, the shot of Sandra following the boys in a cab, as the shock & turmoil of her emotions is beautifully portrayed during this scene; second, the followup scene with the boys in the park, probably, for me, the most wonderfully innocent, beautiful and intimate scene in the film. I'm probably being silly; every scene in this beautiful film is a treasure and at triumph, for anyone who's ever been in love. I know I will treasure this film always. "},{"Title":" Beautiful Thing Is A Beautiful Movie","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an excellent romantic love story concerning two coming of age boys in gay accepting England.We found the movie to be both entertaining and moving.We own the movie on both VHS & DVD, that's how much we enjoy it.I would like to have seen a sequel to Beautiful Thing, merely to have had the writer pick up the story after Sandra & Jamie moved to Sandra's Pub. The reason being, the movie ends giving the impression that Sandra took Ste along with her & Jamie, to live with them at Pub.I feel a sequel would carry on further with this point, along with how the boys relationship grew with time. Gays need a positive light, as Beautiful Thing portrays.I was wondering if anyone else feels the same way concerning Ste moving with Sandra & Jamie.I can HIGHLY recommend this movie, as it is well done, and a touching story.Lea, adds much to the movie also. We loved how at the end of the movie she becomes a friend to both Ste & Jamie. But than again, you could almost tell it would happen. Lea was a free spirit who did a she felt. "}{"Title":"Touching and heartbreaking","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of only handful of movies that I would label as 'flawless'. Not only flawless, this movie has far exceeding my expectation and becoming extremely memorable for me.The movie is relatively simple - and there is nothing extravagant about the characters and the story, yet- that what makes us able to see ourselves as if we're in the film. It reveals a story of two young ordinary English boy trying to come out in a very conservative English period.This movie tells us that there is no such thing as -gay love or straight love-. Love never discriminates and never judges, and that love could happen to anyone. Nobody could be blamed for falling in love.This movie will always remain in my heart.**PS Bravo John Altman for the Peppermint foot lotion theme song ! "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Excellent coming of age and coming out movie. It deals with Jamie (Glen Berry) who is in high school. He's thin, shy and has problems with his mother Sandra (Linda Henry). A school mate named Ste (Scott Neal) has problems with his abusive father. They meet and end up realizing they're gay and in love. Also there is a black girl neighbor who is always blasting songs by Mama Cass! Moving and VERY well made drama. It was shot in Thamesmead England so the accents are hard to follow sometimes but you eventually get the hang of it. Berry and Neal, who were both teenagers when this was shot, played their roles perfectly. You can see in their faces and body language the confusion they're feeling and trying to deal with their orientation. When they run around in a dark wood and start kissing with Make Your own Kind of Music booming on the soundtrack it's absolutely ecstatic and liberating! Also they're not painted as saints. They come across as normal teenage boys. Henry is just incredible as Jamie's mother. All kidding aside, I'm shocked that she wasn't nominated at the England Academy Awards for this performance. You see her and Jamie trying to deal with each other and her realizing he's gay. This all leads to a GREAT moment at the end when Ste and Jamie are dancing to Dream A Little Dream Of Me holding each other close right out in public. Sandra sees this and starts dancing with a black women right next to them. The defiant look on her face to everybody was just right! I remember seeing this when it came out in 1996 and actually crying (out of happiness) at the end. This was an unexpected art house hit in 1996 and ushered in (for a few years anyway) a tidal wave of gay films. Moving, beautifully acted and how can you resist a movie with a Mama Cass soundtrack? Just exceptional. A 10 all the way. "},{"Title":"utterly triumphant, my new favorite feel-good film","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Heart-wrenching performances, a witty and sensitive (but never sappy) script, and characters so real they could walk off the screen these aren't usually things to be found in gay-themed movies, but Beautiful Thing has all of them and more. Where Brokeback Mountain left me devastated and believing happiness couldn't ever last (I will never watch it again), and Latter Days is a prime example of style over substance, Beautiful Thing makes me feel like love is out there and it's really worth fighting for. It has stayed with me vividly and powerfully since I first saw it, and I continue to watch parts of it often.I don't know if Glen Berry or Scott Neal could have realized what an impact this film would have on some viewers, but I wish I could thank them for bringing such humanity, realism, and likability to the roles of Jamie and Ste. Linda Henry, too, in the brilliant role of Sandra, gives a performance worthy of an Oscar, and Sandra's boyfriend Tony (played perfectly by Ben Daniels) is hilarious and surprisingly endearing. The script is not self-conscious or saccharine; it is uplifting without being preachy, and tender without being grating. If you're gay or just a human being with empathy and understanding (and a good sense of humor -- the script is terribly clever and the film really benefits from multiple viewings), Beautiful Thing is an experience you should not miss. It's a film I will cherish forever, enhanced by the music of Mama Cass Elliot (who was truly gifted and whose death was a great loss).Favorite scenes (though almost every scene is really a favorite) the Make Your Own Kind of Music chase in the woods (I may love this scene more than anything else ever), the bedroom scenes with Jamie and Ste, and the final sequence, (featuring Mama Cass's beautiful Dream a Little Dream of Me) which I will not spoil -- I envy the first-time viewer, who is in for a huge treat. I like to think that Jamie and Ste live on forever in the final shot, the future uncertain but the present a greater joy than they had ever known, their love a small but bright glimmer of hope in an otherwise gray world. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the best movie i've ever seen. The acting, directing, and scenery, music, EVERYTHING is fantastic! Glen Berry and Scott Neal deliver great performances, and they are both so hot, and it makes you want to look for that special someone. It also tells you what living in urban england is really like. Its an amazing movie, and I recommend it to everything. It changed my life, it might change yours. Make Your Own Kind of Music and Believe or not are 2 great Mama Cass songs which are played in the movie. Congratulations to everyone who was involved and I wish they had made a sequel! This movie deserves more awards than it got. "},{"Title":"Quirky and humane","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A film about the gay working class runs the risk of portraying two sets of stereotypes. But 'Beautiful Thing', Hettie MacDonald's sweet little movie, is lifted above mere cliché through the quirky humanity of its characters, and the atmospheric cinematography of the ugly-beautiful London overspill estate of Thamesmead. Unlike many gay films, it manages to display sympathy for its characters without becoming unduly celebratory (a tone that rarely makes for good cinema). In fact, it has something of the feel of a Mike Leigh film, although it's a lower key affair than most of Leigh's movies a little less intense, a little less depressing, and a just little less funny. But that is, of course, to judge it against the highest of standards. In it's own right, it's a modest, but distinctive and highly likable film. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Although I realize this was released back in 1996, and it is now 2006, 10 years after, I've never seen this flick until this weekend on the Logo channel. It's very refreshing to see gay themed movies that do not depict the main characters as effeminate and/or drag queens... just regular guys being regular guys. I would rate this movie right up with Brokeback Mountain in that respect, just in a different setting and a different time period. I've already bought a copy off E-Bay, and would recommend this movie highly to anyone. I would also recommend it to any parents who are struggling with gay issues with their children. The acting is top-notch, and I can certainly see why it was nominated and won so many awards. Scott Neal and Glen Berry held onto their characters like pros, and Linda Henry as the mom was just excellent! The characters of Ronnie and Trevor made my skin crawl, but from an acting perspective - wow - great job! Ric. "},{"Title":"makes love simply beautiful, a beautiful thing!","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" every time i watch this movie it makes me feel that after all the bad things we go trough in life for being gay is not that bad if you can find love and this movies is the best gay love story ever, i relate to it, it just moves every single cell in my body, just when i am down sad and blue takes me to a place i cant describe, makes me feel innocent and not soo complicated, cause thats how it was for me, it wasn't about a rainbow flag, gay outfits, gay this gay that, is just two kids on love.. not soo easy to xplain but thats how it is........ it makes love simply beautiful! just a beautiful thingenjoy "},{"Title":"an excellent movie","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an excellent movie about teens coming to terms with being gay. It can be used in classroom settings; although, I have yet to try it out in that setting. I did not want this movie to end and hope that their love can last forever. This is a must see for anyone and will be enjoyed as a part of DVD library to be viewed again. This shows how love blooms, yet with the social stigma that is attached and how it is difficult for the young individual to accept themselves easily. This lacks the school yard experience details that this movie touches on, but yet is still portrayed. The mother is surprisingly willing to still love her child as many young gay people do not experience. I encourage everyone who can see this movie do so, it is very tastefully done not to offend the heterosexual population "},{"Title":"This film changed me!","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would like to thank Hettie MacDonald for making this very important film. This was the first time a movie has made me cry in many years.  I cried for two reasons, 1) its bittersweet moments between Jamie and Ste were absolutely wonderful, they literally made me feel 16 again, experiencing all the same emotional turmoil, and 2) I regret not having been true to my own homosexuality as a teen.  I wish I'd had Jamie's courage when I was 16.  I knew I was gay, even before that, but was afriad to do anything about it. Now I'm 30 and I'm still not completely out of the proverbial closet.  I know one thing for sure, if I'd had exposure to films like Beautiful Thing when I was a lad... I may have been able to draw the courage I needed from those characters.  Thank you again!  I love the Film! "},{"Title":"First love met with alacrity","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Tightly written story about London teen-agers, brilliantly acted by actual teen-agers.In an ideal world, the housing estates would have no graffiti, and your neighbors would be un-selfish, articulate, and honest both intellectually and emotionally.  In an ideal world, we would all be fearless in approaching the uncharted territory of first love.  This would be a Beautiful Thing.At 17 years old, Berry and Neal were already experienced actors, from whom MacDonald drew finely shaded performances in scene after scene.  Repeated watching of this ensemble cast continues to reveal new delights.The author pushes every button.  Watching this film is a bit like being tickled--you know what is happening but you cannot control yourself.You will care about these people (sorry--characters you will forget they are fictional).  You may not understand their accents, but you will not mind re-watching the film with the captions--you will re-watch it anyway.Did I say people cannot leave this film alone?  It just makes people feel so good, they want to watch it again. "}{"Title":"A Journey Into Self-Discovery","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film really is a Beautiful Thing.  The first time I saw this film I had a bit of trouble working through the working-class English accent.  It does take some effort -- but stick with it.The appealing characters and the actors that portray them are first rate.A film like this could never be made in the U.S.  Having young adults portray gay characters could never get funded here.  The sound track is incredible and is used to enhance the story -- it is truly a work of art.I've seen this movie four times now and it gets better every time.  Please see it and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"The most Beautiful Thing ever!","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was blown away by this movie. It was a great take on the good IL' love story. Every character brought something rich and magnificent to the screen. At times, I felt as if I was looking into the lives of real people. It is great to see a movie with so many dynamic relationships. Friends. Lovers. Family. Everything was covered in this movie. It was not a run-of-the-mill tale of romance. Beautiful Thing had comedy, action and drama as well. If you have not seen it, take my recommendation. I actually gave it ten stars because I could not find a reason to only give it nine! I wish there were a sequel so we could see what happened after but on the other hand, nothing could compare to the original movie! "},{"Title":"Not entirely sold on this one...","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Beautiful Thing is one of those films I find hard to review. On one hand, it's a nice little low budget film about two young boys coming to grips with their sexuality amidst a colorful cast of characters living in the same apartment building. But on the other hand, I couldn't help but feel something was missing here.Being a gay male myself, I haven't delved very much into the world of gay cinema, but I will say I was pleased that nothing in this film seemed intent on exploiting homosexuals, which is the very thing that has kept me away from the genre most of the time. The story unfolds in a very low-key manner, and for once I didn't feel as if the filmmakers were simply trying to cash in on the hordes of homosexuals out there that will pay to see anything they can relate to, not even realizing the filmmakers are just after their wallets.For a movie whose central feature is the evolving love story between two teenage boys, Jamie and Ste, I felt it was void of the usual pitfalls that plague most movies in this vein--thankfully, the clichés are kept to a bare minimum, and there's very little of what I like to call Hollywood-isms in the film, which I was grateful for. The chemistry between the two male leads was what kept me watching the film, as I felt the writing and the casting were both spot on in this department.If anything leaves me humbled and a little puzzled, however, it has to be the film's focus on the other inhabitants of the apartment complex, mainly a vivacious black girl who is friends with the two leads, Jamie's mother and her new boyfriend, as well as Ste's father. Jamie's mother is struggling to land a job managing her own pub, while her new boyfriend struggles with fitting in. Couple this with multiple scenes of the black female behaving oddly while singing oldies songs, and I have to honestly say I don't see what relevance any of these story threads add to the overall plot. I feel as if by writing this, someone more educated will step in and point it out to me, thereby making me feel stupid, but alas...as it stands right now, I felt most of these scenes were rather pointless. It also doesn't help that the end is a little anticlimactic, making me wonder why they spent so much time building up these little anecdotal vignettes of story lines if they were just going to leave them hanging in the end anyway.By the time the end rolled around, I was a little puzzled. There are some good things here, yes, but then other things that make no sense to me as well. In any case, I recommend this to anyone looking for a nice, cute little film about young homosexuals, without all the Hollywood hoopla. "},{"Title":"A truly wonderful, funny and at times moving coming of age story","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's been a long time since I've seen this, not in fact since it first came out in 1996. The film tells the story of two young lads who live on a council estate in London. Jamie lives with his ballsy and brash Mum Sandra and next door is Stu, who is beat upon by his father and older brother. Giving him refuge Sandra lets Stu stay with Jamie, a decision that leads the two lads to discovering feelings for each other. Throw into the picture their loud mouthed Mama Cass obsessed neighbour Leah and Sandra's wanna be hippie lover and you have a remarkably funny, yet tender and positive film.Coming of age films tend to be pretty dire and one that focus of gay coming of age stories are often even worse. Beautiful Thing manages to escape this trap by presenting realistic characters without pushing the sentiment side of things. The bonding that Stu and Jamie find is rather beautiful and at times touching, the performances from the young actors brings a natural element to their on screen relationship. In fact across the film performances are excellent. There is much to laugh at in the film, much provided by Leah and her drunken Mama Cass playing antics with Tameka Empson giving a fine performance. Sandra too is played well by Linda Henry, portraying Sandra as gusty and ballsy yet tender and full of love and protection for her son. Her discovery about his sexuality is perfect and even becomes more of a mother figure to Stu.The film touches on a serious element with the physical abuse Stu suffers, but it is never graphic or overly highlighted; it make the film too dark if it were. Instead it forms the catalyst for the story to move on and gives hope for the character. The discovery of sexuality is a tough one regardless of who you are attracted to and the boys go through the motions of exploration, confusion and acceptance with relatively less pain or anguish than most, which is a good thing, it sends a clear message that it is okay. The film is very much about acceptance, but also about new beginnings all of which is done with great positivity, but also restraint. The film doesn't portray stereotypes, nor does it present being gay negatively.The final scene is a stunning ending with Stu and Jamie dancing arm in arm in the square of the council estate though I did struggle with the idea of it happening on council estate! But perhaps that is the very point; a 'Fuck You, Here We Are' attitude that again goes against what in other ways may be portrayed as impossible. Whilst coming out and acceptance is very difficult for many young gay people, the journey is a little easier for these two, but it's that that makes this such a joy to watch and a reinforcement that being gay is both perfectly natural and wonderful.More of my reviews at iheartfilm.weebly.com "},{"Title":"Flawed but sweet","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Every now and then, when I'm in the mood to watch a sweet little gay romance, I dig out my VHS copy of Beautiful Thing. The film has its flaws. Exchanges of dialog that aren't quite believable. (They perhaps worked better on stage than on screen since we expect less realism on stage.) Ben Daniels was miscast as Tony, or at least needed better make-up and wardrobe he doesn't look young enough or privileged enough for that character. And then there's that annoying closing dance in the courtyard......But before I launch into that pet critique, let's talk about what works well in this film. Excellent use of actual locations in Thamesmead the film gives you the feeling of settling into the real-world geography. Great music--and I have in mind not only the Mamas and the Papas but also the very clever selection from The Sound of Music and the sweet, understated John Altman instrumental that recurs through the movie. Superb acting of the kind you expect from the British even the small parts feel like three-dimensional, fully thought-out characters. The two male leads aren't especially attractive (as would have been required if this had been an American production), but they make the romance so endearing that they somehow seem to get cuter as the film progresses.My great regret about this film--the thing that keeps me from enjoying it as un-self-consciously as I would like, and as the filmmakers presumably hope I would--is that closing scene where Ste and Jamie dance in the courtyard, ignoring the crowd around them. My understanding (someone correct me if I'm mistaken) is that in the play, that final dance occurred in the relatively more private space of Jamie's balcony, which makes so much more sense. I can understand why Jonathan Harvey and Hettie Macdonald would be tempted to provide a more dramatic, defiant, celebratory coming out for the end of the movie. And I have tried so hard over the years to justify that decision in my head as a believable event in the world of this movie Ste and Jamie are both accustomed to being victims of violence, so the decision to live openly is a knowing, calculated risk. Ste is presumably leaving the estate to move into the new pub with Jamie and Sandra, so he's no longer in danger from his father and brother, as everyone had been so afraid earlier. Jamie's making foolish decisions in the reckless euphoria of coming out, but Sandra's there watching out for him, glaring at the crowd like a mother velociraptor, daring anyone to threaten her child.I've tried to explain the closing scene in all those ways. But the fact remains that after all the work this film went through to make itself believable--the locations, the superb acting--it lapses inexplicably at the final, crucial moment into a fairy tale ending. That was an unfortunate decision, and tagging the film An urban fairytale doesn't suffice to make the decision palatable. This film simply has the wrong ending. I've seen Harvey say that he wanted to provide a positive image of hope for gay working-class youth. Those young people would have been better served, and the story would have been sweeter, had the film stayed more believable up through the end.Still, the film's worth digging out from time to time for another viewing. "},{"Title":"Lives Up To The Title!","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those typical British films made with excellent but unknown (at-the-time) actors, a budget of nothing; about a taboo subject that has no humour in it; in a deprived working class area. In typical British film style all these essential ingredients together with some added humour make for a wonderful and absorbing film. Linda Henry for me was the star of the film. Playing Sandra Gangel Jamies mother she really is 'The Tart With A Heart'. Shes, hard as nails, a worker, and essentially a great mother though this is not always easy to see at the beginning of the film but as the story progresses it becomes clear that she has struggled and fought for her son throughout his short life. Once his homosexuality comes out into the open the real fight is only just starting. Jamie falls for abused neighbour/school friend Ste. Both the characters of Jamie and Ste are played with such professionalism throughout. There are some bedroom scenes which could have been over played, but in this film much is left to the imagination of the viewer. The young boys really do justice to the great writing and direction. The supporting cast are much in the back ground except Leah, a rather troubled girl in from the same housing block who provides some of the more amusing moments and pathos especially with her devotion to the music of 'Mama Cass. The British class system also comes into the film via Sandras latest boyfriend, Tony. Again this difference is played for what it is - a difference in backgrounds and cultures. It is not played for laughs. It is just there all the situations in this film appear to be normal and not contrived or put into the film for the sake of it. Tony does however, make a valuable comment during the film. When Jamies homosexuality is known by Sandra she is seen out on the balcony crying and thinking about how she brought Jamie up on her own. Tony's comment about nothing having changed is a wonderful moment in the film. The climax of the film shows Sandra and Jamie moving a step up in the world and Sandras acceptance of her sons sexuality. She makes a great comment to her best friend Gina; Gina, I shall never have grandchildren. I mentioned earlier the humour. This is typical British dry humour which i can imagine would pass some non Brits by as it isn't slap-stick or obvious but subtle and natural; and comes from the excellent script. Good examples of this are the love/hate relationship between Sandra and Leah which provides some very funny one liners and also the conversations Sandra and Jamie have together. There is some wonderful pathos! I saw this film first when it was shown in the 1990s (when it did cause some controversy in the UK) and again in 2006 and it has not dated at all. It still looks as fresh and good as the day of release.It shows a hot summer on a London Housing estate where two young people find themselves. The picture is more like a window into the lives of the people on the estate. You can easily imagine that life went on before the film and indeed is continuing much the same today. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Thing is a beautiful film.","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" My partner and I first came across the play Beautiful Thing during a visit to Chicago a few years ago. A local Chicago theatre company (Famous Door) presented an absolutely first-rate production that eventually played off-Broadway in NY. To say that the play was a revelation is a complete understatement . . . we were completely blown away. We connected to the story, to the excellent cast, to the simple but effective production. After the play we had to get something to eat so that we could continue talking about it! A year or so later, while we were living in Richmond, VA, the Richmond Triangle Players also presented the play. That production was somewhat unique because the actress playing Sandra was the real-life mother of the actor playing Ste. We were happily surprised to find the film, which I finally have had a chance to see. The film brought back that same emotional rush of our first encounter with the play in Chicago. Beautiful Thing is a positive, endearing and enduring film. The film version makes a few changes and opens the story up a bit, as the medium allows, and the casting of the role of Leah made for a slightly different dynamic in the film. The cast is uniformly excellent, and the scenes between Jamie and Ste are (as many previously have noted) very real and very honest. The Cass Elliott songs add a great dimension to the film as well. The direction is clean, uncluttered and straightforward. Much credit must go to Jonathan Harvey, who wrote a very fine play and then adapted it well for the screen. I wish that there were more gay-themed films like this one - romantic in the best sense of the word and accessible to all with hearts open to love - to help counterbalance the usual portrayal of gay characters as superficial and self-absorbed. I look forward to repeated viewings of this wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Best gay theme feel good movie ever made in my opinion.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I feel like chicken tonight says the drag queen at the Gloucester and with those words you too feel young at heart and falling in love every night of the week all over again.  For all its faults, in script and plot line, this movie is my all time favorite making me feel good after each viewing (and I've seen it a dozen or more times).  I'll have one of you and a dozen of your mate. The Mammas and Pappas are one of my favorite 60's rock groups and this movie is almost a 90 minute music video for that group.  Amazing too for the reason, that the Mammas and Pappas lyrics were mostly written to explain events in their lives and how well they translate in a different context in his movie.  I simply love the use of Make Your Own Kind of Music (how appropriate are those lyrics to this movie script and what the boys were going through poles apart from California in the 60's) as the two boys run through the park playing catch with each other and then kissing under the tree.  So too, the ending dance scene with Dream a Little Dream of Me and closing credits done to Move in a Little Closer Baby.  Leah playing the Mama Cass role is exceptional.  The script faults are an on-going mystery to me and I can never quite fathom the anomalies they pose - the rainbow colors and lights in the bedroom of a young boy who has just discovered he is gay, why the mother says that Ste might be happy living in a Greek island inhabited entirely by lesbians, why earlier in the movie in an altercation Jamie asks his Mum the question How am I weird? for no particular reason, the double take on Do you have to use words like that? only to get the joke right on the second take, and some rather abrupt looks and words between the two boys that feel out of context or inappropriate to the circumstances.  I've read the script and still cannot fathom the context of these script lines.  But this all adds to the fascination of an incredibly heartfelt story based on unconditional love between a mother and her son, and a relationship of young love that develops between the two boys.  The issues of homophobia are dealt after the credits close.  With the movie ending, we never know how Ste deals with his father's reaction to his public coming out by partnering Jamie in a dance on the common area of the housing development estate.  Fantastic stuff!  It's a pity we are not likely to see a sequel nor that either of the two boys have not taken up major movie roles in the UK.  Move in a little closer baby and make your own kind of music on repeated viewings is all I can say in closing. 5***** out of 5***** for compassion and acceptance on a touchy subject. "},{"Title":"Strip away the hollywood gloss","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The one thing the British have always been able to do, is to make a movie that accurately captures the heart of a story without coating it in sugar. Beautiful Thing is a case in point. Life on a London housing estate is neither portrayed as all bad or all good, and the legendary camaraderie of the 'typical' cockney is exposed as being a sham invention of Ealing Comedies and the London tourist board. These people have problems, don't we all, but it doesn't mean they can't recognise a beautiful thing when they see one. This is an ensemble piece that each player can be proud of. It is uncompromising which is often a euphemism for grim. It reveals it's characters as real people , with faults and prejudices. The ending is whimsical but ultimately satisfying, and the expression on Sandra's face as she silently dares the watching crowd to challenge her son, is as powerful an image as I have seen in cinema. A hidden gem-see it.  "},{"Title":"Teens in British working class community deal with sexual/other issues","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story focuses on a teenager struggling with his identity (he is long suspected of being gay by his single mom, as well as kids at school), finding nothing much enjoyable about his life in the working class ghetto he calls home. While other characters battle their own demons (a neighbor girl appears to be obcessed with her admiration for Mama Cass, another teenager is physically abused by an older brother and a drunken single dad, the main character's mom falls in and out of love with a string of boyfriends), the star eventually confesses his attraction to the boy who sleeps over whenever things get too rough at his own place. The opening credits feature a perfectly suited song by Mama Cass. Throughout the film more of her songs beautifully envelop the scenes, the best one by far being Make Your Own Sweet Music. With contemporary British working class backgrounds, the film focuses on the fears of coming out, the social stigma placed on homosexuals, and the growing move for social acceptance. The final scene makes the strong staement be who you are, nothing else matters, and if people don't like it, it's their problem.This is a sweet film throughout. There are a few loose ends and some small details that did not add to the plot, thus should have been cut. I was not comfortable with the implication that the abused teen was a drug dealer, nor that a girl no older than 15 appeared to be promiscuous. These two details were gratuitous and should not have been included. In the end we don't know what becomes of the two lovebirds, nor whether the mother would finally settle down. The man who showed sincere interest in her, was eventually brushed off without a reason. The implication that the mother, too, was gay, is left up to the viewer. The pro-tolerance message is quite clear.  "}{"Title":"a surprisingly sweet and interesting movie..","Date":"30 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i've heard about this movie for a long time but never got the will to try it, now it caught me on TV and i must say i was pleasantly surprised. i think it depicts a tale of coming out in a very truthful manner and also it is very sweet, romantic and exciting. at the beginning the mother's story is sort of towering the whole movie and it's a little detaching and uninviting but since the tension between the two boys start to rise it really lures the viewer in. the two male leads are adorable and ste is so handsome! sad he didn't get a breakthrough after this release. there are some very touching moments between two of them and the movie manages to be intimate and sensitive. other than the main romantic story there are several background characters that are also really sweet and are flashed out neatly and get respectively developed. very recommended as a movie about gay characters or even a sweet romantic drama. "},{"Title":"Loving this","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. I have watched it several times and it has become one of my favorite movies - it really is a beautiful thing.The characters are all awesome and special. Jamie and Ste are both really adorable and I love it how they're first really awkward around each other but then become closer and fall in love. The scene were Ste is first time sleeping in Jamie's bed reflects it brilliantly. Neither of them knows what to say and just sits on the bed, Jamie reading the magazine and Ste eating his sandwich. This particular scene is one of my favorite because it's just so sweet and funny.We don't know that much about Ste. We know that his father and brother abuses him and that he's athletic and more popular than Jamie. But that's about it. In the beginning of the movie when the other boys bullies Jamie, Ste comes along because he doesn't really want to be an outcast or different. It's interesting to follow how he comes braver and accept that he's gay and in love with Jamie. And the scene at the end of the movie - were Ste and Jamie dances in front of a crowd - we really see how he has changed.Sandra, Jamie's mother, is also a wonderful character. I love it how she doesn't play just the mom role - she isn't there simply because the main character needs a mother, she is there to have her own story along Jamie's and Ste's. I really enjoy the scenes were she is - the movie wouldn't be as brilliant as it is without her. She is really fun character and brings the single parenthood's difficulties into the movie. Also I love Sandra's and Jamie's relationship. She is always there for her son. Linda Henry really knows how to act.This movie shows us many things. It's really sweet and beautiful but also hilarious - I laughed so many times during this! The accents were so lovely and the actors marvelous. I really love this. "},{"Title":"To be read at least on the third level.","Date":"7 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" London, Bermondsey, on the South Bank, popular, even poor here and there, mixed population, and a lot of one parent families and teenagers who do not have the male and female equilibrium they are said to need. All that is an immense chain of clichés, of course, an unbearable forced labor chain of clichés if you stick to that and nothing else.But even if this film is full of such clichés, they are so repetitive that they do not mean anything at all in a way. Picasso used to say when you only use one color, blue for instance, and no recognizable shapes at all you just paint that color, hence blue. It is the same thing here and so we have to look beyond that pile of clichés to find the meaning, and the meaning is beautiful.The first meaning is that teenagers who need love just look for that love in the people around them who look at them with care, who speak to them with tenderness, who are able to appeal to their mind, to their desire to be happy and to give and receive love. There is nothing more beautiful than to receive and welcome the love someone else is ready to give you, beyond any other consideration, especially when you are ready to do the same and give love to anyone who wants to receive it.The second meaning is that parents, mothers or fathers are always surprisingly less narrow-minded than teenagers may think they are. In fact teenagers see the world through the bigot eyes of the dominant ideology that is enforced by the bullies who find fun at humiliating other people they consider weak and different, they consider different because most of the time the difference is in the bullies' vociferations and not in their shoes, gloves, shirts and pants.The third meaning is that no one is alone, all alone at any time and in any place. There is always someone who may care for the most rejected and neglected person in the world. Even on a desert island, there is always a coconut tree to speak to you. You just have to listen and if your ears are able to hear you will be able to find your way home, your way to love and probably happiness, even if you have to cross a street or two. Solitude is either an illusion or a disease, but not a disease that is brought by a virus, be it HIV or whatever. A disease that is brought by the nasty trendy tendency of some who are born bullies to reject, isolate and ostracize those that endanger them with their differences.The film is thus a beautiful tale about two teenagers who discover that love in their hearts and that they do not have to fear the world, nor to reject that love. Just take that love which is a blessing and a present from God himself, and remember you love a person with your heart and any other form of love is just a sidekick, a side effect or even a collateral side way to some short term pleasure whereas love is full deep permanent enjoyment because it is the blissful satisfaction of your heart and not of your hormonal glands.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Amazing , leaves you with the desire to find someone perfect.","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This has to be one of the most amazing and inspiring films I have ever seen. This story tells what a lot of gay teens across the world are going through, modern society is a cruel world and does not take likely to different sexually orientated people, but this film shows you that you shouldn't care what others think and that it should be what makes you happy, it is a beautiful film , anyone who watches it will be left with the heart warming urge to find someone like Steven and Jamie, congratulations to these amazing young boys , to me this film is flawless , it has changed my life completely. The romance between the young boys is the cutest thing you will find on film , showing their affections and insecurity. The relationship between Jamie and Sandra is such a passionate bond. This film is high class entertainment, and I shall keep watching it for inspiration to find the one I love10/10 most heart warming tale on film to date  "},{"Title":"A film like a song","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Subways. And its small life. Gray, talks, neighbors, stories. And a very delicate web of feelings. Love in skin of special definition. Two teenagers and a connection.Searches of self essence and a friendship as a circle. Confuse, scary, strange. But a beautiful way to be yourself. A common piece of existence in water nuances. And nothing all. Touching for the steps of discovery.For the pains and expectations. For the final dance. And for the warm tension in which the happy end is only a crumb. A film like an old song, with lost words and harsh instruments but with a distinct soul who impressive and may be seed of any ours days. "},{"Title":"Brilliant *****","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I only just discovered this film after it being on late at night during the current films 4 life, Watched this video for the first time and i could not stop thinking about it constantly over and over again for the past 2 days, Its excellent and best movie I've seen for long time it is such a shame that glen berry (Jamie) dint get more work for this as i really wanted to see him now hes 32 rather than when he was 17.Personally i think its liked more by gay people rather than straight as most straight people are homophobic still but keep it to themselves. Its a shame they did not make a Beautiful things 2, maybe even for the current times as the older selves. I must of watched the video 3 times on DVD (Purchased it today and watched twice) and 4 or 5 times on the internet, I keep going back to the scenes with Jamie's smiles and smirks as cant keep eyes of the parts when Jamie said Yes i do at the start when Sandra is moaning about him not going to sports and later on when Jamie is asked what frontage is and his reply ) "},{"Title":"Best Gay","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Went on a Netflix gay film binge. Must have seen 50 before I got to this one and believe me, there is no contest. Can't even remember the titles of any others but do know that they all are formula, cliché, stereo-typical and basically boring, predictable and frankly nothing above a 5 on a scale of ten. This is different. It's not about the newbie hooking up with the jaded twink or the hunky guys and the gorgeous guys or the closeted guys whose parents don't understand, blah, blah, blah. These are two school guys who happen to be neighbors and discovering themselves. The peripheral characters are great and the whole thing feels real, not contrived. No sex scenes here, some tender and fun intimacy but that's it. This is totally story and character driven, real and believable and I suspect it's so great because it's not Hollywood. I found a web site that clues me in on a lot of the British slang and references so it made it even a lot more entertaining for me. Spend a little of your time on this and I am sure you will not regret it one bit. "},{"Title":"Ahhh, it's beautiful!","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't rate many films with a 10 but this one deserves it. It takes place in Thamesmead in lower middle class council flats, colorful, large, vibrant and gritty apartment towers. Jaime lives with his mother and Ste lives next door with his father & brother.When Jaime's mother discovers that Ste's brother & father have abused him physically she invites him to move in to escape. Soon after, Ste & Jaime form an intimate relationship with each other.The acting is excellent by all-especially Linda Henry! The film is colorful, vibrant and gritty at the same time. These people may not be rich but they are alive! The gay relationship is introduced very gently and slowly. The acceptance by those around the boys is also very reluctant and slow but very meaningful. I think most people will enjoy this thoughtful film. "},{"Title":"Excellent film - the best this genre has to offer","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How come the British do this type of film so much better than the Americans, Germans and French? Is it something in the tea? Watch this movie along with its close cousin, Get Real, and you'll see what I mean. By turns romantically gentle, harsh, campy and warmly comical, each shift in tone rings true. Glen Berry as Jamie and Linda Henry as his mother inhabit their characters brilliantly. All the other actors do a solid job. The natural way in which Jamie and Ste's mutual attraction grows is a credit to this film's authenticity. In general, it is refreshing to watch a gay-themed movie with a positive outlook. This movie wisely shuns the usual overdoses, suicides, murders, promiscuity and nihilism to give viewers something they've deserved for decades - a movie which depicts gay characters as socially integrated, functional members of the human family. A gay movie about love - go figure! "},{"Title":"Beautiful Thing is a great movie","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie I have watched it several times. I own the DVD and VHS versions. It has a great story plot and the characters are great and not to mention cute LOL! I also liked how the scene when Jamie's Mom finds out where they were going and after when she confronted Jamie in his bedroom. And then how she handled Ste when he broke down in their living room. I just wander is there a island out there? LOL.I also liked how the next door neighbor was into Mama Cass. And she was a character in her self. This movie has a great story line and great actors. "}{"Title":"A Thing of Beauty","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film by accident one week day evening and can say that within the first 5 minutes I was gripped. The acting was superb and although I could potentially pick faults in the script, it kind of takes away the whole essence of the film and what made it Beautiful.I think that it's great that a British film has made me really stop and think about my past and indeed my present. Not many films have achieved that. Which of us can honestly say that in watching the scenes between Jamie and Ste, that we haven't all felt and thought like they did. True for straights then swap one of the guys for a girl but the effect is much the same.I found it sad that some reviewers thought that the accents were too much and should have been toned down. Hello folks, its London were talking about here. Quite a few of them really do talk like that and lets face it, wouldn't it really be dumbing down. That would ruin the film.I found Sandra particularly well cast and played. There was real emotion between her and Jamie. I only wish that all Mothers and indeed Fathers reacted in such a supportive fashion. True the end of the film was a bit.....over done, but I don't think this detracts from the film in any way. I too, would like to have seen a sequel. I think that for quite a few of us, this film perhaps hit a little too close to the mark about ourselves and hence our desire to see the next part. I know that's true of me. There is a site that provides fan fiction for this film and allows some really great sequel variances that I really would recommend as an additional read to the film. It's at http//www.daveant.net/btfanfic/At the end of the day, the film was enhanced for me by the fact that all of the sex scenes where left to the imagination and you could read what you would out of it. This film really touches me deeply and I wish there where more of the same style, class and calibre of this. Not to everyone's taste to be sure but one that stays sitting in my mind every day and perhaps has even influenced the way I am towards others. Thank you so much for creating this most excellent and heart wringing film. "},{"Title":"Warm, affecting and emotionally deep","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about two teenagers in a deprived neighbourhood coming out and falling for each other.Character development is excellent in the movie. The impoverished neighbourhood and the rough people are shown right from the beginning. Ste is an abused teenager, and the mere sight of him evokes sympathy. Jamie's courage and insistence on Ste is to be admired. This film tells the fear and confusion of coming out. A particularly memorable scene is when Ste cries in next to Sandra in her apartment. He cries with his face turned away from Sandra, with his hands covering one side of his face. To me, it is such a powerful scene, because it sums up all the confusion, shame, fear and hurt Ste must have felt in his premature involuntary coming out. The film is warm and affecting. I am glad about the happy ending, which is much needed to bring gay teenagers hope and comfort. "},{"Title":"Life Changing...","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I happened upon this film when it was shown on TV one time at Christmas. I was in a vulnerable state about being Gay and when I saw this film I cried. The film showed me a positive image of being young, Gay and in love - everything I wanted in my life was in this film. From the blossoming relationship between Jamie and Ste to the acceptance of their sexuality by their friends.I was only a few years older than Ste and Jamie were in the film and so could relate to their lives, even though I didn't live in a big city with a Gay scene.The musical score was an inspiration, I hadn't heard Mamma Cass before but I immediately fell in love with her voice. This film literally changed my life and showed me that being Gay was a positive thing in my life.The actors played their roles brilliantly, Glen Berry's Jamie the quiet shy lad that no-one really noticed to Linda Henry's Sandra, the brash up-front single Mother who has fought to give her son the best she can - the entire cast were perfect.This film really is a beautiful thing - a film that everyone should see, it's funny, down-to-earth and heart-wrenchingly sad but leaves you feeling up-lifted. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has inspired a lot of gay men. It is a lovely tale of two teenage boys who fall in love. Ste has problems at home with his abusive father and brother and finds refuge at Jamie's house. Jamie is also having problems at home as he is being argumentative and has an attitude problem with his mum. As they sleep top to tail in Jamie's bed they become closer as friends and after the peppermint foot lotion incident they become even closer. This is a heart-warming film, with laughter and tears. The main humour of this film comes from their next door neighbour Leah who is obsessed with Mama Cass, and annoys the neighbours by having the music very loud. "},{"Title":"Tony...","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I liked the movie overall, I do think the language was a bit much. Maybe I am a hopeless romantic, but why did Jamies mom Sandy dump Tony. I think his character was the most likable in the movie. I found the way he handled the scene when he simply says it's cool to Jamie to be the perfect response. I would like to have seen a happy ending for Tony, it is too bad that people don't realize how great a person they have near them, Sandy in my opinion is leaving a dream partner. Sadly, this seems to be the story with most romantic relationships, the good ones are left alone, and the users and abusers are what is chased. The music used was excellent, what a cool way Mama Cass was brought in and the songs fit the scenes. Does anyone know of any other movie with a gay theme that are not porn? "},{"Title":"The nicest most romantic film I've seen","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I totally loved it. Some of it was a bit cheesy like some of the lines but I guess that's teens for you. But other than that I thought it was so romantic that they cared so much for each other. It's definitely a worthwhile film and I'm definitely going to buy it for myself. It may be slightly controversial and anyone who's easily offend or homophobic might not like it, but personally I son't see what's not to like about it. It shows that young people can still care for each other and that it's not just about the sex. I love the way Jamie tried to help Ste like in the massage scene, the acting was so fantastic, you could almost see the emotion. I loved it!! "},{"Title":"Amazing Film","Date":"29 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was recommended to me by a friend. And all I can say to my friend is thank you!!! This film is so good, i related to it so much, it deals with the real issues of homosexuality, and portrays it clearly. It shows the emotional side, the time of self-confusion, self-conflict and the time of questioning who you really are.I was really moved by this film, and have now watched it 5 times, and every time I watch it I love it more and more, and it still moves me every time.The last scene (which I obviously wont say what happens) is amazing, it really is the way the film should end in my eyes, and it made me feel good about myself, being a young gay guy myself.I really would recommend everyone to watch this film, I'm glad I've had thechance to watch an amazing piece of film, and I think everyone else should as well.  "},{"Title":"If you love yourself you need to watch this film","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's true.  The only way you can love yourself is if you see this film.Beautiful Thing is right up there with Get Real as being excellent British films about gay school boys.  This genre has recently become my favourite.  This leads me to believe I am actually a gay school boy from Great Britain stuck inside a woman's body. "},{"Title":"Joy to Behold","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Once in a great while, a film surpasses it's source material - this aptly titled flick does just that with ease and enters the stage-to-screen club (with such members as THE SOUND OF MUSIC, which BT nods to) with flying rainbow colours.  Despite it's stagey roots, BT manages with remarkable style and grace to be one of the most watchable and winning films of the past decade.  Although American ears will have to prick up to catch the London dialects, sincere film-making and ernest perfs all-around make this fairy tale a beautiful thing to watch.    "},{"Title":"Sheer romanticism!! Joyous!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is wonderful!It is one of the most romantic films I have had the pleasure of seeing in a very long time. Innocent and optimistic despite the fact that it touches on a series of serious issues (bullying - both in the school and home, drugs, coming out...).The story of two young school-friends and neighbours who gradually fall in love is beautifully told. Anyone who has ever fallen hopelessly for another will absolutely recognise the tensions and uncertainties of not knowing if, how and when to tell that person how you feel.You cannot help but like both leads;  Jamie (he's ever so nice) and Ste, who is so badly beaten by his father that he has an even weaker sense of identity than the other characters, who are all soul-searching in their own ways...Jamie seems to have some idea how he feels long before we join the action. It's just as he falls for friend Ste that he realises he is definitely gay and starts to take pride in knowing where he stands. Ste is then left to nervously craft out an idea of who - and what - he is, as Jamie gains the confidence to take the lead in the relationship...After repeated watching you start to notice that residents of the housing project (on which all the main characters live) seem to pop up everywhere. This makes for some lovely linking between situations helping to gel the film together, aided admirally by the fantastic Mama Cass soundtrack... The overall effect is a very well-rounded picture to support the central story of young love.Both Ste and Jamie are played fantastically. Both understated and very sincere enhancing this totally charming story. The actors *should* be stars and certainly shine through magnificently here....Sandra, Jamie's tough mother is feisty and wonderful and  just as confused in her own identity as her son, whom she loves and wants a better life for. Her part too is acted wonderfully, with the staggering pride that instantly shows us that she is a long-term struggler and strong survivor..Particularly good in the supporting stakes are Leah - as the out of control and attention-seeking Mama Cass addict, and Tony (who gets all of the funniest lines of the movie) as the hopeless but devoted boyfriend of Sandra.However the  film is peppered with star turns from all - even the extras!Hell! Even the hanging baskets are perfectly in character!This film withstands repeated viewing. It leaves you with a  warm glow and in unshakable romantic mind. This is the kind of film that disproves the they don't make 'em like they used to theory.They do make them like this...It's just that very few people know how anymore.... ...this film screams out both against the dull Hollywood Meg Ryan romances and against the kind of issue-led hate or anti-hate films that have been the staple of makers of gay films for too long.This film should be enjoyed by gay and straight people alike... It's an upbeat and joyous romance. No more. No less.Anyone who tells you the ending is unfeasibly upbeat is being a killjoy. Who doesn't adore to get up after a film and feel floatily light-headed with a smile on their face?In the words of Candy Statton.............Young Hearts, Run Free.....(and don't you let anyone tell you different!) "}{"Title":"Fine gay romance","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jamie is a picked-on kid living in a lower class London estate with his mother Sandra who wants to run her own pub. Her boyfriend is the long haired hippie Tony. They live next door to the boisterous black girl Leah who got kicked out of school. Their other next door neighbor is the athletic Ste. Ste gets abused by his father and older brother. Sandra takes Ste in after his older brother beats on him. Jamie and Ste have a growing attraction which sets off more complications.It's a relatively good romance for an indie. It's probably notable for the young gay couple. However if the movie is strip of that aspect, it does show some deficiencies. The male leads are not the most charismatic. They also lack anything unique. This is fine but nothing outstanding. "},{"Title":"In a London suburb, young Jamie (bullied by his peers) and his neighbour/classmate Ste (beaten by his brother and father) start to develop feelings for each other.","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my second time watching Beautiful Thing (and it will not be my last). After the first viewing, I thought it was great, but not phenomenal. I was bothered by a few very minor things. Regardless, the film made a large impression on me. Over time, the film grew on me. After watching Beautiful Thing for the second time, I found not a single fault within it. (It doesn't matter if you can't understand some of what is said in the film, due to the accents. In fact, it makes the film more authentic, and better). Beautiful Thing is a small, quiet masterpiece.The players in Beautiful Thing are not merely characters. They are familiar, and they are real, and they are family. We see all their different shades; rude, vulgar, dirty, desperate, scared, loving, selfless. They really do struggle; they are living life, and doing their best, and being pushed back three steps for every one they take forward. Some parts are hard to watch, because the emotion is just so genuine. (To be clear I am not saying that this film has the realism of, say, an Italian neorealist film. This is a different type of realism.) Beautiful Thing does not show you what you want to see. It is not an easy film. The story is effortless to follow, but still requires the viewer to think and feel.This is not a film about homosexuality (though Ste and Jamie's relationship is quite touching.) In fact, this film has very little to do with homosexuality. It has everything to do with being human. This is a film about bigotry and ignorance, viewed through one particular lens, but having universal meaning.Thankfully, this lens ain't rose coloured.screenplayisles.blogspot "},{"Title":"Comedy elements reduced by ugly neighbourhood and broken families","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While a teenager, it is also difficult to be different, in spite of country or reason. In a closed and conservative surroundings, having gay feelings is double as different. This is the background of Beautiful Thing where personages have to face different troubles every day; hope for a better life is always there, but poverty and addictions often hinder achieving it.The film is created with a warm feeling and support, and most actors (particularly Linda Henry as Sandra Gangel and Tameka Empson as Leah Russell) are good, but the course of events and the ending are not very realistic - bearing in mind the neighbourhood. Being and showing openly gay is not customary in areas with lots of immigrants and skinheads - or those in question would face serious persecution and violence. And is it really easy for minors to get access to various pubs and have alcoholic drinks? And with such attitudes and ready tongue, how could someone get a better job? Thus, the film is above average, but not a masterpiece to me, the Brits could have created more daring and realistic piece, with protagonists of more colourful types... Moreover, it is tricky to picture a company where to watch it - shortcomings both for families and gays. "},{"Title":"Funny, Romantic and touching.","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For me the movie was good, but not excellent. it showed me two guys falling in love, and getting to tell the truth about their sexual orientation. The romance in the movie was very touching, because they were a bit ashamed of it in the beginning of the movie. It felt like is saw my first time falling in love. The acting was good, but not extremely good. Because the Forest kissing scene looked much to fake for me. The jokes throughout the movie were very sarcastic, and i like that. Another thing i noticed was Leah's obsession of Mama Cass, a singer from the mamma's and the papa's. So using her music throughout the movie was very clever. So it's a movie you really have to watch. "},{"Title":"True (British) love","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" How far should one travel in order to find love? Sometimes, it seems, only a few steps would be necessary. That's what happens in Beautiful Thing when Jamie and his neighbor Ste get romantically involved.Only a few decades ago, a number of theories tried to explain the origin of homosexuality. Which is only baffling as one might wonder, why didn't they try to explain heterosexuality? But alas, the heterosexual domain is what constitutes the symbolic order, and thus all other forms of sexuality are bluntly banned or at least discarded.Freud's followers tried to explain homosexuality in the most contrived ways. For example, the absence of a fatherly figure would dangerously wreak havoc in a child's psyche, thus neutralizing the normal course of the Oedipus complex (since there is no father to rival against for the love of the mother, the whole structure falls apart). This sort of theory could be easily applied to someone like Jamie, who has no father and lives with his strong-willed, almost masculine mother that symbolically castrates her temporary male partners.But what happens with Ste? His homosexuality cannot be explained by a textbook approach like the one that so easily fits into Jamie's background. Nor does it need to. And this is what should be considered one of the most important things about this movie. You don't need to explain homosexuality any more than you need to explain heterosexuality. One is just as natural and beautiful as the other.Can gay and straight people coexist? Or there will be constant struggle and friction? Hettie Macdonald's film elicits a possible answer that will only provide the viewer with hope. After all, if an infraction of the Lacanian symbolic order is committed, id est, the homosexual relationship, then it's only logical to deconstruct that symbolic order. Deconstruction does not mean destruction, deconstruction focus in the fissures present in every structure and takes advantage of them in order to rearticulate the symbolic order (society, any given society, is first and foremost a symbolic order, that would constantly readapt and modify depending on the individuals that are part of that society).Jamie and Ste achieve that task admirably. It's a long way, though, from simple friendship, to the first hazed and rushed sexual exploration, to the difficulty in assuming their roles and true sexuality, to the stable relationship they solidify with time and patience.Perhaps the fullest, most powerful, affirmation of the deconstruction of the previous symbolic order is the final scene. I won't spoil it to those who haven't seen it yet, suffice to say rather than a beautiful thing it is a very beautiful moment. Usually I don't like films about hope, as I am rather devoid of such virtue, but I found the end both touching and immensely reaffirming. Sometimes, I guess, it's not to so bad to dream of a world where gays and straight people can, indeed, coexist peacefully. "},{"Title":"I like the movie very much!","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh my God! I've been waiting to watch this movie for ages! Usually after a long wait, movies tend to be a disappointment because sometimes it doesn't live up the expectation. But that didn't happen after I watched this really beautiful movie. I like beautiful thing very much! it's so simple, yet so complex and the character building is excellent also the chemistry of the cast. It is such a touching story and hilarious at times. My advice to you, if you haven't watched this movie, go watch it! it is such a great movie that'll make you feel tenderness even after the movie is over. the story is well written, and once again I say, it's very very good. A movie about homosexuals haven't looked this good. It is one of the best movies I ever watched. Hopefully, it'll be yours too. I give this movie a very WAY thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Truely Special","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have just seen this movie, and it brought tears to my eyes. This movie elegantly captures the mixed feelings of two boys in school, and the obstacles to be overcome when they become attracted to each other. The relationship the boys have is dramatic and charming, and I felt by watching the movie that I could relate to their characters completely. I thought Leah was amazing, and I was glad the sub plot of a confused teenage girl was also brought into the movie. The movie built up to the final scene which was utterly beautiful, as the title suggests. This movie should touch everyones heart. It definately touched mine. "},{"Title":"1st Love","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A simple tale well told of the coming of age gay and out. Relationships among family and neighbors in London's urban east side well played and well written. The American audience will have to listen carefully to pick up the slang. A beautiful ending.  Great family film, especially for gays and their loved ones, and I'd definately want to see it again.   "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie of Gay Love!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just loved this movie.  Watching the two young boys develop their relationship was beautiful.  Actors, story, direction were all excellent in my opinion.  And the ending, I won't give it away, made me cry and smile and laugh.  Kudos and thanks to all involved in making this viewer happy he rented the movie. "},{"Title":"Very Nice","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that I truly enjoyed this film.  I love to see a film about two gay men (or boys) in love and at the end of the film, coming together without death or violence.  This is how it is in real life.  I mean, yeah sometimes it's ends in death or some kind of stupid violence, but 8 times out of 10 - it ends in love.  See it.  You'll enjoy it. "}{"Title":"Breathtakingly Real","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why is it that the Brits and the Aussies are the only filmmakers who seem to be able to create a truly moving film about sexual awakening among homosexual men?  Beautiful Thing is a really engaging and fun film that makes you laugh and made me shirk from embarrassment.  This is really good stuff folks.  Rent this film. "},{"Title":"So wonderfully, typically British working class!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this film a million times now. I'm only 26, and went through the same stuff that Jamie and Ste went through when I was in my teens. Maybe that's why the film resonates so well with me. As a gay coming of age movie, I am hard-put to think of other films that beat this one in sensitivity, and its refreshing unsentimentality. It's not sappy, is not bogged down by identity politics, and has a great soundtrack to boot. The guys who play Jamie and Ste are so incredible in their acting, and so's the woman who plays Sandra. The best part of the film is that it's not just about sexuality but also about class. I'd say the only other British film that's slightly more complex in its analyses of these things, is Stephen Frears' My Beautiful Laundrette.    "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I immediately fell in love with this movie (knowing the English culture well). It should be an inspiration for all young gay people who haven't come out yet and should perhaps also be shown at schools, to aid stamping out homophobia. I know reviews have criticized the ending of the film as being unrealistic - big deal, the film hasn't been labeled urban fairytale for nothing! Another major achievement for the classic British acting educational system (the best in the world), to achieve such a success with relatively unknown actors deserves praise. "},{"Title":"Sweet and touching.","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Never have I seen such a simple film that was so satisfying. The screenwriter dealt with the issue of homosexuality among teenagers in a realistic and smart manner. Every time the film becomes a little too dramatic, the director has something funny happen to lighten the atmosphere, which makes for a sweet and touching film. Also, all the characters are complex, so that bad characters do good things and good characters do bad things. Nobody is perfect and nobody is all bad, which makes the film even more realistic. It's similar to the more recent Get Real, but Beautiful Thing is definitely better. This is without a doubt my favorite gay film. Only the British can make a film this good! "},{"Title":"A very honest story of young love","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an excellent and true-to-life story.  The movie dealt with two young men that fall in love within the working class confines of Thamesland, England.  We finally get a break from gay bashing, AIDs, or doomed romance from the beginning of a relationship that Hollywood (read United States) can only deliver us. Here we are exposed to many of the doubts yet strong passions that teenagers must face in every walk of life.  Kudos to a strong support cast that makes being a parent of a gay child a welcome relief to the commercial version so often presented to us. In the end, this is a movie that makes us feel good about ourselves and cheering for the characters. "},{"Title":"This film packs a nice message in subtle,  humorous fashion.","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just recently saw Beautiful Thing and thoroughly enjoyed it.  It wasn't the best gay themed movie i've seen, for it wasn't terribly dark, moving, or funny.  But, at moments, the film manages to have very moving scenes while at other moments, you're cracking up with laughter.  It treats its subject matter very normally, which is a good thing.  I think this film can be entertaining for anyone--gay or straight and everything in between, for it doesn't strictly concentrate on what it's like being young and gay.  It shares a glimpse of two boys who discover their sexuality in the midst of other subplots---such as dealing with an abusive family situation and having a very eccentric mother....and having to share an apartment complex with some pretty goofy neighbors. Yet, if you are looking for a movie which makes a comment on homosexuality, this film indeed accomplishes that.  I think the moral of the story is simple  these two boys find each other, fall for each other, and deal with the everyday problems of a relationship. Their only problem is having to deal the people who view their lifestyle as sick or twisted.  But the movie never gets too dark and is actually very hopeful, especially at the somewhat moving close.  "},{"Title":"A cinematic gem","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful Thing is a low-key but very satisfying piece of moviemaking. I could relate to the actions of the two young men as they established their friendship and then discovered their sexuality. The acting throughout is superb. Some interesting notes about the production 60 teenagers tried out for the part. The two that eventually got the nod had to read for the part seven times before being chosen. It is estimated that about 25% of teenagers who are discovered by their parents as being gay are asked to leave home. Beautiful Thing shows the callousness of such parental action. After all, it is not sexual orientation that determines a fulfilling relationship, but love between partners whether gay or straight. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie on ShowTime the other night.  I taped it to show my friend, which liked it as much as I did. This is one of the better movies dealing with gay lifestyle.  It is touching and very well written.  I feel the actors gave a superior performance. The only thing I found troublesome was the English accent (dialect that they used).  After watching it for the second time, I understood a little more. I plan on buying the video and will eventually know what everyone is saying. WISH WE HAD MORE OF THIS TYPE MOVIE IN AMERICA!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Remember the first time you fell in love?","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie at the Quad Cinema in New York City in the fall of 1996 with my first boyfriend, Shaun. We both totally fell in love with the movie. It's funny, charming, and gives you a sense of hope.Although the main characters are gay, the movie isn't about being Gay, or about being British even.  Beautiful Thing is about finding your first love in the most unlikeliest of places. While some complain that the film is more like a fairy tale, that's exactly the point.  Everyone idealizes their first love, because it's the first time any of us has ever felt that way, so there is nothing to compare it to up to that point.As the movie ended, Shaun said to me, I wish I could just walk into the movie and give them both a hug. I knew what he meant for I felt the same way.  Shaun wasn't the greatest guy on the planet, and we broke up not long after because we were very different people, but I will always remember seeing Beautiful Thing with him and how it reminded me of the first time I too fell in love.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful Says It All","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The title of this remarkable British film says it all.  The acting, the music (including incidental music not sung by Mama Cass), the script and story, the cinematography...all of it is just BEAUTIFUL!  I have watched this film many times (and am beginning to understand more of the south London dialect now) and am a little more impressed each time I see it. There are so many little gems in the film. It's all so wonderful.  The only drawback is that the film is so darned addictive--I can't seem to quit watching the thing. "}{"Title":"I lovd it","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie Beautiful Thing is one of the best films I have seen in a long time.  It is definitely one of those movies I can watch over and over again.  This movie is now one of my favorite movies, it is my favorite movie next to Sleepless in Seattle.  I like this movie so much because it's a movie that makes a person feel good about life. Every time I watch it, I just smile, and the acting by the 4 main characters was absolutely superb,the actress Linda Hinery (Sandra) was especially good.  "},{"Title":"Endearingly different","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Without question this movie is different from standard movie fare, both in content and style, and that's one of the things I loved about it. I must admit that I was not entirely comfortable with the 'gay' scenes, but they did not diminish from the overall impressive nature of this film. The stark, bleakness of lower class squalor in England's housing estates was portrayed clearly but tenderly, showing the few rough-cut diamonds in the moraine. Anyone who, after watching this movie, says it makes them WANT to live in public housing estates must have missed something. Classy acting all around. I was particularly impressed with Tony and Leah's characters as quality supporting efforts to the 'major' characters, all of whom were brilliant. Although the circumstances this tale was based around were less than joyful, there is always hope, which materialises in the form of a job offer. (Can you imagine it? Your dream is to manage your own pub!)Very good movie, well worth watching. 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best love stories ever seen","Date":"28 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It doesn't matter if you're gay or straight. This is one of the best love stories ever seen. You always feel happy or sad with the characters and it seems you can feel the discovery of love as if you were there. You can feel the hardness of living in the suburbs of a metropolis and you can easily understand how much harder it must be to be gay in such a situation. The ending is too optimistic but it is really a wonderful love story.  "},{"Title":"A Feel Good Movie","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie for anyone who says gay movies can't have nice stories and endings.  This one does.  I walked out of the theater feeling great.  We should all have mothers like this and friends like Ste and Jamie. And... a nice comic relief in the tribute to Mama Cass. "},{"Title":"and Refreshing, too!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a splendid way to spend a Saturday night. This is a touching movie of young love. It was a perfect date movie and gives lovers of all ages a chance to see budding romance and tender personal discovery. "},{"Title":"A must see love story","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is once of the most endearing stories I have ever seen. It is a story about two teenage inner city boys who fall in love. You watch as their relationship blossom in the midst one's abusive parents, the other's odd mother and both's taunting school friends.The acting is supurb and amazing, especially since almost everyone in the film is unknown.This is defenitly a must see. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Fairytale","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There are not many fairy tales left in this world. The days of princes and dragons are long gone. But, now and then, we get a whiff of romance and passion that make our hearts flutter.  Beautiful Thing is set in a dreary suburban estate, where glorious dreams try to prevail over gray surroundings. Two lonely and unhappy teenage boys fall in love, as only 18-year old can, breathlessly, with abandon. These coming of age stories, in real life have tragic undertones. Boys get gay-bashed, ostracized, sometimes killed. In this gorgeous fairytale, their pure love brings deeply welcome escape, and the world joins their dance. It would probably never happen that way. But, thank God for dreams, our lifesavers. "},{"Title":"Amazingly realistic","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have this on DVD and think it is absolutely amazing. I first saw a similar film called Get Real a few years ago which was at the time when I was going through a bad stage and struggling to come to terms with my sexuality. Seeing that film, then shortly afterwards seeing Beautiful Thing really helped at such a difficult time. Watching back now, almost 3 years later I'm filled with nostalgia as I can now relate to the whole story and am pleased that a film can be so inspiring. I would recommend it to anyone who can enjoy a 'true to life' drama. I like the directors style by not conforming to the standard stereotypical depiction of a gay lifestyle and i think the lack of sexually graphical scenes for once enhanced the true affection between the characters. Anyhow, I'm babbling on so i'll let you make your own minds up! "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I picked up this movie from a local library one night and watched it four times in the one week before I had to return it. WOW It is just one of those movies that makes you want kind of love Ste and Jamie have in the movie. It brings back the feeling of your first youthful romance. I love the fact that it is just an old fashioned love story, leaving out the comedic banter seen in most American gay films and television shows. Think Will and Grace. Don't get me wrong the movie is funny, but in a more realistic way. You become attached to not only Ste and Jamie, but the rest of the cast. You route for them and their young romance. I did not want the movie to end. The one word to describe the movie is the very same one used in the title...Beautiful. "},{"Title":"Sweet ordinary love story","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful Thing basically tells the story of two working-class next door neighbour teenagers who fall for each other - the only quirk is that they are two guys.  Jamie, who is cared for by her hard-working single mother, hates sports and loves the Sound of Music...  Stu (the next door neighbour) is more popular at school, good at sports and comes from a very abusive family.  Both are closeted and Stu finds it hard to come to terms with being gay and being popular with his mates at school. This is basically a sweet, small love story between two, coming-of-age, gay teenagers.  The film attempts to portray a gay love story as something which isn't out of the ordinary and is a beautiful thing. This is definitely recommended - one of the best coming out romantic movies out there. Stu (Scott Neal) is a total babe as well! "}{"Title":"A Truly Beautiful Thing","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is fantastic. The feelings between the 2 lovers are played so realistically that you almost forget that it is all just acting!The only trouble is, when you're single, you can come away from the movie feeling a little depressed! "},{"Title":"a wonderful love story - just happens to be two boys","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Minor spoilersThis film deserves to be seen by all families of gay teens, by all gay teens, by all who remember being gay while teens, by all other teens, by all who are or who have been in love when young, by homophobes and by most anyone else.It is a story of young love, of being different in adolescence and of that oddly process called Coming Out which is terrifying and freeing process at once.As it starts we see Jamie (Glen Berry) fleeing from after school soccer,and being labelled Hugh Janus (Huge Anus) - a reference to his presumed role as a homosexual, by other boys.  His next door neighbor (male and the same age) Ste goes along (though with an odd look) with the harrassment.  On his way home he  he passes the black girl Leah (Tameka Empson) with little comment.   When Jamie arrives home, his mother Sandra  (Linda Henry) gives him a hard time for having skipped soccer practice.The stage is set, the main characters introduced, and the story underway in the first sequence in which Jamie walks home from  school.The main plot concerns the developing love affair between Jamie and Ste. Jamie has realized that he is gay, but has told nobody.  He is clearly taken with Ste.  Ste's sexuality is unknown, but seems likely to be heterosexual and he behaves as such. Over the course of the film we find Ste, who starts by joining his peers (perhaps reluctantly) in the harrassment of Jamie, slowly and fearfully  revealing that he does love Jamie and is probably himself gay.Unlike many other films about coming out, this film has some very strong subplots - Ste is being beaten by his father and older brother. Jamie's mother is attached to Tony - he's odd, but clearly cares about her and is (strangely enough) portrayed as one of the most caring people in the movie. She is also working as a barmaid who as an opportunity for a much better position as the proprietor (??) of a pub of her own.  Leah is obsessed with Mama Cass - and is clearly having serious trouble coping with her life.The main subplots concern discordance between people and their environment - Jamie's homosexuality is a problem between him and his mother (and his school peers).  Ste's family clearly (and rightfully) terrifies  him - not in general, but in every moment he is around them.    Sandra has troubles with Jamie whom she clearly loves deeply but also seems generally unhappy. Leah is prone to the kind of adolescent actions that are designed to attract attention (playing her music overly loud, asking to be hit over the head to change her voice and the like) - this affects both her mother and those living around her.Tony is an odd character in all this. His place at the onset is that  of Sandra's boyfriend and they seem nicely settled together.  He works hard to save Leah from one of her more extreme acts.  His reaction to Jamie's coming out is supportive, but only because he seems to think that its the Right Thing.Some of the plots are resolved - Jamie comes out to his mother - though it takes some pressure from his mother who already knows -  to do so.  This scene is likely to be one of the most powerful scenes in the film  for anyone who had difficulty coming out to parents or family.   Sandra gets the new position (though it means she and Jamie will have to move away from the housing (council housing??) where the film is set).  Ste and Jamie end up in love.  Sandra breaks up with Tony (and with such symbolism!).Some are not - Ste's continuing relationship with his father and brother is left open as is his future with Jamie who will move with his mother. Leah's difficulties are completely unresolved.Cinematically, the film is tightly filmed.  Little time is wasted in extraneous shots - the film is not so much about place as about people. Indeed, in a few places, the geography of the locations is not easy to work out.  For the most part shots of the characters are from reasonable distances (balancing psycological distance and identification) - indeed in retrospect its hard to think of many shots that are not in the range of 5 to 15 feet (or so) from the characters in them. This makes the movie feel like you're participating rather than observing from a distance.The Mamas and the Papas music  is featured in the soundtrack and points up Leah's obsession.  The tone of their music is in deep contrast to Leah's agitation.   This contrast emphasizes Leah's position as a crucial character, somehow stuck in her own  permanent anomie as the others find ways to reduce theirs.Don't think this is an intellectual film - much of it is quite emotional - dealing with the kinds of issues each of us copes with - and often seem insurmountable during adolescence.  And then it ends - leaving anyone who has learned to care about any of the characters quite overwhelmed.In the final scene, all the major characters (Jamie, Ste, Sandra and Leah) come together in a overwhelming setpiece finish.  It is quiet  - only the Mamas and the Papas music remains.  It is a surprise, completely unrealistic,  and wonderfully romantic.   It will leave anyone who has been at all emotionally involved with the rest of the film with  a satisfying feeling of completion and that sad/glad romantic satisfaction  that few films manage. "},{"Title":"open  window","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" a large open window. delicate portrait of middle class . refreshing image of relation between two teenagers. one of films who impress for the profound honesty. sensitive , seductive, out of clichés, full of the sensation of slice from every day life, interesting for the solutions to questions, crisis, family's life and fundamental choices. right dialogs - a nice surprise - and interesting cast. a film who not propose only a gay relation 's portrait but manner to discover the other as part of yourself as only solution for self definition. a beautiful film. maybe, useful. nice tool for define an age. and a form of love. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Heartwarming","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was not expecting much, ever since a few LGBT movies I've watched were so disappointing. Was I so wrong. Once the movie started, I was watching it with full attention, although the accent was a little hard to understand. This clearly shows love is unconditional. The actors could not have done a better job portraying this. It doesn't matter if that love is straight or gay, if you're happy with what you have, don't lose it in order to be accepted by everyone. The time this movie was released sure was a time people were judgmental about being 'gay'. The ending had my heart crying, as it was beautiful. I'm glad I found this movie, it's a keeper. ) "},{"Title":"Nice film but can be rough...","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to say, this movie was quite sweet but had very rough scene's in my opinion. I honestly found the mother to be quite tough and always having a horrible attitude towards her son. I mean her mouth couldn't shut up like oh my lord!Did anyone think that Tony would make a great stepfather to Jamie?! I was so bummed that the mother dumped him. She was so losing out! Leah was hilarious too with her silliness around Jamie's mother. Thank god she didn't fall down or get knocked down by a car, otherwise this film wouldn't make it being a success!Finally, I want to say Jamie and Ste were so gorgeous together. I'm pleased that the pair of them found each other as they went through so much in their lives. They definitely deserve one another! "},{"Title":"Good and sweet, but nothing out of the ordinary as a film","Date":"13 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Beautiful Thing is an forthright look into the lives of two average young boys and their harsh life behind closed doors, giving us a modest story without romantic clichés or gimmicks.I was thoroughly prepared to like this film a lot, due to how many recommendations I've had from those who knew I favored practical and romantic films like My Beautiful Laundrette. I only just now finished Beautiful Thing, and it seems the only words I can think to describe it best are somewhat good/mostly OK. I had a good time watching it, and thought it was sweet and well-done, though there isn't much that stood out to me when standing back to look at the film from afar.I think one of the things that seemed the most lackluster is that I didn't feel satisfied with the amount of romance or tension between the lead two boys, which made it hard for me to be genuinely invested in how their futures did or didn't intertwine. I remember only one or two truly romantic moments between them where their desire for each other was imminent, one of them happening before the credits roll.I think that may be partially because both of the lead characters are really quite bland, both in writing and acting, and it becomes overwhelmingly apparent when they're in a scene together. I don't see them having a good time together long-term, and to see chemistry or sparks you've got to squint a little.I also found that the dialogue between characters was often hard to read due to the fact none of them seemed like they had really been figured out, thus making relationship dynamic between characters hard to interpret. I wasn't able to figure out what they intended some of the characters to be and their purpose in the film. I'd give the writing a bigger score than the way the film interpreted it(as I'd most likely get a lot more pleasure out of reading a screenplay for this one.)As another reviewer mentioned, there are a few side plots that are nothing short of puzzling in their irrelevant, continuous appearances - but what's worse is that they don't even get proper endings. I think we can credit that to an overuse of comedic relief, which makes me think I might have liked this film a lot better if it were simply drama/romance.Beautiful Thing does have an ending that is spectacularly sweet and homely, which is something unusual to find in films of this sort. It seemed genuine and valuable and it fit the rest of the film's upbeat undertones, tying it together happily with some more of its charming silliness - this is one of the films that make the audience inspired, that make them want to fall in love.In retrospect, most of the things I dislike about the film are things they didn't do at all rather than what they did wrong. I don't think Beautiful Thing is poor in any sense of the word - it just isn't anything particularly special to me either. I'd recommend this to someone looking for a casual, sweet film about two boys who fall in love. "},{"Title":"questions without answers?","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be honest, I don't remember this film being out in the cinema! (or was it a channel 4 t.v. film in the UK?)but recently bought it after doing a search on here for something to watch on a Friday night.Firstly, let me say one thing; the story is set in a London housing estate.... the characters are Londoners (this means a variety of backgrounds, ethnic and otherwise), therefore they all have an ACCENT!the film would not work as well if they all trotted out the standard four weddings enunciation.Remember all those in the U.S, not all films have an American origin (forrest bloody gump anyone?) Channel 4 should be congratulated on keeping the roots of the play so well.I agree that some of the plot is a little formulaic(abused teenager, hard as nails mother, drug dealing brother, gay but bullied geek, deep feelings on a gritty landscape) but the actors do a seriously good job with what they were given.The biggest problem I personally have with the film (having not read the play) is that the plot starts too far into the developing relationships and ends too early... as it has been said before, why does his mother end the relationship with Tony? what happens to Ste when his family find out (dancing in the square in front of half the blocks' inhabitants is a bit of a giveaway - why does Ste wait till his dad goes out before ironing his shirt if he is so in love?)what happens to Leah, her mum and Tony? is she possibly a lesbian? does Ste go to the pub with Jamie and his mum? I could quite happily have sat through another 45 minutes of this film in order to tie up the loose ends - a thing this film shares with my beautiful laundrette - it could quite easily have had a sequel in order to follow the boys as they grow up (I honestly thought that the ending would have has Sandra taking on the Gloucester with the boys and their relationship blossoming) Like many plays that are adapted for the big screen, a lot of the essential story has to be truncated and compacted, a lot of the raison is removed or implied and unfortunately this can lead to a disjointed storyline - Beautiful Thing manages to avoid this and still gives a rounded story with what it has to work with. You get the point that Ste bullys his love at school in order to be one of the guys, that Jamie's mum already, in her heart, knows he's gay (what's wrong wiv me?... nothinks wrong wiv ya - you're OK), that Leah figures the boys' relationship out and helps protect Ste from his brothers wrath (when did your Trevor last hit ya? bet it was last Thursday..cos that's when I told him you was sleeping on the couch). The film does have it's wasted time - most of the pub scene, a lot of the estate tracking shots, the problems with Leah on drugs.This could have been better used to show more of Ste's home life and the fact of the boys attraction to each other.In short,this is why I didn't give the film a 10 - a great movie that plays it real without caricature but deals with too much in too short a time, a sequel would be nice... after 10 years maybe?. Not a lot of films can still keep an audience engrossed 12 years after release but this is one of them! "},{"Title":"touching and heartwarming","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't usually react emotionally to films, but I must admit that Beautiful Thing left me sobbing. The writer, director and actors created characters of such depth and charm that I was able to feel their pain and share their joy. The two young men were superbly drawn and portrayed. Except for the annoying Leah, the ancillary characters were supportive without being intrusive. It was a delight from start to finish.I share with some other posters a puzzlement over why Sandra left Tony at the end just when he was demonstrating a strength of character lacking in the first two-thirds of the film. He was turning into someone I wouldn't mind knowing. I was also somewhat dismayed by the drug use and rampant profanity in the film. I can only hope that they were trying to be 'realistic.' I guess I'm just old-fashioned.But despite these glitches, the film was a triumph. I loved it. I will view it over and over and savor the love shared by these two lads.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is great to see a poignant film depicting a gay relationship in working class England.  Life can be rough, but one can overcome it.  I was fascinated by the mom.  She is a survivor and while not the most educated person, has the ability to know what is important in life.  "},{"Title":"Love knocks first.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Jaime and Ste are not really friends, but a mutual need to get out of the estate brings them together.  Jaime is the tender one and Ste is used to the hard knocks, but together they find that they can take any punishment or derision.  The performances are great, especially Jaime's mum, the actors are 3D and the storyline has a rhythm and a cool little soundtrack.  You will never think of Lysell von Trapp and Kurt in the same way again.  Top movie that I could understand easily being Aussie.   "}{"Title":"Beautiful Thing is the right title.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just can't believe that many people don't realize that gays are completely capable of love. I would know, having an aunt still with her partner of 22 years or so and still going strong, and being gay myself. I adore this film...very *colorful* language though, and a bit of brutality as well, but life is like that. It's a beautiful movie anyway, and the love between Jamie and Ste is just one of the sweetest things you'll ever see. (Spoiler) The scene where Jamie gives Ste a back rub is one of the most loving, sensual scenes that I've seen(though later in the scene, the song You are 16, going on 17 spoils the mood a bit). I can't understand why Sandra dumped Tony at the end; he was so good to her. He looks like a kicked puppy when when turns him down. Leah is quite a character with her Mama Cass albums playing nonstop and her sassy attitude. Jamie and Ste's kiss and their slow dance in the courtyard are so romantic, and it shows that they are open and unafraid of other's opinions...and that they will be together for quite a while. The title of this movie says it all, and it give me hope for finding Mr. Right. I very much recommend this. "},{"Title":"A beautiful example of goodness, understanding and love.","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a really beautiful film. It's a lot about love, a lot about caring, a lot about compassion. There are moments that are touching, and moments that are very funny. I found it to be a satisfying cinamatic experience.I also happen to love the music of Mama Cass, so that was a special bonus.A real upper! "},{"Title":"On my top 10 films of all time.","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful Thing is exactly what the title suggests.  This might just be the first true fairy tale for gay men.  Jamie (Glen Berry) and Ste (Scott Neal) innocently find each other in this coming of age story that never seems cheesy.  Jamie's mother Sandra (Linda Henry) gives a Academy Award performance as the head of the household. You cannot find a more honest depiction of first love in a gay relationship. I have placed this film along with All About Eve, Gone With The Wind, and Oliver on my top 10 favorite list. "},{"Title":"Lighthearted, a nice movie","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  loved this movie....its simple and innocent and true. u dont have to be gay to want to watch it, its just a little story of finding out about oneself and dealing with the troubles some young ppl have. The mama cass songs by leah (the neighbour) and the mama's and the papa's music just gave the movie a light-hearted, sweet feel to set the atmosphere for a reluctant innocent romance. I wish this was a series cos i really liked the setting and the importance of every character in creating the feel of the movie. Or maybe I really liked it cos i would love to visit England.... "},{"Title":"A Heartwarming Tale of Life and Love","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film which deals with a group of people living in the tower blocks of South London, in particular the lives of two teenage boys coming to terms with their homosexuality and falling in love. There is also a great sense of comedy and it has many classic lines and I was often in tears both of laughter and of joy for the two principle characters, especially in the final scene where they came out to the world in such a beautiful way. Overall I was struck by how sensitively the subject was handled and I was left with a real feeling of warmth and kindness toward my fellow man, and I know I shall enjoy watching it again and again. Whist the subject matter may suggest it, this is not a gay movie, instead it is a film for anyone who enjoys a good love story. In particular it would recommend it to anyone coming out, or parents of teenage children that have just told them they are gay. "},{"Title":"what a touching and excellent movie!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen the movie five times since four days before, and I always  feel better every time.I love this moive, it made me smile or cry with every scene.Even if the ending is too optimistic,but I like it, because it gives a wish to every gay.All actors do a superb job in such a touchy subject for some people. I wish more people could see this.  "},{"Title":"Truly a Beautiful Thing","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a gay teenager just entering the new millennium, it's very refreshing to see a movie that shows some of the turmoil some of us have to suffer when dealing with coming out, and falling in love. I saw this movie with my boyfriend a few months ago, and he noticed that it's one of the few movies that have made me cry, and in front of a group of our friends. I highly recommend that anyone gay/les/bi/trans/questioning, see this movie, and even supporters and open minded people will enjoy this. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie!","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are many other reviews written here that I totally agree with.  This is quite simply a beautiful movie that should be seen by all...straight and gay alike.  It gives people insight into what it is like for gay youth and how difficult it can be to come out and recognize these feelings.  Filled with many funny moments along with the touching ones, you will come out of this movie feeling great!  I give it a ten!   "},{"Title":"watch it and see what I mean","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film that at last says being gay is fun, happy and not going to end in violence or death.  A truly outstanding piece of work.  The only thing I've seen that is better than this film is the play version of it.This film never mind how many times I see it leaves me with a warm glow and the memories of it giving me the confidence to come out to everyone and more importantly to be happy about who I am. "},{"Title":"Impressed with the sense of place","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the second gay film I have seen this week where the minor characters had more color to them than the major ones. (Trick was the other film)Still I felt this was a sweet and charming movie.  I was impressed with the sense of place and the urban feel which the director gave the movie the apartment complex and relationships between the neighbors. I especially liked the portrayal of the mother and her support of the son. The scene where she confronts her son's sexuality is  among the best scenes in the film. I liked the tenderness of the romantic scenes between the two boys also. "}{"Title":"A Truly Beautiful Thing","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When you first see this film, you think it is just going to be a cliche coming of age film. The difference is this movie has a great heart, and a very realistic view on an unusual situation. You find yourself getting involved with the characters, and suffering through their pains and be raised up by their joys. The mother is fantastic, because you can see she loves her son even if she has troubles with his being gay.The real shining light is Leah(Tameka Empson) who plays a Mama Cass loving, psychedelic drug taking, girl next door type(Don't we all have someone like her nearby?). She plays the role of the antagonist to a T, she adds real fire to the film without her I'm not sure this film would have been as enjoyable. This film really is a BEATIFUL THING. "},{"Title":"Love Is","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I went to see this movie, I didn't expect to see how much I could relate to this picture.  There were a couple of scenes that happened in my own life.  The relationship between Jamie and his mother, the relationship between Jamie and Ste, etc, is connected by various events that the characters are realistic.  You are watching life as its unfolds.  So, I am recommending this movie. "},{"Title":"A simple, beautiful thing....","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm lost for words to describe this film.All I can say is it has to be the best films I have ever seen. Yes it has faults, but the good things far outweigh them.The scripting is fairly tight, but it seems far too much emphasis is placed on Leah (my opinion).Simple story  two boys come of age, come out, find each other and aren't ashamed to let the world know it.Jamie and Ste are both portrayed brilliantly by the respective actors, and you can almost believe what you are seeing is true. Ste isn't the perfect ideal man, which is a bonus, in fact everyone in the picture has their faults and has them displayed publicly.The simplicity of it all struck me as the films best point. And yes the closing scene,although it leaves you wondering so much, leaves you satisfied  a most interesting contradiction. We know Jamie's mum supports him, as we can assume Leah now does. What about Ste's family though? The question remains unanswered, but frankly, we are left with the feeling that it won't be an issue.All in all it's a must see film, and yes the dancing scene brought a tear to my eye. "},{"Title":"heart warming coming of age tale","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most wonderful movies I have ever seen.  This story of two young boys growing up and discovering their own sexuality is well done.  The acting is understated and the story is powerful.  Against all odds, these two boys realize their homosexuality and discover that their love for each other outlives all.I recommend this movie to anyone who is gay or thinks they may be gay.  It shows that being yourself is the best thing of all.  The end will bring a tears of joy and happiness to your eyes. "},{"Title":"A pleasantly surprising film","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I caught this film inadvertantly on channel 4 a while back and it is a really good film, a joy to watch.Against a background of Mama Cass songs two young men come to terms with their homosexuality on a working class council estate. Scott Neal, who later went on to appear in The Bill is excellent in a cast made up of familiar faces who are not really stars in their own right.If you get the chance to see it do, it is worth watching, especially the ending where the main cast members are dancing in the middle of the council estate while Dream a little dream of me plays over.Superb. "},{"Title":"Best lovestory I´ve ever seen","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful things really touched me very much. I´ve seen the film many times now and it still gets to me every time I watch it. Scott Neal, Glen Berry and Linda Henry acted superb. Only The english slang was hard to understand.  "},{"Title":"A marvelous story, one of my all time favorite films","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What more can be said about this marvelous film that hasn't already been said, and said well.The entire ensemble is marvelous; there isn't a weak performance.  The directing is first rate.  The sound track is awesome.My plot synopsis  Jamie knows what Jamie wants and it's spelled 'Ste.' Ste also has an idea what Jamie wants but isn't sure he wants to go there. Fortunately for us, and for the two of them, Jamie takes him there with love, tenderness and understanding, yet, but also with determination. Jamie knows a good thing when he sees it and isn't about to let Ste get away.The point here is that being gay is not just about sex nor just about good looks, but about everything that is involved in a human relationship, about caring and understanding, about bonding and growing, about trust and sharing, and also about allowing each other a little space.Moreover there is a real chemistry on screen between these two actors, so much so that it is hard to believe they are just acting, which is true of very few gay movies.  The shots of their eye contact alone could almost tell the whole story. From their initial 'top-and-toe,' (not top-and-tail, I think) I really believe they are falling in love.I initially thought the closing dance scene a bit much, but nevertheless wanted to stand up and cheer.  Once again, the entire ensemble is marvelous, from the longing look by Sandra's co-worker to the muttering old hag and her husband who seems to be getting off on the scene of the two boys arm in arm.I've owned the video about 6 months and have already watched it as much as other favs I've owned for years. "},{"Title":"A beautiful, feel-good film","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I will start by saying that yes, not much happens in the first half of the film. But you do get sucked into the world of the characters. The acting is wonderful and heartbreaking - Linda Henry is one of the most realistic mothers in film history. Tameka Epson (who plays Leah) is also brilliant, and absolutely hysterical. And keep watching for a great last act, with one of the sweetest endings I've ever seen.I've also seen the play when it was revived in New York City (early 1999), and I actually enjoyed it even more than the movie. It was slightly funnier, and more entertaining (it also didn't hurt that the accents weren't as thick). But the film is brilliant in its own right - and better than the recent and much-compared-to Get Real (the other well-known British gay teen movie).  Keep in mind that the most realistic movie I've ever seen about a teenage boy coming to terms with his homosexuality is Edge of Seventeen. I would recommend that for anyone who enjoyed Beautiful Thing. "},{"Title":"The most beautiful...","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains the most beautiful love scene I have ever seen on film.  The scene where the two of them are running through the park at night, so care free, so full of life and love, enjoying every moment of their kiss and embrace, just makes me smile ear-to-ear and cry with happiness at the same time. The look they exchange after their kiss in the park, with Mama Cass singing Make Your Own Kind of Music in the background, just gives me the most wonderful tiggling feeling all over my body. "},{"Title":"Eye opening and Heart tugging.","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the third time I saw this great movie. And like all the other times I cried and laughed. I have recommended this film to  a number of people and they feel just as enthused as I do. This film actually helped me go through some stuff I was dealing with. It holds a place in my heart and will remain to do so. MAMA CASS RULES! "}{"Title":"The best movie of gay teenage romance I've seen!","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are tears, tugs at the heart as you see yourself and others you've known, being put down by your peers, and all the rest of being a gay teen in today's Society--is Great Britain really that alike the USA in the way children treat those who seem different?But you keep waiting for the silver linings, and this movie is gloriously never disappointing! The sound track is wonderful, with great music and good mixing and fidelity--unusually so for a movie involving a non-mainstream theme such as this.The plot has it all--child abuse, romance, a real and believable plot, a good and surprising ending.My only gripes, and the reasons I only gave it a 9, are the cuts were a bit rough in spots; and the dialog was a bit difficult to understand in places due to the Leeds or Liverpool accents of the actors. Quite hard to decipher at times unless you see it more than once. I've seen two versions,with slightly different cuts; and the first had a quite bassy and booming voice track, making the dialog a bit more difficult to hear and understand. The second version, from England, is a bit more romantic and the sound quality of the voices makes them much easier to understand.But, no matter which version, this movie is a must see for gay and heterosexual audiences alike. "},{"Title":"Ya gotta see it!  This movie made me want to fall in love...","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on Sundance about a year and a half ago.  I taped it.  I watched it again.  I bought the video.  I bought the screenplay.  I bought the stage play.  I LOVE THIS MOVIE!  A wonderful story of first love surrounded by a slice of life story of working class England, where everyone is looking for and finding his or her beautiful thing.  Funny, touching, thoroughly engaging and entertaining.  The cast is perfect, from the leads to the most fleeting of supporting performers in the karaoke bar.  If you want a movie that will make you laugh, smile, get teary-eyed and want to fall in love, this is the one. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Brilliant","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is what movie-going is all about. A great love story, full of character and intelligence. Love the cast as an ensemble - especially the sassy Linda Henry as Sandra Gangel.  Ms. Henry's performance was definately Oscar worthy. Note I got so involved with this picture and it's characters, it took a while for me to realize it was a love story involving two teenage boys.   "},{"Title":"In Praise of BT","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful Thing is a ground-breaking gay genre film in addition to its happy ending, the two main characters are everymen.  Huge numbers of gay men of all ages all over the world recognize and identify with these two youths.  The fact that they are ordinary in every way is that which makes the film so striking and honest.  Further, in Dickensian style, Jonathan Harvey surrounds the two lovers with an array of quirky characters full of terrific humor and humanity.A momentous achievement in the guise of a cheeky, cheaply-made film from the UK.  Bravi to all concerned! "},{"Title":"BEAUTIFUL THING - BEAUTIFUL FILM","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Found this to be one of the best films I've seen in a long time. The characters were so real and likeable. The dialog was hard to understand because of the heavy accents but that was the only thing that is negative about the film.Ste and Jamie seemed like two regular kids and I think that their awareness of their sexuality was done very well. Sandra semed likeable enough and Tony grew on me as the film progressed. I felt sorry for Leah and the soundtrack was fantastic. I gauge a film by determining if I care about the people in it - I really cared about this cast of characters.  "},{"Title":"This was one of the best","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fairy tale of gay life, and of love.  I am straight, but I believe in gay rights and so forth and it is good to see that they are finally supported on screen.  Unfortunately, the United States of America is less traditional and expects straight all the time -- stereotypes are out of hand here!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent Beautiful movie","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie and each time I like it even better. Its about two teen guys who live next door to each other. One's mom is a barmaid and the other gets beaten on daily by his dad and brother. The two fall for each other with some touching and funny moments. All the actors and actresses do an excellent job!!!!! Why did this movie not win any awards? It deserves many!! The music goes right along with the movie and makes it even better. The four leads, Jamie, Ste, Jamie's mom and their next door Mama Cass lover lydia are all excellent!!!!!!!  Highly recommended!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Best modern film I have seen","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is so rare to find a modern movie which does not use some common formula like the Love Boat or movies like You Have Mail. It is surprisingly emotional and entertaining without any real violence or sex needed to tell its story. It is a very rare type movie and can only really be appreciated by a select few.  However, I think my parent's may even like to see such a movie. I started to watch this movie thinking that it would suck but found instead that it is one of the best (if not the best) movies I have ever watched and I tend to watch AMC because most modern movies do suck. One thing that really helped this movie as far as being made more realistic is the fact that I didn't recognise any of the actor's names; however, I found that the guys in the movie could very easily be guys next door or (if older) people I work with. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"an excellent insightful movie","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very touching! A great movie and very insightful. I recommend it to all people whether bi, gay, or straigtht!! "},{"Title":"Two boys, Mama Cass, and first love","Date":"1 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Beautiful Thing for the first time, it was a dreary, wet night. Me and a guy I was dating at the time went to see it at a local theatre. It wasn't one of those THX theatres with spotless floors, but the shabbiness of the theatre and the rain outside was quickly forgotten when this exceptional movie took me back in time to when I was a gay teenager growing up and coming to grips with my sexuality.If there had been movies like Beautiful Thing around when I was 15 and 16, I think the depression and isolation I felt on a daily basis would have been much less severe.  With an exceptional cast of actors, and a screenplay exquisitely penned by Jonathan Harvey, a movie with believability and substance was made.  Two boys coming to terms with their feelings for one another contrasted by their troubles at home is the foundation of the film. The ending, a slap in the face of homophobic society, makes you want to stand up and cheer.I have Beautiful Thing on video at home now, and each time I watch it, I grow to love it even more. "}{"Title":"One more supporter...","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I`m still to meet a person who has seen the movie and did not say it changed their lives. A marvelous masterpiece and one of the most important British films in the nineties. You can´t help loving this movie. See it, again, again and again. Spread the word.  "},{"Title":"Warm, funny, touching","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even a crabby person might get his heart warmed by this story of two teenage boys whose friendship turns into love.  The world of a housing project, good and bad alike, is ably portrayed, with a couple of interesting subplots. Mostly sunny in outlook, the movie does not hesitate to show ugliness, either.  The Mama Cass songs help a lot, and the acting is uniformly excellent.  The ending may not be realistic, but it is satisfying and hopeful.   "},{"Title":"A film about first love which happens to be gay.....","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here is a film that is portrayed by two brilliant actors playing teenagers discovering love for the first time.  In finding this love they discover, experience and celebrate the fact that they happen to be gay.  Realistic, touching and painful, this film lightly touches on teens and their interpersonal relationships combined with the pressures of being raised by single parents one teen in an abusive household with an abusive father and older brother and the other in a home headed by a mother who takes her son's homosexuality in stride.  The most poignant moment in the film is when the mother says to her son, I am not going to put you out in the morning like an empty bottle.  I highly recommend this film!  It is unfortunate that American studios have failed to produce a film of this caliber.  "},{"Title":"A real feel-good movie.","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw the stage peformance here in Sydney first off, that got me straight away. After watching the movie I fell in love with it. It was a little softened up, but was quite powerful and very inspirational - a real warming movie. The acting was great on all counts! The movie pulled me in and made me feel like I really knew them all, and really feel their happiness/sadness! I loved the movie. The dance scene was lovely (however unbelievable! this would not happen there), but it was a movie of happiness and hope! My favourite scene was in the park after the Gloucester - very romantic!! A wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"A really sweet film","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I knew about this film only by chance (from ads before the Pillow Book video) as British films just don't get into cinemas here. I didn't expect I would watch it twice within a day, but I did.Well, that does have something to do with the accents. I'm no native speaker, so I really struggled to follow in the first 10 minutes. It's only when I watched it the second time that I understood what they said.But it's really a film that you are happy to watch it again. The actors are all great. They act so real. (The only exception was when Steve's brother hit him. That's a bit too light-handed)Like many others have pointed out, the (60s?) music in the film enhances it. I really loved it, when in their first love scene, the song Sixteen going on Seventeen comes out. The end of the film was a bit too fantastic, but nonetheless romantic. It somehow reminds me of Melody. Not that they are related in any case. "},{"Title":"Love amongst the dustbins...","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A startlingly good love story.  Doug Phillips (earlier comment) hit it on the head; its almost unique in that it deals, tenderly and with wit to spare, with a blossoming gay relationship between two hesitant young boys. Compare it with the irritating camp of such lousy American movies as The Birdcage & Jeffrey.  Naturalistic performances by Glen Berry (WHY is he now in dodgy soap London Bridge?) & Scott Neal, and a terrific, award-worthy turn by Linda Henry as Sandra.  And it even makes The Mamas & the Papas sound great. "},{"Title":"pure love","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is seldom to see such kind of pure love on screen. Though their parents made lives into a mess, still their love are growing quietly. Their chasing in the forest under the moon light is such romantic. And the last scene, so touching, and his mother, so understanding. All the songs in this movie are such warm, pure and moving which made this movie super. "},{"Title":"keep on waiting","Date":"21 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I broke up with my bf just two months ago, it's my first love and had been lasted for five years. I told myself that I would never fall in love again with anyone! But after I watched this movie, I recalled a lot about the happiness when my love suddenly happened to me, I was also 16 by that school term...Everything turned out to be bad coz we couldn't come out to our families, and our love ended. I've already watched this movie for five times though I got it only for few days, It warms my heart.I realized that there still waits beautiful things for everyone, also for me. It's really a good movie and means more than 10 rent for me! "},{"Title":"Absolutely believable!","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent! Finally, a feel good gay movie without stereotypes. I loved the message of the movie; and i hope many gay teens can watch it and realise that they are not alone. the performances were beautiful,too. What are the chances of finding love right next door? Even the sound of music song you are sixteen going on seventeen (i'll take care of you) seemed to fit perfectly. 9/10. Bill. "},{"Title":"Has it's down side but...","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hey sure it has it's down sides. The strong english accents really dumb most folks out, and the soundtrack just fails to capture the events in my opinion. So... why would I rate the movie so highly. Well... it's the first movie of it's kind that I really know of. One that speaks of the trails and troubles of being a gay teen. It speaks of the most powerful force in our world, that being Love in it's infinite levels of variety. If your not gay, bi-sexual, or at least open minded and tolerant of others you will hate this movie. As an american I can tell you that each time I watch this flick (well into 20 or so times now) I learn more about it's characters.  "}{"Title":"An inspirational love story","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Gritty, raw performances set this urban gay love story above others. The film may not boast a host of top names, but the actors' sensitive portrayal of two teenage boys falling in love, gives this movie an air of reality. Thankfully absent are the predictable gay stereotypes, present is the feeling that the makers have an understanding of the reality of coming to terms with sexuality. A fabulous soundtrack compliments the pace of the film which never descends into camp, and it is a film that makes gay love seem so wonderfully 'ordinary'. "},{"Title":"INCREDIBLE!!!!","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  WOW!!!!!! This is the one of the best Gay movies ever made.  The leads are fantastic and Linda Henry as the mother is oscar worthy.  The story made me cry(and even made my straight friends cry too) A must see especially if you are just coming out of the closet yourself 4 STARS!!! "},{"Title":"A real gem of a film","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I would unreservedly recommend this film. It is a tender exploration of how friendship can develop into much, much more. I think it would help a vulnerable teen who was 'feeling different' feel good about themselves. Some have thought the ending was 'unrealistic' but I would point to the tagline, 'An urban fairy tale'. Watch this, you'll be rewarded! "},{"Title":"beautiful movie","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For long time I wanted to see this movie as I´ve heard a lot about it, finally I have purchased my own DVD copy (from UK) and already have seen it three times. Ste and Jammie are so convincing that I couldn´t believe my eyes being a gay myself. I only wish to see more of such movies. "},{"Title":"Praise upon Praise - A tad sycophantic, sorry ;)","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is set in Bermondsey, and I as a Londoner loved its localness (is that a word?). It revolves around the lives of three teenagers (two guys and girl) living on a housing estate (tall blocks of flats for the working class). The two guys, through difficult circumstances slowly come to terms with the fact they are gay.Beautiful Thing truly moved me by its ability to avoid Gay clichés, and give the two guys distinct and believable personalities. It's funny yet not falsely so, and romantic yet not puke inducing. Everyone who likes romcoms should watch this movie. To put it simply It's a Beautiful Thing. "},{"Title":"Still a classic!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie succeeds in bringing me out of my little bursts of depression with its fabulous story-line, genuine characters and foot-tapping music scores. If there's one movie that every self-respecting GLBT person needs to have in their DVD/VHS collection... it IS this one.No movie could be better... 10 flaps out of 10 "},{"Title":"Just your average...","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's the usual tale of unrequited love, against a backdrop of social exclusion one glorious hot summer on a housing estate in London.Set to the bittersweet tunes of the Mamas and the Papas, this is a touching story of young love in adversity - oh and they're gay.The perfect film to make you curl up and feel good about the world!WATCH IT - borrow my copy!!!!! ;o) "},{"Title":"sweet, but realistic","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Beautiful Thing' is definately one of the best romantic movies dealing with homosexuality. The story is sweet, but realistic as both boys don't fall in love with each other all at once, but slowly discover their liking for each other. Their fears and scruples are shown, aswell as their joy and longing. There's no exaggeration at any point and, as a viewer, you can always feel with them and identify yourself with the to. Afterall, they're just two kids looking for love. Two kids that happen to be two boys. And after watching this movie, you don't feel wrong about that...  "},{"Title":"It certainly is","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie. Its the sweetest movie in the world.  Makes me want to  move to the U.K. and live in a housing project.  Jamie and Ste are  unforgettable characters, to say nothing of Leah and Sandra.  A must-see  for anyone and everyone. "},{"Title":"Plain ol' teenage romance, with, um, a twist","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Beautiful Thing takes place in a weird universe--but it's a place I wouldn't mind checking out. The world of Beautiful Thing is in the housing projects somewhere in England, where one cute kid gets the hots for another cute kid.  There's some evidence of homophobia, and maybe a hint of parental disapproval, but mostly we're spared these tired issues of coming-out dramas.  They've been deliberately turned down (and the Mama Cass soundtrack turned up, thanks to the next-door neighbor, a black gal classmate who loves Mama Cass and who to my thinking would be the ideal next-door neighbor) so we can pay attention to the real important issue  Will he get the boy???Not political to speak of, not really relevant to anyone's real-life coming out story that I know of (unless maybe you came out at West Hollywood High) but there's nothing wrong with finally having a gay teenage romance, especially one that isn't overly conscious of being the first of its type. *That* truly is a beautiful thing.  "}{"Title":"Comprehension Challenges","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It looks as thought there might be quite a nice movie contained in Beautiful Thing. To my ears, though,  the dialogue is quite a challenge to understand, due to the extremely thick English regional accents spoken. I happen to own this video, and have watched it a number of times.  To the film's credit, I enjoy the story line, the good acting, and the Mama Cass soundtrack. Try as I will, only about half of the dialogue is understandable. The sensitive direction brings out the middle class character relationships with insight and feeling. It's quite informative to see a film set in this blue collar environment of today's England. As in so my foreign films nowadays, the influence of America is forever present in people's lives and culture. "},{"Title":"Gay in England","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In a suburb of London, young Jamie is escaping sport hours, to avoid being the victim of his comrades. Young Ste, his neighbor, is beaten by his father, and comes to sleep overnight. They discover new feelings, sleeping in the same bed.When you are making a gay romance, you run the risk of alienating the straight population. Far too many are just uncomfortable, and this was even more true in 1996 (I am writing this in 2015). But this film is keenly aware of that and focuses on friendship, bonding, and not so much on the sexual angle. That is wise, and actually a rule more films could follow (sex in cinema is almost never necessary).We then populate the story with some interesting supporting characters, and we have a well-rounded look at growing up in a certain part of London. A teenage fan of Mama Cass in the 1990s? Unlikely, but not impossible. "},{"Title":"Make Your Own Kind of Music","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers ahead!This is one of those few films that I can rightfully say that every time I watch it (now I'm into my twentieth or twenty-first time) by the ending of the film, I am very happy and smiling.  I first heard about this film in some magazine, I don't recall which it was but either way I knew that I had to see it.  I saw in a full three years after it first had come out in the theaters.  I can distinctly remember spending close to $25 dollars for it in the store and watching it immediately that night upon getting home.  Needless to say, after I saw it the first time, I rewound it and watched it over again.  Then, I had to run out and get the soundtrack.  A full four years after I bought the soundtrack, I still listen to it at least twice a month.  I guess you could say that this is the film that got me heavily into loving Mama Cass! The music is full and upbeat and always seems to have the sense of a better and a brighter tomorrow just within our reach.My only wish is that I could have seen this film when I was in the process of coming out myself.  The scenes of both Jamie and Ste in Jamie's bedroom are quite possibly my favorites in the entire film. I guess I don't have to tell you that the scene where Ste and Jamie are running through the forest to the strains of Make Your Own Kind of Music always somehow in one way or another makes a few tears run from my eyes and that I'm all smiles by the time the last scene rolls around.  That last scene and Dream a Little Dream is probably my ultimate romantic fantasy of all time!I even was able to see the original play version that this film was based upon in New York City a few summers ago, and because of my total enjoyment of the film was able to enjoy it even moreso.My rating 4 stars...definetly! "},{"Title":"Beautiful Story But Sugarcoated","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a wonderful story about two young men discovering their sexuality. I found a lot of the situations were very un-true to life. It seems as if they soar through the movie meeting very little resistance from society, friends or family and the world is their oyster. If your looking for a fairytale love story this may be it but if you like your situations true to life look elsewhere. The severe english accents and slang make the movie dialogue hard to understand  "},{"Title":"totally wonderful","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was introduced to this movie by my BF...  I was all yawn and such... but this movie opened my eyes and made me smile in a wonderfully warm way.I love this movie.. the characterisations are brilliant, and the story is touching to the extreme.I'd say it was a totally unique take on a difficult situation. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies that should be required viewing for everyone. Set on a North Kent housing estate, the plot of two teenagers falling in love is nothing unusual, apart from the fact that it's two boys. The subject is handled with great sensitivity. We get the impression that Ste's family would not approve, but they do not seem to approve of him anyway. Sandra defends Jamie, and for that matter Ste, all the way. The injured drag queen in the Gloucester adds an interesting twist of realism.The only thing that would have improved this film for me would have been for one of the boys to have a physical disability, preferably not through injury, as this would added focus to this difficult subject. In any case, the film scores top marks with me. "},{"Title":"Touching and Funny","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film appeals to a big audience because it is a touching and funny story of first love -- with all of its pain and all of its joy. The fact that the two boys are gay adds another element -- self-discovery and the fear of what others will think, say, or do if they find out. This element too has a wide appeal since, gay or not, everyone has difficulty with self-discovery and self-revelation.    The play on which this film is based is charming, and the movie captures a mood of beauty that no one should miss. "},{"Title":"Less 'gay shame'--and more beauty--wouldn't have hurt...","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Adapted by Jonathan Harvey from his play, Beautiful Thing is an overly-familiar tale about sexual awakening. Two teen boys in a lower-income London housing project struggle with their hesitant attraction for each other, but Harvey's script starts too soon in the story (a headier examination of these lives might begin about an hour into the proceedings). Why do we need all this teary melodrama over the gay issue? It's like something out of a 1960s b-movie. One boy is predictably less comfortable with his homosexual feelings than the other, and their awkward relationship is exacerbated by their families and mates (one of whom, a black neighbor into Cass Elliot music, is having deep-seated troubles of her own). The film has a touching, feel-good finish, but Harvey is far too tentative with his subject matter. Let us see the beauty of what has been worked out, and not just the clichéd, interminable hardships of being a misfit. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The best!","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is without a doubt the best independent gay theme movie ever made. The last scene (I will not spoil it by giving away the ending) should bring tears to your eyes.The only drawbacks, minor ones, are the failure to resolve the relationship between the mother & her boyfriend is not resolved and there are times where one might wish for subtitles.   "},{"Title":"Sugar-Coated","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You'd be hard pressed to find anyone who didn't like this movie, but sadly, I am one of the few.The setting of the film might have provided a tight, dark coming of age story set in the midst of adverse circumstances.The main problem I had was the blending of dramatic and comedic elements. The film just touches some real issues, but never delves deep enough into them to make them believable. Ultimately, it eschews truth & insight in favor of light comedic moments & resolutions which are awkwardly positioned in the plot. I felt like the movie was straddling the line between drama and comedy, and because it could not delve completely into either side, ultimately fell flat and became jumbled mush. Not that there is anything bad with mixing genres, but if it is done successfully.I have to commend Tameka Empson as Leah, the Mama Cass loving freak who's tripping her brains out -- the best character in the film. Also Ben Daniels is good, as a compassionate, likeable pot smoking guy with a good heart who is inexplicably & coldly dismissed from the film.I just had trouble believing the actions & reactions of the two leads given the rough, cold social context of the film. I couldn't help but wonder how the film would have been be if we were given the real story of two young gay guys fighting for survival in a brutal environment such as this.I attribute all the positive critics' reviews to a fear of being labeled politically incorrect. But there are plenty of better gay films which blow this away (Hedwig, Marcelo Pinero's Burnt Money).For me, a big disappointment. "}{"Title":"What are they saying???","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was born and raised in Southern California.  I have very American ears and I'm afraid a lot of the film went over my head because I couldn't understand what anyone was saying!!!!  I recently bought the video and played it on my television which has closed captions.  This way I could read the dialog and I really appreciated the film for the first time!!!! It truly is a Beautiful Thing and I wish everyone could see it and (hopefully) relate to it in some way.  Just goes to prove that love is love, no matter who you give it to. "},{"Title":"Exceptional ending, at least","Date":"27 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" As an American with very little understanding of the conditions one must deal with when growing up as a British lower/middle class citizen, it was difficult for me to develop a real interest in the main plot because I was continually side-tracked by trying to figure out the significance of all of the interactions being shown. The fairly heavy British accent throws me badly as well, so it was lucky that captioning was provided, but having to read the dialog rather than listening to it makes it harder for me to get emotionally involved in the story.The many glowing comments I've read on this site are, I think, very well deserved, but because of the difficulties mentioned above born of being a Middle-America Yankee made it hard to really enjoy the film. had it been filmed in the US, by an American director, I'd probably be giving the film a 9 or 10. My 6 reflects my overall enjoyment, though the actual movie quality is decidedly higher. I wish all gay romances could - in real life - end as shown in this film, but I have to wonder What happened to them after they danced?But I guess that's subject matter for another movie. "},{"Title":"Fairly good, I adored Leah, one thing left mellifluousness","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film provides a good perspective of the way homosexuality was/is perceived by low- class people living in London suburbs. But I don't want to focus on homosexuality views and, not to comment some rhetorical behaviors attributed to Sandra and generally to people lacking a good education; I'd rather speculate of the most exciting character, Leah, somewhat a kitsch curling-iron grasping Prometheus chained by the prospective of wrecking on a dreamless future of everlasting senility. She embodies the carelessness towards social rules and schemes. She just lives the way she feels like, no matter what people say, no matter where it is going to lead to, she's living her life enjoying these roller-coaster-like ups and downs her drugs-and-plastic- earrings lifestyle unavoidably provides. The love story between the two boys just let me down, it's mellifluously unrealistic, it feels so Dawson's-Creek-ish. They kiss and graze each other as if they were Apuleius' Eros and Psyche; the scene in the wood was especially ridiculous, where did they shoot it? On some Midsummer Night Dream set? Of course I'm being seriously harsh, but I think there is enough false teen romance in nowadays' cinema, and it's such a pity for a film like this, which touches such important themes with enormous realism. "},{"Title":"What is so special about this movie?","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After I saw this movie I wondered why some people always say that this is a very special movie. I didn't like the two main characters and it just ended when the story could get interesting, and the last scene is quite ridiculous and shows his mum talking trash. The only character I liked was Tony, her boyfriend.  "},{"Title":"This tale of trashy slum dwellers in England needs sub-titles to be understood.","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am appalled at the many favorable comments on this film. While the basic theme is commendable, I was constantly irritated by this story of trashy slum dwellers in England, especially a foul-mouthed black teenager who really had little to do with the main storyline.  Had they ended it with the mother and the two teenage gay lovers moving away from the godawful apartments where they live, I might have had a better reaction, but the ending was inconclusive. I understood maybe one word in every scene. It needs sub-titles because of the accents that are incomprehensible. I do not recommend this to anyone who likes to enjoy films rather than endure them. I felt I had wasted two hours watching this. "}]