[{"Title":"Very Good 90s Film Noir","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Jack Nicholson and Michael Caine are so good in this movie. The temptation to chew up the scenery must have been overwhelming, but neither did. Neither grandstanded, and each played their vastly unappealing characters right down to the last detail. Caine plays an aging and ill thief looking for that last big score on which he can retire. Nicholson plays a middle-class wine distributor locked into an unhappy marriage, failing business,  and a young girlfriend to support. They unite to rob one of Nicholson's clients, an act they feel will solve all of their problems. Of course it doesn't and everything that can go wrong, does. And then things begin to turn ugly.Dark, noirish, this is not a feel-good caper flick. It's definitely not The Sting. What it is is well acted, directed, and filmed. Highly recommended, I'm just puzzled why it was overlooked at the Academy Awards.  "},{"Title":"Michael caine is extraordinary - film is so-so","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Michael Caine gives one of his greatest performances, and that really is saying something. How many times have you seen someone overshadow CJck Nicholson? Well it happens here. Caine's character is at times pathetic, at others funny, and at others deeply nasty, and always believable.Jennifer Lopez looks astonishing in this but her character is a cypher. The script is so-so, as is the direction, but it is worth watching once for the Caine masterclass.  "},{"Title":"Stellar cast.  Brilliant film making.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jack Nicholson is typically brilliant.  Judy Davis is positively compelling. Michael Caine does what he does when given a great script  exceptional work.  Stephen Dorff is a great young actor, and Jennifer Lopez is stunningly beautiful, if at times out of her league here.The script is good, the direction is excellent, and the film, in total, is a solid 8.5 on the 10 scale.  Those who complain that the film is too violent shouldn't watch movies about crime.  Crime is typically violent.  (Despite the way it's depicted in most films.)See this movie.  Ignore the idiots. "},{"Title":"Although Having a Magnificent Cast, It Is Just an Average Amoral Movie","Date":"22 December 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In Miami, Alex Gates (Jack Nicholson) is a small trader of wines, married with Suzanne (Judy Davies). He does not have a good relationship with his wife and his stepson, Jason (Stephen Dorff). Alex has a Cuban mistress, Gabriela (Jennifer Lopez). One day, he decides to steal a jewel from a rich client, in the house where Gabriela works as a nanny. Alex associates to the tuberculous small-time crook Victor Spansky (Michael Caine). A series of mistakes jeopardize the heist and the selling of the necklace. This amoral and noir movie has a magnificent cast. However, something does not work well, being just an average movie about greed. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Sangue e Vinho (Blood and Wine) "},{"Title":"Insufficient end to Bob Rafelson's trilogy","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"   Five Easy Pieces is closed to one of the best movies ever made. I never finished watching The King of Marvin Gardens (It got too ponderous and uninteresting)and Blood and Wine is no improvement. Rafelson was much better off when he didn't get influenced from other directors and just stuck to what he did best like in F.E.P., which was about genuine characters facing genuine problems. The characters in Blood and Wine are not realistic. They're a cliche. They weren't interesting enough to be sympathied with, even Stephen Dorff, who is supposed to be portrayed as the film's hero. Charmless, humorless, and overall bleak movie lacking any style or substance.  "},{"Title":"Character driven thriller","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another twist on the heist gone wrong movie. Alex (Nicholson) and Victor (Caine) plan to rob jewels from a house safe. The robbery goes off fine but Alex's wife leaves him and flees the abusive relationship with her son Jason (Dorff) accidentally taking the jewels. Alex and Victor give chase leading to a double-crossing finale of greed and deception.This is not what it appears - to compare it to the many heist gone wrong movies around now is quite unfair. Rather, this is a character driven piece where the diamonds become the signpost to the characters' true form rather than the reason d'eitre for the whole film. Nicholson plays the main character who seems OK on the surface but is paranoid, greedy, abusive and frustrated underneath. Caine is more sleazy and obviously violent, while Lopez, Dorff and Davis all play supposed innocents sucked into the crime.However the truth is that the film reveals the greed inside each of them, only Judy Davis as Nicholson's wife comes off as anyway sympathetic, but even she has a drinking problem. Lopez and Dorff display their greed gradually and their characters develop during the film to be as unpleasant as Nicholson. All the main performances are strong and the monstrous sides of their nature are easily believable. Any redemptions are tarnished with lingering greed, greed turns to suspicion turns to deception turns to murder. Human nature is an ugly thing and this element of it is played out at every level here.As a crime thriller it doesn't work as well as it could have - it is often treated as a plot driver rather than the plot itself. However the characters and performances are all strong and it is this that drives the film. Depending on whether you want a crime thriller or a character piece with big names, you'll either be disappointed or pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Above average tale of deception and greed.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The team of Bob Rafelson and Jack Nicholson made two of the strongest movies of the 1970s, 'Five Easy Pieces' and 'The King Of Marvin Gardens'. It would be unrealistic to hope that 'Blood And Wine' would be as memorable as those two, and of course it isn't. But it is an excellent piece of modern film noir, one of the most underrated Hollywood movies of recent years, and the best thing Rafelson has made since the early 1980s. Nicholson is perfectly cast as a dissatisfied and greedy wine merchant who hatches a plot to steal a client's valuable necklace. He is assisted by a slimy British crook (a superb turn from Michael Caine in his best acting role in years) and his sexy young girlfriend (Jennifer Lopez, who is surprisingly good). Things get very complicated very quickly when their plan goes belly up, and Nicholson's estranged wife (Judy Davis) and his stepson (Steven Dorff) get into the picture. This is a well acted, interesting and unpredictable thriller with some real depth among the plot twists. I thoroughly enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Drifts along to nowhere ................","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" With the talent on board, Jack Nicholson, Michael Cane, Jennifer Lopez, and Stephen Dorff, Blood and Wine must be regarded as a misfire. The film seems strangely detached, with no real involvement for the audience. Jennife Lopez especially comes across as if she wasn't sure how to present herself. What you get are domestic disputes, disappearing diamonds, and disagreements among thieves, none of which are particularly interesting. Even the heist is depicted as an afterthought. With no likable characters, a script that seems underdeveloped, and little reason for the viewer to care about any of this, everything just sort of drifts along to nowhere. - MERK "},{"Title":"Key  Largo.","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The story involves the theft of a multi-million-dollar necklace by thieves Jack Nicholson, who runs a wine shop in Miami, and Michael Caine, a safe cracker on parole. Nicholson packs his suitcase intending to leave his wife, Judy Davis, and his stepson, Steven Dorff, and run off to New York with his innocent girl friend, Jennifer Lopez. In New York, he intends to sell the hot ice to a fence and return to split the cash with Caine.At the last moment, Nicholson has an argument with his wife, she clobbers him with a poker, frantically throws some clothes into Nicholson's suitcase, and drives off with her son. The necklace is stashed in a compartment of the suitcase, although neither she nor Dorff knows it.They find out soon enough. Nicholson and Caine track them to Key Largo and there are arguments, fights, a car chase, until Davis and Caine wind up dead, Dorff takes off in his new boat for the horizon, Lopez drives off alone with one of the stones, and Nicholson winds up in the hands of the law.It has a lot going for it. Nicholson and Caine rarely go wrong. Judy Davis does hysteria well. Jennifer Lopez is a natural actress, a beautiful young woman with a cantilevered rear end. The locations include some of the more colorful parts of Florida. And there's one effective action scene during, and immediately after, the car chase.So why doesn't it work any better than it does? It's a mean-spirited movie. Every character seems greedy, spiteful, and deceitful. There's nobody to root for. It's easy to argue that this is rather more like real life than having good and evil splashed across the screen, but the values don't go much beyond that. No one has any particularly generous impulses. If someone dies, they simply disappear from the story. The only scene in which a genuine conflict of motives appears is when Nicholson is rooting around the bloodied body of his dying wife in an overturned car, searching desperately for the stupid necklace and sobbing with remorse at the same time. And even this is undercut by pettiness. Her last words to Nicholson **** you. The ill-considered roles cripple the performances too. Nobody is poor, but no one has a chance to do much more than try to outwit the others. It's also disturbing to see actors we like, like Caine and Nicholson, in parts so petty. They're fine when they are outrageously malignant and venomous. (Nicholson ululating hoarsely and limping through the snow with an ax in his hands.) But realistically, as reprobate as the rest of us? Nope.I also can't understand why the location shooting doesn't take advantage of Miami and the Keys, where it was clearly shot. We see mostly interiors and back yards. Even a fishing boat in the Gulf of Florida feels claustrophobic. There's no sense of space or even of the city. And the photography doesn't help, somehow nudging a viewer into the perception that southern Florida is chilly rather than shimmering in humidity and heat. Where's the sweat? John Huston's Key Largo was all shot on a Warner Brothers' sound stage and does a better job of establishing the atmosphere. Finally, the MacGuffin -- that million-dollar necklace -- bespeaking a lack of imagination. Sounds like a job for Charlie Chan.Well, I don't mean to be too harsh. It's not badly done. It's just that so many opportunities for it to have been better were missed in the script and in the direction. Disappointing. "},{"Title":"Lesser Jack Nicholson Vehicle","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A wine merchant (Jack Nicholson) and a sickly veteran safecracker (Michael Caine) join forces in the plot to steal a valuable necklace. What could've been an interesting crime caper is marred by too many boring and useless subplots. "}{"Title":"writers too lazy to go the distance","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  All star cast and great plot possibilities are wasted on this movie. First of all, the love triangle turns out to be unsatisfying because nothing really comes of the triangle, so why bother. The crime itself is given no more than a few minutes and produces little drama. The promised double and triple-cross and changeable loyalties that ensue after the theft in fighting over the booty play out like an episode of Nash Bridges. Now that I think about it, this whole movie reminds me of an episode of some similar TV crime drama and could be played out easily in an hour or less with better writing and be much more entertaining. "},{"Title":"Money and Wine","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'Blood and Wine' has a sort of film noire feel to it. It reminds one of the Humphrey Bogart and Alfred Hitchcock classics. Though it's not as stylish a film Rafelson does make good use of the Florida locations. Some of the dialogues are interesting too. The element of suspense is well maintained but what really works for 'Blood and Wine' is the unusual cast. Jack Nicholson is not very different from his other films but it suits Alex Gates. Michael Caine is a knockout as the murderer with a bad cold. He's quite the scene-stealer. Judy Davis is first rate. Stephen Dorff plays holds his own. Jennifer Lopez is stunning. What is most striking is her natural beauty combined with a natural performance. She more than holds her own and brings a certain humanness and courage to an otherwise fragile Gabriella. Overall, Rafelson's is an intriguing little thriller with a fantastic cast. "},{"Title":"Florida noir at it's best since Huston's Key Largo; perhaps Nicholson's most underrated star turn from the 90s","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure why I haven't seen Blood and Wine from start to finish up until today, but it has always been intriguing as that one Jack Nicholson movie I would see in bits and pieces on TV, with J-Lo in an early supporting role as the not-quite femme fatale, and Michael Caine as a guy with a very bad cough. Seeing it today I'm reminded of the classic work Bob Rafelson, director, and Nicholson did back in the 70s, even if they already reached their peak on their first film, Five Easy Pieces. But at the least Blood and Wine represents a return to form for Nicholson under the director he worked with most, either as actor or writer (he co-wrote Head), especially in the F.E.P. role of a SOB, which, of course, is usually as easy for Nicholson as raising up his eyebrows. His character, Alex, is a criminal, but not a very good one, as he isn't entirely able to balance out his goals as a jewel thief and as an adulterer with Lopez's Gabriella. It doesn't help that his wife (Judy Davis) has a son from a previous marriage (Stephen Dorff), who has it in for Alex big-time. Meanwhile, that jewel necklace is almost up in the air, and all his craggy partner, Vic (Michael Caine), can do is cough a lot and act more as a dumb muscle than as a consummate professional.So in these ingredients, Rafelson and his writers have a classic, cooked-up noir with enough style by its actors and locale to make up for what would be considered 'too violent' to show back in the forties (probably too sexy too, what with Lopez's 'assets'). Rafelson knows this material needs the best cast, and assembled is the best cast for the job, where desperation, greed, proper morality and just a moment of piece of mind get shifted around but are always the constants that all these characters. Nicholson is, well, Nicholson, cold to the bone but also a great liar, violent, passionate, but won't stop till he gets his way. He's not breaking new ground or setting up himself for the usual awards circuits, but it's still very cool to see him playing Alex as believable work of sleaze, almost in the tradition of Bogart (he actually does just as good, if not better, here than he did in Rafelson's 'Postman' remake). Dorff, meanwhile, could be considered the weakest link with a cast like this, but he holds his own fairly well within his character's basic lines, especially when considering the roles he'd have to take later on. Caine is a natural at playing against type, which doesn't really exist for him, and disappears into this pragmatic but vicious parolee. And actresses like Davis and Lopez fit into their roles in the noir mood with equal levels of ease. I wish I could see Lopez in more roles like this where we might not believe totally her intentions for either of the men in her life, but is not necessarily cruel like the old femme fatales either.Released, as they say, under the radar back in 96, Blood and Wine uses its Miami and Florida locales like they're still lush and lustful and engaging, and the danger here isn't diminished from what's usually expected in the urban cities and dark alleys. Rafelson's got his A-game on here with an enjoyable story where we can guess pretty much where it will lead- the wills of men tested head-to-head- but it's a lot of harsh fun getting there. "},{"Title":"disappointing film noir","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie tries to be a modern day film noir and just quite doesn't work. This was directed by Bob Rafelson, who also directed Nicholson in his first great starring role in Five Easy Pieces. This movie has a great cast that has Nicholson, Michael Caine, Judy Davis, Jennifer Lopez and Stephen Dorff. Nicholson owns a wine cellar but is having some money troubles and hatches a plan with Michael Caine to steal a million dollar necklace while some rich clients are on vacation. Lopez plays their maid who is going to help them but is fired right before the robbery and can't help them. Once they actually steal the necklace, everything starts to go wrong and everybody turns on everyone. This movie just doesn't work as a film noir and is just a major disappointment "},{"Title":"talent goes a wry","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You would think the tandem of the glorious Michael Caine, the always stunning Jack Nicholson and the adorable Judy Davis would set a movie's heels on fire but Blood and Wine falls far from expectations as the sparks never start on set. All these esteemed actors give a good showing in their own right but their characters are flat and lifeless. The script seems compelled only to move the action along and nothing else. Mr. Caine, Mr. Nicholson and Ms. Davis give punctuation and try their best to put a breath of life into this lifeless film with an all too obvious plot. Stephen Dorff gives a better performance than usual (no cheers for Blade or Cecil B. Demented) but his character is far from complex, and Jennifer Lopez can't keep her faux Cuban accent up throughout the course of the film.The plot is rather generic and the suspense that the movie is trying to portray is better invoked by the musical score than the cinematic or script climax.As a saving grace the location scouting is great, really espousing the feeling of the Floridian backdrop. But that doesn't save the movie. There are as well a couple of slightly memorable stunt scenes but is not an action film.Skip this one and watch Chinatown again. And if you haven't seen that see it twice.  "},{"Title":"great cast in passable neo-noir","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alex Gates (Jack Nicholson) neglects his stepson Jason (Stephen Dorff) and his wife Suzanne (Judy Davis). Alex is a wine dealer heavily in debt. Jason would rather fish with his friend Henry (Harold Perrineau Jr.) than work with his stepfather. Alex is looking to steal a diamond necklace from his customer the Reeses with the help of safecracker partner Victor (Michael Caine) and his mistress Gabriela (Jennifer Lopez) who is the Reeses' maid.This is a great cast with a good performance from Caine. Director Bob Rafelson doesn't inject enough style to match the noir style story. The cinematic style is pedestrian. His better earlier work is not surpassed. The scheme is not the best. Alex and Gabriela would be the obvious prime suspect especially with the security guards. Only Victor seems to be doing any thinking. However if Alex is ever caught, he'd probably give up Victor quickly. The plan seems ill-conceived but I'm willing to accept the desperate robbers' stupidity. The movie is limited but has good enough tension and great actors. For a movie with Lopez, this could have been sexier. It could have been better in many ways. "},{"Title":"underrated","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those underrated movies . What I like about this movie is simple  the acting is very good, the settings are credible, the situations are credible, the dialogs are very good. What more ? it doesn't have the usual Hollywood honey spread over it with luscious soundtracks, over-romantic scenes or overblown action. Nicolson and Michael Caine are super in acting and there is enough going' on to keep you awake. No special effects , no blasting soundtracks , no stupid dialogs , just plain simple perfect cinema that does not need an happy ending. Very good directing as well. This is better than 3/4th coming out of Hollywood. Who needs blockbusters anyway. "},{"Title":"A missed classic","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Here's a pretty good movie with some name stars in it. Jack Nicholson plays a wine dealer who plans to turn around his failing business by stealing diamonds from a rich client. He's also having a fling with their nanny, played by a not yet famous Jennifer Lopez. However, his family takes the diamonds unknowingly, setting up chases and conflicts. The performances are tight, and it's a gritty movie. Nicholson plays a truly detestable character. Michael Caine plays his rather sad partner, who is dying of cancer and trying to get one last score so he can die in comfort. Lopez is actually pretty good, it's before they actually gave her control over her productions. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly routine.","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Considering its cast, Blood ands Wine is a disappointment. It mixes in some overly familiar ingredients (stolen jewelry, betrayal between crime partners, bloody violence), and the final result comes off as extremely cliched and unoriginal. Jack Nicholson looks vaguely bored, while Michael Caine gives a mediocre (by his high standards) performance.This isn't an unwatchable film by any means, and it does include its share of surprises, but on the whole it's really nothing special. "},{"Title":"Good performances do not make a film","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Without doubt this film has great performances from Caine, Nicholson and Davis (though hers' is a short role in comparison). The violence is uncalled for. The script has some great lines (e.g., Caine's lines on burial vs cremation) but the script does not hold you for long. If Rafelson wanted to make a trilogy progressing from son to brother to father--why choose a stepfather role for the father? Is there no difference for Rafelson? There are times when the family within the film son, mother and stepfather emerges as an interesting triangle but for some reason Rafelson does not invest time on this aspect except for a few flashes--(e.g., mother to son I would have done the same or Nicholson protecting his stepson's friend from brutality or Nicholson covering Davis' with blankets as she sleeps). Had he delved more into relationships, this film could have been a wonderful modern day Hamlet-like tragedy. "}{"Title":"BAD AND CHEAP","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sometimes, good actors like Jack Nicholson, have to earn their living by doing something not good. That is the case, the film has a so weak story that almost insults the viewer. If you can avoid seeing it, please do so. It is a bad film, from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"Badly made- and uninteresting typical genre movie.","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie leaves a totally pointless impression. It adds noting new or original to the genre and on top of that the movie is just not a well made one.They desperately tried to make things more interesting with its script but the movie in fact remains nothing more but a generic genre movie, that unnecessarily makes things hard on itself with its script and redundant characters.The story also doesn't always flow, which is due to some bad pacing and editing. At times it feels like sequences are missing and things occur too fast after each other. The story lacks proper back-story for the characters and when the movie tries to put in some emotions they work out blank and come over as artificial and forced and completely unrealistic or believable. You can also blame the director for this. I'll bet the movie would had been way better if it didn't took itself as serious as it did. Some more 'fun' wouldn't had damaged the movie.Because of the failed script not much works out in the movie. It's not tense, it's not mysterious, it's not surprising. The action feels lame and the love-story misplaced and unrealistic. Some of the dialog is horrendous and it makes the characters at times seem like dumb Neanderthalers. A real offense to the viewer's intelligence.Despite the fact that the movie is filled with stars, the movie still is miscast. In all fairness, I think Jennifer Lopez is a good actress but it just doesn't show in this movie, in which she plays a character with a thick Cuban accent, who is supposed to be the love interest of the movie of the two main characters. Stephen Dorff feels out of place since he's only ever real good and convincing as an actor when he plays a villain, which is mostly due to his looks. Still it's interesting to see Jack Nicholson and Michael Caine as partners in crime. Especially Nicholson makes the movie worthwhile at times and his character is perhaps the only real good and enjoyable one of the movie. Though Caine is also good at times but mostly when he acts as a different person in the movie.A movie to forget really fast.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Depressed to the point of discomfort","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After watching Blood and Wine I had an almost physical urge to immediately put on something much more cheerful (like a new Friends episode). Hardly do I stumble upon a film so brutal and tasteless, in which the main characters come across only as people in various stages of moral disintegration, with whom the viewer is compelled to feel no attachment whatsoever. The good guys seem appealing only by virtue of committing the least disgusting wrongdoings. The characters' motivation is not to become better, but not to become worse than they already are, and redemption is nowhere in sight. One depressing, bleak piece of a movie, with little - if any - value. Nicholson presents a disappointing lack of class, Lopez puts off by her strong Cuban accent, and only Michael Caine seems to tower above the rest of the cast, in a role which is nevertheless a bad waste of his talents. In short avoid if you can. (And for a really good caper flick - go see The Thomas Crown Affair, any of the two versions, although I recommend the newer one.) (4/10) "},{"Title":"pretty good flick","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a  pretty good suspense/crime/intrigue flick about a jewelry heist gone terribly awry. The big draw here is Jack Nicholson and Michael Caine, working together, for the first time, I believe. They provide two nicely contrasted portraits in malice Nicholson as a two-bit hood with a connoisseur's taste and delusions of grandeur, down on his luck, and Michael Caine as a grimly desperate safecracker with advanced respiratory disease who feels the grim reaper at his heels and wants one last big score. Their plans are set askew by Nicholson's wife and stepson, leading to nasty complications. Nicholson and Caine are great together, especially the latter. Worth a see.  "},{"Title":"A fine vintage Jack & Caine","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  BLOOD & WINE (1996) *** Jack Nicholson, Michael Caine, Stephen Dorff, Jennifer Lopez, Judy Davis, Harold Perrineau.  Fine devious neo noir and serpentine twists along the way with slick wine salesman Nicholson partnering with chronic, oily Caine (gleefully enjoying his scumbag role) for a get rich quick diamond necklace heist that only gets botched (natch) when his stepson Dorff starts to add up the heinous acts they've committed. Nicholson's attack on Caine is scarily funny.  Directed by long-time Jack Packer, Bob Rafelson. "},{"Title":"A great disappointment","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie on the basis of the cast alone - how could something with Jack Nicholson, Michael Caine & Judy Davis in the cast be other than brilliant? The answer, if this is an example-is easily.The plot is convoluted, unbelievable, the acting patchy and in the case of Davis - drastically overplayed.  Michael Caine once again proved what a versatile actor he is, but was stumped by the stupid storyline. Jack Nicholson did what he increasingly seems to do these days - just drifted through the role (I had the impression he could hardly wait to go home and get the whole thing over). Stephen Dorff did his best with a part that never really defined itself - Jennifer Lopes should not give up her day job - no further comment!I feel that the writers and producers should have watched some of the excellent heist movies from the past and learnt the lesson that it is OK to have a convoluted plot as long as you keep the action going.A waste of time and talent.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Neo-Noir Caper film that is worth a watch!","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was interesting! It is not the best but i feel that it is still worth a watch! The acting was good (especially by Jack Nicholson!) and the cinematography was great! It really captured the beautiful scenery of Miami,Florida! Michael Caine also plays an interesting character! This movie has an A List cast but it seems to be lacking something... Don't get me wrong it was very entertaining but i feel that it was missing something... This is a very underrated film and it should be watched by film buffs and fans of Jack Nicholson and Michael Caine! Also the ending was extremely ironic and surprising! the film had a 1970's film noir kind of feel too. This is one of the better caper films that i have seen and like i said before, in my opinion it is definitely worth a watch! "},{"Title":"A movie you will forget in a week","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie should have been better than it was. It starts out pretty good but once the necklace is taken by Nicholson's wife and found by his stepson (Dorff) to be real the thing lags.The night scenes and car sequences are boring at best--- I didn't like Dorff from the get go when he catches a shark on a beach and his interactions with Lopez for some reason reminded me highly of Titanic. Both movies were made about the same exact time. Boring too hetero formula garbage both of them.Many comment on the movie being flat. Also the violence didn't fit well either whacking people with golf clubs? and sticks.Lopez's involvement with Nicholson seemed highly unlikely as well.Below par...gave it a 5 Do Not Recommend "},{"Title":"Good performance and dialogues make for pleasurable viewing.","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Bob Rafelson and Jack Nicholson supported each others careers in the 70s with movies like 'The king of Marvin gardens' and 'Five easy pieces'. 'Blood and wine' was the third part in the trilogy. Rafelson's movies were very unique in their own way with Nicholson. His movies were very highly focused on relationships and this formed the core in every movie. In 'Blood and wine' Nicholson is playing the father and son and again delivers another fantastic performance. Regardless of the role, Nicholson is always in top form and most times has the ability carry the movie independently. The noir atmosphere is not continuously present in the movie. The theme of betrayal, greed and loyalty is common to all in this genre and the movie covers this field on a large scale. The only noir factor that missing is the femme fa tale element. However this does not take away any charm from the movie. Many intriguing and suspenseful moments are directed in a unique way that makes the movie's routine theme appear eye capturing. In the initial phase of the movie one would immediately assume that this is a heist movie. However the second half dispels all doubts.The basic theme revolves around the theft of a expensive diamond necklace and how bitter relations leads the characters in to a game of cat and mouse. The character interactions in the second half progresses the movie steadily and there is never a irrelevant segment. In terms of plot, the writer (Nick Viltues) has accomplished some good writing but many criticised the movie for it's lack of character depth and even for it's climax. In my opinion only on a re watch the movie's real quality can be appreciated. If one views the movie with concentration and focus, he/she will realise that the u.s.p of the movie is in the performances and dialogues. 'Blood and wine' is not a classic but truly a milestone for introducing the noir genre in to the nineties. Later movies like 'U Turn' and 'Lost Highway' followed.SPOILERS AHEAD Nicholson plays a wine merchant who is having a bitter relationship with his wife (Davis) and son (Dorff). His neglecting attitude has created a rift in relations in the household. He and Caine who plays a ageing safe-cracker on parole plan to steal a expensive necklace from the a rich family's residence while they are on vacation. They aim to achieve to do this with the help of a maid played by (Lopez). On the day they plan to steal they discover the maid has lost her job, however with a little inconvenience the pair still manage to get their hands on the necklace. Nicholson plans to travel to New York to sale it for a good price. He books a flight with Lopez who he is having an affair with. Unfortunately his wife discovers this which leads to a brawl and Nicholson becomes unconscious. Dorff arrives on the scene and him and his mother escape. Later Nicholson awakes and finds out that they took the suitcase that the necklace was hidden in. Him and Caine try to locate the mother and son but a high speed pursuit turns nasty which leads to the death of Dorff's mother. After this Dorff decides to get revenge with genius methods. He pits Caine against Nicholson and attempts to lure Nicholson with the necklace with the aid of Lopez. END OF SPOILERSFor a small thriller the movie extracts brilliant performances from all involved. This element is the core of the movie and brings out life from a routine script. Plot twists are at a minimum however this does not deters ones' enjoyment from the movie. Every clever surprising plot development that occurs happens to the viewer's attention. Bob Rafelson's direction is standard and is in tone with the movies theme. Many close up shots of the character's faces are mesmerising. It captures feelings and emotions very realistically. Florida has become a common setting for movies of this nature. Body Heat, Palmetto and Wild things too used this location. This is another highlight for the movie but many scenes are shot indoors so outdoor scenery is restricted to a certain extent. The background score is very thin. It is not used at every point. Music is incorporated at moments when it can feel most effective with the scene. This was the first time pairing of Micheal Caine and Jack Nicholson. They are legends in their own right and make the movie worthy of watching whenever they appear on screen together. Their interactions and witticism are a highlight in the movie. Nicholson impresses in a negative role. This is something that he very renowned for. Stephen Dorff is commendable in the second half as his involvement is greater. He was an upcoming star and his facial and emotional expressions are on the mark. Jennifer Lopez was at the early stages of her career with this small role but her role serves it's purpose at the very end. Her Cuban accent attempt is was very charming.For those that enjoy cinema with a distinctive noir taste, this is highly recommended as performances are impressive. "},{"Title":"Jack Nicholson under scrutiny.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  In the space of a few days I had the luck (I did not say `good luck') to see `The Postman Always Rings Twice' (1981), `Blood and Wine' (1997) and `A Few Good Men' (1992) in that order. The common thread here, evidently, is Jack Nicholson. This actor has become rather stereotyped for me &#150; though not necessarily for other people &#150; inasmuch that I sometimes feel that he does not need to act or anything, but just plays himself but how well he plays himself! He has that ability usually, and in these three films specifically, to play the mean b*****d, or the loose-liver, or the shady double-dealer or in all cases, a hard type, and quite often the camera captures that glint in his eyes that makes you feel that he has gone crazy. I can first remember seeing him in Rafelson's `The Postman Always Rings Twice' with Jessica Lange, the type of film based on a book which, the same as Truman Capote's `In True Blood', has become a classic in the North American genre. The story is powerful, and Nicholson, more than Lange, is up to the mark. However this film has always &#150; about three times, now &#150; left me asking myself what went wrong there is something more convincing lacking. A wonderful job with preparing the 30s scenario and all those old trucks and buses. Almost reminded me of an early rendering in black and white of John Steinbeck's `The Grapes of Wrath' &#150; possibly still one of the greatest US novels of all times. It's worth mentioning John Colicos as the Greek petrol-station owner, whose apportation is pretty decent.If in 1981 Nicholson held his own very well with the other principal actors, he had a more difficult job with Jennifer López (who only has to appear on the screen to beat allcomers) and Michael Caine, who in `Blood and Wine' just was not up to his level in `The Cyder House Rules' (1999), also seen again very recently. A much more complex story here as everyone tries to hang on to a near-priceless necklace, though in the end Stephen Dorff does the only honest thing open to any of them. An interesting story but too stereotyped to Rafelsonian formulas, and with a bit more violence thrown in than really necessary for my liking. The story &#150; and the acting &#150; was not bad; it was even very nice to see that Miss López is even able to give a rather good performance and is not there just for her pretty face and lovely hair and beautiful eyes and fantastic &#133;&#133;&#133;.. Whoa! I'll try to keep to the film&#133;&#133;.. However the film left me unamused as Rafelson's directing has lost the (little) charm it had in 1981. And it is pretty obvious that he is not up to Rob Reiner when it comes to getting absolutely the maximum of possibilities out of the Actors.Reiner's `A Few Good Men' is one of the few court-house dramas to keep me interested to the very end. Arthur Miller's `Twelve Just Men' is the only other film of this type which comes to my mind at this moment. Under Reiner's directing Nicholson probably plays one of his best rôles, certainly the most convincing one I can remember seeing him in. His playing of a Colonel in the Marines is spot on; you feel you identify with that kind of upper-crust navy man. But opposite him he has Tom Cruise excelling himself as a young military lawyer partnered by a magnificent Demi Moore in perhaps the best part I have seen her in. Really good stuff here gripping story with superb directing.I have seen each of these films at least twice, and with confidence feel I can say that `A Few Good Men' is not only the better film, but also it is where Jack Nicholson redeems himself and comes up trumps &#150; amen better directing and excellent camera-work; the ending scenes are highly memorable.  "}{"Title":"A splendid Florida Noir","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Infrequent director Rafelson brings his good eye for Americana to a rollicking good crime tale with shades of the classic Key Largo. Although the heist itself may seem a bit too high risk to stretch credulity (all those witnesses!), this is a smart, sexy movie that knows that greed and the compulsion to break the law have their own inner logic irrespective of risk. The plot is full of the expected twists and turns without becoming confusing or ridiculous, as is often the case with crime films these days. Right now, we're in a second golden age of film noir, with John Dahl and others bringing a contemporary slant to classic noir conventions. Enjoy it while it's happening and see this film, a key entry in this renaissance.  "},{"Title":"Blood and Wine ** Uneven Drama","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Again, a stellar cast cannot help this miserable film.Jack Nicholson and Michael Caine are on a caper to steal a necklace. Nicholson seems to be in a very bad marriage with Judy Davis. Davis is the bright moment in this otherwise uneven drama. She is explosive and pulls out all the stops in her violent scenes with husband Nicholson.Caine coughs up a storm here as the dying thief. At least, he got his wish by not dying in prison.Jennifer Lopez appears as the love interest of Nicholson and his stepson-the son of Davis.The films tends to become overly violent. There are frequent uses of sticks to do the beating. Someone should have taken a stick to this film. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable 7 rated film.","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a nice little heist yarn. Nothing special or spectacular, but still an enjoyable viewing.I really enjoyed the role that Michael Caine played. His character was creepy and vulnerable at the same time. Caine played it exceptionally well. In fact, Caine's acting was the best part of the movie.I'll rate this movie a solid 7. Not a masterpeice, but still an enjoyable view. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies i have ever watched","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Among all those extra exaggerated action pack movies this film shines as valuable as the necklace the plot is about. The backbone of a movie, the script is well written. It directly goes into the action skipping all the 20 minute chatter that almost every film has at the beginning as an introduction of the characters. just a few words between the characters fully describe who they are and what they are after. but of course, it is the power of actors and actresses who make those few words a delicious show with the gestures they beautifully wear.the thrill begins immediately with the robbery which is successful but not perfect. things go unexpected and necklace gets into other hands. after that the thrill never ends while the robbers try to take it back.one of the best things about this film is, it doesn't create those movie heroes where you identify yourself with and show sympathy all the time. on the contrary nobody is perfect. everyone has some weakness or greed or something considered negative. and also nobody is the bad guy. with the exception of Victor played by Michael Caine who is portrayed as a real nuisance, everyone in the film is the good guy but unlucky with the life.i just loved this film. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable modern film noir","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed the twists and turns of Blood & Wine's plot as I steered through it by some very interesting characters who were brought to life magnificently by a talented cast, especially Nicholson and Caine. None of the characters are white as snow but all of them, even the Caine character, elicit some sympathy. My only complaint is that the ending although poetic is slightly unsatisfying. Then again that could be because of my sympathy and bias for Nicholson's character. All in all very enjoyable, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Almost the perfect plan","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Alex doesn't understand well with his stepfather son with his wife. He has a mistress who is housekeeping and using a professional thief make a plan to steal from the house where his mistress Gabriela works, a valuable necklace. But things do not go as it should even if it manages to steal the jewel because even before he is ready to leave on a trip in order to sell the necklace has a serious quarrel with his wife leave him unconscious and goes with the suitcase in which he put the necklace.Here begins a cat and mouse game with ugly results.It's a thriller of the 90s with some good actors and should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Modern film noir set in Florida","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A terrific cast consisting of Jack Nicholson, Michael Caine, Judy Davis, Steven Dorff, and Jennifer Lopez star in Blood & Wine, a 1996 film noir directed by Bob Rafelson.Nicholson is a wine dealer in a bad marriage with Judy Davis. He and a partner, Victor (Michael Caine) steal a diamond necklace. Nicholson's wife wants to catch him cheating on her, but what she interrupts is his trip to pawn the necklace. Things go bad from there.Despite the great cast and strong direction, this noir doesn't quite hang together. The talent is there, so perhaps the script could have been stronger. It does hold one's interest, however, and some nice twists. It's downbeat for sure, with flawed characters. Not quite up to Nicholson-Rafelson collaborations of the past, but okay. "},{"Title":"NICHOLSON AND CAINE MAKE TOP-NOTCH TEAM","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One can argue the pros and cons of the plot of BLOOD AND WINE (which I actually think worked well).  But the teaming of Jack Nicholson and Michael Caine alone make this film worth watching.  I love seeing top-notch pros working off each other in films (It was the only reason to bother with SPACE COWBOYS), and when it's done as well as it's done in BLOOD AND WINE, it can't be beat. It's not just that the two do such typically good work.  It's also how well they are utilized in the story.  The partnership of the two characters would be interesting to watch even if they were played by lesser actors, but in the hands of Caine and Nicholson, we get some near-classic moments. In short, check out two of the best in action.  And hope to God they get to work together again sometime soon.  Makes you want to see, say Clint Eastwood and Sean Connery work together next. "},{"Title":"Good and rich","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't possibly disagree more with ALFONSO RODRIGUEZ.  I thought this was a brilliantly real movie, with complex characters and an incredibly realistic portrayal of how incredible selfish, banal, and stupid most crimes (and criminals) actually are.The brilliance of the story lies in its simplicity.  Alex (Nicholson) is a parastic, two-timing lout looking for an easy score, but he's too inept of a criminal to pull it off without massive complications.  Victor (Caine) is bitter, vicious, and utterly repulsive (but impossible to take your eyes off of) as a dying ex-con looking for one last shot at the big time.  Jennifer Lopez' character is not a plot device, she' an enigma whose loyalties (or lack thereof) keep you guessing to the very end.This movie has everything  Great dialogue, lush scenery (including Jennifer Lopez), great pacing, and a clever plot.  Thankfully the director was wise enough not to try to pander to viewers like ALFONSO by throwing in gratitious nudity, explosions, car chases, and hackneyed plot twists.  I suspect that's what attracted such a high-profile cast to this little thriller.  "},{"Title":"Nicholson, Caine, Dominant Success.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Devious wine dealer Jack Nicholson and career safe-cracker Michael Caine join forces to steal a priceless necklace in this very impressive, but somehow overlooked, masterpiece from the late-1990s. What Nicholson did not count on was that stepson Stephen Dorff may stand in the way of his plan. After Dorff and mother Judy Davis accidentally take the merchandise, the film becomes a cat-and-mouse exercise between the crooks, the good guy and the girl with alterior motives (the ultra-hot Jennifer Lopez in her first truly excellent screen performance). Director Bob Rafelson had struck gold nearly 30 years earlier with Nicholson in Five Easy Pieces. The pairing of Nicholson and Caine was ingenious casting. Both are such dominant screen presences and yet both are capable of making those around them better on the silver screen. Similar to other films like Heat and The Score, Blood and Wine uses intelligence to make a somewhat ho-hum story look like cinematic magic due to focused direction and outstanding casting. 4.5 out of 5 stars.  "}{"Title":"Is money everything?","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Life just doesn't go well for a 2 bit thief and his family when he teams up with an ex-con to steal a fancy necklace. Lots of death and violence follow as the jewel gets away from the 2 crooks who discover in the end that there is more to life than money. Good one. "},{"Title":"Great film noir","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Really excellent movie that whose audience, it seems, can be measured in dozens.  That's a shame because this movie has a lot going for it in many different ways.  The story is interesting, all the characters are believable and human, and the actors obviously relished the opportunity to shine. I like Jack Nicholson the most when he actually plays a character.  Sometimes I think he just gets by with being JACK and in some instances that suffices, is appropriate to the occasion.  Here he does not rely on his own persona at all and is great, as good as he's been in years (though maybe I shouldn't judge, I haven't seen every one of his movies.)  Michael Caine looks like his hair was painted on and he coughs as much as a 1930's movie heroine who'll die at the end. He's oily without overdoing it, I think he tends to munch on the other actors in other movies but he does not do that here.  Judy Davis is great and her battles with Nicholson are especially memorable.  Stephen Dorff is given a lot of difficult scenes with these professionals and is up to the task.  He is not intimidated in his scenes with Nicholson and holds his own very well.  Jennifer Lopez' accent varies a little but for the most part she is also excellent.  She is beautiful in a non-showy way, which of course makes her more beautiful.  Harold Perrineau Jr. is seen mostly in the beginning of the movie and makes an impression. Can't give the story away..just see it, give this movie a shot for the entire package all in one place.   "},{"Title":"Dark film noir in color with stellar cast","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Director Bob Rafelson (Five Easy Pieces 1970, Postman Always Rings Twice, The 1981) teamed up once again with Jack Nicholson in the lead, with steady and enduring veterans Michael Caine and Judy Davis, along with a brilliant, faceted performance from Jennifer Lopez, and a gritty, sharp one from Stephen Dorff. It's a complex thriller drama, one-upmanship at every turn. Who will be the winner and get the goods? This one sure keep you guessing - or, you're so caught up in all the intrigues that you have no time to second guess them.It's probably a TORV (tastier on repeat viewing) - a category I came up with as I realized many a film somehow belongs. I may not immediately appreciate the film on first viewing, yet when I get to see it again, such are the case with Curtis Hanson's Wonder Boys 2000, and Ang Lee's Ice Storm, The 1997, I actually sat through them with higher interest, and yes, knowing the plot already, I found myself watching the nuances of plotline and acting delivered more closely. Blood and Wine, on repeat viewing, felt much juicier than I first saw it in the theater. If you like a dark film noir thriller, one that's for mature audiences (vs. lightweight fanciful intrigue as John McNaughton's Wild Things 1998 with Kevin Bacon, Matt Dillon, Neve Campbell and Denise Richards), try Blood and Wine. There's another worthwhile mature thriller, written and directed by Britain's Simon Moore, Under Suspicion 1992, with Liam Neeson (as Tony Aaron, a not so successful cop turned private eye) and Laura San Giacomo (as Angeline, the mysterious mistress of a rich dead man). It's a clever whodunit in a rather subtle way. Possibly keeps you guessing even after you left the theater or finished viewing the film. (Ha, another candidate for TORV.)TORV - copyright 2001 Ruby Liang, ruby_fff  "},{"Title":"violence without reason","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was very surprised to see that so many reviews/comments were raving about this movie. Unfortunately I am not of the same opinion. Yes, Michael Caine is worth watching. But even a man of his considerable talents can do only so much with a lousy part. If you want to see Caine play a villain, see 'Dirty Rotten Scoundrels' or 'Get Carter'. Better films, better parts. Back to 'Blood and Wine'. (I don't quite understand where that title comes from.) There's a definite lack of credibility in the script. It never gets clear why they're gonna rob precisely that house, and why they steal precisely that necklace. By the way, the robbery seems never to be discovered... People get badly hurt, seemingly unrecoverably, but five minutes later they're up and running again. I truly believe Jennifer Lopez can act, but her part in the story is vaguest of all. Everybody she betrays immediately trusts her again and still loves her. Yeah, right, just like in real life. No, sorry. Not for me. Violence without (proper) reason, does not appeal to me. At the utmost, 4 out 10. "},{"Title":"An Effective Film Noir","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It would be hard for any film to fail that had Jack Nicholson, Michael Caine, and Judy Davis in its cast, and Blood and Wine certainly succeeded. It is an effective film noir with far more than the usual complement of charismatic sociopaths and plot turns.  Their no heroes in the movie, only predators and prey.  It is great fun. "},{"Title":"Keeps you guessing what will happen next","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie keeps you guessing what happens next. The relationship between 5 main characters is perplexing;  to us and probably to the characters themselves.  The necklace is just a vehicle that triggers changes in these relationships; ending in climax that is partly tragic, partly not. "},{"Title":"The weed of crime bears bitter fruit...","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that I caught on cable that I'd never heard of when it was in mainstream theatrical release.  It proved to be a gem, a real solid effort by all involved, from the screenwriter, director, and actors.Jack Nicholson and Michael Caine give a fine performance as two-bit jewel thieves, but it's Jennifer Lopez that really blew me away as the mistress of Nicholson... this girl can flat-out act!  Few women in this era of Hollywood can light up the screen like Lopez.No, this movie isn't academy award material, and won't make anyone's top 10 or even top 20 list of all time, but it was a fun and well-done character study and is above-average fare for home video viewing.  Fans of Nicholson and Caine won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"An unheralded gem...","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Blood and Wine is a very pleasant surprise.  The reviews by J-Crew and Robert Ruplenas are dead on.  This film is well-acted, as Nicholson nicely underplays his role here.  All of the characters are complex and behave as one might expect in real life (i.e. no one is truly good or, for the most part, truly evil), the scenery is great (yes, including Jennifer Lopez), and the tried and true cliches are kept at a minimum.  There are a few issues with the heist and the ultimate confrontation between the principals, but overall this is the best work from Rafelson since Mountains of the Moon.A 7.  Highly recommended... "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****; Grade B+","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A surprisingly rich and tragic jewel heist picture, with Nicholson as an aging wine seller who dabbles in a theft that gets increasingly complicated. A beautiful, talented cast and convincing locales are matched by a witty, downbeat script. Some of the best work the five primary cast members have ever done, and certainly Rafelson's finest two hours in over a decade. "},{"Title":"Nicholson and Rafelson do it again with underrated film noir","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Except for the awful 1992 MAN TROUBLE, and the Monkees movie HEAD (which I never saw), every collaboration between Jack Nicholson and Bob Rafelson has been interesting and pretty good.  This film noir is another example of that.  This may be a familiar tale about, as the tagline says, no honor among thieves, but Rafelson and the writers make this more character driven than you'd expect, except for the nanny played by Jennifer Lopez, who seems like just a plot device.  So when events in the plot happen, they don't happen because of plot manipulation, but because that's how we believe the characters would react in that situation.Nicholson and Caine are good as men who feel trapped, Nicholson by an unhappy family life and a business going down the tubes, and Caine by his dying body.  So their viciousness (and Caine in particular acts vicious) comes from desperation more than just sadism.  Judy Davis is good in almost everything I see her, and she's good here, playing a surprisingly complex character.  I wasn't a big fan of Stephen Dorff until his turn in I SHOT ANDY WARHOL, but he continues his good work from that film with his performance here.  This is also one of the few Florida-based films that don't get off on the scenery. "}{"Title":"Intriguing and Compelling","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was gripping and held perfectly together by the actors. Jack Nicholson, Michael Caine and Stephen Dorff all put in memorable performances with Michael Caine rivalling Jack Nicholson with a mesmerising lunatic performance. It is a good movie and well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Clever Caper Flick with brilliant performances","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Possibly the best Caper Flick I've ever seen.   Michael Caine is fabulously creepy, and Nicholson does his usual turn as The Man You Love to Hate.  "},{"Title":"mind blowing performances and great film noir pacing","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This may be the best Steven Dorff performance I've seen. It blew me away,very demanding role played beautifully.And Nicholson and Caine were something else, great chemistry and top-notch acting.Judy Davis is great as always (love this actress). Jennifer Lopez must be the luckiest bad actress in the world.I mean, 2 excellent film noirs (this and U-Turn) and working with the likes of Rafelson and Stone??? The movie has great pacing and tension.Michael Caine and Steven Dorff shine here, even more than Nicholson. Loved the amorality of the movie (that's one of the reasons why I like the film noir-genre in the first place). Great scenes and atmosphere.It would be a definite 10, but Jennifer Lopez annoyed me, so...just 9/10. "},{"Title":"Very good crime thriller","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  According to many reviews here, this is nothing special.  But I thought the performances made the movie, and I would recommend this as highly as I do Rafelson's Black Widow.  Nicholson and Caine are a great villainous duo, Dorff is too old for his part but does not do a bad job, and no one has mentioned Lopez's dead on Cuban accent.  I give this an 8. "},{"Title":"Dead-on riveting entertainment!","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, granted, this is no Thomas Crown affair (thank the lord muchly for that blessing) & it ain't for delicate sensibilities,  but it sure is dynamite entertainment. It doesn't come much better. Sure, it's crass & classless & about greed & deception & lust. So's the Bible (the first part, anyway). Get Shorty was a candy bar compared to this flick. But watching Nicholson, Caine & Davis together has to be (if you enjoy good acting) one of the pinnacles of film-viewing, particularly the repartees between the two male leads. Near-Shakespearean. Rafelson sure makes this movie trip right along, always the sign in my book of a first class movie. And more than anything, what a pleasure to see Nicholson & Rafelson together again. 5 Easy Pieces & King of Marvin Gardens have to be two of the most brilliant films ever made.  "}]