[{"Title":"The Damned House","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bill Martin (Robin Thomas) builds a house to raise a new family of his own with his teenage son Todd (Allen Cutler), his daughter Jessica Jessie Martin (Rachel Duncan), and Claire Martin (Starr Adreeff) and her nerd son Jimmy (Jarrett Lennon), an outcast boy that misses his father (Clayton Murray) and has the mouse Max as his only friend. Todd has a girlfriend, Dana (Lisa Robin Kelly), who is frequently with him.Bill finds a doll house in the garage that is a replica of the infamous Amityville haunted house and he gives it to Jessie on her birthday. Soon the family experiences evil accidents and Bill's sister Marla (Lenore Kasdorf) and her husband Tobias (Franc Ross) discover that the doll house is possessed by demons that are threatening their lives.Amityville Dollhouse is another story of the franchise Amityville with a reasonable plot and terrible conclusion. I saw this movie for the first time on 15 Dec 1999 on VHS and today I have just seen it again. It is unacceptable that Tobias sacrifices his life to save the Martin family and Bill and Claire end the movie laughing, after losing their friend and all possessions in the fire. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) A Casa Maldita (The Damned House) "},{"Title":"The second best sequel of the series. (they saved one of the best for last)","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This family have just moved into a normal house, this family has a Mother named Claire who as one son called Jimmy , Claire is Married to Bill who has a daughter Jessica and she as a older brother Todd but Jimmy (who is very annoying) dose not seem to like his step family, however the other do like his step-mum.When Bill goes to the shed, he finds the doll house, that is the Amityville House.Soom strange thinks start to happen in the house, the haunted doll house break the daughter bike, that they were going to give her for her Birthday , so they end up giving the doll house instead but she soon finds out that the doll house is evil.Jimmy is also affected by the evil force, as they got his dad back from the dead to see him, at first his happy to see his dead dad, that look like a Zombie but soon starts to get scared of him as he think he dead dad is going kill his step dad.My favourite scene is this movie as to be, when Jimmy Mouse goes to Jessica room and enter the doll house. As the mouse goes in the doll house, goes under the bed in in the doll house, that when Jessica bed starts shake and she see an enormous white mouse appears under her bed.I really liked that scenes it was really well made, I enjoyed that scene and the whole movie, it was very entertaining from start to the end and it was not boring or predictable like previous movies at all.I liked the way the the movie ended and the acting was great in this movie.I am going to give this movie 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not A Great Sequel, But Not Too Bad Either","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Needing a present for his daughter's birthday, a father finds an old dusty doll house and decides to clean it up to make it presentable. What he doesn't realize, this doll house isn't for innocent little playthings, this house holds evil spirits inside! Unknowingly, the little girl releases the evil inside and the spirits are free to wreck havoc.A pretty good sequel that contains some good, eerie and creepy moments throughout. Out of all the sequels the original 'Amityville Horror' has spawned, this is one of the better ones. This is an entertaining film with a good concept. So sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"OK if unnecessary sequel","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" I know I wrote a review of this some time back, but it appears to have disappeared. So here we go again. This final sequel, shot for cable or video, follows at least two other STV sequels to the original. One involved a haunted clock or lamp, the other a haunted mirror. This one involves a haunted dollhouse, with some truly creepy inhabitants. Very little gore or scares, and only one death, but still fun to watch if you're in the mood. My favorite part has the reasonably sexy stepmom, a Terry Farrell lookalike, coming onto her hunky stepson. There's also a pretty decent-looking demon near the end. But overall bad acting and a boring middle almost does this in. Stick with it for the fireplace sequence. You'll know it when you see it. "},{"Title":"Just because it's cheap, doesn't mean it's not entertaining.","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A perfect late-night sci-fi channel movie, and far more entertaining (for me) than the original Amityville.The way the dollhouse creates different demons for each character, and the cheap but effective sfx, reminded me very much of the Creepshow or Graveyard Shift movies.  Also, the 'fright' scenes skip along at a respectable pace and frequency, as opposed to other films which often plod through the middle.Sure, the script contains some appalling lines and characterisation, and there are a few moments where more highly strung viewers would be screaming at the stupidity of the characters.  I just smile.With 15-20 years of further advances in sfx, and the cultural tendency of under 30's to confuse sarcasm with valid criticism, I can see why this film has such a low score on the IMDB.  Individually, the elements don't stand up to a whole lot of scrutiny, but taken as a whole on its own merits (compared to similar films of the same period), I really enjoyed it.  A few better lines, and better known actors, and there's no reason why people wouldn't look on this with the same sort of affection reserved for Poltergeist.Don't miss if it's on TV. "},{"Title":"It's the welcome mat to hell.","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" My interest was starting to fade with the Amityville franchise, especially after Curse'&#x85; but I wanted to see all the films and Dollhouse is probably the best sequel since The Evil Escapes. Somewhat minor in that regards, but still better. Again it's another cheaply produced TV movie, but this time the cursed object happens to be a replica dollhouse of the Amityville house. Odd choice, but it did create certain creepiness. It affects the household in the usual manner, especially possessing the family and turning them against each other while feeding on the fear and anger it creates. Nothing really surprises here, as again it's a mixture of the previous films with its own slant. However it moves by fast enough, entertains with its twisted shocks, an eerie score effortlessly fits in and the characters for most part are fairly agreeable. Some of the make-up FX (that of our demonic guests) and special effects are well done, especially when the dollhouse becomes the gateway to hell. It gets crazy, but fairly entertaining. The cast give dependable turns with the likes of Robin Thomas, Rachel Duncan and Starr Andreeff. Neat, cosy horror that amuses despite its lack of new tricks. "},{"Title":"Okay, time to put the series to rest","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Bill Martin (Robin Thomas) and his new wife Claire (Starr Andreeff) move into the new house he built in the California mountains. In a shed outback he finds a cute little dollhouse designed just like the famous Amityville, NY abode. How this got here or who built it is never explained. This is no Barbie Dream House though as this dollhouse crushes Bill's gift bike for his daughter's birthday and the parents resort to the this should make a great gift routine. The eighth and final Amityville flick before they did the remake. After part 3, the producers felt they could circumvent the whole Amityville house thing by having various possessed items from the house be the gateway to terror. So we had a lamp (AMITYVILLE THE EVIL ESCAPES), a confessional (THE AMITYVILLE CURSE), a clock (AMITYVILLE IT'S ABOUT TIME) and a mirror (AMITYVILLE A NEW GENERATION). So I guess a dollhouse isn't that ridiculous. This is actually a two-for-one deal as we get a possessed recycled fireplace too (there is general confusion as the house was built on foundation of an old house that blew up to suggest it was the Amityville house, but this is clearly set in California). I'm just glad they stopped with this one or we would have ended up with the likes of possessed toaster in AMITYVILLE YOU'RE TOAST. Or an evil stove in AMITYVILLE YOUR BLOOD BOILS. One thing this sequel does that is surprising is bring back the taboo sex angle from part 2, along they play it a bit safer with the stepmom lusting for the stepson. Other than that, it is pretty routine stuff with the occasional cool effect here and there (like the progressively rotting dad who haunts his young son a la John Landis' werewolf classic). "},{"Title":"Not That Bad, But Nothing Special.","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville Dollhouse is your average low budget B-horror movie, but it isn't too bad in my opinion. It follows a suburban family who moves into a new house the father built, so it seems that there's no way the house could be haunted. But the Amityville evil finds it's way in there, after they discover a dollhouse replicating the Amityville house. They decide to give the dollhouse to their youngest daughter for her birthday, and that's where it all begins. The dollhouse begins to exert an evil force upon the family. I tend to have a soft spot for low budget, cheesy type horror films of this type. Even though they may not be top notch quality, I find most of them entertaining, and they still manage to be alright in my book. Most of the cast here are unknowns, I only recognized one actress Lisa Robin Kelly, who plays Eric's sister, Laurie Forman, on That '70s Show (my favorite television show by the way). The whole dollhouse idea is kind of dumb, I don't know what a dollhouse really has to do with Amityville, but in the context of the movie it seems to work. There aren't really any scary moments, and when it tries to be scary, it comes off more as campy, but I don't really take this film so seriously.Granted it is a campy, low-budget horror flick, but Amityville Dollhouse still finds a way to entertain you, despite the cheap effects and minimal scares that it provides. Some may think I'm crazy, but I was entertained by this flick. It's nothing special and I wouldn't go too far out of your way to see it, but it's an okay corny horror movie. Like I said, nothing special, but not too bad. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Good Golly Will This Series Ever End","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Well, if you're like Miss Otis here, there is nothing that you like better than sitting down with a big ole bowl of popcorn and making fun of bad horror movies. For those of you that enjoy MST3K_ing (no that isn't a word) movies, this one is a real treat.  There's bad acting, a convoluted plot, and even a darling scene where a small boy runs to embrace his long dead, badly decomposed daddy - isn't that just precious?!  You CAN have a lot of fun with this movie - if you approach it with the right attitude.  "},{"Title":"Competently Made Eighth Film in The Amityville Series","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A family discovers a replica of the notorious house at 112 Ocean Avenue while searching through their garage. They give it to the young daughter unaware that the dollhouse is possessed and contains voodoo dolls representing every member of the endangered family. Steve White (who produced The Evil Escapes, It's About Time and A New Generation) takes over the directors' chair for the 8th Amityville film and delivers another surprisingly watchable entry. As direct to video horror sequels go; Amityville Dollhouse isn't bad. Followed by a series reboot in 2005 and a couple of loosely affiliated movies from Asylum The Amityville Haunting and Amityville Asylum. "}{"Title":"Another unnecessary, but watchable sequel","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Evil can be found in the most unlikely of places. Normally in movies it's found in a house or a person. Other times it's animals or dolls that have somehow gone bad. Inanimate objects coming to life to kill is a pretty scary idea. It's been done effectively, but often times it's a missed opportunity. 'Amityville' parts 4, 6 and 7 all dealt with objects from the cursed dwelling terrorizing new victims. This eighth chapter continues this tradition and isn't too bad.Pros Decent acting. Suspenseful. Effective score. Nice job on the make-up and special effects. Some neat ideas. Never dull. Feeling of doom hangs over the film.Cons Not much plot. Nothing we haven't already seen. Pace drags a bit. Lacking scares.Final thoughts The original 'Amityville Horror' was a success in it's time. However, I don't think anyone imagined there be so many sequels. Though not one of the best, 'Amityville Dollhouse' is a lot better than it should be. Would really do the trick on a rainy afternoon or evening.My rating 3/5 "},{"Title":"Average Entry Rounds Out The 'Original' Series","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The Amityville Horror in the real world, it's about a young man brutally murdering his family one night on a drug-fuelled rampage. In the world of film and fantasy, it's about demons in the cellar, possession, evil lamps, sinister clocks and unnecessary 3D. The film franchise has had a long life and some of the installments have been - and let's be kind here - god-awful. 'Dollhouse' was the very final installment before someone turned back the clock with the 2005 reboot, and having watched every single Amityville thus far made, I can honestly say it's not the worst. No, for that, we have to go back to 1992 for the pain and misery that is 'The Amityville Possession'. Many of the sequels would spin a yarn from an artifact removed from the Long Island house that would then raise hell in a new setting. In 'Dollhouse', the house itself is an artifact in miniature. When the Martins, a dysfunctional Brady-style family (two single parents and their kids coming together as one unit) move into their new home, conflicts are down-to-earth and domestic until Martin Snr finds an old dollhouse in the shed that just happens to be the spitting image of the infamous residence in Long Island. As soon as the replica is brought into the house, things begin to go pear-shaped. Household appliances take on a life of their own, people start having bad dreams, and Jimmy, the youngest son, begins to see the rotting animated corpse of his dead birth father. Will everyone realise the cause of the disturbances in time, or will they all succumb to the evil designs of the dollhouse?Amityville VIII, unlike its predecessors, makes no attempt to tie its plot in with the source material. No references are made to the DeFeo murders, demonic possession, or even the house itself. The only connection is the obvious visual link with the Dutch-colonial dollhouse, whose origins are never explored. It's as if the producers are saying 'Look, it's straight-to-video, you know the story, no-one will be watching who doesn't.' However, putting aside the very obvious question regarding where the dollhouse came from and what connection - if any - it has to the actual Amityville house, the story follows the familiar structure of its predecessors characters possessed by demonic forces, unexplainable local phenomena and even killer insects. Also present is that same sense of deja vu, wherein you once again know you're watching a generic horror film with the word 'Amityville' stamped on it. To expect a lot at this stage however, after even the recycled ideas have been recycled, would be asking too much. This latest retreading still manages to be entertaining and not without its moments, and the actors present give convincing enough performances with the material handed to them. Compared with other entries in the series,the horror elements here are lower in tone, and the death scenes few and far between. There are a few dodgy monster moments, which while tied into the plot, aren't realised with the kind of budget that would do them justice, and the prosthetics only just about work. Overall however, the story follows its own internal logic well enough not to cause irritation and so long as you don't try to integrate it into the Amityville universe, it's an entertaining enough 90 minutes.I have to say that watching every Amityville in the series has been torturously painful at times, sometimes making me wonder why I'm a sucker for B-grade horror. However, there have been some notable entries as well, with 1992's 'It's About Time' probably the most imaginative. 'Dollhouse' is a less ambitious rehashing of the formula, but it stands above the real clankers, enough to not leave a bitter aftertaste. "},{"Title":"Stupid ideas (like linking the scares to the Amitville house) sink what might have been an okay horror film","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Mini version of the Amityville house that behaves like the one of legend causes trouble for a newly minted family (newly married couple with pre-existing kids)that moves into a new house where the doll house resides.Really stupid premise sinks what might have been an okay extremely by the numbers haunted house story. Come one a haunted doll house from Amityville? Oh please. Whats worse what it causes to happen is so incredibly stupid as to be laughable. I made it not much past when the scares started as the film just slid right into the toilet. One of the dumbest horror films I've run across. "},{"Title":"Great conclusion to the original series","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville VIII Dollhouse is a better entry than it should be with a few problems.**SPOILERS**Moving into a new house, blended-family Bill Martin, (Robin Thomas) his wife Claire, (Starr Andreeff) and their children Jessica, (Rachel Duncan) Todd, (Allen Cutler) and Jimmy, (Jarrett Lennon) find their familiar differences start immediately when they arrive. Cleaning up around the property, they find a large doll-house tucked away in a gardening shed and decide to fix it up as a special gift. After giving it, they soon start to experience a weird series of events and freak accidents that appear to be accidents but are soon convinced something is wrong. Learning that the doll-house given as a gift resembles a mysterious house from Amityville, New York that housed a Satanist before being engulfed by a fire, and when Uncle Tobias, (Franc Ross) and Aunt Marla, (Lenore Kasdorf) inform them that there was several bits of wood from the house used to build the doll-house, and it's causing the manifestations. With the visions getting worse, they try to stop it before it takes on further stress for the family.The Good News This one has some really nice moments to it that make it really exciting. The main thing this gets right is that there's a return to the house's look, as the doll-house is the original to a tee. The looming windows that set off a pair of eyes, the distinct chimney, and there's some good parts that come along from the house's appearance. The look is still there, and even there it isn't the centerpiece of the film, it still has enough to get the point and fear across. The film also works well with it's cheese, and there's some great amounts of it in here. The ending half of the film, where the full powers of the house are unleashed and monsters, demonic spirits and more are unleashed, ushering a large, grand series where big spectacle, special effects style scenes make this one really fun and entertaining. The monsters are fun and inspired, the action is good and it's all done with a great sense of fun. The film also manages to spread it through the rest of the film, mainly in the form of a complete gaggle of shock cuts that come along, making it feel like a rather traditional entry of a horror film. It has even more fun in here with a deliciously sleazy subplot where the mother starts having sexual desires after being around the step-son, and in one fantastic scene begins to rip her clothes off and pleasure herself after an encounter, and when interrupted by her husband, switches over and initiates a more intimate encounter to cover her tracks. It's a great scene, and is certainly helped by a sex scene earlier that helps along the sleazy action. There's also a lot of fun to be had from just how it exploits that much fun, and the cheesiness here is something that is just overwhelming and makes it so entertaining. These here all make the film entertaining.The Bad News This one doesn't have a whole lot of flaws, but there are a few. The sheer ridiculousness of it all manages to be the biggest one here, since it manages to, at once, point out the idiocy of the premise and how it turns it into something that really should've been gone over a little more carefully. Building a house on the site of an accident that tore the first one down is bad enough, then to find a small shack that has survived is merely conspicuous, and then to ignore what's a few inches away that will clearly lead to a bad idea is something that is just confusing. It has a real lack of interest from it's plot because of this difference from the plausibility from the story, and it's too ridiculous, and combined with the cheese, makes it feel like there's a problem to overcome due to the cheese it has. There's also a flaw in here with the story about the dead father. Frankly, it's way too unrealistic to think that a nine-year old kid wouldn't be afraid of a decomposing, rotting corpse shambling into his room in the dead of night, even though it's a familiar sight to them. The request is unnatural, and the acceptance of it from the start is unreasonable. These here are the film's few flaws.The Final Verdict A little cheesy, but still fun entry in the series that has some fun to it but has a couple of flaws to keep it down. Give it a shot if you've come this far in the series or are in the mood for a simple, harmless film that provides some fun, but if you haven't got much interest in the series give this one a pass.Rated R Graphic Violence, Language, Nudity and a sex scene "},{"Title":"It´s poor but interesting","Date":"14 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  A poor film with a bad history that destroy original Amytiville history. The History has a inconsistent argument and the last part of the film is very stupid and incredible. What on earth does that strange figures mean? Please the devil is powerful and it need a best consideration of the director. In fact,a terrific film.  "},{"Title":"It's really not as bad as it sounds.","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The title is terrible, but the movie itself is not.  It is actually a fairly fun little romp.  The special effects aren't as bad as in the other Amityville sequels.  The acting is bearable if not award winning material. Give it a chance.  Watch it in the spirit in which it was intended.  It is a brief diversion from the real world.   "},{"Title":"Too bad we can't stay, baby.","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Eddie Murphy gave the best indictment of the Amityville series' believability when, imitating the new owner of the house, he said, Oh baby, this place is beautiful.  There are trees here and dogs and its a beautiful neighborhood and...Demon  Get out!Too bad we can't stay baby.Again, in this movie, all of the family's problems would be solved if they did one simple thing.  Leave!!!  Just leave the house.  That's always been my policy when my dead relatives come through the closet and giant mice run under my bed.  It's time to go!  Why does it take these people so long to figure that out? Even if they don't want to leave the house, why don't they just destroy the doll house?  One sledge hammer blow and all their problems are over. This is a movie that is so bad that you will call friends to tell them it's on just so they can be in on the badness.  The real horror is that they keep making dreck like this, keep employing no-talent actors and writers, and waste valuable plastic that could go into useful items like dildos and replacement parts for George W. Bush's head. "},{"Title":"WHAT Flies?????!!!!  Huh???!!!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  There isn't a single fly in this movie, which is spoofy, sometimes funny, oftentimes pretty scary, and loaded with some unique special effects (Dead Dad, the walk-through fireplace, the tarantula).  I liked the natural acting afforded by the younger son, performed by Jarrett Lennon, notorious for underplaying his roles (thank goodness!), and his fear (but natural devotion) of his dead father, and his reluctant drive to do what he's told, made for some emotional moments.  If you like FUN horror, see Dollhouse. "},{"Title":"Great movie, but enough!","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  The Amityville movies are getting a tad bit annoying, but this was pretty good.  It made me jump a few times, so I guess it's not that bad.  If you want an average horror movie, choose this one. "},{"Title":"Just an Average flic","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is just another extension of the over-used Amityville story. The film has a plot interesting enough just to keep your attention through the whole movie.  It is basically the same idea as the other movies  A family moves in, the house becomes cursed, they find out what is going on, and baMMM they escape.  Anywayz, if you are a fan of the Amityville movies and have not seen this movie yet, I definitely recommend you give it a chance.  "}{"Title":"B-movie cheese packed with horror clichés","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well if you're expecting originality from the eighth Amityville film in the series then you have too much faith in B-movies. This is of the standard haunted house drivel that has filled the late-night television screens of the '90s, although as a plus this ISN'T a television movie for once so we do get some more adult material not to be found in that watered-down format. There are a few things to recommend this film to genre fans, but don't expect too much as it simply rehashes all the tired old clichés that were done in previous haunted house movies. I'm reaching here.Supernatural phenomena includes a pet mouse that turns into a giant mutant rat creature (only seen from under a bed, though, perhaps thankfully), chocolate sauce oozing down a staircase, a very nasty giant fly that returns from the dead and flies down someone's ear (not for the squeamish), a man getting nails driven through his feet (none gory but still shocking), a girl getting her head burnt by a possessed fireplace (!), a voodoo doll that comes to life and wreaks chaos, and the chief villain as a steadily decaying grinning zombie who brings to mind the one in HOUSE, for some reason. Although he's a weak and silly villain, his makeup job is fantastic.For some reason the events are now centred around a possessed dollhouse, so how's that for the weakest link?! It doesn't make much difference in the course of things. There are various bits of stupidity (music deafens one character but he doesn't realise all he has to do is take his headphones off) as you would expect from a mainstream movie like this. Hey, at least it's filmed well with none of this annoying pseudo-stylish camera-work that has been marring films as of late.The cast is a mixed bunch. We're stuck with a deadhead boring male lead (Robin Thomas) and an obnoxious teenage son who turns out to be not so bad after all. The intelligent daughter is an obvious descendant of Heather O'Rourke's character from POLTERGEIST while another timid child is just irritating. One of the highlights of the film for me was Starr Andreeff's performance as the step-mother, Claire; I found this actress to be absolutely GORGEOUS and the film doesn't disappoint on that front, as it were. Andreeff has also appeared in other horrors, mainly vampire films such as CLUB VAMPIRE which I'll be sure to check out.Things get predictably over the top at the end, with a spiritual friend turning up to help out and a zombie going on a rampage in the house which is now full of red lights for some reason. Characters jump through fireplaces with scant regard for audience comprehension. Add to this cheesy dialogue such as this is a place of evil and you have the formula for a fun, but dumb, movie. Oh yeah and I forgot to mention the slimy full-size demons who turn up at the end to provide some menace before getting dispatched as the whole building explodes (again) in one of the most drawn-out destruction scenes ever filmed. We've all seen this sort of thing before but it's a time-wasting rehash. "},{"Title":"Why so many of these DTV sequels got made is beyond me. Thank god this was the last one&#x85;","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" (Plot) A children's doll house is eerily reminiscent of the house in most of the Amityville movies. A girl winds up with the miniature house and somehow evil commences. I cannot begin to comprehend how so many of these blasted films got made. I didn't even care for the original movie that much. It was dull and overlong, so who in there right mind thought we deserved all this needless suffering?! This one has some unintentional laughs. Jimmy's (Clayton Murray) dead Father is conjured up by the demon. Not only is the makeup absolutely laughable, but I couldn't understand something. How did it take the kid so long to realize his Father wasn't who he said he was? I get that kids are gullible, but that was a bit much for me. The Martin family isn't all that likable in all honesty, and I didn't feel any suspense, just 90 minutes or so of god awful movie making, and boredom. Final Thoughts There are two horror series which committed unspeakable sins&#x85; Amityville Horror & Children of The Corn; what did they both have in common? An endless string of terrible DTV sequels and this is one of those sequels. Leave it alone where it belongs1/10 "},{"Title":"Still going","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" The 'Amityville' series grinds on with this witless entry in which a family discover an old dollhouse in the garage of their new home, leading to the usual spooky problems and the usual lack of engagement.Aside from a couple of promising bits and pieces (the stepmom's crush; the doll coming to life) the familiar story flops in some amazingly predictable directions (like the kid who wishes he could see his dead father, you know the rest) while the obligatory witchcraft experts are on hand to explain everything to the characters and the audience. We're also treated to such ripe dialogue as, 'If it's a portal... it's the welcome mat to Hell' and my personal favourite, 'Tamazarak... samahak... athofamalos, you bastards!!'. Cack. "},{"Title":"Passable--nothing more.","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Minor spoilers! A dollhouse that is a replica of the infamous Amityville haunted house is given to a little girl. Soon after, all sorts of horrible unexplained accidents start to happen. The family must work together to fight off the terrifying evil that has inhabited their lives. It's not the worst in the series, certainly not the best. For a part 6 or 7 in a dying series, I suppose it could have been much, much worse. There's a little gore, not really enough, a couple of cool parts but it's loaded with more clichés then a Hallmark family film (The kid who hates his mom's new husband, the teenage brother who refuses to listen to his father, need I go on?). A couple of characters were likable, my favorite was Tobias (Franc Ross, he also happened to be the only character that died in the whole film!). Once we see the demons at the end they aren't bad (I like the big red guy with leathery wings and sharp teeth, he was cool&#133;oooh&#133;) but they show up to late and we see to little of them. The ever-decomposing 'Dead dad' was nice and icky, I always looked forward to seeing how bad he looked next time he appeared. It's an adequate time-waster, but only that. Recommended ONLY to those whose goal is to see every horror film ever made!4/10. "},{"Title":"... With My Short Review On ALL Amityville Movies !!","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville Dollhouse is Part 8 in the Amityville Saga and I saw them all last week. So let's look back at all of them..The Amityville Horror (1979) Still a classic like The Shining and Poltergeist. A scary story based on true events with solid performances by James Brolin, Margot Kidder and Rod Steiger. After 30 years, it's still a strong movie and not outdated at all.Amityville II The Possession (1982) A Very good sequel, not as strong as the original because it has it's flaws. The last 20 minutes is a bit too much a rip-off of The Exorcist. But once again, scary with a good cast (Burt Young from the Rocky films) and it was daring to put the incest element in the plot, but it works very well to it's advantage.Amityville 3D The Demon (1983)  After the success of the second one, quickly produced again by Dino DeLaurentius. The first weak entry in the series, not scary with a weak ending and poor effects.Amityville Horror The Evil Escapes (1989)  One of the worst, with a stupid plot an ugly lamp from the original house (that was blown up at the end of Part 3, so what the hell ?) holds the demon that terrorizes a new family. Made-For-TV movie that comes off very cheap.The Amityville Curse (1990)  Another bad TV-movie, many reviews say this is the worst but at least there is some horror at the end. It's not PG-13 stuff like the previous two and it has Kim Coates. But he can't save the dull story that goes absolutely nowhere.Amityville 1992 It's About Time (1992)  The best of all sequels besides the second part. This time, directed by Tony Randell (Hellbound Hellraiser II, Ticks). With once again a decent score (Daniel Licht) and an entertaining story. This was actually based on the same novel as the fourth one (Amityville The Evil Escapes) but it's way better !! Amityville A New Generation (1993)  A good cast but overall not a very convincing story. David Naughton (An American Werewolf In London), Terry O'Quinn (The Stepfather, TV's Lost) and Julia Nickson (Rambo First Blood Part II) Nice to see them again. But that's the only good thing, this is certainly not one of the worst sequels, but that does not mean it's a really good genre movie.Amityville Dollhouse (1996)  The eight movie with once again something from the original house. Not a lamp, not a clock but this time a dollhouse which is in fact the model of the original house from Part 1. Hardly original, the girl looks a lot like the one from Poltergeist (just look at the poster, not badly done..) and the demons at the end do remind you of the ending of Hellraiser. But this time they're not scary at all. Those special make-up effects are not convincing. But there is one good thing the make-up effects used for the zombie soldier are very well done. But once again, not original because they stole that from House (1986). Not scary, not convincing, unfortunately another weak entry in the series.Luckily, the stopped making sequels after that one. In 2005 the remake of the original one was released with Ryan Reynolds and Melissa George. I have to say that it's certainly not as good as the original, but looking at the sequels, it's the best Amityville since part 2. "},{"Title":"Final... A more Modern-Day Amityville   -And the Final!","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This one, (the last one), really has it's quirks- seriously.This film consists of all of the right ingredients of a modern horror flick Sex, lies, drama, horror, fantasy, suspense, terror, and lots of fire all together in bits, thrown together to make an INREDIBLE come-back for the Amityville series.A doll-house takes the role of the terror this time, and ultimately leads to the final confrontation, and the final ending of the Amityville saga.The series has lived long, and has gone out with a big BANG as a wonderful 90's flick.This is a good one, folks. Make no mistake. "},{"Title":"Hopefully the last of the sequels.","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville Dollhouse (1996) is a bad movie. Not as lame as the last five sequels but it's still bad. An annoying family moves into a house that Pop's built with his own hands. Pop has married a new mom with a rat boy for a step-son. Mom has to cope with a new step-son (who's one lame dude) and daughter (who's stuck in a house full of zombies). One day whilst snooping around the old dump, Pop's opens up the old shed and finds a dusty and dirty dollhouse with the carbies living inside (the carbies are some doughie men from a stupid pizza advert). The little girl's birthday is coming and he accidentally runs over her present. So what does Pop's do? Cleans up that funky dollhouse and gives it to her. Pop's can't for the life of him wonders why the house looks so familiar. Bad move! The house comes to life and scares the girl, gives Mom the hot's for her stepson, drives Pop's goofy, torments rat boy and give's the Step-son's chirpy girlfriend a home permanent. It's up to Pop's brother in-law and loopy sister to find and end to the madness. And to add to the fun a couple of Dungeons and Dragons rejects show up at the last minute!There, now you don't have to watch this bad movie like I did. But if you must, try catching it on T.V. There's nothing here that would give it an R-rating from what I saw. Remember, curiosity killed the cat and ruined another's love for movies.xxx "},{"Title":"I hope this is the end to amityville","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  mindless hollywood please stop. amityville has been so burned out its disgusting. and to think a hoax started it all more than 20 yrs prior.a mirror ,a dollhouse ,,whats next the amityville hair dryer ,a mysterious hair dryer holds the key to the demon ,,a young woman is possessed everytime she dries her hair and the demon doesnt like split ends ...   this movie is total trash as is the whole amityville fiasco. "},{"Title":"Dumb script, banal dialogue, cheap special effects!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  What kind of guy is going to build his new home on the old Amityville plot and then put a dollhouse of the original building in his young daughter's bedroom? Well dumb father Robin Thomas does. He obviously hasn't seen the previous films in this awful horror series (this is installment number 8).As the demons take over the house, the family gradually start to go crazy. Stepmom Claire goes mad with lust for her husband's sexy muscular son, Todd, and drives herself insane; nerdy kid Jimmy loses his pet mouse in the dollhouse and it mutates into a giant freak under his sister's bed (though the special effects budget only stretches to a big rubber tail poking out); a zombie axeman stalks the house and the family car comes to life, but amazingly nobody seems that upset by it all. When the forces of evil actually manifest themselves, they look like cast-offs from the Muppet Show! No scares to be found here, just a few unintentional laughs and a bit of sex. This movie is a real STINKER! "},{"Title":"For God's Sake - NO MORE!","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Don't you think that we have had enough with this terrible series and now the eighth film has found its way to video stores everywhere. It's just another terrible addition. You would think that they should have made the first film better (even if it's not true) and made very few sequels related to the genre family living in haunted house and not bother with dumb unrelated sequels of possessed lamps, mirrors, clocks, dollhouses or another haunted house in the Amityville burg. Now there's supposedly another Amityville film in the works - making that nine later on. Amityville Dollhouse is a dull, lifeless direct-to-video effort that is incredibly lame, and incredibly corny. The dollhouse isn't even that scary compared to the real thing, why can't we have a movie that lives up to its title AMITYVILLE, not just more exploitative trash. "}{"Title":"REALLY STUPID","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the most stupid horror movie I've seen in my entire life. First of all, What does one little killer fly have to do with a Dollhouse? Joshua Michael Stern the writer of this movie should stay with one subject the darn Dollhouse. The movie is called Amityville Dollhouse not Amityville Flys. This movie is so dumb.  "},{"Title":"A Cheezy But Fun Horror Flick.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Amityville Dollhouse (1997)The Amityville Dollhouse was an hour and a half of cheeze, horror, gore, terror, etc. The movie had some boring parts, but was for the most part quick moving and entertaining. The whole dollhouse idea was sort a stupid, but hey it works. I recommend this if you haven't seen any of the other Amityville films. 6/10. "},{"Title":"The worst Amityville movie!!!!!!!!!","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Probably the worst of all the Amityville films to date. A Family moves into the Amityville house (Funny thing about that...... It is in the middle of the Mojave Desert, instead of New York, were all the other Amityville films took place!!!!!!) and are attacked by a Zombie Dad, Demons, Spiders, and a giant Rodent-like monster. Some good special effects, but every thing else about this movie is terrible. 1 Star out of 5. "},{"Title":"What a waste of film.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie was real bad.  Can't anyone come up with an original idea instead of spoon feeding us the same old crap with a different title?  Don't waste your time on this one. There are much better things to do in two hours than watch this flick. "},{"Title":"Funny, Funny! One Kid Shines!","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Funny (slly) movie, and definitely not to be taken at all seriously, that's for sure.  This is an all-out SPOOF, that's all, so watch it tongue-in-cheek, and laugh as much as you wish.  The special effects were surprisingly good, most of the time.  The walk-through fireplace, the burning up of the house...... pretty darn good, actually.  What knocked me out, of all things, was the son, Jimmy Martin (outstandingly portrayed by young actor JARRETT LENNON), who came across so naturally, so charmingly, so intelligently, so humorously, so nicely.  He stood out, because he seemed REAL, instead of being just another actor playing a part.  Where IS he these days?! "},{"Title":"Amityville Dollhouse","Date":"2 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville Dollhouse is the 8th installment in this long drawn out series. This one is actually pretty decent. It's about a man who finds a dollhouse which looks exactly like the Amityville house. As soon as he gives the dollhouse to his daughter for her birthday, strange things start to happen. The fireplace turns on and off, windows open and close by themselves, a gigantic mouse hides under a bed, and the man's wife gets the hots for her teenage stepson. Classic signs in Amityville sequels that something just isn't right.What irritates me is that the young girl and her aunt realize there is something evil about the dollhouse, but do not destroy it right away. Instead, they think it's best if the little girl writes down all of the strange things that happen with regards to the dollhouse. There are some cool scares and sequences in the movie. The gigantic mouse scene is well done, the bug in the ear is cringe worthy, and the younger son's deceased father coming back from the dead is pretty creepy.Overall, this is one of the better Amityville sequels. The story goes on at a good pace and is never dull or tedious. The only downfall like many other of the Amityville sequels is that it has almost nothing to do with Amityville - other than the replica dollhouse. It's hard to get on DVD, but if you can, check this one out.6/10 "},{"Title":"Not that bad, but not that good either.","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Okay, first of all the movie really doesn't have anything to do with Amityville, just that the doll house resembles the house in Amyityville, they mostly just added it to the series to make money. Anyway, the movie is about a family that pretty much hates each other that moves into this house that was built on top of an old house that burned down, and soon strange things start happening. The acting is okay, the plot was kind of dumb, and the sexuality in this film was a bit gratuitous. However, all and all the movie was okay, certainly not the best in the series, but okay.Rated R for Violence, Sex, Nudity, and Profanity.Grade D "},{"Title":"Nothing Spectacular, But a Good Watch Nonetheless","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" It was a good premise, having a doll house replica of the original Amityville House, and the film has it's moments, but it is not the sort of film which will leave you amazed. The cast are all decent, particularly Starr Andreff and hottie Allen Cutler. There are not really any decent scares in it, but some eerie cinematography and fairly-good special effects. It was a nice idea having a family made up of two broken families, as it enabled some good themes to be touched upon like the adjustment of the new siblings to each other, the parents having to side with their blood children against their new children or their new husband/wife and so on. No need to go out of your way to watch this movie, but if you come across it, then watch it, as it is an okay film. "},{"Title":"3 stars","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" That would be 3 stars out of 10. The movie had potential, or so I thought. I have to admit it did start out pretty good and did have a few scary moments - where I wondered if I should be watching it late at night alone. But, by the end, I could've slept alone in an actual haunted house. The concept was good, had you wondering what could happen. But when the decomposing guy entered the picture, I knew it could only get worse. The little girl seemed to be scared around the doll house, but didn't seem to have a problem catching some zzzzzs. And the aunt & uncle - were they an afterthought when someone couldn't figure out how to bring the whole thing together? Oh, and who jumps into a fireplace on a whim? It was good for a few jumps, but I would stick to watching originals. For a true (original) story, I've never seen so many sequels. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  I do like this film, and i do own it. It is interesting and different to most horror films i see and that is why i enjoyed it. It does have potential. The acting is really good, in my opinion, other people say that it was not believable. Some bits in the film spoiled it, especially the bit with the enormous mouse under the young girls bed that was just stupid, otherwise it was a really entertaining horror film with a fair amount of humour as well.I have seen that it has got some really bad reviews, and some points i agree with as in they should stop making these films because its leading away from the actual point, they have done so many of these films and i don't know how many of them there are i have four of them but i know there are plenty more out there. They should give it up now or they will lose a lot of money!The actual story is about a family that move into a house that there dad Bill built with his bare hands, it was made on the ruins of the original Amityville house after it had been burnt down. The fireplace that had survived the fire was kept in the knew house, what they didn't no was it was the portal to hell. The young girl was given a doll house for her birthday, she puts it in her room and strange things start to happen! it is a enjoyable film it deserves more credit than it gets just give it a chance! *** out of *****  "}{"Title":"this movie rocked","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  i have seen some great movies in my time but the dollhouse is my all time favorite. bill buys a house and moves in with his wife and kids and also a very ugly stepchild. after moving in, bill( a great actor) starts to have strange things happen. then there is tobias( riding up on his bad honda) who grabs a bumble bee and tells bill you have wasps. smirking all the way because he is a known demon killer. the family cure for aches and pains and also a mumified wasp that goes into a young man's ear is  pour the whiskey in his ear, now thats class. bill also gets blamed by clair that he hit his ugly stepchild and in one of the best performances in the movie is escorted to the door by clair. bill puts up a fight to stay, but just turns around before the cam is off of him and walks out( what a man)! tobias on the other hand leaves his wife to help this poor family(even after a 400 pound bookcase falls on her) now thats dedication. upon entering bill's garage, tobias helps bill to his feet even after bill has sucked in enough carbon minoxcide to kill a horse( but he gets right up) again, great acting. then its time to face the dollhouse. bill and tobias are in front of the fireplace when bill says  it seems to be some sort of portal. tobias, being the demonhunter he is says, looks like the welcome mat to hellbut just as he says this, bill saysno, i saw it in my dream and jumps through the fireplace!!!! as does tobias with a late arrrrrrrrr hmmmmmmp when he lands on the other side. this is a spoiler alert people, now bill tobias and bill's daughter are trapped in a hellhole with demons approaching. tobias takes out his lil bag of majic dust and sprinkles it for safty purposes. then he shouts out the acadamy award winning phrase. malike, amfidare. tobias tells bill to go, save your family. to stand alone with the demons. then once again he puts all he has into a kamaziroc, samohoc athenphabalose you basterds!!!!!!!!!!!!!! only to hear his sceams of pain from a distance, bill loads up the suv and gets the family dog and off they go. this movie is a must see and i give it 10/10. "},{"Title":"WHAT A FANTASTIC MOVIE","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This movie is one of the best amityville horrors i have ever seen the amityville dollhouse can create images from the mind and of your worst fears it can also control objects in the house like the fireplace which is the portal to hell. the special effects are very clever and the acting is very good so this movie i say is 10/10 a must see horror  "},{"Title":"Funnier than Most Comedies","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This is the eighth of the amityville horror films. Some of the others were pretty bad, and some were almost bearable, but this one is so bad it can make you laugh. The acting is horrible, the plot like something written by a mental patient, and the special effects are like something off of the mighty morphin power rangers. Of course as in most crappy horror movies, they had to show some girl topless, and at least one sex scene. Both of which were extremely unnecessary. This movie is fun to have a running dilaugue on in a group, like on MST3000. This movie was bad enough and then at the end they decided to rent some of the bad guys from mighty morphin power rangers or something. And what was with the flies?!  "},{"Title":"Good for the series, ok for horror, skip in general","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  This 8th instalment continues the improvement over part 5 (the curse), but offers nothing out of the ordinary.However (it still continues the latest trend)-->   That is, It continues to use outside outside contrivences to fuel the story (this time a doll house (previously a clock (6), or a mirror (7), or a curse (5)).    While, I dont have as much of a problem with the flys as others do (they play a role, but not the role)-->It would be a wise idea to return to the original house (or at least the modified version that stands today).All these contrivences are getting annoying and only the diehard fans or those searching (and i mean you really need to search for this mediocure horror movie) will care.In general though bypass this and most of the series (all but 1,3, maybe 4,6,7)viewed on tape "},{"Title":"better than some horror movies","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Nothing tops It, which might be my favorite bad horror film, but this one actually proved to be much better than anticipated.But when your villian is an evil DOLLHOUSE, chances are a movie will be entertaining. Never before has an inatimate object served up a scare, as this dollhouse does for the utterly stereotypical suburban family(with a modern-day twist they are blended) who is subjected to living with it. After it is given as a gift for the daughter who, well, looks a little old for such things, scares and spooks plague the whole family and all who dare to come into their possessed little home. How will they live with this catastrophie? What can they do with this evil home?Semi-satisfying acting(the kids beyond outshine the adults, which is rare), a beyond gratuitous R-rated scene(the stepmother doing who knows what to herself for very much no appearant reason except to be an R-rated movie, I guess), and some vaguely freakish scenes involving demons and the supernatural somewhat lower this film, so that it's not quite on par with It and The Stepfather 3 as horror films so bad that they're good, but it easily passes the time and far surpasses junk like A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 3 and certainly any other Amityville film I have seen. "},{"Title":"It doesn't even deserve one star","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" This is the most ridiculous movie I have ever seen. Nothing was explained in the end, leaving it open (and Definitely not in the way that makes you hope for a sequel but the way that makes you think what the hell just happened) and none of the movie even made sense. Why was the doll house demonic? How did the zombies fit in? Why did the mother fall in love with her stepson? I wasted two hours of my life on this pile of crap. NEVER WATCH THIS MOVIE. And I'm not saying this to make you want to watch it just to see how crap it is. I'm seriously saying GET OUT NOW WHILE YOU STILL CAN AND RUN TO ALL YOUR VIDEO/DVD OUTLETS AND BURN EVERY SINGLE COPY OF THIS MOVIE IN Existence. Whoever made it should BE SHOT. "},{"Title":"The best entry after the first two.","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Better than AMITYVILLE(S) 3-7, AMITYVILLE DOLLHOUSE continues the trend of having cursed objects causing the reign of terror rather than the actual house itself. This time it's a replica doll house of the infamous house of horrors in Amityille long island. The terror all starts when Bill, a divorced family man builds a home on the same site where a family died in a house fire many years before, with the only surviving things of the original house being an old shed & a fire place. Moving his two children, young Jessica & teenage son Todd, his new wife Clare & her young son Jimmy (who doesn't care much for his new step dad or siblings) into the new home, things seem to be going great, until the birthday present Bill & his wife Clare bought for Jessica is destroyed in the middle of the night, by a supernatural evil emanating from the fireplace. But that's okay, thankfully they have another gift that they found lying around in the old shed - a doll house! Jessica is immediately taken to it, however as soon as it comes into her possession, she finds herself getting sicker as the supernatural powers that reside both in it & the fireplace quickly take over the new home, turning the family against one another, using Jimmy's fears of spiders against him by turning a rubber spider in a piñata into a real one, killing his pet mouse & imitating his dead father, who visits Jimmy night after night & becoming more decayed & sick minded with each visit, while trying to get Jimmy to murder his step dad. Dead wasps revive & attack Todd & his girlfriend, the gas stove shoots out flames, a mouse that enters under a bed in the doll house transforms into a monster mouse underneath Jessica's bed, Clare lusts after Todd & Todd's girlfriend it set on fire by the fireplace that shoots flames out at her, windows blow open by themselves with a fierce wind coming through them, Bill has nightmares night after night, Todd is attacked by a hideous hallucination of his girlfriend, a stereo system is turned up sky high, crosses are turned upside down & the doll house oozes puss. Young Jessica is the only one that knows what is going on, since besides the doll house spiralling around from time to time, it also lights up inside when it's set to do something evil. With the help of his sister & husband (both occult experts) Bill realizes that the doll house is connected to the fireplace, which leads into the very portal of hell itself. However in order to stop the evil, destroying the doll house will not be enough & that the only way to destroy the evil is by entering the portal behind the fireplace & confronting the demons that reside there.AMITYVILLE DOLLHOUSE was a surprisingly enjoyable sequel. The direction by producer STEVE WHITE (AMITYVILLE HORROR 4 THE EVIL ESCAPES, AMITYVILLE 1992 IT'S ABOUT TIME, AMITYVILLE A NEW GENERATION) is really good & the acting here is fairly strong. The special effects are a vast improvement over the previous entries, with terrific demon & zombie make-up. The story is very interesting as is the characters which tend to be a little more fleshed out here than they were in previous sequels.On the downside the film does have some minor problems, a lot of the scenes that could have & should have provoked a few jumps are poorly executed & many of the scenes that also could have has a modicum of suspense & tension is not properly done. But perhaps the biggest question one might have while watching the film is this And this is connected to the previous movies how...? The problem is, is that the title Amityville cannot be copyrighted, simply because it's the name of a real town in long island, therefore it is in the public domain, as a result of the huge success of the first two movies, other film companies & their producers latched onto the title & used it to make their own movies to turn a quick profit, dropping the word HORROR from the title (part 4 is the only entry to use the full title on screen THE AMITYVILLE HORROR PART 4) so that they wouldn't have to pay the Lutz family of AMITYVILLE HORROR author JAY ANSON money every time they wanted to make another sequel. By the time the film is over we still have no idea as to who built the doll house & why? was it in the original Amityville house & if so, how did it make it into another state? Another thing I thought was kind of silly was a newspaper clipping of the fire that destroyed the old house & family that lived there, which begs the question who cut out the clipping, pinned it to the shed wall & why? & fans looking for a decent body count will be sad to learn that no one gets killed until the end & even than it's just one guy. If the producers were to have called this something else & changed the look of the doll house it wouldn't have made a difference, you would still have a movie, since this has nothing whatsoever to do with the previous movies, in fact the only reason the title was used was to lure fans of the previous movies, that & the fact that the sales would no doubt be higher with the AMITYVILLE title on the box art.All in all, AMITYVILLE DOLLHOUSE might not please hardcore horror fans looking for tons of kills & blood & guts, but it's reasonably well paced & put together & should please fans of the series. Followed by THE AMITYVILLE HAUNTING***1/2 starsPROLOX TRIVIADirector ADAM MARCUS (JASON GOES TO HELL) was offered the chance to direct the movie, but declined. "},{"Title":"* out of 4","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" A dollhouse that is a replica of the infamous Amityville haunted house is given to a little girl. Soon after, all sorts of horrible unexplained accidents start to happen. The family must work together to fight off the terrifying evil that has inhabited their lives.A disappointing finale to the Amityville series. Some good special effects, but every thing else about this movie is boring. No scares to be found here, just a few unintentional laughs and a bit of sex. First of all, What does one little killer fly have to do with a Dollhouse? Joshua Michael Stern the writer of this movie should stay with one subject the darn Dollhouse. No chills, no thrills and finally, a horrible end to the Amityville series. Avoid it.Rated R for Violence, Nudity and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Evil couldn't even afford the rent of a big house this time...","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Don't ask me what encouraged me to re-watch this. Can't really explain it myself. I guess I just wanted to see if I thought it was still okay (as that was what I seemed to remember about it from my 90's viewing). And I guess it probably is okay, though it feels kind of wrong to say it. Because AMITYVILLE DOLLHOUSE seems as good an example as many, to show why horror was going the wrong way during the 90's It's just too unimaginative, formulaic and generic. It basically fails to impress.We got a new family moving into a new house (Starr Andreeff might actually be a reason for some to watch this -- I myself was kind of pleased that at least she was in it). Daddy finds a dollhouse in the backyard shack and gives it to his daughter -- and since we've seen all the previous Amityville-installments, we can only guess that the toy house is a vessel inhabited by the Amityville-evil. And the evil manifests itself in many ways (at least there's some variety in these matters), which soon becomes too routinely. Best one of these manifestations is probably a dead & rotten ghost-daddy coming back from the grave, playing his evil tricks. There's a somewhat interesting subplot about the history of the house, once destroyed in a fire, but not much is done with it.It's basically family-stuff going on in some scenes (presumably to give the characters some depth), mixed with supernatural happenings on which you can set a timer (that's how routinely it all plays out). And by the time the climax comes around - featuring a dimensional-portal through a fireplace, two pitchfork-wielding demons (doing nothing more than just that) and some master-devil-dude-puppet with wings that don't fly - it's just too little, too late.AMITYVILLE DOLLHOUSE might be pleasing for undemanding horror fans growing up in the 90's, and it's far from the worst horror movie you'll ever see. But it doesn't hold a candle to most other sequels from other franchises being cranked out at the time (and even before its straight-to-video release). On the upside It didn't get any worse after 1993's AMITYVILLE A NEW GENERATION and it does sort of have the same vibe as AMITYVILLE IT'S ABOUT TIME. In fact, all three movies are about on par with each other. Does that say anything?I thought of a plea for abating circumstances, when it comes to this installment... but only a little more, a little sooner would have gained it an extra point. "},{"Title":"see Laurie Foreman topless","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" this idiotic piece of...film written by Joshua Stern (I REFUSE to use your middle name until you do ANYTHING even remotely worthwhile) revolves around haunted doll house (at least it's not a cookoo clock, I guess). The aforementioned doll house is found by the dad and given to the daughter as a birthday present. that cheap A-hole. Meanwhile Jimmy Martin acts like a nerdy pathetic boy (C'mon kid you were a young Andrew Dice Clay once, get it together). The film is the epitome of stupidity and I'm sure Hollywood will choose to re-make it any day now. Oh yea and the girl that play's the sister on That 70's Show unleashes her chest pillows for the only time of her career thus far. (the ONLY reason to even think of conceivably maybe watching this movie.My Grade D- Eye Candy Starr Andreeff shows her left tit briefly; Eric Foreman's sister..um..i mean Lisa Robin Kelly goes topless "}{"Title":"Thankfully the Last in the Series","Date":"4 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Amityville Dollhouse (1996) * (out of 4) Silly eighth entry in the original series has a husband moving his son and daughter into a house he built with his new wife and her son. None of the kids like the other parent but things take a turn for the worse when daddy finds an old dollhouse in a shed, which just happens to be a replica of the Amityville house. Soon enough all sorts of weird things begin to happen and of course no one thinks about destroying the dollhouse. AMITYVILLE DOLLHOUSE is yet another direct-to-video cash-in on the original series and I guess the producers knew it was such a turkey that they didn't even try to make another one. This is a pretty bad film on many levels but unlike some of the other rip-offs (like AMITHVILLE IT'S ABOUT TIME), this one here doesn't work on any level. Most of these sequels had little to nothing to do with the original film but it's clear the title Amityville meant rentals so we had all sorts of strange stories made up with that title added. There's very little working for this movie but at least the creatures at the very end look pretty good. Outside of that it's your typical low-budget horror movie with bland performances, a bad story and just nothing exciting going on. The death scenes are all laughable and just wait until you see the giant mouse that shows up. "},{"Title":"Evil really should die sometimes... or at least take a vacation","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":" Well, I finished Amityville Dollhouse and actually it wasn't too bad, it's right up there with the second installment, and for sure it's better than that 3-D silliness. Dollhouse had a little more originality, but my complaint is that the story just wasn't that needed. The sequels have been sold out, bought out, and just too much to keep bringing the same house back over and over and over again. But standing on it's own, Dollhouse was a good horror flick.This family has built a house over the where the old Amityville House used to stand. There is a shed in back where the dad has found a doll house that is the exact replica of the Amityville house, and as a gift for his daughter, he gives her Hell House! I guess he didn't realize that the switch has been on Evil... oh, wait... wrong show. Hee hee! But of course, chaos ensues leading to horrible injuries, hot rooms, hot sex, and lots of fire! Like I said, Amityville Dollhouse was alright on it's own, because this could've been a great horror movie. But why do we need the Amityville title? It's just getting old, thank God I only found one more, the New Generation, oh, man, wish me luck! 4/10 "},{"Title":"Perhaps one of the worst films ever made...","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror","Review":"  Silly, ridiculous sequel to an unnecessary franchise that I have no interest in--especially after seeing this. The film involves a child being revisited by his dead father as a sort of zombie. I didn't really understand it too well because I haven't seen the others--but any sequel that you can't understand coming to without the first can't be too great. (Exception Back to the Future Part II.)0/5 stars.- John Ulmer "}]