[{"Title":"An anti-erotic exploration of the hollowness of modern life","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"198 out of 236 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash is a very sexually explicit film, but if you buy or rent this movie expecting it to be an evening's erotic entertainment, you are going to be disappointed, because it is also an anti-erotic film.Even in the midst of frenzied lovemaking, the characters remain distant, their voices quiet and abstracted, their gazes directed inward.  These are people who have been told all their lives by their culture, by TV and movies, that sex is, on the one hand, the most perfect form of communion and connection with another human being; and, on the other hand, that it is the ultimate in transcendent and transformative experiences.  Instead, they discover to their horror that even during sex they still feel nothing. They crave connection, they are starved for a glimpse of transcendence, but no matter what they do, no matter who they do it with or how often, while their bodies may feel passion, their minds and hearts remain cold and empty.In the more recent movie Pleasantville, the Jennifer/Mary Sue character is unable to feel anything either, and remains stubbornly black and white no matter how much sex she has, until her brother suggests that maybe it isn't the sex that is the key to moving from black and white to color, from passionlessness to feeling.  Unfortunately, in Crash, there is no one to suggest to David and Catherine Ballard that maybe it isn't through sex that they will find the transformation and connection they are craving.  So they instead seek more and more extreme forms of sexual stimulation, only to be disappointed again and again.James is hurt in a car crash, and during his stay in the hospital he meets Helen (who was in the other car) and later Vaughan, a man who like James and Catherine is in desperate search of feeling, only he looks for it in the violence of car crashes.  With Helen, at first James, then Catherine too is drawn into Vaughan's world, where sex and death (eros and thanatos for you Freudians) meet in the twisted metal of wrecked cars and the mutilated bodies of the victims of fatal car crashes and the survivors of near-fatal ones.They attend staged recreations of famous car crashes, like the one that killed James Dean.  They have sex in crashed cars, and start touring crash sites on the freeway as a form of foreplay. They begin to watch films of crash tests and fatal race accidents like other people would watch erotic films, and to have sex with people whose bodies have been mutilated by car crashes.But not even the horror of mutilation or the adrenaline rush of near-death experience can lend James and Catherine's desperate coupling the depth of feeling that they so desperately crave.Like all the people who buy expensive automobiles to give them a feeling of power and independence, only to discover that no matter how snazzy their car is, they still feel powerless and unhappy, James and Catherine have bought into one of our culture's Big Lies, that sex is the answer.  This film shows us that it is not.  "},{"Title":"This film is fascinating but definitely not for everyone","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"167 out of 194 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love this film. I have now viewed it three times and I still keep getting something new out of each viewing. I think it's one of Cronenberg's best. It is not, however, for the uninitiated. By that, I mean those who are not familiar with Cronenberg's previous work, and those who have not read J.G. Ballard, whose novel was the basis for this film. Cronenberg excels at bringing difficult pieces of fiction to film. This is one such example.The written works of J.G.Ballard are generally, dark, dreary, and disturbing psychological fiction. The characters in them are often very disturbed and socially dysfunctional. These are people who, often due to unusual circumstances, are not in their right minds. In Crash, we are observing a group of characters who are all survivors of horrific car crashes. Like many crash survivors, they are, during their period of recovery, in shock. They are badly shaken. They are recovering from severe physical injuries, and they are disoriented, fearful, and emotionally numb. Instead of recovering in the normal fashion, (how sad that we've come to think of auto accidents as normal) these characters stumble into the car crash cult of Vaughan. Vaughan, who is brilliantly portrayed by Elias Koteas, is a scientist who believes that there is a strong connection between the violence of a car crash and the passion of the sexual act.He easily indoctrinates the other characters into his mode of behavior and beliefs. By staging car crashes for entertainment, by initiating traffic altercations with his followers and ultimately finishing with some very warped sex, usually involving cars, there is a metaphor being created. Accidents, and the viewing of them becomes foreplay. It's the eroticism of the automobile taken to an extreme.Our society has had, what is often referred to as a love affair with the automobile. This love affair has resulted in a worldwide addiction to a means of transportation that is, in reality, often very unhealthy and destructive. Aside from the aftermath of pollution and the sheer carnage of the ever rising highway accident rate, this addiction also increases people's isolation from each other. Hidden in their private shells, they move about, only interacting with one another as necessary. This interaction rarely becomes intimate until it is violent, as in aggressive driving and accidents .In Crash, the characters are all portrayed as cold hearted, numb, and incapable of true intimacy with each other(they sure have a lot of sex though). They are only capable of intimacy through their cars.This film is a bizarre metaphor for the human condition and how it is affected by our choice of technology. It is not meant to make car crashes look sexy. It is meant to draw attention to how our most familiar technology has changed us and made us less human. I love this film. Brilliant cast. Great cinematography. An excellent soundtrack by Howard Shore (multiple layers of cleanly played, very dissonant electric guitar, sounding like a cross between Sonic Youth and Brian Ruryk). Only Cronenberg would have the guts to tackle a subject as difficult as this particular work of Ballard's. I think he did quite well.Depending on your mood at the time of viewing, this film can range from being shocking, amusing, revolting, hilarious, to even just plain boring. It's a great piece of art, but you really do have to be in the right mood for it.  "},{"Title":"What a bunch of weirdo's! Awesome movie!","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"123 out of 171 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash caused a huge stir in the United Kingdom. Many conservatives were outraged by the combination of sex, already an issue of danger because of aids, and traffic accidents. Dangerous driving is like smoking, a subject that you just can't touch without many moral watchdogs chasing you through a hellish puritan junkyard.I remember seeing this and a middle aged to elderly man in the theater began to quite obviously...ahem...trouser cough. This was one hell of a way to clear the cinema! That moment is pretty much like this film. Crash has weird sex and masterbation, stuff that you do not really want to see. But David Cronenberg with the help of James Ballard drags us into a world that just takes the whole 'I love cars' boy racer thing way too far! It is just not healthy...Ballard writes in a bleak monotone. A monotone that Chuck Palahniuk seeks to imitate unsuccessfully. All of his characters are alien because of their lack of emotion. Cronenberg takes this aspect and runs with it. This makes the film good not because of the familiarity and sympathy that the viewer can build with the characters. It is actually quite the opposite, the film strikes the viewer because of the sheer UNREALITY of what is happening. The complete and utter icy way that everything is presented just leaves the viewer going 'what?' Am I watching a bunch of jellyfish here?  The characters are so jaded. Trying desperately to experience emotion in an industrialized emotionless world. A world that has become nothing more than a production line. Good Ford! Sorry, Huxley joke. Nerdy but necessary.Also, Cronenberg is presenting a discourse that the famous intellectual Donna Haraway puts forward. That basically the human race has become cyborgs. The the human form is constantly changing. That machines are changing our humanity and crash seems to say that our own sexuality can mingle with the mundane machines that we hold so dear. Oh no! I am getting flashbacks of the crazed artist Stellarc...no...no...no! Besides I bet in the future, terminators would make much more money as sexual partners, rather than as assassins. Imagine that, a beautiful spouse who always thinks your right and never argues with you. I LOVE THE FUTURE!Sex is considered to be the ultimate joining of two people. The most intimate way that human beings can connect to one another. Wrong! This film suggests that sex means...well, nothing really. Procreation and a simple physical reaction. This is shown by James Spader and his wife's, Deborah Unger, relationship. These two are so jaded they tell each other their sexual adventures for attempted excitement but feel absolutely nothing. Certainly not some sought of emotional closeness to one another.This film is just so incredibly empty. But it is also a comment on the human condition. How we make almost suicidal attempts to attain pleasure. If this was a film about heroin for instance, about junkies, this film would be much more understandable. Ballard has taken this addictive, self destructive behaviour and replaced it with an everyday object. The motor car. It is a brilliantly simple idea! But look at how many people it has horrified and offended! C'mon people, are we really this stupid? Sex and drugs, sex and violence. Sex, drugs and violence. These things are all o.k. Portrayed constantly in Hollywood movies. Van Diesel anybody? But sex and car accidents, how dare you? What kind of a sick freak are you??!! Consider how hypocritical this is when you watch something like Fast and the Furious.This is also a film that features the psychological nature of fetish heavily. Instead of having the common fetish for breasts or bottoms, which again people might find more understandable. The fetish is actually for wounds and crash test dummy videos! That scene with Rosanna Arquette, ewww! Would that work? This is definitely something that no one should try at home.David Cronenberg really deserves credit for making this film. He really has some big balls and respects the intelligence of the audience, which I however do not. All of the actors deserve much credit for taking on some truly difficult material. They must really trust the director. I'm surprised no one said 'no David, you are out to lunch on this one!' This film could have become a parody so easily. Never have I seen a film where everyone in the audience seemed so uncomfortable with the material. In fact, when I saw this film without the trouser coughing, people still walked out. It hasn't been since Salo that I have see a movie upset so many people. I give this 8 out of 10 for sheer weirdness. A great moment in a   major auteur's career who is not afraid to take risks. Hollywood take note! "},{"Title":"Sexiest Motion Picture to Date!","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"54 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When Cronenberg's Crash came out in the theaters in Seattle, the audiences gave it standing ovations. Of course, that's Seattle! James Spader was thinner & sensuous playing the lead man's role. Debra Unger & he have quite the cinematic chemistry to generate steaming sexual scenes.Car crashes are a group of fetishists' thing to get off on. Some re-stage famous fatal ones Jimmy Dean's, Jane Mansfield's. The car crash fetish ring leader drives a town-car like JFK was assassinated in.Holly Hunter is extremely surprising as she plays a bisexual car crash fetishist physician who is way into having sex in cars; most especially after near crashes.I don't know how this film got away with a R rating! But, I'm glad it did! It's a scorching hot sexy motion picture with one heck of a deviant plot. I bet even director John Waters liked this one. . . .Surprisingly, there is romance in the movie. Spader & Unger stay together throughout all other crash scenario flings. The most fascinating thing about Cronenberg's Crash is how true to life it is & was in Seattle, when it first came out.Crash is a remarkable study of fetishism. That's why it is not pornographic. Yes, the numerous adult sex scenes are extremely graphic; but, Cronenberg prevents the subject matter from being degraded into pornography.With an amazing star cast, Crash not only was, but still is, one of the most controversial movies today. Doubtless some of the audiences have to ask themselves, Are there really people like these? The answer is overwhelmingly, indeed there are. Cronenberg & cast was the group brave & brazen enough to get real about human sexualities. "},{"Title":"Curious, odd, but flawed examination of sexuality/identity.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"38 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  David Cronenberg's most recent film. Set in Los Angeles, James Spader and Deborah Unger play a couple drawn into an  underworld of odd characters who are sexually aroused by automobile crashes. Spader discovers this when he hits Holly  Hunter's car head on, killing her husband. They become lovers, meeting in a parking garage, having (unsatisfying) sex in a parked car. Later they are involved with a clique that re-enacts famous crashes for excitement.It's a fascinating premise and it starts off quite promising. However, Spader's patented flat, emotionally dead anti-hero never shows a spark of life. Nor do any of the other characters. And yet, while there is an attempt to capture that serene surface perfected by David Lynch, the attempt fails. In the end we do not care what happens to any of these characters. It becomes an exercise in guessing who will sleep with who next. Even the final scene, in which Spader and Unger are brought back together, fails to move because we have never cared about either of them. It felt like getting the news that your cousin twice removed, who you have never met, is getting married. You know you are supposed to feel happy for them but, frankly, you just don't care.On the other hand, the movie is visually lush, and does take some legitimate risks. Spader has a gay sex-scene that, as tame as it was, is a true rarity in American theaters. Even Faith! Hope! and Glory! did not come close. One scene deserves especial mention. A group including Spader, Hunter, and Rosanne Arquette are watching video tapes of safety tests of automobiles, starring the test dummies. As they watch they become increasingly aroused. They are all completely absorbed in films that were shot by engineers. Like low-budget porn, the videos are grainy, out of focus, and have no camera movement. Nevertheless, the scene is oddly hysterical.Cronenberg also keeps close to home in another way. He always seems to be obsessed with violation. In his films this is represented literally. Here we have a number of characters whose bodies are violated with pins and braces administered by doctors. Not for the squeamish, although the scenes are not gory. But to see the male nurse just poking at people's apparatus and wounds is unsettling (recalls the Monty Python skit where the major missing a leg has it poked by his superior office, asking if it hurts). "},{"Title":"Driving around in cars, with sex","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"48 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  David Cronenburg's interesting but flawed film 'Crash', adapted from James Ballard's novel (Ballard also gives his name to the leading character), attracted huge amounts of controversy on its release and has one of the most striking voting profiles on IMDB that I have seen - also equal returns for every number from 1 to 10.  In fact, there's a lot of admire in this sweaty, atmospheric adaptation that perfectly captures the sense of heightened alienation that charactersises much of Ballard's prose.  While among the cast, Deborah Kara Unger is sexy as always, Elias Koteas is suitably creepy and even James Spader is kind-of OK, if you don't mind him doing that lost little college boy grown up to be a pervert thing that he first perfected as Graham in 'Sex, Lies, and Videotape', a role he basically reprises here.But - and let's get real for a minute - this is a film about people who are turned on by car crashes! Now, what the hell is that all about?  If you ask me, the film is trying to say something about the need for transgression in an age with no real taboos - so its characters push at an endlessly receding door, until in the end only death itself can offer a way out.  The problem is that the film suffers from the same problems as the world it portrays - these people have no moral rules, so their actions carry no implications beyond themselves - which leaves us with an idea, with happenings, but no narrative drive as such.  Without anything to set against their nihilistic desires, 'Crash' coveys no sense of tragedy; just driving around in cars, with sex. "},{"Title":"A daring film that didn't quite work","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash had a lot of potential. I feel like I can criticize it harshly because I am a Cronenberg fan and this was nowhere close to his best work. The themes (sexual deviance, violence, obsession) that Cronenberg was exploring are very relevant to today's post-modern society. However, this film didn't get the message across. Supposedly the book by James Ballard deals more with our obsession with fame and celebrities; that was not dealt with in the film and it should have been. It would have resulted in a more coherent piece of art. As you watch the movie, you feel like a kid watching late-night TV and stumbling upon something dirty that you know you aren't supposed to see. That's about it. As an adult, you know that there is supposed to be symbolism, an underlying metaphor or allegory, but the viewer is never really let in on the secret. Instead, we see a lot of strange sex scenes, car crashes and empty dialogue. I wanted to like this film, but it was boring, a little pretentious, and left me wanting more substance. 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The Orgasm of Burning Rubber.","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How many orgasms per mile can you get ? This is one of the catching tag lines of the movie Crash. Again Cronenberg delivers a dive into human psychic, the world of dark obsession, and twisted fantasy's. The plotA sexually frustrated couple starts experimenting with the outlines of anonymous sex. It is the husband James Ballard (James Spader) who gets into a car crash with Dr. Ellen Remington (Holly Hunter) and her husband. They crash frontally and both Ballard and Remington are seriously injured. Remington's husband dies while being launched from his seat through his own windshield into Ballards. Ballard ends up in the hospital, traumatized, trying to recover from his injuries. He gets into deeper contact with Helen Remington. Their mutual Crash-victim status brings them closer together, ultimately delivering them into the sump-oil-soaked world of the pathological Vaughan (Elias Koteas). Renegade scientist and leader of a strange subterranean group, Vaughan is only able to achieve sexual release by crashing into people on the motorways surrounding Heathrow airport. Getting sucked into his world, Ballard becomes obsessed with car crashes, and dives into the illegal world of thrill seeking and raw and hard (but mostly cold) sex.The reviewTo be quiet honest Crash is a very underestimated picture. First of all there are a serious amount of people who thought that the subject was laughable, and not to be taken serious, for how could you take something like this serious ? After crashing your car and being injured, having sex with the victim of a car-crash ? Apart from the post-traumatic stress that can appear after such an incident it also triggers a lot of adrenaline, which is almost a self produced drug. Cronenberg cuts a subject which is still very much of a taboo, the thrill seeking taboo. You got a lot of so called thrill seekers now these days, which can result into ghost riding on the freeway, climbing on buildings without security etc. All in all the thrill seek element isn't that original. This is where Cronenberg has looked for a thrill that rushes into a perverse sexual outburst. After the shock of crashing into a car, the adrenaline, the rush of the experience becomes so real, you feel so alive that you need to let it all out, which comes into the act of making love. Cronenberg is trying to paint the audience a picture of an event like this. Based on J.G. Ballards novel Crash which was quiet detached and cold, the director follows in style with the dark freeways of Canada, showing that even in your car you are not always save, and how a car can become the ultimate drive for pleasure. The problem with this film (like many others) is that it is so far out there that you either hate it or love it. The pacing is rather slow in the beginning and its hard to get into, if you don't understand the psychology that lies underneath the dialog. The movie has a solid script but the subject and material is not accessible for everybody. James Spader who often (he almost could be a stereotype) plays sexual frustrated protagonists (Sex,Lies,and Videotapes, Secretary, Speaking of Sex) delivers a terrific performance here. His distant and alienated acting fits perfectly into the dark en and sensual story, and doesn't come as a insincere or over the top. Some people felt that Koteas and Hunter performances where a little flat, but they have just the balance between low key and an over the top performance (Koteas more than Hunter). You got to keep in mind that these people are already deranged from the beginning. What you see is simply a drop falling into bucket that is overflowing. The use of light and shadow is very subtle and excellently done by cinematographer Peter Suschitzky. He really knows how to pull you into a certain world, that LOOKS like ours but feels very different. In any case I can recommend the movie if you want to watch something different. A lot of people will not understand the weight this film carries, and therefore this movie will be underrated, or simply will be put aside as boring or unrealistic. THIS IS A MISTAKE,... don't put it away, watch it, and feel the awkwardness. The result ? Humans really are quiet weird creatures... "},{"Title":"Autoerotic and grotesque.","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kids, read no farther. In fact, leave the room and play Nintendo. And put your dirty socks in the hamper.If you think YOU'RE warped wait until you see the characters who populate this movie. You'll not only emerge from the experience reassured, you'll wind up feeling like a paragon of normality.The story (if that's the word for it) has Spader getting into a head-on smasheroo with a car in which Hunter is a passenger. Her husband is thrown through the windshield and killed. Spader is hospitalized with various pieces of shiny steel holding his long bones in place. He finds the pain and discomfort and immobilization so arousing that when his wife (Unger) visits him it leads to masturbation. There's a lot of that sort of thing in this movie.You'd never think Holly Hunter would suffer from such a paraphilia but she does. So does Spader's wife. Hunter and Spader run into each other, figuratively, in a garage full of wrecked cars and make furious love in one of the surrealistically twisted carcasses.Before you know it, the Spader family and Hunter have fallen in with a group of -- well, there's no easy name for people of this quality. Koteas, the head of this underground cohort, is some sort of show-business stunt driver who, with a few associated, restages fatal car crashes of celebrities. Spader and Hunter are one of a dozen or two spectators who come to watch the staging of the 1955 crash between James Dean's Porsche and a Ford driven by somebody named Turnipseed. None of the men involved in the stunt wear helmets or seat belts and there are no roll bars or any of that wimpy stuff. Koteas' shiny Porsche Spider backs up, then speeds full blast into the front of the Ford. Kaboom. Sirens burping, the cops arrive and everyone scuttles for cover. It is never explained exactly how Koteas makes enough money to smash up beautifully restored Fords and Porsches. (His next big show will involve the decapitation of Jane Mansfield.) At Koteas' home they watch movies of test crashes with dummies instead of porn.Spader's wife has seemed relatively reasonable up to now but she finds herself turned on by crashes, stunt men, and the rest. When she and Spader are making love (this time in bed, not in the back seat), she asks about Koteas. Did you see his penis? Spader He says it's all scarred from a motorcycle accident. Unger ecstatically Ewwwww. Anyway, to get on with it, one thing leads to another -- one thing being crashes and the other being flaming death amidst twisted metal. What with everyone being swept up in the craze and wanting still more of the excitement, the only sensible way to arouse and satisfy your wife is to smash into her car and kill her, right? Two Big Os for the price of one -- Orgasm through Obliteration. So Spader continually rams the convertible driven by his willing wife until it flips over on the side of the highway. But she's not dead after all. I'm all right, she mumbles. Maybe next time. Maybe next time, he whispers to her and then does her bloody and half conscious body in the sere grass.So what's it all about, you ask? You might find that SOME people have no idea but I have a very firm answer. I don't know. At one point Spader asks Koteas why he's so interested in this stuff and Koteas replies portentously It's the reshaping of the human body by modern technology. Gosh.It's an awesome statement but what does it mean? How is modern technology reshaping the human body? Does he mean that vehicular accidents tear it all to bits? Is he somehow thinking of the Thighmaster or simulacrum that imitate rowing or cross-country skiing or walking upstairs? Is Cronenberg really after ROCK HARD ABS? Here's what I think he's up to. It's been called self testing. It's seeing how far you can violate ordinary tastes and still get away with it, rather like a toddler who insists on wobbling along by himself until he either falls down or somebody picks him up. The real message of the movie is that there is no message. It's a highly ritualized violation of the viewer's expectations of taste. A Halloween prank.What else could it be? It's certainly not a realistic portrayal of a bunch of perverts. Where could they possibly get insurance after the first dozen crashes? And the fear and sexual responses are antagonistic, the former mediated by the sympathetic nervous system and the latter by the parasympathetic. Somebody who jumps off a cliff might have a spontaneous ejaculation, a sympathetic reflex, but he's not going to have an erection.I don't mean to pan the movie entirely. Unger and Hunter and Roseanna Arquette are sexy and attractive women. (There's a homosexual encounter involving Spader and Koteas, but it's not sufficiently prolonged or explicit to be anhedonic.) At any randomly chosen moment, the screen will show cars on the highway, cars crashing, people having sex in cars, or people talking about cars crashing and people having sex in cars. And it's neatly directed too. What shiny metal and what frangible flesh! Everything but the bodies seem gleaming and cold.My only problem was that I didn't like it. Not my perversion. "},{"Title":"dangerously erotic work that changes years after seeing it","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"24 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Cronenberg's Crash was one of those dirty movies I more than likely wasn't supposed to rent let alone watch when the NC-17 cut first came into existence on video (and, if anything, the film was more than an eye-opener in my young teen state, going even further than I had seen at the time with Boogie Nights or Kids). But I didn't pay quite as much attention to the story as I should've, aside from the James Dean subplot (as I remembered it anyway, with Elias Koteas's character), and from the very dark atmosphere. It was almost TOO dark at the time, and I stayed away until recently when it was shown on TV late one night. Seeing it now I'm much more absorbed into the wretchedly but totally, sensually charged work by the actors and the crew, and Cronenberg's utmost trust and professionalism with both. It certainly has that effect on a first viewing of veering way too close into the soft-core boundaries, and even seems like the kind of thing that I used to see in that 'scandalous' section of mainstream adult films as a kid like Last Tango in Paris. But the psychology behind the characters ends up being more striking than anything, and like many of Cronenberg's films, the duality of man (and woman, apparently) comes strongly into play, and the merging of the two as usually becomes the case.James Spader is in one of his very best performances- albeit only somewhat removed from the sexual deviants of Sex Lies & Videotape and Secretary (maybe closer to the latter, however without any of that film's outright satire)- as Ballard, also the author this film is based upon. He gets in a car accident, a horrible one, that kills a doctor and leaves his wife (Holly Hunter) injured both physically and psychologically. But Ballard and his wife (Deborah Kara Unger, very good as well) get brought into this strange world that's been built around Vaughn (Koteas, perhaps in one of his top 3 best pieces of work, very creepy but somehow convincing early on, at least to his new arrivals). He is a man who is completely enveloped into his psyche of car-crash sex, and how history ends up adding a mystique to it all (hence the James Dean references, which are very amusingly pathological). But this all becomes very dangerous, if only on some subversive level, when Ballard, his wife, and Hunter's Helen Remington get involved in this underground cult.Seeing the film again, I'm a lot more struck this time after seeing other Cronenberg work how the style slips so amazingly into the content of the picture. The first time around, the style almost seemed to be just another side to the content, that it was obvious to have such a wild yet controlled technique, particularly for the sex &/or car crash scenes. This is as much a credit to Cronenberg's poetic touches to the material as it is to DP Peter Suschitzky and Howard Shore's music, which somehow rises above being too pornographic to being really touching. In fact, after seeing it again very late at night and not remembering the entire film, I may even need to see it again to let it all sink in. But really this won't be the case for all- the NC-17 rating isn't too unwarranted in this case, even if it's more a rating for the nature of the sexual contact and aggressiveness of the fetishism as opposed to something like the Dreamers where there was blatant nudity a lot of the time. I wouldn't dare recommend the R-rated version, however, as the whole point is to see it all in its un-tarnished view. It's a harsh vision painted here of people reaching out for some kind of connection through the most destructive way imaginable. One thing's for certain, once you've seen it there's no mistaking this from Paul Haggis's Crash (and, for me, this beats out Haggis's contrived good-intention machine any day). "}{"Title":"A Brilliant Analysis of Our Relationship with Technology","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1996, Crash (1996, Cronenberg) won The Jury Special Prize at Cannes. However, this proved to be a rare positive response. In other quarters, the picture was almost universally loathed and condemned as perverted and repulsive. Westminster Council in London banned it outright. The Daily Mail and Evening Standard in particular saw the film as threatening to public morals, criticising it regularly, often on their front pages. Christopher Tookey, writing in The Daily Mail, caused outrage amongst the disabled lobby by using the phrase 'sex with cripples'. This seems to have caused more offence than by anything in the film. Alexander Walker described Crash as a movie beyond the bounds of depravity. So what's really been going on? Crash is David Cronenberg's third masterpiece. However, unlike Videodrome and Naked Lunch there is no confusion between reality and hallucination. The protagonists actually engage in even the more extreme behaviours in Crash. The characters engage in seemingly random acts of dangerous driving, crashing cars and sex but there is more to Crash than sex and wrecks. The film is also a deeply disturbing analysis of the interplay between these obsessions in the lives of a group of emotionally damaged people.Crash is a movie about unsatisfying relationships, in particular the flawed relationships between the main characters. The empty relationship between Catherine and James Ballard; the strange relationship between the protagonists and their cars; and the tortured relationships between the characters and their body modifications (crash injuries).Vaughn's relationship with his car is extremely personal &#150; he lives in it and f**ks in it. His car is described by Catherine as a bed on wheels. Ballard tells his wife that it smells of semen. Crash asks us what relationship do we have with our vehicles? Is it our mobile office? Or is it perhaps our refuge from reality, a place of safety and seclusion when we want to be alone? Are we relieved when we are able to escape from daily pressures into the safety of that mobile metal womb? With reference to Crash, Cronenberg has remarked A car is not the highest of high tech. But it has affected us and changed us more than anything else in the last hundred years. We have incorporated it. The weird privacy in public that it gives us. The sexual freedom &#150; which in the '50s wasn't even subtle! So we have already incorporated the car into our understanding of time, space, distance and sexuality. To want to merge with it literally in a more physical way seems a good metaphor. There is a desire to fuse with techno-ness. The sex in Crash is mundane and boring, a joyless experience for all involved (Did you come? asks James of his wife as she tells him about her latest conquest. No, she replies.) The participants seem distracted, cold and distant. They rarely even face one another during sex, with the action being mostly from behind. The characters seem distracted, looking off into the distance, their eyes dead and empty, such as when James and Catherine have sex and discuss Vaughn. There is a third person involved in their actions.The cars end up as twisted and damaged as the people involved. The wreckage that Vaughn and company leave behind symbolises the wrecked and soulless relationships they have with each other. After a crash, the driver and passengers are removed, effectively removing the car's beating heart. Vaughn and his companions inject temporary new life into the wrecks by reclaiming them, either as drivers or as a place to have sex in. Conversely, the broken and smashed vehicles seem to give life to their new inhabitants, who only seem to be really alive and able to connect with their feelings when they are either behind a wheel or having sex in the back.As an uncompromising comment upon how our lives and behaviour have been affected and altered by modern technology, Crash is exceptional in its bravery and honesty. The film's characters find their bodies being altered and twisted by modern science in the form of cars. Advancing technology, Cronenberg tells us, alters us, and will continue to do so as it becomes more integrated into our lives and our personal and collective consciousnesses. Our world, our behaviour and our bodies will continue to change as technology invades our flesh and our minds.These themes of metamorphosis, mutation and 'treacherous flesh' have been explored by Cronenberg in practically every one of his previous movies, perhaps most successfully in Videodrome (1982) and The Fly (1986). Videodrome considers the impact and influence of broadcast media on human behaviour and sexuality and implies that you can actually change what it means to be a human being in a physical way (Cronenberg, 1997). The Fly studies these same themes, but replaces technology with disease. The potential of illness to transform the physical shell is contrasted with the changes forced on our bodies by the aging process. We're used to our bodies changing. First we grow up, then we grow down. There's only a moment where there are a few years of the illusion of stability. It doesn't last long (Cronenberg, 1997) This singularity of vision confirms Cronenberg as an auteur with imagination, single-mindedness and power, as well as a disturbing new vision of the world. Indeed, 'Cronenberg-esque' has become a term describing a specific and unique genre, one that is unlike any other associated with typical horror cinema. "},{"Title":"Freaky and worthwhile even if it sickens you","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James Spader seems to prefer roles in which his sexuality is dark or deviant (e.g. Secretary, a fine film). He and the gorgeous Deborah Kay Unger are a couple, although not monogamous. Through certain accidents they stumble across a cell of car crash fetishists. More stuff happens I shouldn't get into it. This movie would have been more disturbing if it didn't have such a sense of humor. There is a nasty scene in which Spader is about to rub his willie against a long puckered vagina-like scar on the luscious Roseanna Arquette's leg. She wears an outfit that is a combination of leather bondage gear and handicapped leg braces. A truly weird flick, with good sex scenes but not for a first date unless the girl likes SM and looks at copies of that full-color British magazine featuring motorcycle racing showing the racers proudly displaying their often horrid scars and injuries. Yikes. Well, if you liked Secretary, and if you liked Cronenberg's other flicks and his orifice obsession and general grotesqueness, you'll like this. It has a similar tone vis-a-vis humor as Secretary and some of Videodrome. The title credits are exemplary and some of the shots are marvelous. The scene wherein the camera lovingly rolls over Spader's leg brace after his accident is stunning. I am happy to say that there is no amputation in this flick at least. That would have been too much. "},{"Title":"Prophecy is ragged and dirty","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Despite its subject matter CRASH may be Cronenberg's most subtle shocker. The narrative is a sinking into an underworld. A group of injured people who have all at some point suffered automobile collisions, falling for each other, returning and fetishising the experience of the car-crash. Unorganised and organically forming in the wake of their individual near death experiences (of the car crash) to be lived over and over like a mantra. Sex has again become the animal act it once was with decisive promiscuity at the heart of the film. Often criticised for cold and emotionless lives I believe the story offers a highly deep level of human relations. Physical contact with one another. Forceful sex is just as common as a loving embrace in this film. An unofficial support group who take on their fears head on and look death strait in the eye.There is a violence coupled with sex. The life altering events they chose to live again and again is the car crash. Rather than question this motivation I just accept that it has become a natural choice for these characters to return there. There seems to be an understanding between these damaged figures that differentiates them from the wider community. As if baptised by accident they return to the motifs, cold broken shells and even racing bodies of the automobile. The night is theirs to experiment with impulsive, careless journeys around the roads and highways of the airport. It is theirs to be reunited with the crash.For a film so violent it is comforting to know there is no villain. There is no bad guy. The closest thing would be dissatisfaction but that can be solved with a forward sexual act. Following desire seems to be the best therapy for this group. Led by a confident character called Vaughan, played by Elias Koteas, the group follows a pattern part bohemian part wild pack of jaguars. Vaughan has a vision with no conclusion. His infectious energy creates a cult around him as he forges ahead with not only returning to the crash over and over with photographs, scrapbooks and diatribe but as literal performance. In perhaps Cronenberg's masterstroke of the film Vaughan re-enacts the James Deen crash for real at high speed with another vehicle. This set piece on a strip of bitumen, topped off with walky-talky organised choreography, is performed in front of an outdoor grand stand filled with a curious audience on the fringe. A late-night theatre lit sparsely with floodlights is a car crash.James Ballard, played by James Spader, is to become Vaughan's protégé. Under his wing Ballard enters a world after having his own car crash. Ballard seems perfect for this incestuous group, as he already exists in an open but apparently functional relationship. The car crash has shifted his presence to this world or community where he will now function out his promiscuity among the fellow survivors. He will learn from Vaughan and eventually become him.The film achieves a certain blue tone, an icy cold feel, as the days are overcast and the night roads shiny with rain. Great attention is taken to how things are shot. We are made to look at the automobile in a different way with camera angles that force closer inspection of the everyday motorcar. Its hard metal exteriors shaped like raging animals and its sexy interiors perfect soft places for gratification. A musical score winds repetitively through the film. Howard Shaw's theme reminds us of the cycle as it returns with chilly electric guitar prompting the swift lane changes and casual swapping of sexual partners for new experiences.This is Cronenberg's best sci-fi. A distillation of JG Ballard's explicit novel, which is turned from internal monologue of the book to passive observer. Sci-fi that is barely that because it is about concepts of culture. Possabilities more so of humans reacting to the technology than of the technology itself. A grey existential and subjective view. Expressing the highways as arteries and the car as a means to travel if not exist in the modern world. The beating heart of the airport, a city within a city, pumps concrete and electric life to its surrounding earth. A concentration of energy that supports all kinds of existence. Left to interpret the actions of the film an audience can go either way. The chain of sex scenes and car drives as a narrative may be inaccessible for some or intriguing to others. You can shut off immediately and dismiss the story or remain curious and open. The latter may give you a very rewarding experience.Mike Retterhttp/mikeretter.tripod.com "},{"Title":"This one leaves me ALMOST speechless","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My my my, where to begin... Lets just say the only reason I would ever watch this movie is because I am a fan of James Spaders' work. Of course I wasn't at all disappointed with James' performance. His was one very difficult role & he pulled it off flawlessly. I really don't know how he did it. To me the story is very unrealistic. I mean I hope & pray that there aren't people out there that get off on car crashes. God help us all if they do. As bad as I feel about this film I also must give it some praise. It's original, it's entertaining, & it's shocking. I think my jaw just kept dropping further & further as I watched this movie. All in all I am not sorry that I watched Crash.  "},{"Title":"Crash is Trash!","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Frankly, it would be more enjoyable to actually be in a wreck than to ever have to watch this movie again! Unless you have had sexual fantasies about car crashes, this is not the movie for you. Don't waste your time. (If yoy enjoy Cronenberg, watch Dead Ringers again.)  "},{"Title":"Get lost!","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  You gonna tell me that I understand nothing about movies, since Crash has won an award at Cannes but this movie should be condemned in my opinion.The plot is  getting excited because of car incident. What the hell is that?An excuse for some Sex scenes in the movie, often non-sense and questionable scenes. Although those are probably the best in the flick. Note that if you want to see some hot scenes you should watch specualized movies not this.Add to this an ultra stressful music in the background, dark ambient and a relative slowness of the movie and you get somthing useless and boring.I heard that Cronenberg had planned to realise this movie earlier than 1996 but this wasn't possible at that time. Unfortunately he magaged to do it later.BiggBoss "},{"Title":"Boring, boring, boring........boring, boring, boring.....","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Recipe for CrashTake one crappy porn movie.Mix liberally with scenes of road carnage.Try to convince the audience that images of death and destruction instill a sexual frenzy in anyone that views them.Simmer for far too many minutes to ensure that any empathy for the characters, any character development or plot, or even anything remotely resembling entertainment, is thoroughly and completely boiled out.Finally serve up to your audience on the strength that it has sex in it and hope they won't notice that it is pure, unadulterated shit.Thank you, David Cronenberg, for wasting a portion of my life watching this turkey. Whatever money you made out of this garbage, tells me more about the sort of person that would watch this film, than it does about your talents as a director.Geez, now all we need is Roman Polanski to do something similar..... "},{"Title":"Should have been called  Trash","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am truly amazed that anyone could like this film. I saw it on cable last night and it has to be one of the worst pieces of trash I have ever seen (and I like David Cronenberg). It has absolutely no point, the connection the film tries to make between car crashes and sexual passion is total BS (and if you've ever been in one, as I have, I'm sure you'll agree it ain't sexy), and it has no redeeming features whatsoever. It was tedious, disgusting, shallow...it's one of those films that acts like it has some grand message to impart, but in reality it's empty. It's a miracle I actually made it through the whole film. It was so bad I'm having trouble finding words to describe it. Bottom line is, if you haven't seen it yet, and even if it's on TV and you're bored, don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had read the novel and was very curious to see what David Cronenberg would do.  The book was somewhat better, but I thought the movie was very intelligent, disturbing and outrageous.  The cast does well, especially Deborah Kara Unger, who gives the best performance in the movie. As usual, Cronenberg creates another world, and either you want to go there or not, but this time it ended up being fascinating, for me at least. "},{"Title":"Put put put...","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The more boring a movie is, the more crucial it is that there be a story it may not relieve the boredom, but it will at least provide the viewer with a way of telling when it will end.  Alas, there's no story here.  Nor is there any reason for it to end at one point rather than another - except, of course, that the sooner, the better.I don't mind using the premise that there's an underground coterie of sick weirdos who find car crashes sexually arousing, who trade crash test video porn, etc., but in describing the scenario with those nineteen words I've done only slightly less towards making a good movie out of it than Cronenberg did.  I suspect the REASON there's no story is also the reason that none of these people have any kind of life at all - no work, no play - outside their shared fetish, and that they don't utter so much as a single line of dialogue (not even a nice weather we're having) that doesn't relate directly to it.  Cronenberg simply couldn't be bothered with all that stuff.  If he can cut directly to the subject matter and show us the car crash fetishists being car crash fetishists, why should he bother showing us anything else?  To avoid making a movie as unbearably tedious as this one, that's why. "}{"Title":"On the road to hell...","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"72 out of 141 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is the very real possibility that CRASH is an elaborate joke. That is the only way that this monumentally idiotic mess could possibly be explained. Certainly there is nothing in this silliness that in any way touches upon normal human behavior as most people understand it. Indeed, I even suspect you would have trouble finding any psychologist or psychiatrist who would have ever encountered the type of freaky weirdoes who populate this film -- or for that matter even have read about such freaky weirdoes in text books. The film deals with people who get sexual aroused by automobile accidents and the pain and suffering such wrecks cause. I suppose anything is possible and such people may exist, but CRASH takes it one step further and suggests that there is this cult of individuals who somehow network to fulfill their fantasies of motorized mayhem. Two such characters are played by Holly Hunter and James Spader. In a most grotesque parody of meeting cute the two encounter each other when he crosses the center line and smashes head-on into her car, killing her husband and apparently getting her hot and bothered in the process. Hunter's Helen is already into smashup sex, so, after a stay in the hospital, the grieving widow naturally rushes Spader -- playing James Ballard, the author of the original novel -- into her small band of bumper car aficionados. In addition to being wreck 'n' roll fanatics, the people must also be incredibly rich. They like to recreate infamous celebrity auto accidents, such as James Dean's roadside death. For instance, to do so, they have to buy or recreate not only a replica of Dean's rare 1955 Porsche Spyder, but also an almost equally rare 1950 Ford coupe that was the other car involved in the crash. With these and a variety of other new and used cars, we're talking about thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of dollars for autos destined to be demolished in the name of foreplay. Talk about expensive quickies. A couple of tickets to a demolition derby would be far more economical -- and a virtual orgy. Of course, the film isn't really about auto eroticism; it is about sexual obsession in general. The fetish in question could have been about anything that inspires abnormal lust. The characters could have been turned on by, say, internet porn, gambling, bungee jumping, farm animals or jiggling Jell-O molds. But, gosh darn it, car wrecks are so much more photogenic. It doesn't seem to bother the filmmakers that they are perpetuating a correlation between sex and violence, because, well, they apparently believe such a link already exists. Nor do they seem to be aware that they are undermining their own efforts by building an oh-so serious drama around a ludicrously grim (and lame) joke. As such, the insipidness of the story is accentuated by the pomposity of the storytelling. Director David Cronenberg approaches the story as though he were Igmar Bergman directing PERSONA. Other than a few lapses, the film is cold and lifeless and empty; though it is somewhat appropriate that a film celebrating a sexual obsession with automobiles would depict sex as an utterly mechanical act. Cronenberg and crew do slip up a couple of times and inspire moments worthy of laughing out loud. One scene in particular is hilarious Hunter and several others are lounging around watching videos of auto crash tests like they are watching porn videos; One particularly messy smash up prompts Hunter to excitedly demand that it be shown again in slow motion. Crash dummies watching crash dummies, as it were.There is an unwritten rule of movie sex If films featuring explicit sex are fun and comic, then it is pornographic; but if the sex is joyless, degrading and dispassionate, then it is art -- or, sex as something good is dirty; sex as something bad is honest. It is this simplistic, neo-puritanical attitude that makes films like CRASH so insultingly hypocritical Make a big deal about filming graphic, lurid sex scenes, then condescendingly shake one's finger at the audience to remind them how perverse such activity is. It's like slipping an alcoholic a drink in order to self-righteously chastise him for being a drunk. Had the filmmakers shucked the smug moralizing and openly played the material as sly satire, perhaps CRASH could have been a sharp commentary on modern romance, both between people and with their cars -- speeding as flirtation, road rage as rape, reckless driving as masturbation, the head-on collision as the one night stand; marriage as the aftermath of roadside carnage. But I don't think the film has the courage or the intellect to explore such themes. The film plays it safe, giving us a tale of obsession where the obsession is devoid of the thrill, the energy or the naughtiness of actually giving in to an impulse. It's an addiction without a high, but worse no expectation of there being a high. Here is a film that wants us to identify with a psychological quirk that is, to say the least, ridiculous, but it doesn't even make the effort to frame the quirk in a realistic fashion. How are we to care one way or the other -- emotionally, dramatically, socially or even clinically -- about people the film itself seems to regard as emotionally dead freaks? CRASH thinks it is speeding recklessly down uncharted roads, but it is up on blocks, spinning its wheels and destined for the junkyard.  "},{"Title":"Art","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great art is that which evokes an emotional response from those who experience it. Viewers who think Crash is a masterpiece are hard pressed to explain why using merely words. Others who hate this movie do so on a visceral level. Roger Ebert gave Crash 3 1/2 stars and said he admired it but couldn't say he liked it. Ted Turner was appalled by the movie. Crash succeeds exactly because few people who have seen this movie will ever forget it or the feelings they had after seeing it. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece (contains spoilers)","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time I watched Crash was at 1 am in the morning as I had missed the first screening, I had already read reviews into the film and am a big David Cronenberg fan, but to my surprise the reviews that I had read about Crash considering it's controversial status were positive ones.So, onto the movie..what can I say...Crash is a masterpiece, a true, emotional, psychological powerhouse of a film, yet portrayed with minamalistic action or huge dialogue.The first thing that strikes to the mind is, is this a porn movie? The answer is no, because you only have to observe the characters faces during sex to understand this....Cronenberg has portrayed sex as a meaningless, everyday act by which brings no satisfaction. This is also the reason why both Ballard and Catherine are trying out other people, in hope that something can come of a poor sexlife.Do the character's become perverts? No again, it is sexual frustration that forces them to explore other sexual acts, a perfect scenario for the director who brought the first properly edited exploding head, mutated Jeff Goldblum into a Fly, had parasitic humans turn the world into an apocalypse and make James Wood stick a gun into a vaginal wound in his stomach! ..but what these new cravings become merely is an eye-opener, nothing they do truly satisfies them. Maybe the next one, darling...Maybe the next one... James utters to Catherine at the end of the film after what should be there car crash that fuses them together, but merely fails to deliver and reinforces frustration.On the surface the characters seem shallow, but they are all conclusions of a failed destiny. Vaughan seems to crave violent car crashes, and is trying to expand his mind using famous people (James Dean/Jayne Mansfield) but no crash seems big enough, or powerful enough for satisfaction, he is a guy so destined to make the ultimate crash happen that it is only the end of the movie he realises that that full on buzz can only come from the death of himself.All the characters in this movie were cast perfectly from Rosanna Arquette (Gabrielle) to Peter MacNeil (Seagrave). To me the characters seem meaningless and insignificant in there existence of life, yet they are the foundations of society once you get past everything that is fun and happy, and that is what makes Crash so dark and disturbing, how far will people go for the things they crave so much!Crash is a deeply harrowing film, agreed not for the many, but to purely deem Crash 'rubbish' or 'porno' is ridiculous and without thought. "},{"Title":"Don't waste time","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Really take my word, but if you wanna jiggle your tissues, go ahead -here is short version, there is awful story, just about sex, and even not any good ones, just not recommended to anyone, i am serious man, my reviews will always be helpful, i have very critical view points and if you watched the movie and liked it, be sure to watch Pirates XXX 2005 this one will also be your favorite,plus sign up for some porn later on, they are getting cheap now and even better quality and standard, they don't have gay sex in middle of something, In Short this movie is for psychopaths, and criminals, other weirdos. please like my review for future , down to earth, non-profit, unbiased reviews to short up time for watching bad bad movies. "},{"Title":"Trash! For perverts only (web)","Date":"19 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As the movie already sucked abusively my time by watching it, i won't give it much for my review. In short, this movie belongs to my black list of useless, pretentious, stupid movies that try to depict the worst depravities as an interest for art (as Blow, Irreversible). What's worst is that, as usual, the addition of big names (here, Cronenberg, Holly Hunter) tries hypocritically to give respectability and the movie establishment gives dumbly prizes to such crap! There's only one truth to remember there's nothing romantic or light about licentiousness those people are cruel and dehumanized! "},{"Title":"CRASH takes it's place in the study of Erotica.","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  CRASH takes it's place in the study of Erotica.  This film reaches into the mind of those who explore the true genre of erotica. Crash takes what it is entitled to take. True Erotica has no boundary, is limitless and you will feel it when it delivers. See it. "},{"Title":"...A Mesmeric Masterpiece of Unexpected Profoundness...","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   I can safely say that David Cronenberg's Crash is one of the most unique motion picture experiences I've had in a long time.  Now that's not saying that I particularly liked the film.  Half way through the film, I starting asking myself, What exactly IS this film about?  My original answer was sex and car crashes.  But by the time the film had reached its conclusion, I realized that Crash is a lot more than that.  It's 25% bizarre, 25% disturbing, 50% erotic, and 100% ingenious.  I've concluded that there is no REAL plot to the film.  The characters just go around and have sex.  But, at a second glance, I realized that Crash is not simply about people with strange sexual fetishes, but it's a psychosexual journey into the minds of these people.  Everything that Cronenberg shows us is completely relevant to the characters.  And while the expression of his creativity is done in a blatantly pornographic style, the truth of the matter is that there is absolutely nothing pornographic about the picture.  Aside from the numerous explicit sex scenes, it's a profound and concise psychological drama.  The sex scenes are merely the vehicle in which Cronenberg gets his point across.And what is the point of a film that has no point to begin with?  Exactly.  There is no point.  All that Crash does is take us into a deep world of sexual disturbance at the hands of numerous sexually disturbed characters.James Spader, Holly Hunter, and Elias Koteas all give performances that are hard to describe.  It's like watching actors in a silent film, but still feeling that deep prophetic wisdom that seems to be emanating from them.  Though there is nothing wise about their characters' choices or dialogue, just the way they carry themselves provides the film with a self-assured aura that is neither pretentious nor ostentatious.Throughout everything, Cronenberg's film manages to become a mesmeric masterpiece of unexpected profoundness and dramatic brilliance.  Crash has nothing to do with anything, and it most certainly is not a likeable film.  I respect the film for its courage and deep understanding of the human sexual psyche, but this one is seriously not for the average viewer.  It's a powerful and brutally honest film that never ceases to shock, but at the same time seems to be an empty vat of nothingness.  But for those seeking an original, brave, and ultimately hypnotic picture, Crash is the one for you.Grade  A "},{"Title":"If Movies Are Made To Communicate, It Does Have To Go This Far","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash, as everyone knows, is about a group of people who find their most insatiable sexual arousal from bloody car crashes. But it's more than that. It's about the nature of fetishes. Are fetishes good for us or bad for us? They can replenish sex lives when they're becoming a bit too concise, but they're like any addictive pleasure. They can go too far. They also don't have to be harmless in and of themselves. It's not just dressing in leather and feeling the brief sting of a small whip resembling the things that cheerleaders shake. It can be anything that taps into psychological basis of one's sexual urges. The story takes us through the life of a man who realizes the underworld of people that share his extremely dangerous fetish and, as his motive is to only utilize his fetish to improve sex with his wife, he and other participants grow obsessed with it and it becomes a lifestyle.I praise the film's daring exploration of one of the deepest, darkest, least communicated subjects, and the last line and the following closing shot are both emotionally haunting, but that aside, I was disappointed with David Cronenberg's deviation from his usual style, an unmistakable emotional involvement dominantly glimpsed in the musical score. Crash has his quiet, slow-flowing atmosphere but without its punctuating verve in the cinematography and music, both of which are like that of a movie made for television. The film is successfully black and blue, and the music hits the right notes, no pun intended, in the evocation of sexiness and seduction its jazzy saxophone and keyboard were going for, though it sounds perhaps synthesized.The high points of the film are no doubt its sex scenes, beautifully and realistically choreographed, for the most part avoiding Hollywoodization. Characters sweat, hump, intertwine, and lust. The laconia of the main character's sex with his wife and the single- minded, desperately passionate lustsex are very clear in Cronenberg's discreet way. "},{"Title":"THE WORST MOVIE EVER","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Who thought that this film would actually be good?  I know I thought so, then I saw it... What was the point? Why sex and crashes?  Nothing seemed even the slightest bit realistic. I do think this was the worst film that I ever paid to see in the theater "},{"Title":"James couldn't save it","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film because James Spader is one of my favorite actors, and the storyline sounded intriguing.  Even though David Cronenberg is known for making creepshows, this one just didn't deliver.  The characters were more like a group of sex ghouls than people that were disconnected from their world and needed the perverted stimulous of car crashes to feel alive during sexual acts.  The only pleasant part of this film was the continual body exposure of Deborah Unger. I like movies that have complicated plots that make me think and keep me interested, but this one was just dull and insipid.  This film and Curtain Call are the only role mistakes Spader has made in his career, and I hope they're the last. "}{"Title":"This movie is a car wreck","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let me sum up this movie for you right here and I'll save you the rental cost A bunch of Canadian perverts crash cars and have sex for 100 minutes. That's the beginning, middle and end of the whole movie, right there. Call me old fashioned, but I prefer movies with plots.I still can't figure out what Holly Hunter was doing in this movie.  "},{"Title":"APOCALYPTIC MASTERPIECE","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't usually write reviews here, despite I have thousands of movies, because mostly I don't have the appetite to do so, and generally, I'm covered by other users' comments. But I was shocked to find out that such an allegorical movie, with such an incredible philosophy, which I personally consider one of the best of the 90s got an average of 5.7! It's amazing! I keep visiting movie pages and I see incredibly misfit user ratings! It is really disgusting! For example, Brotherhood of Wolfs, an action/karate French flick of no artistic value was about 7.1 when I last checked, and The Cell, a movie with great cinematography and fairly good but not THAT good, also had a rating above 7! I keep getting disappointed by some IMDB users. For God's sake, they are so idiotic that immediately after watching a movie in theatres, rate it 10 or 9, they are so compelled and much later they consider their idiocy. For example, the cute but just cute My Big Fat Greek Wedding, was so ridiculously praised, that when it was first rated, the average was 8.3, Jesus Christ! (Hopefully, it isn't so high now, but yet a 7.1 for just a cute but soooo ordinary movie. Imagine, I'm saying that, being Greek!) "},{"Title":"Empty people","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie shows human beings at their weirdest, as empty shells, desperately seeking to fill themselves up with something, getting high on some experience exceeding their normal life. People grown used to the rush of modern life, finding their reality mundane. Even though it's not. These people all have interesting jobs. They live in an interesting place, but they do not venture away from it. Instead, they seek out the extreme.I see some people describing this movie as sexy. It's about sex, and the characters in the movie seek out intense intimacy of it, but that doesn't make it sexy.While I appreciate much of what this movie does, the mood of it, the weird, etc., I felt it could have conveyed much of that in half the time. I was bored many times throughout the movie. At the same time, I know this is a movie I will be talking and thinking about for a long time. "},{"Title":"Crash does not Crash & burn","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" BEWARE 1996's Crash is not the same 2004 film directed by Paul Haggis that won Best Picture at the Academy Awards for 2005; I still think that Brokeback Mountain should have won that year, and that remains one of the biggest disappointments in Oscar history, but I digress.No.Crash is the infamous 1996 erotic psychological thriller from the controversial Canadian born-&-bred David Cronenberg (The Fly, Dead Ringers, Videodrome, Scanners), who both wrote and directed the film, and also served as a producer. Crash is by far the most provocative and sexually explicit film Cronenberg has ever done - going so far as to earn the dreaded NC-17 rating, yet still somehow winning the Special Jury Prize at the Cannes Film Festival, and being nominated also for the prestigious Palme d'Or. That says something for a film that borders on being soft-core pornography, or does it?Despite its graphic depiction of human sexuality (most of it taking place behind the wheel, rather than in the bedroom), Cronenberg is actually striving for something bigger here, which is how people are transformed, physically, psychologically and SEXUALLY, by the car crash (and to a greater extent, how human beings are being transformed by technology itself). Crash examines this by peering into a world that examines the cathartic sexual release granted to some by automobile accidents. It's a premise that will certainly make people think twice about getting behind the wheel again, and is a premise that also caused a huge sensation when the late author J.G. Ballard published his controversial novel - from which this film is based - of the same name back in 1973. (Quite frankly, it's very easy to imagine how unnerved some people might have been in 1996 after viewing this movie in the theater, and then thinking about the drive home afterward.)In the words of one observer, the characters in Crash are their own potential killers, who make themselves vulnerable to death every time they climb into their conveyances. Set in Ontario, Canada, bored film director James Ballard (James Spader, an obvious stand-in for the author of the original novel) seeks greater sexual experiences than the mundane pleasures offered to him by his crumbling open marriage to his wife Catherine (Deborah Kara Unger). One night, Ballard gets into a serious, near-fatal car accident - a head-on collision with another vehicle - and winds up in the hospital, horribly scarred and with his left leg in a rather scary-looking contraption that I'm only guessing is a leg brace of some sort.While recovering at the hospital, he learns that the accident killed the driver of the other car, but left the passenger, Dr. Helen Remington (Holly Hunter), a widow. He also by chance meets Dr. Remington's associate Vaughan (Elias Koteas), a car accident-obsessed, slightly mad rogue doctor who leads an underground sub-culture that re-stages famous car crashes - the September 30, 1955, car crash that killed Hollywood movie star James Dean gets a lot of special attention here.Vaughan's special little project aims to examine how the energy of a car crash is not only a form of sexual catharsis, but is also a trans-formative, or fertilizing (rather than destructive), event for the crash victim - something that happens to liberate the victim from the boundaries of (what we consider to be) normal sexual experience, which, of course, is provided they even SURVIVE the crash in the first place. Himself a badly scarred car crash survivor, his re-staging of famous car accidents is a ploy to open up new sexual horizons for others, and he's pulled Ballard, who is by no means an unwilling participant (in fact, his initial car accident was a baptism, of sorts), into his dark world of auto-erotica in an effort to gain sexual satisfaction from his marriage to Catherine. Sex happens a lot in this picture, most of it in cars (hence the spin on the term, auto- erotica), between men and women, women and women, and men and men; it shows that Cronenberg doesn't like to play favorites and since his movie is about pushing boundaries, there's also some scar play in there, as well - look at what Gabrielle (Rosanna Arquette) is wearing to the party.As a long-time fan of David Cronenberg (The Fly still remains his masterpiece to me), I've waited a long time to see Crash, as it shows that he was gradually moving away from the so-called body horror that defined much of his early career and also like the characters in this film, he was seeking new horizons to explore. Of course since the beginning of the 21st century, Cronenberg's profile has gone increasingly mainstream and he has been heavily involved in making thrillers of various types - A History of Violence (2005) and Eastern Promises (2007) come to mind - that have explored new thematic territories but his boundary-pushing auteur style and philosophical fascinations of bodily destruction remain largely unchanged.Crash is a controversial (albeit needlessly so) film, no doubt, from a controversial, yet endlessly masterful and fascinating, filmmaker. It's dark, it's sexually explicit and grotesquely violent in many areas, but like all of Cronenberg's work, you just can't turn away - no matter how repulsed or disgusted you are by everything that you're seeing. Crash is by no means for those with a weak stomach - heed the NC-17 rating, folks - but it is something that can open your eyes and stimulate your senses in ways few filmmakers are willing to do anymore.8/10 "},{"Title":"Distant and detached - if HAL3000 made a movie...","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash remains Cronenberg's most controversial movies. Permeating with sex and obscenity, coupled with obsessions of both bodily and mechanical nature, it was born on shock factor. Film producer James Ballard (James Spader) and his promiscuous wife Catherine (the voluptuous Deborah Kara Unger) lead a life of mutually accepted sexual ventures, searching for ultimate satisfaction by indulging into various affairs. A car accident featuring Helen Remington (Holly Hunter) introduces another level of compulsive sexual mania - where sexual desires and metal mesh together to form a hybrid of death, car crashes and orgiastic pleasure. This introduces both James and Catherine to the Vaughan (Elias Koteas) and their common spiralling search for fulfilment, where boundaries are pushed further and further, while sperm leaks by the gallons...A story less about the addiction to sex or dangerous driving, but more about the growing infatuation with the mechanical, as it slowly overrides bodily desires to entail technoorganic fulfilment. As a car becomes a subject of desire, craving and our bodies seem to merge with its leather seats and metallic odour, Cronenberg shows a new phase of humanity. One devoid of emotion, cold and ever expanding, as desire becomes limitless to the death. Taking the issue of automotive obsession to the extreme Crash manages to pack an uneasy wallop, one however that is overlong and for half its running time directionless. Once the premise is clear characters indulge into sexual deviance to sexual deviance with each passing scene pushing themselves further, when the previously passed boundary no longer satisfies the growing need. Although the gist is evident the tirade of weird sex and masturbation becomes tiring and fails to add any further layers to the story.It is hard to blame Cronenberg, as the execution fits the story. Bleak, detached from emotion, jaded and monotonous fulfils the goal of presenting the lingering disconnect of characters, which are so lost in lack of feeling, whilst trying to discover fulfilment. Especially apparent when Ballard and Catherine have sex - physical pleasure is achieved, but emotional fulfilment is non-achievable. Therefore the search for emotion (one induced by the adrenaline rush of a crash) triggers a longing for more of this natural drug, but at the same time increasing the level required for satisfaction. This self-destructive behaviour is so natural, so human, but achieved through such dehumanised means...A tough piece of fiction, which is hard fought to be called pleasant, but definitely a shocking piece worthy of reflection and afterthought, not necessarily admiration. "},{"Title":"Sex drive...","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Disturbing yet allegorical, emotionally shallow yet erotically fierce, David Cronenberg's crushingly warped world of sex, cars and sex in cars isn't for those who like their films middle-of-the-road. Try off- road. And then some, for Cronenberg's Crash is a perverse, surreal and psychosexual illustration of the apparent links between danger, death and sex with clout that, for all its scandal and sexcitement, ultimately fails to get into top gear. James Spader plays horny TV exec' James Ballard who, following a near fatal car crash with an equally horny Dr. Helen Remington (Holly Hunter), finds himself lured into an uncanny cult where ex-crash victims are bound together by a kinetic lust for the very machines, circumstances and imagery that disfigured their bodies and minds. Taking contentious themes and stretching them to their outer limits such as scopophilia, sadomasochism, serial monogamy, self mutilation and homosexuality, Cronenberg crafts and explores a world driven by auto- eroticism, sexual-oddities and libidinal hungers that feeds on the messages, morals and conventions of the mainstream. A move that'll come to the delight of some but, inevitably, the complete and utter disgust of others. Those who fall into the latter camp don't bother with Crash. You'd do well to last twenty minutes. The former sit back, interpret and try to enjoy. With seemingly more scenes of a sexual nature than dialogue (I counted three in the first two minutes), Crash is not for those who bare a faint or chaste heart. It's a prude's worst nightmare. It's provocative, distinct and sexy; a libidinal indie smash of Bunuel-cum-Lynch-like verve whose characters have somewhat idealistic and incalculable sex drives superior to those of a celibate sex addict set loose in Amsterdam. The result? Cinematic smut in pure overdrive that depraves and astounds. "},{"Title":"One of Cronenberg's More Bizarre Works, Which Says a Lot","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After getting into a serious car accident, a TV director (James Spader) discovers an underground sub-culture of scarred, omnisexual car-crash victims who use car accidents and the raw sexual energy they produce to try to rejuvenate his sex life with his wife.This film is a great director (David Cronenberg) adapting a great novelist (JG Ballard), and featuring a great cast. James Spader has rarely been so good as he is here, and for those who cannot get enough of him having sex, this is the film you want (I honestly lost count). Holly Hunter is also great... with the star being, I think, Elias Koteas.Koteas, who does not get enough credit, despite being in many, many great films, is obsessed with car accidents and likes to recreate historic ones, such as the crash that killed James Dean. No pads, no air bags, just metal on metal -- with him inside. He plays the character Vaughn in such a way that his perversity seems normal, even believable. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies, but it isn't for everyone. If you are offended by anything, this movie will probably find a way to upset you.  I thought it was very sexy, but the sex scenes are certainly odd. "},{"Title":"Utterly bizarre and empty.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  David Cronenberg likes to push the envelope in film.  With Scanners, he ushered in a new wave of  horror.  With The Dead Zone, he gave us horror of a more subdued kind.  With The Fly, he  remade a sci-fi classic and gave it a new spin.  And with Dead Ringers, he explored the strange  dual life of twins.  With Crash, Cronenberg pushes us, but I don't know what kind of repsonse he  was going for.  The story concerns James Ballard and a group of crash enthusiasts.  After his  initial crash, Ballard meets up with Helen Remington and a mysterious man named Vaughn.   Ballard is soon introduced to the strange world of car crashes, and the rush of sexual tension.   Now I can see where there is a thin line that separates these two acts.  Both bring out a strong  physical and emotional reaction, but the characters in the film are too detached from life.   There is sex without pleasure, and the only way these people can experience pleasure, is through  the trauma of an automobile accident.  The film moves along at a leisurely pace and nothing ever  really happens.  There is no dramatic need that these characters have to fill.  There is no  urgency in their actions and their motivations are clouded, by what I interpret as boredom.   Cronenberg has done some fine work in the past, and I think he'll come along and shock us with a  truly original film.  Until then, stick with the four I mentioned at the top.               "},{"Title":"Remember Reality?","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OK, so this wasn't the worst movie in the world, but it sure did suck.  I know, those who praise this movie will say I didn't get it.  No, I got it. It's about alienation in modern society blah, blah, blah...The problem I had with it wasn't so much the messed up behavior of the main characters (that's what the movie was about, after all), but how the people they interacted with were so unrealistic it is pathetic.A couple examples1. When the chase between Vaughn, James and Catherine is happening, and Vaughn smashes into the back of the garbage truck, the driver just keeps going along without even so much as honking his horn!  I know Canadians are not as violent as Yankees, but I don't think they are THAT much more tolerant as to allow people to smash into their vehicle without getting p***ed off.2. When our fearless trio arrive at the crash scene on the highway, they easily drive up along the shoulder passing all the stalled motorists with impunity!  Then, they meander around the crash scene, taking pictures and getting in the way of the rescue team without even so much as a word from them.  I mean, come on!  Are the main characters invisible?In conclusion, I understood the message behind the picture, but I think that having some grasp on reality (at least for the incidental characters) would have helped me stop saying to myself, this is sooooooo unreal!My Rating 2. "}{"Title":"my TITANIC","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If Howard Shore's exquisite score hasn't pulled you in by the end of the riveting opening title & credit sequence then you're asleep at the wheel and deserve a J.C. sized King of the World! head-on with a North Atlantic iceberg, without rescue.Cronenberg is Master of the Universe in his brilliant adaptation of this J.G.Ballard classic tale of tantalizing techno-fetishism. After each viewing (I've stopped counting.),I carry the lingering buzz of transcendental longing evoked by so many of the scenes, the whispered dialog, haunting performances by everyone in it (Elias Koteas can take me any time,anywhere in his rumbling bed on wheels.).CRASH is the perdurable parable of love for our modern selves.  "},{"Title":"If it's the worst film ever, why all the comments?","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Reading the voluminous feedback on Cronenberg's Crash, it amazes me to read that so many users see it as the worst film they've ever seen. What's the matter, you don't like thinking? Because all of this feedback can't be attributed to the more sensational elements of the film... one doesn't have to look far to find a film with more sex, violence, or grotsequerie... and therefore the film must be considered successful in its attempt to provoke thought and debate. It makes sense that the audience which enjoys mindless, hackneyed, contrived, by-the-numbers Hollywood idiotfests like 'Armageddon' would resent a film which challenges them to actually (gasp) think about something, especially something which doesn't fit into the acceptable subject matter of literature and cinema. To those poor close-minded viewers, my advice is to stay away from anything which says Directed by David Cronenberg or A novel by J.G. Ballard and stick with Starring Jim Carrey. As for Cronenberg and/or Ballard fans who were disappointed by Crash, yikes I can't imagine what you were hoping for. Ballard himself considers Cronenberg's film a work of genius, saying that it's captured all of the necessary elements of his novel. Crash is a milestone piece of cinema, equal in daring and psychological scope to Pasolini's Salo. Both films are similarly polarizing in that they're difficult for conventionally-minded audiences to accept and recognized as classics by those who are up to the psychopathological challenges they present. If you fall into the latter category, my advice is read the book, see the film. For those who enjoyed Crash, I can highly recommend BFI's Modern Classics serie "},{"Title":"yuck","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It starts with a good, if completely immoral and reprehensible, premise of people getting off on car wrecks.  Sound ridiculous?  Because it is, so ridiculous that it's plausible.  I'm sure groups just like this truly exist. That's what makes this a potentially interesting movie.  Its extremely novel take on sex and death, the two most fascinating topics, could have made this a great movie, and the presence of an actress like Holly Hunter lures you into believing that it will be.  Well, you're wrong.  The characters are completely void of emotion or any real thought.  They are only interested in the physicality of sex and death.  They never touch on the emotionality of the experiences or why they are so intimately connected with one another.  They just have a whole lot of sex in cars.  Another difficulty is the lack of any sort of dialogue.  No true exchanges occur of any kind be they verbal or otherwise.  Therefore, there is never any meaning given to the film.  It's just straight, meaningless, sadistic sex.  Hunter and Arquette deliver the best performances in the film both of which are substandard for the caliber of the actresses, especially Hunter.  > overall, not worth it.  it was ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Fascinating, sexy, thought-provoking.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash rails at the sensibilities.  It's a fascinating study of outlandish sexual fetishes and behavior put on film.  Some users have made comment that the characters were too emotionally detached.  I'm of the school of thought that this was done on purpose by the director.  Taking the focus away from character development allowed the audience to absorb the utter grotesqueness that was the hallmark of this movie.  The premise, though outlandish, was not looked at through a jaundiced eye.The acting was outstanding.  A lot has been said about the performances of James Spader, Holly Hunter, Rosanna Arquette, and Elias Koteas.  Deborah Unger's performance sent chills through my spine, as possibly the most seductively sensual/sexual portrayal I've seen.  She more than held her own with the aforementioned players.  This was the first film I had seen her in, and after seeing her since then in two other films, I don't understand why she possibly isn't a bigger star than she is.  Each of her characters has an undercurrent of intense sensuality that literally leaps off the screen. Certainly, her character in Crash was the most sensual of all.Crash is for broad-minded people who like movies, and who enjoy seeing what well-made movies with different ideas or premises can be.  Outlandish, yes. Outstanding, and certainly memorable, yes.  "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's film has the effect of creating a thought provoking crash in our film viewing experience","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The reason I find David Cronenberg's style so interesting is the way he seems to stay faithful to a conventional form narration throughout most of his films by nonetheless adding certain specific elements that defy these conventions.  The effect of Cronenberg's style is that it makes the viewer think.  Seeing his/her expectations, conditioned by his/her previous film watching experience, fulfilled in Cronenberg's films leads the viewer to relax and live the same cognitive interaction as with any conventional Hollywood drama.  But somewhere along the line Cronenberg deceives the viewer's expectations, leaving the feeling that he/she has witnessed something odd.  It is this feeling that I believe to be essential in understanding the meaning of Cronenberg's work.I have noted two unconventional elements in `Crash'.  The first one is that the sex scenes are not peripheral to the story but are essential plot elements.  The driving force behind the story is James Ballard's (a superb James Spader) and his wife's (a well cast Deborah Kara Unger) attempt to find sexual satisfaction.  The second element is the way car crashes are filmed.  Rather than filming them from three different camera angels and showing them in slow motion, as it is usually done, Cronenberg has just used one camera angle and has shown them in normal speed.  Ironically, though the car crashes are filmed realistically, Cronenberg has noted in his `Cahiers du Cinema' interview that most viewers had found them unrealistic.  This is due to the fact that in `Crash' they were filmed very differently than what the viewers have come to expect.The combination of these two elements, sex scenes as essential plot elements and more realistic car crashes, has affected different viewers in two distinct ways.  Some people, I fall into this category, have been really drawn in by `Crash'.  Others have found the film repulsive.  I believe that both type of viewer should seriously think about their respective feelings about `Crash' in relation to their previous film going experience.  Those who have enjoyed `Crash' should think about why they have not found it repulsive.  One answer I have found in my case was that most films using peripheral violence and sex have finally managed to desensitize me.  Viewers that have found `Crash' repulsive, however, should think why they do not find other films depicting numerous chase scenes and explosions equally repulsive.  I believe that this is due to the fact that these elements have become conventions in mainstream cinema, and that viewers do not notice them unless they are filmed in an unconventional manner the way Cronenberg has done.This becomes disturbing when one draws a parallel between the viewers and the characters in `Crash'.  Cars have become such an indispensable part of the characters' lives that they are only able to live strong emotions and sexual urges only when they witness a violent car crash.  Similarly sex scenes and violence peripheral to the story have perhaps become such integral parts of the viewers' film going experience that one takes notice of them only when they are depicted the way Cronenberg has. As such I believe that the brilliance of Cronenberg's film does not only rest on its internal qualities but also on its ability to create the effect of a crash in the viewers' film watching experience.  "},{"Title":"A sad film dealing with mis-fits of society who find sexual excitement in car crashes. Strange but I liked it.","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Have you ever wanted to go see a movie that was completely different than anything you have viewed in the past? Crash is such a film. It is sad to see people so sick as to want to crash cars in order to enhance sex but I found myself wondering what motivated these people to do what they do. True to its NC17 rating, this is not a film that should be seen by everyone. It is titillating and filled with sex and car accidents but I found Crash strangely interesting and absorbing.  "},{"Title":"That's all methaphor!","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash is just one more Cronenberg's film about men's relation with science. That's obviously unbelievable. Taking the plot as it were a real possible story is the same as saying that in Nightmare before Christmas, you can see the characters are dolls because you can see their movings; or saying that Monet's paintings were somehow steamed up. Let's try to see beyond what your eyes see. "},{"Title":"Loses the Point","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I like Cronenberg films. I have been watching his movies since the 80's. Shivers, The Brood, Scanners, Videodrome, The Fly, Dead Ringers... I think he got it wrong with this one. The reason I like Cronenberg is because he successfully bridges the gap between genre and art-house films to create something odder and more intense than either. The two movies of this period Crash and eXistenZ show that he has lost this talent and is happy to revert to type. Crash is arty and eXistenZ is candy. They both seemed to be lacking elements of each other. They are both reasonable films but highlight a drift in his directorial prowess. Yes the JG Ballard tale is a weird one but the direction is a bit straight for my tastes... not enough honest weirdness and too much literary weirdness. "},{"Title":"crash is sex","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The title of my review is not meant pejoratively. Crash is one of these films I completely decried the first time I had watched it. Actually, I reacted like a part of David Cronenberg's fans whereas it's the kind of film that requires a second vision. So, I watched it again recently and I changed my mind about it. If before this screening I tended to put Cronenberg's opus in the place of loser and to underscore its pretentious character, now I would label it as a winner and I would substitute the mentioned epithet for dour.If my memory serves me well, Crash caused a lot of controversy when it reached the streets ten years ago in some countries including Great Britain. Adapted from a novel written by J.G. Ballard, I think it sharply contrasts with some of the director's precedent works. In these works, the Canadian filmmaker let his taste for bloody horror show through, especially his early films like Shivers (1975) or Rabid (1977). However, in some of his films, he managed to shelve these excesses for a more thrifty style. I think of Dead Ringers (1988). Crash could rank in this category. There are no bloody sequences. Anyway, it's easy to see why Cronenberg was interested in Ballard's novel. It offered him the opportunity to deepen his set of themes like the degradation of the human body and everything harmful that can happen to it but also the fusion between man and technology (here, it's epitomized by its most trivial symbol car). What's also amazing from him is that he succeeded in eschewing any didactic style to be as objective as possible. Dialogs are minimal and are mostly self-explanatory like this key cue pronounced by Vaughan the remodeling of human body through modern technology.So, the main thrust of the film is that the car crash enables to boost man's sexual life. The supposedly love affair between man and the car reaches here its climax. Vaughan even goes to associate car crashes with sexual orgasms. To a certain extent, the clandestine shows in which he reproduces famous crashes constitute a way to follow for people who are unsatisfied with their sexual lives. The Ballard couple whose sexual life is reduced to a series of overnight love affairs realizes it and enjoys this dangerous game in which death could happen before the second part of this design sexual act. Cronenberg's film goes beyond this to arouse major issues could technology swallow man? Can the two elements live together? Could the latter lose his identity? There's one sequence I find very strong. It's the one when Catherine and James go to buy a new car and Catherine has hidden her scars under an appearance made of leather and metal. As I said before, Cronenberg opted for a thrifty and sober style. This perspective is shown straight at the outset during the opening credits to the sound of a startling music. Then, the film takes a leap into a dreary universe with a metallic coldness and a gloomy cinematography that Cronenberg never tries to embellish. Relationships between man and the machine are assessed in a hard-hitting way and the characters often speak in a detached manner between themselves. Could car crashes make warm human relationships subside except through sex? Of course, to watch such a difficult film like this one takes guts but for the ones who haven't discovered it yet, Crash isn't a succession of erotic sequences interspersed with crashes. It's more subtle than that and if Cronenberg chose a more straightforward approach, it's precisely to enable the audience to understand his film and to make us think about the issues he developed here. So, the first vision might leave you baffled so be prepared for a second screening. "},{"Title":"You HAVE to see this film!","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is perhaps one of THE greatest misconstrued films of all time! For anyone to give it less than 7 or 8 out of ten is criminal and they have surely missed the whole point of the film! Because of my love of all things directed by David Cronenberg (quite possibly THE greatest director to have never been truly recognised in terms of awards gained for the work that he has done and continues to do) I gave the film a resounding 10 out of 10! The camera work is absolutely amazing and is done so beautifully it draws you along and into what is being shot perfectly. You end up feeling EXACTLY what David Cameron is wanting you to. Feeling that is also helped by the superb acting of the cast, main and support. They took to the film like a duck to water and bring out the best of the wonderfully written script. This film never over-states anything without reason and in general it subtly under-states and your mind is almost playing catch-up as are your thoughts. This is not a bad thing and you don't actually realise it is happening as it is exceedingly subtle but it all adds to the wonderment of the film. The film is about a man that almost loses his wife in a car crash after he is pulled out of a nasty one (that is a head on collision) barely alive and it is whilst recuperating in hospital that things get stranger for James Ballard. His sex life already empty with his wife, and in search of new ways to put the excitement back in it he meets the other driver, the driver that caused the head on collision by driving straight towards him on the wrong side of the road, and she convinces him to attend one of her meetings with her. From there on things for James Ballard get very strange indeed as he thinks there could be something in the principles behind the meetings and in what the meetings are all about- finding the connection between sex and danger and the closer to death one can get the more exciting things can become and the more sexually turned on one gets. It's a bit like the way some people get really turned on by and gain huge orgasms from the intensity of being strangled during sex because the closer they get to having all of their breath squeezed out of them the bigger their orgasms are. well in this film substitute having one's neck squeezed (strangulation/asphixiation) for car crashes. After visiting the group a couple of times and thinking they can help James gets his wife involved. Where once the other members in the group also led empty passionless sex lives James can see they don't now, the only problem is one of increased severity; they realise that little accidents don't turn them on like they used to. It gets to the point where bigger and bigger and nastier and nastier crashes are needed all the time to get turned on. This doesn't just relate to strangulation, it relates to bondage as well in that if one only need 6 of the best with say, a ruler to get turned on, sometime soon one will get numb to that and need more. Either more strokes with the ruler or 6 with something heavier or both.This is a must-see film of the highest order and all those that don't rate this film 7 or 8 out of ten or higher well they have completely missed the point. I didn't want to spend to much time on it as I didn't want to ruin your enjoyment of this masterpiece! "}{"Title":"Powerful movie","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well....don't actually know how to begin since it's been a while I saw that movie but I can tell one thing it certainly left a deep mark on me !The story is powerful and the actors (Holly Hunter and James Spader !!) are great. It's all about people being bored in this modern world while really it's about loosing humanity due to this modern world. Is there anything else to do in order to feel ? Enjoy ? Lust ? Must it really hurt ? Is the pain really the ultimate JOY ? The story left me thinking about Humans - what is going on with the world? And isn't that sometimes the point ? Not just eating junk food while 'entertaining' yourself inside the theater ? But actually remembering the Movie for a long time and having the right to your own opinion and own happiness ? And that's the story, really. And the reason I write this comment so late is I saw the IMDb rating (5.9) while searching for stuff about Holly Hunter and I definitely think it's a 10. So, here I am giving the movie my rate 10. "},{"Title":"Psychoanalysis and the unconscious in Crash is the key","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think this reviewer and the virtually all those who reviewed this film in the press entirely missed the obvious. First, this film is clearly mixing around with the psychoanalytic themes surrounding Eros and Thanatos, or in other words death and sex.Second, this movie is a commentary on our obsession with cars. We treat cars as sexual objects, we fetish them all the time.I can't understand the perspective that the characters in this film are not realistic, or are freaks, etc... when has realism ever been an issue when watching a movie?The narrative in this film is clear, and the storyline is easy to understand. When the character Vaughn is talking about James Dean and racing to death, he is clearly stating a popular view. We do treat James Dean as a sexual icon of manhood, and we do glorify his death.So why do people hate this movie so much?Well when someone goes into see a shrink and they end up hating the shrink we usually call the transference. My theory is that this film starts to bring to consciousness all these unconscious drives. For example the latent homosexuality in the love of the movie star and the automobile.The reviewer says the films obsession with cars could be replaced with any other sexual obsession. In entirely disagree. The film is about cars from the beginning to the end. "},{"Title":"the only movie i sat thru where someone barfed in front of me!","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i really enjoyed this movie classic DC at his bestnasty nasty movie, great story and great visualsa lady sat behind me and laughed the whole time, i had to tell her to move to the back and quit ruining the moviethen right after that the woman in front of me barfed in her pepsi cup and had to leave, not sure what made her sick, maybe it was james spader in the car with the other guyit was a very exciting movie, best enjoyed with some beer and on a nice system, like the other person said, view with an open mindEric Austin TX  "},{"Title":"Slightly dumb, tries too hard, basically boring.","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The movie sucked. It was boring, and the reason I didn't walk out is that it had a lot of sex and violence. Neither of which was exceedingly good, despite relative hotness of the actresses. The sex was boring. The lesbian scenes, also boring. The gay sex, yet more boring. If this movie were Jell-O, it would be the unflavored kind. It was just jiggly, no sweetness or flavor. And yes, I'm fully aware that I didn't say anything about the plot. There's really nothing to say; plot in this movie is strictly an illusion. If you think you see some, I'm afraid you're wrong. But hey - if you like it, you like it. Personal preference is your right. It's just not a good film. Three word plot summary Sex, crashes, ennh.  "},{"Title":"Please Deploy the Airbags","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Dull, Dull, Dull. Showgirls for the Eurotrash crowd.To be truthful, Fight Club, released a few years after this oven stuffer roaster explored the themes of isolation and a world gone mad much better. This film takes itself far too seriously - even where others try to find winks and nods and tongues in cheeks, all that's really there is just poor conceptual filmmaking. DePalma might have made this into a campy romp of sorts; however, the detachment is so great from the audience and from anything that i was hoping they'd get into a fatal accident in the first 20 minutes of the film or so. Oh, the dialogue is also pretty awful. "},{"Title":"Truly outstanding movie...","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a rarity in modern times to see something as wild and perverse as David Cronenberg's Crash.Nowadays every movie is so politically correct,that I miss those days when such gems like Day of the Women,Maniac or New York Ripper were released.You don't need tons of special effects to create an unique movie.The acting is great,the script based on the book by J.G.Ballard is well-adapted and the sex scenes are quite explicit.I love especially the character played by Debrah Kara Unger.She is so beautiful.In conclusion,if you want to see something truly memorable then Crash is for you,but if you're a prude-in that case don't bother with it. "},{"Title":"A truly shock Success","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yep there are a lot of people that hate this movie, it has too explicit sex and violence, its dark, it looks like no sense at all but to disturb, its terrible and add as much bad comments as you want to it.Now you want to know the funny part is a great success for David hahahah, you want to know why? because this movie its a great critic vision of the american way of life, but he doesnt need to be so obvious to make you think nope he rather makes the popular audience disturbed and feeling so repulsive about the plot of the movie and hate it.  Well folks that was the point you who hate so much this movie I want you to know that Croenebergs message worked so good on you couse that was the point to make you feel sick about the way of american life. And those strange people like me who love it haha  congratulations you really understood it ) "},{"Title":"Sex and death in the worst way.","Date":"6 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A handful of fairly good actors give decent performances in a story about death, disfigurement, and sex. Unfortunately, the material in no way lives up to the talent spent on it. The characters' sexual obsession with car crashes is not only distasteful, but truly unbelievable. Though titillating, the sex seems as self-destructive as the obsession. Isn't your fondest dream to have your sweetheart mangled and disabled in a crash? "},{"Title":"Wow-what a great film!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  David Cronenberg is one of the most amazing directors ever.All his movies are incredible,and Crash is simply no exception.Some people don't get it,but in my opinion it's pure brilliance on screen!Of course it's quite shocking and unpleasant at times,but I always enjoy watching controversial movies.The depiction of sexuality in Crash is pretty strong,and the sex scenes are rather graphic.The acting is great,and I especially like the performance of Deborah Kara Unger-she is simply gorgeous!Too many people trash this masterpiece-I'll give it 10 out of 10-what else?Excellent job-mr. Cronenberg. "},{"Title":"Journey to the heart of steel","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash is about people who get not only excited but even sexually aroused by car accidents. The film's theme is highly dared, no wonder that many of its viewers will be annoyed, disgusted or even shocked by it. Watching Crash is not at all a delightful experience, but it is nevertheless an experience which is worth having it. The film does not provide simple answers to what it is about, it leaves room for numerous speculations and that makes it difficult to judge what it is really about. In my opinion the film is about several human beings who are alienated from their organic self. In this respect Crash is about a future society in which the body is no longer inhabitable for the soul. We already live in an extremely designed environment, in a reality largely constructed by our mind. Flesh is unclean, it is a dirty and clumsy thing and not worth containing something as pure and beautiful as our spiritual essence. We are therefore obliged to search new vessels for our psychic self, we crave to be transformed into machines of steel. The first steep in this process would then be to violently crush our bodies into the steering wheel of a car.The film's cinematography is outstanding, a flawless achievement which truly deserves admiration. Right from the beginning we enter a world where everything is infected by cold and unfriendly colors. There are hardly any bright, warm or charming images in this film, instead everything looks sterile as if nothing could grow or prosper there. The film's look is quite realistic and the car crashes seem as if they were taken from authentic sources. There are no spectacular camera movements, no slow-motion sequences and no extreme close-ups either. The simple and honest visual style documents a reality where sensational events do no longer occur, it depicts a society which has abolished the extraordinary. The film's whole imagery roots in the concept of understatement, and exactly this kind of outward modesty exposes every single latent obsession lurking beneath its cold an indifferent surface.The editor has done a great job as well. Although the film moves at a relatively slow pace it never gets boring. On the contrary, its slow but intense rhythm only adds to the hypnotising atmosphere and a gradual awareness that there is no escape from the world of Crash. The manner in which sequences are combined and put together supports the impressive images of barren, lifeless and almost suffocating environments. All the various explicit sex scenes are performed in a cold and mechanical way. The abstract and stylish choreography of those scenes clearly reveals copulation as an artificial and functional act. Organic reproduction does not require any degree of emotional involvement, the concept of love may therefore no longer be applied to a future relationship. It seems strange that despite such a cruel atmosphere without room for love there is also something very sensual, very attractive in Crash. I think that this ambiguity is a visionary quality of most of Cronenberg's films, we are often introduced to a new kind of aesthetics which are captivating and repulsive at once.All the well-chosen actors give memorable performances. They play their roles in a dramatic, fanatical and self-abandoning manner without ever having doubts about the strange nature of their characters. None of them seems afraid of pushing things to the limit. It is this uncompromising way of acting which makes an otherwise unlikely desire for car accidents believable and gives the story credibility. Their restless, torn and hunting performances hidden by a mechanical almost absent-minded outward appearance add even more to the obsessive tone of the film. What is remarkable about Crash is that during the whole film there is virtually no character development. Every character we get to know in the course of the story stays more or less the same, from beginning to the end they all go through various emotional roller coaster rides but they are not capable of changing their attitude or behavior in order to dissolve their pathological state of being. This technique has a claustrophobic effect on the audience, it creates the impression of being trapped inside a world where every attempt to escape is paralysed by utter despair.The film relies mainly on static description rather than providing a huge amount of successive events, its message is merely conveyed by atmosphere rather than action or unexpected plot twists. The plot itself is best described as impotent, it does not give birth to anything new or surprising. In my opinion it is this frigid story line that makes Crash a real work of genius, because it perfectly fits the portrayed characters who themselves live in constant danger of sexual failure and emotional breakdown. Their unreliable bodies do no longer provide a chance for organic satisfaction, their passions can no longer be expressed through the interaction of flesh. Love is still felt and still there but it cannot be articulated any more, the organic way proves to be a dead end. Life has to find new ways in order to fulfill itself. The characters in the story do exactly this, they try to reshape their flesh bound existence, they seek redemption in the ultimate head-on collision of flesh and steel although its result is physical death. However, there is no turning back and the only alternative consists of a life captured inside the heart of a machine.Crash is certainly not a movie for all tastes and its strong sexual content has earned him quite a bad reputation, nevertheless it is a unique film experience and a rare example for grand film making. I consider Crash a very inspiring piece of art and a real alternative to Hollywood's countless mainstream productions. As I have already said the film has a visionary quality, its prophetic voice may not be heard or fully understood yet, but I think that Cronenberg's masterpiece (so far) has the potential of becoming a cult classic. "}{"Title":"How does one make such an awful film ?","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  David Cronenberg's CRASH is one of the worst pieces of cinematic trash I have ever witnessed.  I give an enormous amount of credit to some of the cast members (Holly Hunter, especially) for participating in such crap.  She obviously saw something erotic or dangerous in the script.  I saw idiocy, stupidity, and unnecessary pain.  I did not know whether to laugh or vomit, but I somehow made it through.The film involves an over-sexed James Spader, who 'crashes' into a car with a half-naked Ms. Hunter, killing the driver, and seriously injuring Spader's leg.  In the hospital, the film's forced sexuality never stops, considering a visit Spader gets from a handy blonde.  Through a series of weird events and experiences involving automobiles I would rather not get into, the film's self-important message is clear How modern technology changes the human body i.e. car crashes.First of all, we've been presented this message in countless other ways. Cronenberg has just found a sick and explicit way to present it.  Secondly, what these characters think and do exist only to 'present' this overblown message.  They have no other duties, ideas, character traits, or appeal other than to go wild sexually in all kinds of cars, car washes, and car chases.  What is this?  Neo-Industrial Revolutionary filmmaking?  No, it is garbage.One-note  Rosanna Arquette appears as a good-looking Darth Vader.  Only anyone who has seen this will know what I mean. This is in no way a recommendation, and this has been a fun waste of time discussing bad cinema. "},{"Title":"A guy gets involved with a girl due to a car crash. She brings him to the edge of edge of the word fetish.","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is a Cronenberg movie. That man is an artist of creating a twisted reality, if someone told it's not fiction and he had very specific sources of inspiration I'd probably drown my self in bad feelings. Yup this movie is created so well it's unbearable. Unfurtunately the theme is not good feelings, at least not to me. It's acting of the finest quality which makes the movie crawl under your skin and if your aren't tough, you might not like it... There's a specific scene (I wont spoil) where one of the lead characters expose her lust in a way where fiction becomes reality. The reason of her lust I will not utter. "},{"Title":"Equally Disturbing and Fascinating","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Cronenberg is known for his disturbing mixture of psychological and body horror, his films are always slickly made but with a real seediness to them that actually gives them a unique edge. For all of his work however Crash is the film that most people think crossed the line because it is simply too sordid and repulsive, causing massive controversy on release and still carrying infamy the this day. The fact its based on the novel by JG Ballard (whose work is always deeply unsettling) should give you a clue about the films nature. I think the film is very gripping, not just because it is extremely well made and acted, but because the ideas behind the film are a lot smarter than most give it credit for. - Firstly the biggest issue people have with the film which is the plot. It is effectively about people who are turned on by car crashes or the thoughts of being in a car crash. A young TV director named James Ballard gets involved with a group of people into this form of fetishism when he himself has a car crash. I will admit that the premise is very far out there and yes Crash is very disturbing at times, but its no more as troubling in a graphic sense than most films based around sexuality and I think people are more troubled with the idea itself that the film. The sex scenes are extremely graphic and unnerving, the scene with the scar tissue is downright horrible, but I think that they do work given the context of the film.- Then you have to look at what the film is trying to say. Cronenberg's works (and Ballard's) have always had links to the loss of human feeling because of the technological world we live in and that plays a large role here. The film is certainly a comment on the human condition, how people have become so empty that the only way to feel intimate is to risk ones life doing something so dangerous. Many of these very simple ideas work fantastically, the fact that something as everyday as the car plays such an important role or that the fetishes of these people are something completely out of the ordinary. There is also the way in which the car is used to stalk people and used for sexual fantasies that links into this clever idea. I also don't understand the anger towards the more graphic areas. Violence, sex and drugs are put together frequently in films with little fuss made, yet add something different to the mix and people lose their minds. If you swapped out car crashes for heroin or cocaine addiction then nobody would even bat an eyelid. - I think the cast deserve a massive amount of praise given some of the stuff they have to do. For me James Spader has always been a very interesting actor and here he is very effective in a brilliantly understated performance as Ballard. Deborah Kara Unger is also excellent as his wife, between this and The Game she really deserved more starring roles, and her chemistry with Spader is surprisingly believable. The groups de-facto leader Vaughn is excellently played by Elias Koteas, especially given the difficult borderline nature of the character. The always great Holly Hunter and Rosanna Arquette give solid supporting performances too. The characters here are extremely distant and cold, which understandably turns off many, but they are made that way to reflect the story and not because of a lack of character development.- One area where the film truly excels in is with Howard Shore's score. This is easily one of the most atmospheric and haunting scores of its time, fitting the film so perfectly it is hard to believe. The opening title song is just incredible, the jagged dissonant guitar is so powerful and is used to underpin the score throughout. The film looks fantastic. The colour scheme is impressive, with the daytime scenes having a mechanical grey look that adds to the dullness of the world and the night scenes having an icy sheen that gives them a strange beauty. The car crashes themselves are very well done and look like you'd expect real car crashes too. There are many memorable moments littered throughout, the car wash scene is very well shot and the cryptic ending is actually quite profound.So for me Crash is a film that gets unfairly hated on, mostly because its premise is daring and very out of the ordinary. It is frequently disturbing and at times bordering on repulsive, but it carries itself in such an unflinching manner and with such great ideas that you understand why. Its comments on the world are deceptively brilliant, whilst I think to acting and score are both superb. Cronenberg shows himself as a truly talented director once again, as he knows from the very start what he want to achieve and everything that takes place leaves an impact because of that. It is a film that is difficult to like, but one that almost has to be admired. "},{"Title":"The vibe is corrupt, uncool, and dystopic","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash is a film I do not have many good things to say about and yet still cannot downrate it because I do like the cast and always enjoy the signature Cronenberg material sensuality that conveys highly distinct tactile sensations via light and sound. That said, Crash is a boring movie and not so much edgy as something to be endured. Crash does not feel cool or adventurous and yet most of the film is action; it is like a pornographic movie -- not much plot but just goes through different scenarios, yet does not feel sexy and so does not create tension. The vibe is corrupt, uncool, and dystopic like a glam rock band playing in the mid 90s to a bored audience in a half-filled stadium that needs to be torn down. They smash their gear and we can only think that it was not worth it, what a waste. I would like to think this was all intentional, because I like other Cronenberg films, but cannot really recommend it except to the curious ones that want to see something different. "},{"Title":"Crash Loves Being Strange","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash explores a fetish for car accidents. The movie's been praised for its depiction of sex. The free love is refreshing at first. As it dives deeper, the audience feels alienated rather than enlightened.The movie seems to revel in its weirdness. Strange dialog and score. The characters like being outcasts. The whole tone is dark. The filmmakers wanted the movie to feel creepy. In contrast, a lighter tone would have felt more sexually liberating. Instead it reminds you that while you can practice sex how you like, you'll still be judged for it.Side note The sex scenes actually seem grown up. It's too bad a film like this faced a lot of controversy. A typical porn film is infinitely more graphic. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg Crash.","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash (1996) Dir David Cronenberg / Cast James Spader, Holly Hunter, Elias Koteas, Deborah Kara Unger, Rosanna Arquette Represents the mind when it ceases to function on a normal level. Filmmaker James Spader survives a head on collision. When released from the hospital he encounters the female victim, which leads to heavy sex in what will be linked to a strange fascination with car crashes. Elias Koteas is obsessed with celebrity crashes and stages a James Dean crash. He invites Spader's wife to pose beside a roadside accident to complete his inspiration. Spader readjusts a rear view mirror in a car wash as his wife is raped in the backseat and moans with pleasure. Although extremely disturbing it is among David Cronenberg's more symbolic work, which also includes The Dead Zone and Scanners. Spader is well cast in his descend on mental chaos. Holly Hunter is intriguing as a crash victim although she seems to become less involved in the second half and settles for a lesbian fling in a crash car. Koteas is at best in his delight of the sickening but his final sequence makes little sense. Deborah Kara Unger discovers new passions in road games, which results in a very twisted ending where Spader whispers, Maybe the next time. Rosanna Arquette wearing leg braces and an appetite for kink. Graphic sex in variation resulting in a fatal crash of the mind. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"voyeuristic, fascinating, original and also a bit slow","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Catherine Ballard (Deborah Kara Unger) is hypersexual. She and her husband James Ballard (James Spader) have an unconventional marriage. James causes a car crash when he moves into oncoming traffic. Helen Remington (Holly Hunter) is in the other car. Her husband is killed and she finds sexual enjoyment in the crash. James and Helen find compatible erotic needs with car crashes. Vaughan (Elias Koteas) is a like-minded person and introduces them to his group with Gabrielle (Rosanna Arquette) who walks with leg braces.Director David Cronenberg is diving into some sexual perversities here. It is voyeuristic at times, fascinating, different, but also prodding at other times. Sex is not hot as much as it is disturbingly cold. It is definitely weird. I do wonder if there is more to this movie. It's a crazy artifact of cinema. "},{"Title":"How do you like idea of having sex when cars are crashing?","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" How do you like idea of having sex when cars are crashing? My friend asked me to watch this movie posing the question. I fell in love with the movie not with the idea though.I loved the taking and the bottom line to what extent one can go to have a fantasy fulfilled. The fetish is abnormal and is named paraphilia. I don't know if any body does that in real life or even has such fantasy but David Cronenberg the director seems to be fantasised by such a fetish and made a film out of it. Extraordinary situations demand exemplary acting and thats what we have in here. Cronenberg stands all amidst directors in terms of boldness, bringing surrealism and making us believe that somethings may exist. He just makes me succumb to the believability of his themes and therein lies the greatness of Cronenberg. Now, this film is more like a fantasy fable and even the way it is presented is such. The interesting part comes when this fable seems to be a reality. Yes, paraphilia exists, yes people want to have fun in absurd and weird circumstances and this reality is married with a fable making this a really wonderful film. James Spader seems to be holding a bunch of sex driven films to his credit. Be it Sex Lies and Videotape or Secretary and is aptly cast as James Ballard. I do not think, Cronenberg might have been rejected by many other actors, to whom this role was offered. Nevertheless, Spader seemed to be in the right shoes for the role and he has done a commendable job. The film is a challenge coz it marries, the psychology of the brain to the physical desire, a dire necessity of many humans and creates a layered and textured form of a fantasy which is rare and yet so absorbing. David Cronenberg took this challenge from the novel of the same by James Ballard. To write, anyone can write anything, but to make using a publicly accessible medium in a way that it is acceptable is one thing that Cronenberg should be applauded for above all. I stand by this film and admire many things which are extremely challenging and even introspecting and appreciate the courage of the writer-director David Cronenberg. The editing gives us the right dose or romance of romance and action. The cinematography sets the right environment. The music creates the right mood. Now, in such a film what more can you ask for. Thus, I suppose it's one of the most challenging assignments that was accomplished with an aplomb by a director.I thank my friend Raghuveer who acquainted me with the film and I am happy to have seen this. A big thanks to the master director David Cronenberg too. A 4/5 for this. "},{"Title":"Terminally bizarre, with characters that feel at arm's length","Date":"7 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Cronenberg's 'Crash' shares something in common with Louis Malle's 'Damage' (read that sentence again and see if you don't smile). Both are films about people fixated on a dangerous obsession. 'Damage', the better of the two was about a man's unhealthy sexual obsession with his son's fiancée. 'Crash' is about a group of people who have an unhealthy sexual obsession with car accidents. Which would you prefer to watch? Me too.The movie begins with a couple (James Spader and Debra Kara Unger) fixated on the thrill of sex in a public place. He gets in a car accident and the husband of the woman (Holly Hunter) in the other car is killed. The two meet at an impound lot and find that they both got off on the accident.Cut to another couple played by Elias Koteas and Roseanna Arquette. Her scarred legs are in braces and he makes a public display out of reenacting the famous celebrity car accidents that killed James Dean and Jane Mansfield. Somehow Koteas, Spader and Hunter all come together, drawn apparently not by sex but by their similar fetish.I am a fan of David Cronenberg because even his lesser films are never boring. 'Crash' is one of his lesser films. It doesn't work because I never for one moment found myself interested in what they were doing. Maybe that was the point but I couldn't get beyond their bizarre attraction to something so horrible. The movie is too slow and even for Cronenberg, hard to take I think the reason that I like 'Damage' more was because I had a starting point with the obsession that Jeremy Irons had with this son's fiancée. I have no idea why the characters in 'Crash' love car accidents and judging by their behavior, I don't think that I want to know. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's most original, and originally daring is a must be seen","Date":"10 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I take my hat off to original films like this, Cronenberg, his most daring work yet, where he's moved off from horror here. A trio of sex scenes for starters convinces us of that. A t.v director (Spader-adequate, but I really say, more miscast) has a head on smash, with another driver, the female passenger Hunter, oddly caressing her open breast, in the wake of the collision in full view of Spader. They meet up again, days later, Spader back in the driver's seat. He becomes drawn into a secret world of crash victims, who are sexually stimulated, by having sex in cars. Bringing the sexy and sexually unfulfilled wife, (Unger) into the group, could be an answer to their dry spell of a sex time. Wild card actor, Koteas, one of my favourite thespians, is flawlessly cast as, Vaughn, an adrenaline junkie driver, one of the very scarred, while also working as a doctor, who lives in his car. His wild rage exit at the end is smashingly great. One scene has him picking up a woman at the airport. He has sex with her, a sort of menais de trois, with out the third, a stiff driving Spader. A funny scene, has crippled Arguette, another of the group, trying out this new car, or more correctly, trying to see if she can find a perfectly designed car, fit for a perfectly designed body, while tearing up the upholstery, where Spader in the background, is trying to suppress his amusement. The best bit of Crash, of course, is the re-enactment of the James Dean car crash, truly authentic, these supposed stunt guys not mucking around, Vaughn, of course sitting in the drivers seat of the late great film star, while observers of the group watch from a stadium. Whatever your fancy, Crash, is different, one of the most original films I've seen in a while. It's style of originality is it's own self, where I recommend you see it once, then make up your mind. The sixty five page script is descriptively great. Don't confuse it with the Academy Award winning film of 2004 or the Michael Biehn film. "}{"Title":"Coming and going...","Date":"4 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Cronenberg probably said all he really needed to say about Sex in VIDEODROME; however, that didn't stop him from making CRASH. CRASH is a pile up, pile ON kind of movie that's far FUNNIER than it is thought-provoking. I must admit I almost broke up when, having narrowly survived a re-enactment of the crash that killed James Dean, Vaughn announces he wants to do the Jayne Mansfield re-enactment next. (Anyone even vaguely familiar with THAT particular tragedy will understand why I had a hard time not braying like a jackass...) It's something we're all intimately involved in, he says The reshaping of the human body by modern technology. Vaughn isn't interested in pedestrians, Spader as Ballard offers at one point. No, it's the auto-erotic lube job that sets Vaughn's tail pipe all aquiver. Cronenberg once made it a point of delving into the darker side(s) of Human Nature, usually setting said excursions in the biohorror genre he himself pioneered, but, by the time he got to CRASH, he seemed more or less to be running on cruise control. Only for the stout of stick shift... "},{"Title":"The psychopathology of car crashes and sex","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I rate Crash as an above average movie, for several reasons. It's really an art movie that has taken difficult material from a novel, met the challenge of translating it to the screen, met the challenge of getting actors to perform it, and managed to create something interesting out of material that is quite repetitious in a story that involves psychology primarily.As an art movie, it's not realistic and doesn't have to be. It's doubtful that characters and situations such as we see are anything but imagined. If they mirror obvious reality, it is in fringe fetishist ways. But as metaphor for what goes on inside human beings in any era and what is going on right now in Western civilization, this movie does score.Why would anyone make such a movie? Ask instead why the author, a normal married soul, wrote the novel? It's because, as artist/novelist, he is expressing some things that are coming out, and these reflect his era. The era we live in is a troubled one, with a strong current of de-humanization, that is, in which the personal human being is getting lost. A person nowadays is a pupil or student, in a system of education. A person is a citizen who must do this or that. The culture has a big emphasis on sex, and it's seen in the entertainment media.In this movie, we see jaded people who develop and indulge various fetishes in sex. The main ones involve cars, car crashes, homosexuality, scars, tattoos, and mechanical limbs. This kind of material is very difficult to bring to the screen without crossing various lines that undermine the project. The movie pretty much succeeds at it, but not completely. It actually is a bit on the boring side despite its novelty and the smashups involved. We are made to be spectators. Far less does it involve us. And if we are distant and rather uninvolved spectators, the movie is somehow missing. Our curiosity can carry only so far. The story arc, transition in character, as reflected in the main characters is not all that large. Spader and his wife are jaded at the start and by the end they are still jaded but seeking a violent way to overcome it.The actors took on a big challenge. This is what actors do, still they deserve a lot of credit for exposing themselves as they did and playing these unusual parts.The look of the film and production design fit the material very well indeed. Cronenberg's direction is excellent.This movie is within that broad category of neo-noir, the sector of it here being the psychological, people at odds with themselves and attempting to rescue their humanity in ways that must fail. The story is really one of wrong directions taken and failure. The players are hoping for a success that is bound to be frustrated because they are going in a perverse direction to begin with. This message of the film is a subtle one and may be easily missed. "},{"Title":"A Nihlistic Film","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on a novel by J.G. Ballad Crash was a highly controversial film when it was first released when it was released in 1996 for its depiction of sex and violence. Whilst it is controversial for a few scenes, its actual problem is that it a bad film. Director David Cronenberg has made so excellent films in many different genres, but Crash is a very shallow, nihilistic film about nothing. There are many problems with the film, it has the visual look and style of a TV film, characters with not much characterisation, people speaking in quiet tones and James Spader was a bland lead. Despite the film's attempts to have a said about the changing nature of sexuality in the world of technology, a look at subcultures, how people enjoy danger and thrills and sexual fetishes. But on the whole Crash is a film that has nothing to say about its subject matter and this is Cronenberg at his worst. "},{"Title":"Strange, Stylish, Fascinating","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the great qualities of this film is the ability to constantly astonish with its relentless, shocking strangeness. Crash is most likely to leave viewers speechless, even those who are used to weird or unconventional. None of the scenes are gratuitous however, and Crash looks extremely stylish, as well as twisted enough to make one uneasy. Fortunately, this isn't 'cheap shocks' and the usual exploitation fare filmmakers throw in to stir some controversy.Perverted addicts leading corrupt lives never been more fascinating. These people are craving some basic fulfillment, but are doomed to never achieve it in life. Metaphysical allegory? Probably. It's also a cold analysis of self-destructive compulsion. What's offensive is that these characters never even stop to consider the moral implications of their actions - hurting others who don't share their hobby. Even if they did, it wouldn't make much of a difference, because they simply can't stop. Like Lynch, Cronenberg doesn't spoon-feed the message to the audience, so there are no answers, only uncomfortable but equally valid questions. I guess it takes guts to ask them. Dialogue is minimal and clever, and keeps the characters sealed. The narrative is filled with long pauses, eerie metallic riffs, empty glances directed inwards. Physical encounters are depersonalized and compulsive. There are always people around at the scene of sexual encounters or car crashes, and yet nobody bothers to notice or intervene. It's a surreal landscape of urban alienation that associates with voyeurism. Steel-cold (the unsettling score hits the right note as well), clinical in its depictions, Crash has a clean sharp edge that only a handful of directors could walk on with such elegance, insight and a sort of detachment that has a dream-like quality.All the actors are fearless and did a splendid job, especially James Spader, who is great as usual. He was born to play this role, with his other-worldly, strangely absent stare and androgynous beauty (It's surprising David Lynch never worked with him!). Spader's surreal performance is mind-blowing, as he gracefully carries along that creepy Cronenberg vibe. This is the same Spader who stole the show as the intriguing voyeur in Sex, Lies and Videotape and who would later do it again in the offbeat Secretary. His other roles just didn't do justice to him. Likewise, Deborah Unger manages to turn into an abstraction, whispering her lines, floating in the same trance of addiction.The sexual scenes are elegantly choreographed. It's bizarre, disturbing and at times funny altogether, with a pretty sick sense of humor that's absolutely fantastic to a minority of people who can appreciate it. Crash explores sexual compulsion in a sterile environment, you can almost taste the metal. This is Cronenberg's best work and one of the most fascinating, audacious films ever made. Clearly not for everybody, but for those who enjoy the Absurd in all its complexity. Unforgettable cult classic to be watched in the uncut version. "},{"Title":"Barely for Anyone...","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash is a erotic drama by David Cronnenberg that explores a group of people that get sexually aroused by car crashes. It's probably the least accessible film Cronnenberg has made to date due to it's extreme amounts of fairly explicit sex, weird sexual fetishes and very muddled script.The cast does a wonderful job with the very limited material given. We have James Spader, Elias Koteas, Holly Hunter, Deborah Kara Unger and Rosanna Arquette to name a few. It's a nice thing that those actors showed some guts for doing this borderline softcore sex film.The NC-17 rating is very baffling to me. It's about as explicit in it's sexual content as 70's Japanese exploitation films like Sex and Fury or Female Prisoner Scorpion. It's hardly pornographic or even that extreme in terms of it's sexual fetishes so the NC-17 rating is pretty much an overkill.Crash doesn't have a real plot to speak of and most of the scenes start or end up with people having sex or grabbing each others crotches. It's all about the characters and the situations they go through but the muddled script doesn't really help that. Crash is mostly all surface and has very little depth to be had aside from the sex and the bizarre dialog. So either you will like this film and what it has to offer or you will despise it and just dismiss it as porn.I can't really recommend seeing Crash, unless you are very interested in the work of David Cronnenberg. So unless you are looking for some strange films about sexual fetishes and James Spader, your not going to enjoy this film as conventional entertainment. "},{"Title":"The quest for happiness.","Date":"27 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've been noticing a lot of people watch Gus Van Sant or Cronenberg and they use the words 'pretentious' and 'hack'. I suppose the effect a piece of art has on you also says something about you as a person. The more disturbing art is the more you hear people discussing it - more and more people asking other people not to watch this because it is 'sick and twisted and disgusting'. But I for one, am pretty sure there is nothing pretentious about this movie. Hacks don't make movies like CRASH which barely receive any mainstream attention - they release movies like TWILIGHT and sit back and watch the money roll in. The movie is about a bunch of people trying to find the ultimate pleasure - and what is more pleasurable than a climax right? They have everything they need - good bodies, cars, jobs, good looking people around them and all the things people think are necessary and yet they find themselves feeling empty. All of a sudden, they end up becoming obsessed with car crashes and victims of car crashes. They feel like this is the way to get what they are lacking. But no matter how far, how sinister - how truly invigorating their experiences are, they cannot find happiness. That's what this movie is about - the quest for happiness - for that feeling of knowing joy of some kind. And whether or not it is possible to find it. "},{"Title":"This is a movie about some very sick people.","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie about some very sick people. Their sexual turn-on is car wrecks, and they cause them when they can't find them by chance. This movie, directed by David Cronenberg, is based on a novel by J. G. Ballard.This is a disturbing film. The sex scenes approach soft core porn, as the characters paw and grope each other, and there is rampant fetishism as well. However, I was unable to care about the characters. Casting James Spader as the lead guarantees a performance of flat affect. This sometimes works (as in sex, lies, and videotape, when he plays a weird voyeur), but when he is the main character and I can't begin to like him or feel sympathy for him, it wrecks the movie for me.The problem with the film from my point of view is that I'm never given any reason to identify with these people and to care about their drive for this particular form of fetishism. I suspect the sex aspect of the film was too difficult for the director and/or the actors (including Holly Hunter, Elias Koteas, and Deborah Kara Unger) for them to develop their roles fully. Instead of some fascinating insight into a world I'd never heard of, I saw moments of soft core sex interspersed with dialog from affectless characters about whom I learned nothing. "},{"Title":"Pretty dreary, but also undeniably fascinating.","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Writer / producer / director David Cronenberg's grim adaptation of the J.G. Ballard novel tells the story of James Ballard (James Spader), who gets into a horrible car accident that actually has a stunning effect on his life, in particular his sex life. He and wife Catherine (Deborah Kara Unger) find themselves now inexorably drawn to the violence and destruction of car crashes and even the effect that such crashes have on the human body. They soon discover an underground group of people that celebrate this creepy fetish, led by the intense Vaughan (Elias Koteas), who with the help of stuntman friends recreates famous crashes involving celebrities (such as James Dean). Cronenberg is obviously a perfect choice to direct this sort of story, which obviously is not going to appeal to a lot of people but may very well intrigue some. It never gets too far into the heads of its characters, but doesn't really judge them, either, and illustrates how these individuals obsess over creating some sort of meaning in their lives and how human beings can attach a sexual element to just about anything. The weather in this Toronto-shot film is appropriately gloomy, matching the mood of the story telling, while the blood and gore is actually never overdone. Really, Cronenberg keeps the focus on the sexual nature of the story and characters and with the help of his very willing performers creates some very erotic scenes, of both the heterosexual and homosexual variety. There's some caressing of vehicle damage to go with the caressing of human bodies. The deeply committed cast, also including Holly Hunter and Rosanna Arquette, helps to draw you into this tale, while Howard Shore supplies a music score in his typical grandiose, full-of-foreboding style. Koteas is a standout as Vaughan. The film isn't perfect overall, as has already been mentioned, but it may keep some viewers watching due to the sexual frankness and explicitness on display. (This is available in both a 90 minute long R rated version and a 100 minute long NC-17 rated version.) Still, even with its flaws it leaves a fairly big impression; it's not likely it'll be easily forgotten. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Disturbing","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The one thing Cronenberg has always unquestionably been talented at is weaving a highly disturbing atmosphere, and he does that beautifully on Crash. Unfortunately, though, the movie doesn't quite manage to draw the viewer into that atmosphere. It's meant as a metaphor for mankind's obsessions and perversions, but the horror is being piled on so thickly that I never once found myself immersed in any of the characters or caring about what happens to them, other than loathing them. James Spader is as fantastic as ever in exploring the depth of human perversion, and as always he manages a delicate balance of naive and sleazy, but he did better in subtler works like Secretary and Sex, Lies & Videotape. "},{"Title":"erotic and indefinable","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have no idea what this movie is meant to be about - but here are some of my thoughts anyway.The movie is definitely erotic and meant to be so. The scenes between Catherine and James Ballard and Vaughn are just about some of the most highly charged erotic scenes in the history of cinema.Of course - this is discomforting - the basis of the erotic charge between these characters are brutal car crashes.There is a particularly disturbing scene where Vaughn photographs an accidental car crash and Catherine and James wander around, dazed, but clearly aroused by the situation and each other's responses to it. The nexus between violence, machinery and eroticism has never been such an explicit subject for a movie. There are plenty of Hollywood mainstay movies where violence and sex are put together implicitly or as titillation - but its always in the context of a thriller or a crime drama - not the main-game, more the dirty little secret reason why people would go to 'Basic Instinct'or that movie with Glenn Close as a bunny boiler.It interesting to me, the reactions of the audience and the critics to an honest and up-front depiction of this sex and violence duo. A lot of people will say that they look away. But - as in the case of car crashes - if we are to be honest with ourselves - we look. We look because we are fascinated with the human condition. We look out of pity. We look to see if we can help. We look to take in a lesson.We look and then look away because we are ashamed.Then there are the ravings of Vaughn who opines that the car crash is a 'fertilising rather than destructive event' and that he is fascinated with car crashes because they somehow 'unleash' in one powerful moment the sexuality of those involved. Its bizarre. And totally unbelievable until you see it played out. And then you somehow become complicit in that belief. Yeah - the Rosanna Arquette character's femoral shaft surgery scar and braces are sexy. The tattoos of car related insignia on Vaughn and Ballard are too. The whole car crash as erotic thing starts to make sense....And you start thinking... gee how did I get here? Am I a sicko like Vaughn who is two parts repulsively slobbering madman one part charisma and sexy leather jackets and rough grace? As always the erotic is confusing and fascinating, repulsive and attractive, of the self and of the other, enslaving and liberating, sick and healthy.So - all in all - a more honestly sick depiction of human sexuality I can't think of. That doesn't make for an uplifting or soul expanding movie and unfortunately, if you come from a wholesome and moral place in your movie approval schema it won't rate highly.Aaargh! So therefore I am in two minds! If I like it I admit - I'm a sicko. If I don't, I'm basically saying I'm a moralising do-gooder.Impossible! "}{"Title":"Cold and fascinating.","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Adapted from J.G. Ballard's novel of the same name, David Cronenberg's Crash has over the past decade and a half become quite the divisive piece for cinephiles and general audiences alike. After watching the NC-17 cut of the film, it's easy to see why, as the film sees the director bringing his intrinsic approach to a particularly unsettling world, an underground subculture of fetishists who equate car wrecks with sexual pleasure. The images aren't particularly shocking, at least not for anyone familiar with his previous work, but they certainly resonate deep in the viewer's mind. He takes a perspective similar to the characters themselves, exploring the automobile as if it were it's own sexual organ.Cronenberg shoots the mechanisms, not only vehicles but medical designs as well, with the same kind of intimacy that a pornographer would shoot the human body. It's an interesting approach, but undeniably one that could alienate any given viewer. Also potentially alienating is the lack of a conventional narrative structure in the film, instead focusing primarily on conversations between the characters and especially their physical interactions. The tone that he establishes here is quite fascinating, giving the whole thing a very cold and distinctly non-intimate atmosphere, where the audience becomes as dazed as the characters are. It's an interesting way of getting us into the head of these characters, but for some viewers it could shut them out early on. If you find it as fascinating as I did though, there's much more to unfold within.In this world of the emotionally blank, Cronenberg explores a culture who aren't interested in the meaningless interactions of daily life, but instead are obsessed with their fetish, their need for sexual release within the design of an automobile. They live in a dangerous world and you can constantly feel the looming presence of some great terror coming closer and closer, thanks in part to the magnificently haunting musical score by Howard Shore that lurks in almost every scene. Cronenberg's cast, featuring skilled actors such as James Spader, Holly Hunter and Elias Koteas, are able to fulfill the director's vision to his maximum intent, bringing a stern believability to their characters and their motivations. It's hard to play these kind of desires, ones that most would not even begin to think of in their daily lives, with the realness that these actors are able to achieve here.What Cronenberg achieves in doing here is something of great skill, a dissection of the American obsession with the automobile as displayed through the use of sexual impulses. It's a fascinating study, and delves into many other themes such as the iconography of the automobile and the relation between the human body and modern technology, a theme that Cronenberg has often explored in his work and yet somehow is always able to bring a new take on it every time he comes back to it. It's a film that can make the viewer want to look away, but somehow manages to hypnotize them in the same instance. There's an almost dream like quality to it, a skill that Cronenberg accomplishes in most of his work. Crash is a film that could easily alienate most viewers, but those who allow Cronenberg to sink in the way he intends are sure to find much fascination in his study. "},{"Title":"The science of ecstasy","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One way to register this is as simply weird and depraved. As completely senseless.You can choose to dwell on just the hazy atmosphere of interminable grey roadscapes and brooding night. Or settle for sex as the main ritual. Or as though tender shock was the whole point.Alternately you can pick up as the main axis a few metaphors about cars as new artificial means of hurling into ecstasy.And there is always the option to consider this from the angle of one man researching and putting on a show about violence that is staged to be real and confounds the audience, one that connects back to dark undercurrents in glamorous old Hollywood.Additionally you get to note that our protagonist - a film producer himself - fascinated with this new subculture is called Ballard. The idea being that he is inspired to turn the strange encounter into a book upon which is based the film we see.Now most filmmakers just want to tell you a story, if we're lucky one that reveals some part of common destiny. Cronenberg belongs in that more erudite group who can sketch mechanisms of those stories, and is able to do that with visual panache. He imagines visually. Framing these to resemble bits that we know from movies - softcore porn in this case, a more popular thing then - is his way of reflecting on the mechanisms being internal, nested in the mind. The depravity that we know him most prominently for was always the top layer going in, we're told so here. Only the means of engaging our gaze. No, there was always sense in the fleshy folds, growth across abnormal lines.So it is not a matter of does he have anything to say, but how well he can structure. It's all the difference between M. Butterfly and Lunch. The material is as above, similar to what he's done before. Once more the point is a ritual about the dissolution of the self. The race once more against destructive mind, and how to probe into a world more pure and further than the mind has mapped as real. How to invigorate the senses so the world makes sense again. This has been Cronenberg's project for a long time. Elsewhere he illustrated how the mind fails us. Here he aims for transcendence. The resolution we're still struggling with wounds from that desire to transcend. That is only fair.I posit that Cronenberg knew that this was going to be his most risky venture to date, that he would be required to surpass himself. He gambled, and I applaud him just for taking the chance. In preparation, he orders the layers a little more sparsely this time. It is important there is rhythm and exhaustion, that thought is quiet and we pool into shared self. He needs all these, as well as images of some purity. The bottom layer that he's diving to reach is the emptiness that generates form and sense. Surely He would have known that every major branch of thought maintains this level to be unattainable. We can only illustrate in film the space around it, and every filmmaker who is worth anything has tackled this challenge. Cron fails, but fails where only three filmmakers have succeeded to my mind. "},{"Title":"You'll want to see it more than once","Date":"15 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash stars James Spader and Holly Hunter and is by David Cronenberg who made the infamous They Came From Within. But this is very sophisticated and has a much larger budget.During the film I was vaguely aware that I was watching a movie and that in itself is a talent. The film is fascinating and hypnotic. Even if it gets a little weird, and it does, it's hard to tear your eyes away from the screen. I suppose that the characters aren't likable and are suffering from apathy and the car crash's get the juices flowing for them. And I suppose most people will be glad they aren't afflicted with this....this....condition. I think most people will appreciate the way the film is put together and edited even if the low key performances seem a bit too, well, low key.I've only seen this film once but I'm sure I will be seeing it again. It's one of those films. "},{"Title":"Strange, unique, sometimes darkly funny disturbing movie.","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James G. Ballard (James Spader) is a film director in Toronto, who is bored at his job. His stunningly attractive wife Catherine (Deborah Kara Unger) is bored as well. Which James and Catherine have something of a open relationship. They both fool around at times. One night, when James wasn't paying attention during a late drive. He went off the road and his car collided dead-on, accidentally killing the male passenger. While trapped in the fused wreckage, the driver, Dr. Helen Remington (Oscar-WinnerHolly Hunter), her husband is accidentally killed by James. Weeks has passed, while James and Helen left the hospital and suddenly find themselves turned on. While James was nearly caught in a car accident again with Helen as his passenger. Slowly, James finds himself in a different world. Where a group of people are sexually aroused to car crashes. When James meets the mysterious Vaughan (Elias Koteas), a renegade scientist shows him the world in a different light and which Vaughan is overcome by the excitement of car crashes.Directed by David Cronenberg (The Brood, The Dead Zone, Scanners) made an genuinely, unpleasant odd drama with explicit sex although this feature is anti-erotic. Crash is a fascinating movie, which for some viewers is extremely difficult to make any sense from this feature. But what keeps it alive are the cold performances from Spader, Unger and especially Koteas in one of his best roles. Crash is divided into two separate audiences, some will watch this for the intriguing story and the other audiences would watch this for the strange sex sequences (Which some are truly memorable). Cronenberg is certainly no stranger to controversial movies. Crash is sometimes shocking but Cronenberg gives intelligence to this unusual movie.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.781) transfer and an good Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound. Crash includes the original NC-17 version and the re-edited R-Rated version. Although, i never watched the R-Rated cut. It is better to stay with the original version. DVD also includes the original theatrical trailer as well. Crash is certainly strong movie to watch, although it is tough to take for some tastes. Cronenberg's themes are present here, some might think of Crash as one of Cronenberg's best movies. Although i am a fan of Cronenberg's work, especially with his recent features like A History of Violence and Eastern Promises are certainly his best works in years. I think, Crash is a very good movie. I don't think (For me, anyway) to be one of his better work. It is the most curio film that he ever made. To best enjoy this feature is simply watching it with a open mind. Based on a novel by the late J.G. Ballard (Empire of the Sun). Screenplay by Cronenberg. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Strange Obsession + Strange Love = Awesome and Controversial Movie","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Car crashes happens accidentally or sometimes deliberately, sometimes people get killed and other times not. But most of the times it's a shocking thing to see one and think about what happened and why happened and who got injured or died. And of course we know that there are people who likes to live fast, die young, leave themselves a beautiful corpse quoting James Dean. In David Cronenberg's film Crash we see a different kind of people those who like to get involved in car crashes and/or have sexual relations after a car crash or inside of a damaged car. Here, James Ballard (James Spader) is a film director who got involved in a fatal car crash that killed a man and injured a woman, Helen (Holly Hunter) and they both start a strange relationship (I don't know if I can say if they're friends, lovers or something similar). He is married with Catherine Ballard (Deborah Kara Unger) but here's another awkward thing between these couple they're unfaithful to each other and still they don't find anything wrong with that. And more, they find this factor something more exciting to their relationship. Helen presents to James a different world when people enjoy re-enactments of famous car crashes (such as James Dean and Jayne Mansfield accidents). Vaughan (Elias Koteas) is the leader of a group who enjoys these re-enactments and he present these famous accidents along with some stunts. Serious things, they smash one car against another to feel more live, or sexually excited. Vaughan introduces James into this new world where there's no limits, everything is allowed including induce an accident in a highway filled with another cars (by the way James's wife is included in these accidents); plan re-enactments; switch sexual partners and other bizarre things.An interesting point in this film is that there's no limit of what characters want sexually from each other here. Vaughan is sexually attracted by James and they have their moment together and so the female characters with each other. They got so involved in share their feelings, their emotions, their sexuality, that they don't stop what they're doing and they go along. And yet no one can label these characters as gay, bisexual or lesbian, no, they're only share an experience. This might work for some viewers. In fact the whole movie might work well for very few people. It's a deep film about the complexities of the human mind, looks very much like The Silence of the Lambs (I choose compare this films because both are stories of people you don't see everyday and their strange and peculiar worlds. Besides that it's almost impossible compare these two films). All characters are sick people but they just don't know that and the more danger they get, more closer to death they get the more they liked it, the more closer they get to an orgasm or a different sensation. It's very similar to the movies featuring a psycho killer that feels pleasure in what he does and he can't stop doing it because he feels better this way. Vaughan is a dangerous psycho killer in a certain way. Those re-enactments are dangerous things and he jumps in the car knowing that he might die by crashing with another car, face to face with death but after the crash he only lift his hand to the audience and says And that's how James Dean entered to immortality and everyone is applauding. For the common viewer it's difficult to see some of the images (more about sex and not the car crashes), and even to follow Cronenberg or J.G.Ballard's idea (who wrote the book). Sometimes it might look a shallow and pointless movie but it has something more, something appealing for those who like twisted obsessions, or for those who might feel that the characters behavior is a normal thing. Once again another great and controversial work from David Cronenberg. Good performances here too (most notable Elias Koteas for his terrifying portrayal of a strange person and James Spader). Such an unforgettable movie but don't get confused with Crash (2004) directed by Paul Haggis. Lucky that both movies received an subtitle in my country so it's almost difficult to confuse them Cronenberg's was released under the name of Crash - Strange Pleasures and Haggis's Crash - Living on the Edge. Both are great but this film is far more shocking and great. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Crushed and Brushed!","Date":"14 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1996 flick 'Crash' is truly a interesting piece of work. Sex and Adultery goes all out and does become a good late night watch. The Nc-17 rating is a bravo and purely sexy. The film has a depressing and disturbing plot. But the exciting sex scenes and good enough performances give this flick a Thumbs up for my side!Pluses First rate sex scenes, explicit scenes. Unger and Spader are truly commendable.Minuses Its way to adult to have a viewing. Some scenes are plain bland,'Crash' is a film which you should watch alone, so you can enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The 91/2 Weeks of Car Crashes","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was definitely out of the ordinary. Like the 'Secretary' this movie dealt with strange sexual behavior. I wonder if this is a new track for Spader.I really felt like we could have done without the gay sex scene with Spader, I had to look away, but on the contrary I DID enjoy the lesbian sex scene between Holly Hunter & Rosanna Arquette.Okay, so its a double standard. So shoot me! It would have made more sense if the ending had said something like Last year 17,000 people were killed in the US by people with Car Crash fetishes but it didn't.I didn't know such a fetish existed until this movie. I still don't know what the stats are. Again, the ending was weird. These people are killing others in the highway for their own sexual gratification and by the end they're still doing it. I don't know what the National Highway Safety Commission would say about this movie -eh, eh.Still it was a fascinating topic and well done. It reminded me of the movie 9 1/2 Weeks in the way it flowed. It also followed a steady progression of debauchery like 9 1/2 Weeks did. Maybe debauchery is the wrong word. Perhaps 'insanity' would be more precise.So I did enjoy watching it I did Feel it could have been easily improved. "},{"Title":"car crashes in extreme sexual perversion","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" James and his wife Catherine are sexual active, though they have an open relationship, sharing their sexual activities with strangers between one another. One night James loses control of his car and veers into the other lane, smashing head on into the car of Helen, killing her husband. After both have recovered from the accident, though still bearing the physical and emotional scars, they are drawn into a sexual sub-culture of people how relish on sexual stimulation through car crashes. Lead by Vaughan, who recreates famous car crashes of famous celebrities, he believes there is a sexual stimulation that only can be created through crashes, and is better than the real thing. While James is taking this fetish that is heightening his relationship with his wife, who also has been sucked into this, their lives become endangered when Vaughan takes it to far.In the vain of Cronenberg's other film, Naked Lunch, Crashed is based upon J.G. Ballard's book, which you would never believe would be made into a movie. Though Cronenberg once again brings another strange book to life and makes a believable world for these sex addicts. Crash is a very quiet film, there is no much dialog, making this very hard to access. If the people are not having sex in cars or watching car crash porn, they never really converse with one another. While you get some information about these people through their actions, they're to far withdrawn from reality that you can't really connect with them. Yet that seems the entire point.Crash has a surreal dream scape feel to it. Day shots seem stuck in a twilight while the night shots evoke a ghost laden landscape. During Vaughan's reenactment of James Dean car crash, there is something so haunting to it, being heightened from the dream scape feel. It seems the Conenberg wants you to watch these people, yet your not to interact with with, as there is a real distancing presence, making the world these people inhabit very cold.Not a stranger to presenting characters with over confidence and looking to comfortable in his role, James Spader relishes in the role of James. The rest of the cast; Holly Hunter, Deborah Kara Unger, Elias Koteas and Rosanna Arquette all bring mysterious performances. You can never understand their motives or never know what they're thinking, which would have made Spader's role more interesting if he removed that over confidence.In true David Cronenberg fashion, Crash is strange, emotionally distant, perverse and quite a hard and challenging watch. "},{"Title":"The Etiology of Sexual Arousal Edge of Life Terror","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Cronenberg takes chances and his pushing the edge of cinematic art is what makes his films so interesting. JG Ballard's controversial novel CRASH seemed an unlikely prospect for a film, so dark were its explorations of the outer zones of excitation and their relationship to near-death events. But Cronenberg worked through making Ballard's visions visual and his screenplay based on Ballard's book is more about interior dialogue and visceral sexual encounters as they relate to trauma.James Ballard (James Spader) is a successful TV director who spends as much time as a lothario as he does making film. He is married to Catherine (Deborah Kara Unger) whose own sexuality leads her into stray paths. The two seem to connect physically but the fire is diminishing they both concur that encounters with other partners enhance their sexual experiences. James is in a car accident and survives with a broken leg and scars, but the other car's male driver was killed and his surviving female companion Helen Remington (Holly Hunter) is hospitalized with James. While in the hospital both encounter a strange, scarred, limping male photographer Vaughn (Elias Koteas) who takes photos of the scars and trauma results of both James and Helen. Catherine visits James in the hospital and seems to find excitement in the scars and orthopedic paraphernalia binding her husband.Once James is released from the hospital he is strangely drawn to the car he wrecked and finds Helen in the same mindset. The two move into physical attraction as well as an emotional attraction to Vaughn. Vaughn is obsessed with auto accidents, having been in many, and he stages famous car accidents (James Dean, Jayne Mansfield, etc) for a captive audience - which includes James, Helen, and Catherine. Vaughn insidiously draws the three into his obsession, sharing his 'actors' and fellow travelers - including Gabrielle (Rosanna Arquette - with both legs in orthopedic mechanisms), Colin and Vera Seagrave (Peter MacNeill and Cheryl Swarts) and those who help him stage his 'accidents'. Vaughn explains that he is exploring how to achieve that sensation of terror one feels during a car crash and equate it with orgasm. The odd group of folks all sexually interact with abandon the crashed car becomes the bedchamber for bizarre sexual acting out. And how this all plays out in the end is the part of the film that simply must be seen to feel the experience.This is clearly NOT a movie for everyone. The CD contains both the NC and the R rated version I watched the NC version and while it is graphic and focused on sex it is oddly uninvolving emotionally - we care little about the people we meet. Perhaps part of the story here is that with the progressively dehumanization of man in his symbiotic relationship with machines, relating to fellow humans on anything except the sensual gratification is something we are losing. That is the kind of powerful statement Cronenberg shows us with these passionate yet cold people. The cast is exceptional, especially Koteas whose warped character is wholly three-dimensional as opposed to the oddly uninvolved characters Spader, Unger, and Hunter portray. A dizzying experience! Grady Harp "},{"Title":"surrealistic journey, but difficult transition to the big screen","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read the script with an intro by Cronenberg where he states that his agent didn't want him to make this film. Subsequently he fired his agent! Cronenberg is an artist and not a film maker. Celluloid is his canvas.If you approach his work as you would when viewing an art piece you may be pleasantly surprised and find all the little connotations that when interpreted correctly scream out. I agree CRASH is difficult to watch through the eyes of a movie goer but as someone who appreciates art you are in for a treat.Filmwise, it suffers due to the cut out of scenes between Ballard and his secretary and scenes which are in the script but were not filmed. But having read the script i could forgive these omissions.Performances were excellent especially given the demands of the script and am amazed at the cast assembled.In respect of the film...what is the message...what is the philosophy...what was the point...I interpreted it as the creation and destruction of relationships through the use of cars as an extension of our outer self. What survives (our soul) is liberated through actual survival or death.In other underlying messages... you are what you drive...do we really know what our identity is if we rely so heavily on materialist goods to help shape our identity around.It's purely interpretation's so watch,see and envision. "}{"Title":"Addiction presented differently","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of Kronenberg's best. Instead of revolting and shocking with schlock or talking insect typewriters, he has produced a brilliant display of the dehumanising nature of addiction. Writing about drugs / gambling etc is always going to seem either didactic or as glorification but by using the same principles and applying them to a scenario which is patently absurd, you are able to better see the bizarre logic at work in the mind of an addict. The film manages to be quite arousing and yet distastefully clinical, all at the same time - a trick perhaps only Kronenberg could pull off. Not for the weak stomached - but then it wouldn't be would it? "},{"Title":"Bizarre!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the most bizarre movies I have ever seen! Mixing accidents and sexuality is rather an odd thing for me. The woman who undoes her top and letting her bare breast touch the plane, I mean there are a lot of strange fetishes going on around the world, this tops it all! This movie an all star cast, the plot is convincing, yet rather odd in the first place. A wrecked car is complete eye sore for most people, for others, it's an obsession. Without this movie, there wouldn't be any specials about tragic car crashes. When I saw the head-on collision between James Spader and Holly Hunter characters, I don't see any reason to see this movie is really bad. Not-so-whatever! This movie is deep, dark, seductive, and so bizarre, it makes The Ice Storm an easy movie to understand. Try it out! What do you got to lose? Not your insurance premium that is! Rating 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Why not watch the movie?","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't see people raking Francis Ford Coppola over the coals for making a war film that drastically revised the rules of the genre. In Apocalypse Now he knew he had to re-energize a tradition that had grown stale through endless retelling of Civil War, Pearl Harbor, Midway, D-Day stories. Similarly, the directors who made Bad Company, The Professionals and The Wild Bunch were trying to breathe life into a moribund western tradition instead of doing John Ford scenes in Monument Valley, they moved the oater in new directions for a new audience.So Cronenberg takes a genre, Science Fiction and Fantasy, that we had feared forever lost to George Lucas and his cutesy robots, and blends it with European-influenced pornography, to the consternation of many (judgeing by the comments below). If you don't want to think about the correlation of orgasm and crash, death and desire, then don't watch Grand Prix, 9/30/55, Days of Thunder, bullfight pictures, etc. etc. For me, there are some lovely scenes in Crash The James Dean reenactment; the group watching the videos, like the dead in Cocteau's Orphee; the carwash sequence with Spader, Unger and Koteas. "},{"Title":"crashed... (spoilers)","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I knew people talking great things about this movie and i was looking forward to watch this movie... oh man, i was sadly mistaken when i thought the book is great, and most people praise david croenenberg job, so this must be an excellent movie i didn't like the actings, i didn't belive most of them, it was so fake... When i read about people getting excited in carcrash i belived it,but i certanly don't belive the way this were performanced, but i think they had a great cast... i dunno, maybe i'm missing something in the tecnic issue...Some scenes i did liked, like the ones with vaughn having sex with catherine, i.e....i dont know... maybe it's just that i had high expectations about it... maybe if i get to see it again i'll catch up some more good things about it. "},{"Title":"buckle up before you watch Crash","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure if a single viewing is enough to really judge this film,but then again I don't know who would want to watch this twice... atleast not back to back. The most interesting thing about this film is the way it is just ageneral criticism on America's obsession with action (car crashesin movies) and sex.  Cronenberg just takes the next logical step incombining the two, somewhat a la George in Seinfeld with foodand sex.   Some of it definitely drags, especially the love scene betweenSpader and Koteas that for some reason feels too long before itever starts.  The re-inactment of celebrity car crashes that they go see isdefinitely cool though, and somehow realistic of a potentialmodern fetish.  Still, I like Crony's old stuff much better.  "},{"Title":"Don't try to understand it!","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In this case 'understanding' is truly the boobyprize. One thing I'm sure of is, all the 'nay sayers' on here watched the entire movie and didn't turn it off...because, once you start watching, you can't stop. Spader is mesmerizing. So, too, most of the other actors. What Cronenberg is doing is making us look at our voyeur tendencies. How many people do you see whiz past an accident without looking? If everyone told the truth, were they to come upon one of these scenes in real life, they would watch. They may not like this fact, but to deny it is to negate themselves as living beings. "},{"Title":"This movie creeped me out","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Car crashes - not sexy.     Hot people having explicit sex - very sexy.     A movie combining the two - THOROUGHLY creepy.Crash was disturbing.  As bizarre as a David Lynch film, only easier to follow.  I don't even know how I would rate it.  I don't know if I liked it or hated it or what.  I'm just confused and creeped out and never want to get in a car again. "},{"Title":"Benevolent Psychopathology","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most fascinating and interesting films I have seen - definitely one of my favorites.  The film does have a story - people who are so disconnected from the world and each other that they need to find one thing they can all share together - sex and the car crash.  The characters aren't sick or weird - they are just trying to feel something rather than a hollow emptiness.  The center of the film is the love story between James and Catherine, a married couple who are desperate to reclaim their passion for one another.  The final scene with them at the end is truly beautiful and cries out with their heart-aching despair.  The cast is sublime as is the film.  The novel is worth reading.  ***Do not rent at Blockbuster - the film is ten minutes shorter.  Prophecy is ragged and dirty. - Vaughan "},{"Title":"Disturbing yet Interesting.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie I was not sure what to expect.  I am a person who believes that Hollywood is running out of ideas and so if I have a chance to view something entirely different I take it.This movie to me is a little slow but once you start watching you can't stop until the very end.  You kind of get pulled in and you just want to know what happens next.  The plot seems kind of thin but the director works wonders with it.I would not recommend this for the normal viewer of movies.  This is for someone who is looking for something new and does not mind the disturbing images of sexuality and violence depicted in the film.I still give this 4 out of 5 stars for originality.PS Makes sure you rent the NC-17 rated version.  Cut films are an insult to the director. "},{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Regression in an orderly fashion )Not THAT kinky, but kinky enough too make most US right wing Christians pretty worked up, I guess.Well, I can see why some people don't like this flick. It's slow, the characters are pretty shallow. But somehow I feel that the slow pace and the Lynchy feel makes Crash somewhat special. (Don't get me wrong - Cronenberg is not Lynch).Why are car crashes so exciting? Why was half the world so intrigued by Lady Diana's bloody death inside a wrecked Mercedes? It's that dark side of the mind that J. G. Ballard explores in Crash.Ballard is messing around with all the forbidden stuff - rubbing our nose in it. Scar tissue, car wrecks, death and pretty graphic sex, all wrapped up in some very stylish photography.The characters eagerness to relive the trauma of the car crash and the, admittedly, sick - but nevertheless exciting - mixture of sex and death is quite effective. These people SHOULD be in grief, fighting to get back to a normal life, but instead they return to that strange moment of fright and sexual arousal, in the second before the cars smash into each other.The movie doesn't try to explain anything - it just tells the story. No morale and no Hollywood.  "}{"Title":"watching this movie was really awkward","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  it has a nice title sequence though. The credits move to the fore one after another and the metallic font is slightly dented, supporting the carcrash theme of the movie. the guy from SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL is quite more psychotic than when he played the Devil in FALLEN. I've had my eye on Deborah Unger since HIGHLANDER 3, but she's more disturbing than pleasing to watch. I definitely felt more comfortable watching eXistenZ.  "},{"Title":"A truly arousing film, I believe, for some minority.","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is undoubtably a great fetish film for those who are turned on by disfigurement, car crashes, and/or self destruction. I accept these people's expression of their sexuality and I am quite glad to leave this film to them.It is well cast, nicely shot, and possibly well acted, but if it was made in an attempt to communicate this fascination to a larger audience it doesn't come close to succeeding.From the start, not one of the 6 main characters shows any characteristic that might make the audience connect with them.  So instead of being drawn in to the understanding of their fetish, we watch a group of odd people doing odd things beautifully.  It has about the personal emotional impact of an old faded accident photo. "},{"Title":"A very interesting film","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I must say that I've been interested in seeing Crash for many years, but everytime I went to rent a movie, I just didn't get it.  Finally, I rented it and I'm still not sure if I liked it or not.   Crash is interesting in the sense that is quite daring, somewhat shocking and disturbing.  I thought the idea was great; people who find car crashes sexually arousing and stimulating.  Maybe I missed something, but I never understood WHY these people found it so erotic.  Cronenberg is one of the greatest directors around today, and I'm very happy to say he is one of my fellow Canadians.  The direction of this film was fantastic, the acting was okay, but again it was the story that drew me in.   All in all, a pretty good film.  Not great, but not horrible ***/out of 5 "},{"Title":"Ok - sex scenes aren't that great","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Most people are going to watch this movie to see the sex, it isn't that good.  Seriously, they look like they are drugged most of the time. Granted, there is a ton of it, but none of it is that erotic.  The basic plot is a bit far fetched for most people, but hey different people enjoy different things.  To be honest the movie never really goes anywhere - car crash, sex, repeat.  The sex scenes are suppose to be stranger as it goes along, but most people have either long since finished their business or are bored to tears by the time the gay part arrives.  There is no major plot or conflict to resolve, just crashes and sex. "},{"Title":"People try to read too much into this movie","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The one thing I notice looking at many of the comments is that people look for too much meaning in this movie.  Haven't they ever read an interview with Cronenberg and know that he is completely apolitical?  Or seen his early student work and know that he is not exactly long on plausability (for those who complain about that)?  This movie is meant to be an experience, however you take it.  Do not think about it, let it wash over you and make you mad, make you bored, make you aroused, whatever.  Just don't think about it.  Too much brains, not enough guts, like in Cronenberg's Shivers.  Adhering to his philosophy of art, Cronenberg is a pure artist, not allowing social concerns or conventions to enter into the equation.  He simply puts his vision out there and lets it speak for itself, and when he does speak of his art, he always specifies I think..  The truth may be different.   "},{"Title":"Hypnotic","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie tries to make one feel totally remote about car crashes and sex scenes. In this world of tabloid headline overkill one doesn't care about the next car crash down the road. In fact for some people it has become part of their (sexual) lives.Cronenburg films all the action with some bemused detachment making Crash a bit of a dead movie. The characters seem to act in a kind of daze, doing things as if by impulse. We are not told anything about the characters backgrounds, why they have become interested in extreme forms of sex.Yes we have become de-humanized in today's world but this movie could have been more engaging instead of showing us a number of unrelated scenes. "},{"Title":"A cracked polished vision","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What do you really expect to see in a film by David Cronenberg?In this sense this film contains nothing shocking. Typically for this morbid connoisseur his work is not out to leave viewers settled and comfortable, but to arouse, alert, provoke. Some of his favourite subject areas are lavishly caressed in Crash. The themes of addictive sex and deviant pain were mined in Crash, directly echoing their study in some of his other works, such as Dead Ringers, with Jeremy Irons and even The Fly.In this way, Cronenberg fans may be disappointed by the calm style of Crash, including a virtually happy ending (!) Crash certainly is less painful to view than many of his films. The film-making is great. A relaxed enjoyable pace allows a sleazy narcotic ambiance, almost as if Cronenberg had conceived his own idea of a better made, stylish 9 and a half Weeks but done to his palate, with his twisted tools.I was amused by the film for its easiness to watch. A drifting mad movie, with James Spader looking excellent, walking through a very well made film by a unique director. The James Dean scene will be a classic one day, as will other scenes. The negativity about this film seems somewhat silly. It is just another valuable Cronenberg production, of a piece with his fantastic, often disturbing catalogue. One of the world's finest directors alive. Why do heroes seem taller when they're dead? "},{"Title":"Not so much crash and burn, as never drives anywhere to start with.","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cronenberg's `Crash' is probably meant to be a smart art-house flick. It's got the quality of pretension certainly - an odd idea that only a minority can relate to, told by a director with his own particular manner of doing things. In this case it's the charming story of James Ballard (James Spader) who gets caught up in a car crash involving Helen Remington (Holly Hunter). Both are injured but the near-death experience has a fascination for them. To this end they meet with the strange Vaughan (Elias Koteas) whom introduces them to a group of people who can only find true sexual fufillment in the shadow and danger of car crashes. Cue a lot of sadomasochistic scenes, graphic (for cinemas) sex, and bizarre ponderings on death, flesh and sexuality. Also cue a lot of `huhs?' and `what's the point of this movie?!' from myself.The basic problem with the movie is that I just don't care what happens to the characters. You can't, they're entirely unsympathetic. Vaughan is just portrayed as a heavy breathing, scarred freak who goes around looking moody and intense (and little else). Spader's character is played with an annoying lack of facial expression - sorry a blank look doesn't convey much here James. Most of the performances here seem to be about arcing bodies around, and cavorting flesh in a most uninteresting manner. It's about as titillating as a hernia.From a directorial point of view, we once again see Cronenberg's obsession with organic nature of machinery that can be seen in other works like `Cronos' and `eXistenz'. The damaged cars indentations are treated almost like injured creatures, caressed like flesh. There's also his use of darkness and mood, a sombre tone to the proceedings.None of this can help the fact that I'm left puzzled as to why Cronenberg bothered in the first place - I don't care about anyone here, the story's an uninteresting shambles (sex, mangled cars, sex, mangled cars, blah blah) and it's left making him look like incredibly pretentious. A worthy lesson into avoiding self-indulgence. 3/10.  "},{"Title":"Twisted Metal; Twisted Minds","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If your car made a porno movie, this would be it !James Spader (playing a character named after the man who wrote the story) is involved in a fatal crash and becomes obsessed with the woman in the other car (Holly Hunter).  He meets Elias Koteas, a man who stages re runs of death crashes illicitly before grandstands peopled by auto death freaks, a community which Spader joins.This movie is cold, cold, cold - despite its numerous erotic scenes - and explores a forbidden world of sexual fetishism.Many will be appalled by this film as being in bad taste but others will be bored by extensive stretches where nothing seems to be happening to drive the plot forward.  (Personally I found the fetish of Holly Hunter's character for wearing leather gloves all the time, even when she was wearing little else, a big turn on)The fault that this does not come off lies more with Ballard, whose work is remote, detached and esoteric in the extreme, but one must applaud Cronenberg for his bravery and originality of trying to make a go of this.Rating - a nasty (but not fatal) 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great music, interesting plot, but tries too hard to be shocking","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The overall premise that people can be aroused by car crashes does seem strange at first but perhaps it is not so crazy as sex and death have long been associated with each other.I don't really understand why this film caused such an uproar. The film is more bizarre rather than offensive and it does have some great, genuinely erotic moments. It starts off promisingly enough but then the middle part of the film just seems to be an endless succession of everyone screwing everyone which I found rather tedious. It seemed to me as though the film was trying TOO hard to be shocking. Not having read the book, I can't say whether this is the fault of the film or the book.Koteas is excellent as Vaughan as are Deborah Unger and James Spader. For me the real star of this film is the superb music written by Howard Shore - electric guitars playing complex melodies over shifting chromatic harmonies. The music is instantly memorable.The film is worth watching as there is an interesting surreal atmosphere to be enjoyed and some highly charged, inventive dialogue. I found more subtleties in the film, the more I watched it. "}{"Title":"GREAT FUN!!!!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (SPOILERS)VOW, what a movie. Some people don't like it for many reasons. The main one being, the fetish depicted (getting off/hot over a car crash) seems too unrealistic. Well, if you don't find a car crash arousing (like myself), good for us (we're normal), but in this sick world, I'm sure we can find more than one person who'll find it exiting (I mean, if some people are turned on enough over a dead body in order to screw it, like Ted Bundy and others, a car crash is not that far fetched).But the best part was the car-wreck-erotism propheth, Vaughn (Elias Koteas). He's so creppy and funny (when you realize why he drives a beat up 63 black Lincoln, you'l see what I mean) especially when he and Ballard get the car-wreck tattooes (Vaughn gets a steering wheel in the stomack and mid-chest) and do each other (Ballard does Vaughn in his car, Vaughn does Ballard WITH his car, while Ballard being inside a beat up car, and we even get to see Vaughn coming in his pants, or at least he looks like he did that, right after hitting Ballard twice). And the scene that takes the cake Vaughn does Ballard and his wife WITH his car while driving in heavy traffic (the shots of his face clearly show him totally deranged) and finally driving off the road into his spectacular, high speed death (while sceaming, out of pleasure and insanity, longing for the supreme thrill, the one that claims the ultimate price).Enough spoilers, go see it for more. Or if what you just read put you off, then don't see it, it gets worse. "},{"Title":"A strikingly bleak snapshot of modern urban society","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I must admit the picture spooked me a great deal. Not by its moderate (as measured against other Cronenberg's pictures) gore, nor by its apparent sado-masochist tilt. The movie was a merciless spit at modern, civilized, intellectual city dwellers, pathetic as it may sound.Cronenberg should perhaps have included cars in the credits. For the movie shows how narrow the distance is between humans as carriers of the most sophisticated intelligence on earth and cars as a mere soulless carriers for humans. Jagged, cold, useless metal of smashed cars, jagged, deformed human bodies. More importantly, deformed, cold,  useless souls.Cars coexist with humans on highways. Their collisions are as 'intimate' as love-making, just coitus, a physical act. Unger lifts up her skirt as sensually as the car automatics open up the cover of the trunk. Spader's eyes throughout the movie are hardly more expressive than his car's headlights. Doggone, all their life looks like functioning, bleak as the concrete of highway. "},{"Title":"A cool car-crash movie for those who needs aren't met by THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS.","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is David Cronenberg's icy, clinical examination of mechanical fetishism as an alternative to ritual, emotionally-based sex acts.  It's based on an odd and provocative novel by J.G. Ballard (EMPIRE OF THE SUN) about a cult of folks who find stimulation via auto accidents and the physical damage they incur.  A concept this daring could only handled by a fearless filmmaker, and Cronenberg's definitely qualified. There are no hidden or implied mainstream values here that I could see; viewers are asked to accept the characters and their oddball sexuality based purely on the film's visual glamour and the deliberate, calculated performances of the capable cast. For the intuitive viewer, the film can impart a chic veneer to the concept of self-destructive behavior and provide some unique moments of humor.  For the rest of you, it'll just come off as a strange, tasteless exercise in perversity, without cause and maybe with some shocking affect.  Whether or not you give CRASH a chance, there's no denying it's moral audacity.  I'll applaud any director with the nerve and talent to try and make leg braces alluring, substitute flesh wounds for vaginas and explore the old aphorism about the sexiness of scars.  An extremely original film, made with class, in a class by itself.  Thanks David; can't wait for your next project. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg faithful to Ballard, but the audience left in the cold","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Despite a lot of explicit sex, a number of car crashes, and the depiction of ghastly physical injuries, David Cronenberg's movie, based on a J G Ballard book, tends to leave the viewer cold. But this is the point of the film - to portray a group of people who are cold and empty of normal emotions. They retain the sexual impulse, but can only gain gratification by combining sex with car crashes, re-enacted or genuine. One might perhaps see these people as suffering from an extreme form of sado-masochism; but Ballard and Cronenberg are surely making a broader statement about current obsessions with sex, cars, violence and voyeurism. Cronenberg achieves his detached effect by requiring his actors to speak quietly and move slowly; by avoiding any superficially striking visuals (except perhaps for the horrors of the injuries); by making the sex scenes as unerotic (ie unarousing) as possible; and through the eerie theme music. For instance, there is a scene late in the movie where a naked Deborah Unger is lying on a bed, with James Spader looking at her; it is initially unclear whether or not she is dead; her appearance is that of a cadaver on a dissecting table; his regard is as dispassionate as that of an anatomist.The overall problem is that although Cronenberg may have made his (or J G Ballard's) intellectual point, the film doesn't provide much of an emotional experience for the viewer. I would have preferred, for example, a more openly satirical, sensationalist approach (Dr Strangelove-style), though this might not have been as faithful to the book. In fact, there are scenes where the film almost tips over into absurdity, eg the scene where all the main characters are feeling each other up while watching a test-crash video, which would have provided good material for a more enjoyable film, while still staying on Ballard's message.    "},{"Title":"Bizzare and Real.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  People are freaky...Human beings get off on all sorts of things. This movie showcases that. Fetishes are something that most people have hidden in the closet...at least in their early stages...This movie showcases what can happen when your fetishes become dangerous and out of control. Good movie. Not nearly for all tastes though. Fair warning-----The sex in the last 15 minutes of the film makes the first 80 minutes look like a trip to Sesame Street... "},{"Title":"A Menage-a-trois with the automobile","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Even though this was shot in Canada, it was obviously an allegory (and I mean gory) for the world's (United States) love affair with the automobile.  This extends beyond just being turned on by the danger of the metal beast, but it is a full blown sexual partner in the sex act!  Without the soft touch of corinthian leather or the smoothness of vinyl covering, the sex act is mechanical and empty. But the ultimate penetration of metal into flesh brings the ultimate orgasm that only makes us want more!--crash after disfiguring crash.This film is the ultimate satire of the sexually charged self destructiveness that the plague of the horseless carriage.P.S.  I believe the problem is addiction to gasoline fumes, but that may be another movie. "},{"Title":"this is the end","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have read many reviews of this film and i am always surprised to never hear what i think it's about. The revier her by gluong 2 ? I thought he was right about the film being anti-erotic. It is anti-erotic but its very fetish oriented. What i thought the film was about was the lack of purpose in american culture. They feel empty and being american and told happiness is for everyone and in fact is our right, they can't figure out why they are not. they have great bodies, great sex, great houses, great cars, and great jobs but it amounts to an empty dead space inside of them. You can see this is every frame of this movie. It shows with every line about the trafic getting worse and every scene of dialogue where the characters try to connect but know they dont have the words. The next level is not really a next level at all but an extension of the culture we live in. what other than sex do we worship. We worship cars and movie stars and so these thing get combined in a sort of bizarre foreplay and sexual deviance.Nicks, dents, gashes all become parts of a cars flesh. It takes on an emotional identity to the characters. They treat the cars as if they were extensions of themselves and in fact the metal and chrome of the cars does start to become part of some the characters in a backwards way(rosanna). She is part machine. This movie to me is a metaphor for longing. It examines in an extreme way our desire to be filled and not feel so empty inside. The people in this movie live in a deeply religious state and are even willing to die for it. They want to die for it in fact. They want salvation. The people in this movie are consumed with the longing for salvation from their empty lives and the fear its not there at all.The question people ask alot is why are they so empty? why don't they join a church or something? I think the people in this movie already have gone that route and found it lacking to say the least. I think this movie is far bleaker than most reviews i read so far. I think it is saying. we are headed for the big meltdown. We are driven by desire than cannot be fulfilled. The end result is desire and faith turned into violent obsesion and sorrow without end. A Disapointment so big that it drives you to death. By the way im not this bleak but i thought the movie was. And yes i did like it alot )  "},{"Title":"Mediocre Cronenberg","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is another Cronenberg movie, and it shows. Its really obvious - fetish for flesh and metal curled up is all over and all through the movie.I am not sure I get this movie, in fact I am sure I didn't - it's a weird one, maybe I'll see it a third time and try again ...I liked Naked Lunch a lot better, that actually made some sense to me, this movie doesn't - until it does I'll give a it 6/10 for nice shots and for keeping away from the boring mainstream series. Maybe if I see the light sometime I'll raise that score.  "},{"Title":"Crash and burn","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A real mess of a movie and a boring one at that. For all the notoriety it gained when it premiered at Cannes, Crash is actually very dull and pointless. This sorry spectacle jumped from one grim scene to another prompting me to wander what was the motivation behind the making of this movie. I guess the director (David Cronenberg) has an interest in people who get off on car crashes. Cronenberg does not make movies that are entertaining anymore. The things that seem to fascinate him are unwatchable to most of us. "},{"Title":"Twisted","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had the experiance of catching crash on late night TV. I didnt know what to expect. On one hand after i watched it, I felt unsatisfied and unmoved as I have with alot of Cronenburg movies, but dont think i wasnt shocked. Not as much by the sex mind you. But by the desperation by which these people live. The sick thing is the lengths they will go for sexual feeling. They're grabbing for some kind of brillant sexual peak that ultimatley leaves them scarred and broken.I dont really know what to think about Crash. It has it's twisted moments. Namely the scene in which Vaughn stops to admire a car wreck with his camera, burning with desire. He somehow remains entranced even when he finds a former companion trapped inside.This isnt for everyone, but if you think film cant find some kind of connection between sex and auto wrecks, think again. "}{"Title":"SEX-PLICIT EROTI-DRAMA","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash, director David Cronenberg's controversial adaptation of writer J.G. Ballard's equally controversial novel, concerns the exploits of a car crash obsessed group of nutjobs who get very aroused by accidents and then go have quick, meaningless, and very hot sex in cars, cars, and more cars.  Thats about all there is to this movie.  But I liked it, most people didn't though.  It is rated NC-17 so don't say I didn't warn you.Crash is Rated NC-17 for graphic sex and nudity, car accidents and gore, and for some drug use and adult language.NOTE  Crash is also available in a cut R version that trims out ten minutes of explicit sex and nudity.  Try and get the NC-17 version, it's much better. "},{"Title":"exploration into the vacuity of the techno-mechanical age","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A stylistic depiction of how living on the edge propels enjoying pleasures at a higher orgasmic level. The depth of the narrative is shallow but the cinematic techniques to massage the thematic structure is a delight to watch. Attempts to unravel the darker spheres of the human psyche can shock naive viewers. Definitely not a movie for the average, popcorn chomping crowd ... but for the movie aficionado who is willing to challenge his/her perception. Excellent performances by Elias Koteas, James Spader and Deb Unger. Elias and James played the parts perfectly of two emotionally and psychological identical twins who displayed completely polar opposite external demeanor. The sex scenes are very intimate and techno-gothic in nature and are very essential in the exploration of the movies theme. "},{"Title":"Crunch","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sex and car crashes and lots of them.  Both.  What can I say...  where do I start...James Spaders character gets into a car accident one day and ends up meeting a select group of individuals who get erotic stimulation from car crashes.  This group of people is headed by a guy who his wife finds intensely charismatic.  He recreates historic crashes like the one that killed James Dean, with himself in the car.  His 1963 Lincoln he says has been crashed so many times and he restores it just to get it running cause he doesn't want to give it up, and he wants to crash it again.  He takes photos of accident scenes and is obsessed.With this obsession, involves a lot of sex.  And EVERY avenue is explored. Heterosexual, lesbian, homosexual etc..  I would consider this film to be more of an experiment in an idea than a story about people.  Cronenberg makes you believe that there is a lot of similarity in comparing a car crash and people's fascination with the automobile and sexual desire.  The actors are excellent, the concept Bizarre, the look of the film is great.  Is it a masterpiece?  Hell no.The only thing I really liked in the film was the music score which had this guitar arpegiation which sounded really cool.  Also it played during the opening credits which were real neat.  I am not a fan of Croneneberg but, with all the good and bad I guess I remained neutral about it.Rating 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Sex, Lies and a Beautifully Presented (if somewhat alienating) Fetish","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie offers no insights whatsoever as to why people develop fetishes. I've been in 3 pretty horrendous car crashes (none my fault), and in 2, my car was totaled. So I guess I ought to have been pretty primed and ready to understand why all these characters developed a sexual car crash fetish. But I didn't. And if I couldn't fathom it, I doubt very seriously whether any not-already-morbid viewer could.Instead, it seems to be a voyeuristic journey into the nature of fetish and how intense it can become. That can be cool too... if you're attracted to the person who's getting turned on. By that metric, Deborah Kara Unger steals the show (if you're attracted to girls). She's the first and last woman we see in the movie, and the most sexual. I can't imagine why Holly Hunter and Rosanna Arquette wanted to compete with her in a sexual movie, unless it was to learn. The woman can find sexual tension staring at traffic from an apartment balcony.By the way, the movie is beautifully photographed. And don't miss the opening credits, which seem to change their mind about how they're going to present themselves to you.  "},{"Title":"Meaning of sex explored ****","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  J.G. Ballard's original novel, set in the London of the seventies, has been moved to modern day Toronto with James Spader giving a deliciously subtle performance as Ballard's main alter ego protagonist (to whom he even gave his own name). David Cronenberg has taken Ballard's formless meditation on sex and car crashes and fashioned a strong narrative for this always interesting exploration of the meaning of sex in an age of technology if we don't need it for procreation anymore, what's it there for? Spader and his wife Catherine (Deborah Kara Unger) are tortured by that question as they try to breathe life into their dampened sex life, taking it as far as joining a cult of people fascinated by the connection between intercourse and automechanics, led by the mysterious and sexy Vaughan (Elias Koteas). Much to the surprise of those of us who are her biggest fans, Holly Hunter is quite dull as Helen Remington, Spader's other companion in his journey through this obscure nightmare, and the dialogue does get a little too unbelievable in its eloquence sometimes (other times it's just plain ridiculous). On the other hand, with all the controversy that surrounded the film upon its original release, it is forever a must-see experience. Peter Suschitzky's photography is gorgeous, giving the whole film a look like it's reflecting off the metallic chrome of a new car, and Rosanna Arquette's scenes as bionicly-recreated crash victim Gabrielle are the film's best moments. Unger is also excellent as Catherine, a woman who is perturbed by nothing--she can hardly be bothered to throw her eyes sideways when something kinky happens (like her husband leaving her alone to go have sex with a man in his car after she just did it with him), and something about her detachment is really thrilling. Unsettling for some, this is not for all tastes, especially for anyone turned off by massive sexual content (though there is an edited R-rated version that Cronenberg insists makes no sense).  "},{"Title":"Low quality landfill","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cardboard characters engage in randaom sexual acts and crash into one another's cars.  This film was perhaps the inspiration for the view of Canadian film portrayed in the latest South Park movie.  If someone gives you this movie, you may be able to put it out with the recycling.  It is definitely not worth spending any money to see this lamentable waste of time. "},{"Title":"Oh my god... what the hell was that?","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This one is well and truly out there! I should have known it would be bizarre if you put James Spader, Holly Hunter, and Rosanna Arquette in the same movie.I was in a quandry on how to rate this one for a number of reasons- I have to give Cronenberg credit for making something totally unique. I didn't find that it panders to the typical Hollywood formula. It really was different and there was a certain fascination watching it which was not unlike passing the scene of an accident and looking to see what horrors had transpired.- The cinematography was very good (lighting, camera angles, etc).- The musical score was well thought out and it set the mood for the sombre, manic, desperate, and sad lives of the characters.Having said all of the above the whole thing was very confusing. There was no logical flow from the initial crash (Spader, Hunter and dead husband). I didn't understand the relationship between Hunter's character and Spaders... it simply didn't make any sense.Perhaps because of the confusion, I found myself wishing all of those people had died in their respective crashes. By the end, I definitely found myself wishing they all would die in a big crash that would decapitate them all. I didn't feel any empathy or understanding for the whole lot of them. Holly's husband was the lucky one... having died early in the film.The whole sexual excitement thing over maiming and mutilation as just too strange.I did not appreciate the subdued, trance-like voices that all the characters used. Were all the actors on valium? Was Cronenberg?Overall, I found some thought-provoking aspects to the film but didn't think I had enough background info to be able to figure it out (or to want to!)... "},{"Title":"Sterile, like the smell of a new car's upholstery","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  J.G. Ballard's perverse, and often coolly humorous, prose works are not really suited to the screen. If anybody could successfully transfer one, the likeliest candidate would have to be David Cronenberg. At least, that is what anyone would have thought before seeing Crash.It seems it's best to leave Ballard to unsettle and disturb the printed page alone.  "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I finally got to see this movie, which made such an ado when it came. I must honestly tell I'm disappointed, though I enjoy some of Cronenberg's work. This is repulsive, and it's of course meant to be so. James Spader makes his worst appearance ever. And the others aren't worth mentioning. Holly S**t! "},{"Title":"Polarizing -- you either like it or hate it","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is very polarizing in its effect on the viewer in that it either is thrown in the category of soft porn or held to be an insightful work of art. I found it to be intriguing. The characters (especially Spader) seemed to be detached and flat, but they were *supposed* to be that way! There are some poor souls (yes, in this world) that, when they feel detached and emotionless cut themselves or do some other form of non-suicidal self harm. Of course this is not a healthy response, but if the characters in this film had been directed to act any differently than how they acted it would've been a travesty. These people have a desperation about them that they have to either feel something, even if it is pain, rather than to go through life as one of the walking dead. In many places I felt very squeamish and repulsed, believe me I'm not turned on by car crashes or anything, but I liked the edge-of-your-seat suspense, and I at least understood the characters. If you're expecting a wholesome movie rent Annie or Pollyanna instead, but you cannot deny that this film was a labor of love for Cronenberg. Warning!! -- It might make you think (horror of horrors)! "}{"Title":"Analytic Erotic","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When watching Cronenberg's films, I always feel as though I am looking into a fishbowl at a world that is, thankfully, not my own. An alternate universe. Unlike Lynch's works, which pull you into a sick and twisted underworld that feels all-too-real, Crash and Naked Lunch invite you to watch and examine human behavior from a cool, analytical standpoint.That's why his characters, especially in Crash, tend to show so little 'acting'. They are not asking you to identify with their weird fetishes, morals or motivations. I think this is why so many people are confused and lost or bored when confronting Crash. We have been so conditioned by narrative cinema to expect to be drawn into the film, to identify with the hero and expect a certain plot to shape up, ending with a climax. Crash is not about this.We've also come to expect sex and violence to be depicted in a certain way. Somehow, it's become perfectly acceptable for the hero to brutally kill many people. Blood and gore are commonplace. But how often have you seen normal, healthy sex depicted in an erotic (not pornographic) way?My point is that Crash and its world and David Cronenberg are not normal, nor are they trying to be. They are true to themselves, internally consistent. And that's why I think they are so great. "},{"Title":"weird","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Overall, I didn't like this movie.  All it really is is an epic soft porn film.  That's all I have to say about the sex subject.  As for the car crash theme, I am considering reading Ballard's book, to better understand his story, because I was just surprised with this trash.  All characters in the film are sick, demented people.But the film making is another story.  I found the direction to be very good.  The shots and camera work are very well done. The car scenes were very well executed.  The acting is very subtle and generally well done. As for some of the dialogue, I think that it is very bizarre, especially when Unger was persuading Spader to hook up with Elias Koteas..*shivers* Basically, this movie is a genuine piece of trash. "},{"Title":"I don't get it.","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No, I understood the movie perfectly well, I just don't understand the praise the movie received, or the fact some say it had a hidden meaning. Why don't I ever understand these hidden meanings? It seems whenever a terrible movie comes out, there will be a small amount of critics (and audience) that will find a metaphor in it, even though it's obvious the movie has none. The same goes for the potently terrible flick, Natural Born Killers.There was nothing in this movie, no plot, barely any dialogue, and no meaning whatsoever. How could you find any meaning in a movie which is about nothing more than people getting aroused by car crashes? The only meaning I see in that is that they're sick and demented people. What more could be said? Several people saw this movie as an artform, but like I said, there was no art or form in it. Maybe we should all just make a boring movie about a controversial subject, and maybe we'll all get the same undeserved acclaim that Cronenberg received? "},{"Title":"I respect him...","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you can't accept CRASH, I think you may not understand modernism. If you think it nothing but full of sex and violate, I consider you are segmentary. Although Cronenberg is not my best favorite, I respect him and thank for his work(same as David Lynch). Cronenberg widens the expressionist style of movie and challenge the extremity. The acting of casts are all excellent. There is no trace of acting at all. It's offbeat.  "},{"Title":"???","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was speechless after viewing the director's cut video.I think this movie will draw emotions you don't even want to think about into the open, I know it made me think about it for awhile.If you're into the raunch and gore...look no more.  THIS IS YOUR FLICK...Unger is hot as always, Arquette the usual character actor great that she is, Spader weird as usual.Twisted plot, but maybe that's why a normal person like myself needs to see this.  (you too)  True education and enlightenment comes from experiencing the good and bad in our fellow man, and this movie will drive you to limits of taste, morality, and sexuality that you may not know are inside of you.Experience this movie, just don't get too weird afterwards, OK? "},{"Title":"Illustrates the fine line between genius and insanity.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Many people gave this film a low rating because they hated it. I can understand hating it. It wants your hate, just as Andy Kaufmann wanted your hate when he played his most despicable characters. I can't understand giving it a low rating. It may be detestable, but it's a good piece of filmmaking.David Cronenberg is a filmmaker who requires a great deal of intellectual participation from the viewer. When you watch his movies, you can either sit there and say God, this is stupid, or you can take up his challenge. Crash is a good movie if you just accept one thing. It doesn't take place in our universe, but in a parallel one where the connection between cars and sex is far more explicit. Auto-eroticism has a different meaning in that universe, and the darker side of this fetish involves automobile accidents, which really turn some people on.James Spader is in a distant marriage which seems barely held together by the two of them having affairs and turning each other on with the descriptions of their outside liaisons. When Spader has an automobile accident, he finds that his wounds and breaks have become erotic objects for his wife and others. This widens his interests to a cult of accident survivors who obsess about their scars and braces, about famous crashes and cars, etc. For light entertainment, they all watch public safety films, and masturbate over the crash dummies. As you can imagine, they turn rubbernecking into a science, and pore through accident sites feeling the hot metal, tasting the blood, and photographing the aftermath. Since they live in an alternate universe, police and paramedics and firefighters simply ignore them.Cronenberg uses this imaginary universe to explore some facets of our own* the replacement of humans by machines, in this case symbolized by Rosanna Arquette and her mechanized body which is barely distinguishable from the car Spader mounts her in. Is he inflamed by her braces or the transmission?* flirting with death as a sexual stimulus (it's no coincidence that Cronenberg also directed Burroughs' Naked Lunch, since that novel is about the death-wish as much as anything else)* the impact of sexual obsession on other facets of life* the contrapositive impact of shared non-sexual obsessions on sexual attraction. Once people are drawn into this cult, they want to rut with everyone else in it, same sex or not. The obsession transcends all other considerations. It's no coincidence that they mention the Kennedy assassination. That obsession is the perfect match in our world.Is Cronenberg a looney tune? Absolutely. Is he brilliant? Absolutely. He illustrates perfectly the fine line between genius and madness. The movie is well performed, masterfully photographed, sustains its mood perfectly, and is an aesthetically pleasing replication of its own cold-steel emotionless Bizarro world. There is no love or warmth in this world, only obsession and stimulus. There are no children or kittens, or anything else which might soften the hearts of the denizens. This movie is like Andy Kaufmann's comedy it never winks and comes out of character and tells you everything is OK. It wants you to hate it, because if it is authentic you should hate everything about it, if you are a normal person. This film might repulse you, but you can't deny its imaginative power.  "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's exquisite masterpiece.","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A profoundly sad view of dislocation and longing in a slick modern world, recalling such diverse but equally powerful films as Three Colors Blue, Blade Runner and Vertigo.  If you don't understand this, you're part of the problem.    "},{"Title":"A wonderfully twisted and sexually perversed film.","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After a horrific car accident, James Ballard, (Spader), enters a world of cars and sex. This wonderfully twisted and sexually perversed film explores the ultimate orgasm by a full automobile impact, where body and metal mangle as one! A bizarre fetish that comes close to being a soft porn and a very good one at that. Cronenberg manages to draw the viewer in with lushes images and spellbinding music. A brave effort by a well renown cast.  "},{"Title":"Symbolism fails = Movie fails","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  CRASH is nothing more than a study into human behavior as it relates to sexual obsessions.  The car crashes in CRASH are simply symbolic of every sexual obsession humans can experience. The alternative for the filmmakers would have been to actually choose one of the real sexual obsessions humans experience and build their story around that.  But that would have failed on so many levels, just as an example it would have been less categorically sweeping and therefore less symbolic.The problem is the bulk of the film audience missed the symbolism entirely, and therefore missed the message.  Since it is the job of the film to communicate and not necessarily the job of the audience to comprehend, we alas must say this well-made film failed. "},{"Title":"Waste of money","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was forced to see this movie in the theater by my friends. I tought it would be a bad, semi-porn kind of movie. I wish it would have been that. It was actually worse. It is not only grotesque but also boring. The sex scenes (which includes 1 gay) are not at all good, sometimes disgusting. I can't believe that actors like Spader and Hunter acted in this movie.  "}{"Title":"Get real.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love offbeat films.  Blue Velvet, True Romance, Pulp Fiction, etc, etc.  But this one just didn't grab me. It's typically stylistic, as all David Cronenberg films are, but as far as I was concerned lacked substance. Plot revolves around people who are turned on sexually by auto accidents. Not a normal first reaction, for instance when your husband was sitting next to you & all of a sudden goes through the windshield, but that's the scoop. Thought it was preposterous & a bit silly. "},{"Title":"Rent-a-Wreck","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This feeble film, bursting with risible dialogue and visual non-sequiters, couldn't shock a bus load of nuns on their way to Lourdes, but it could tip them into deep, comatose boredom. Why doesn't David Cronenberg just make porn flicks and be done with it?  "},{"Title":"Brave challenging film-making, exceedingly odd however","Date":"21 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Any film which addresses the possibility of sexual arousal through involvement in, or observation of, car crashes, deserves to be seriously considered by those with a serious interest in films. The response to Crash in the imdb voting charts shows that people seems to either love this movie or to hate it. It is understandable for the latter course to be followed. The film contains graphic (for Hollywood) straight sex, unusually frank homosexual sex, violation of bodies and extremely disturbing car crashes. Nevertheless, for those of a broad mind and strong stomach, the movie is very well constructed and engages the viewer strongly one way or the other. For myself, all I can say is , I've been in more than one car crash, and it's never affected me that way! "},{"Title":"I was whelmed","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I suppose there are people out there who get turned on by accidents, especially car crashes, as there is something about sex in cars that's a turn on.  And there have been countless movies about alienation that have been very good.  This, however, isn't one of them.  It's not a bad film, because Cronenberg is still a visual master, and some of that comes out, like the scene of the first meeting between Spader and Hunter, where she tries to get her seat belt off, and it's almost like she's aroused.  But the characters here seem like zombies all the way through, and you don't get the sense that they want to feel anything other than dead inside, so it makes no sense that they'd turn to fetish to escape feeling alienated.  The actors all suffer from this, except for Rosanna Arquette as a sort of den mother; she's the only recognizable human here.  "},{"Title":"A dull little work of art","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash is the kind of movie that you ought to see if you're interested in movies. It is startling and unconventional and it has some very original touches. But it is also overlong and dull, and the connection Kronenberg makes between the characters' sex lives and the car crashes they are in is overdone. The auto-sexual facet of the movie could have been played down a bit, not to spare the viewer from unpleasantness but to draw some subtlety in the experience of watching the movie. Unfortunately, the final product fell somewhere between overheated sexual drama and half-baked arthouse film. But like a good student, you ought to study it for the effort and thinking that went behind it. "},{"Title":"Daring barrier crasher","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cronenberg's film has been met with so much outrage that going into the theatre you expect something a lot worse than what he has actually made. The film's sex scenes are plentiful but nowhere near as disgusting as they're reputed to be, but it isn't hard to see why some people were disturbed by it.The film itself is shot in a gloomy, icy style that will alienate most people form the actions of it's characters, but it's possible to see that these people are so deep in the mire of sexual frustration that they'll try anything new and daring to give their lives a little direction. Not a successful experiment and not a film you can claim to 'like', Crash is still worth seeing for the following reasonIt pushes the limits of what has been deemed morally acceptable by the majority, and for that reason this is a film that deserves to be seen by all thinking people. When it was released, A CLOCKWORK ORANGE was deemed morally irresponsible and deviant but is now considered a classic. If justice serves it right, the same will happen to CRASH. "},{"Title":"New fetishes of the flesh","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash is definitely a hard film to like, but it's a good one. It's sci-fi without the silly aliens or rocketships. A kind of psychological window of the future where men and women are as cold as the machines they drive and technology has become such a part of us that we become more aroused by it than by warm flesh.I was worried that the movie industry had become emasculated until I saw Crash. This was a film made without compromise and you have to watch it at least twice to see all the subtle visual innuendo's and metaphors. It's not an easy film to understand and wasn't made to appeal to everyone. Obviously, a lot of people hate it and call it unrealistic, failing to grasp that art merely mirrors life and that if you can think it someone has done it. There are people out there who really do act and think this way. Crash uses the fetishes and sex to illustrate how people have become so distant from their emotions, libidos and each other that they have to use drastic measures to reconnect.Watch it if you want to see something different and daring. But if you were offended by Basic Instinct or thought Se7en was too grim I'd suggest something a bit lighter. "},{"Title":"Fascinating..perplexing..visually exquisite","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm really not too sure what to think of this film, but I do like it in a way. I'm certainly not shocked or offended by it. I think Cronenberg has created something truly artistic and darkly seductive. It doesn't surprise me this was based on an early 70's novel (so many incredible, groundbreaking ideas in that time) but that JG Ballard wrote it does a little. Howard Shore's music is haunting and intoxicating. It's good. Who could deprive their curiousity of seeing Rosanna Arquette (in grotesque leg braces) and Holly Hunter making out. "},{"Title":"Odd Film, But Has its Merits","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash is an interesting film, it is not the best movie I have ever seen, but it is one worth a watch.  It has an odd story, but it is a very sensual film. The film has a wonderful cast, and Hunter, Spader, and Arquette are ok in it.   "},{"Title":"Convolusion","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am giving the director the benefit of the doubt and assuming he was trying to make some sort of high-minded statement about sexuality, not just trying to revolt me.  But the message is extremely muddled.In showing a ludicrous fetish nobody has ever displayed, maybe the film is trying to satirize sexual obsession. Or maybe it is some sort of commentary about pornography or relationships in modern society.  Whatever the case, the point is very obscure.With the tone of ironic detachment, I felt I was being held at arm's length throughout the film and given no clue as to how I should feel about the characters.  Am I supposed to sympathize with them, pity them?  It's hard to do since they show about as much emotion as HAL in 2001.  For people who are supposedly engulfed by sexual obsession, they sure are torpid.If I am going to watch extremely graphic sexual perversions, I would prefer them to be in a film that is a little more thoughtful and a lot less pretentious.    "}{"Title":"painfully overrated soft pornography.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  what the film adaption of Crash amounts to is barely more than an artsy skin flick. it completely misses the eroticism and intrigue of ballard's novel. it's a trite thing. cronenberg ought to be deprived of the ability to make films, or least be forbidden of trashing excellent novels (i.e. burrough's naked lunch!) "},{"Title":"A sick, twisted and perverted affair.","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A sick, twisted and perverted movie. Displaying penetration where it should not occur and showing what happens when unbalanced people are not brought up correctly. All in all, an interesting affair from Mr. Cronenberg. "},{"Title":"Disturbing. Very disturbing","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is one of the darkest I have ever seen. The basic idea that people get sexually aroused from being involved in car crashes is mind boggling. It happens to be it was a very powerful movie, with excellent performaces by almost all the actors, especially Elias Kotais and James Spader. Their homosexual scene was well done, and looked natural. But the sad fact was, that David Croenberg seemed more interested in showing naked bodies, then in fleshing out some of the more interesting parts of the film, such as the society that recreates famous car crashes.The ending, was immensely disturbing, but extremely powerful. I recommend this flick, but it aint for the faint of heart. "},{"Title":"Cocktail Party Philosophy?","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching a videotape of CRASH.  There was a lot of genuine talent invested in the acting end of the movie.  It's real eye candy--no doubt.  However, some of the lines detailing the generative or sexual nature of an auto accident are completely fallacious, ridiculous, beyond anti-logical.  I have a sort of gag-reflex for the sort of editorializing that regards any great release of energy whether or not it creates anything as some expression of sex.   "},{"Title":"incredulous of IMDB user comments on Crash (1996)","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's difficult to believe that there are movie-watchers out there who consider their literal interpretations of Kronenberg's Crash (1996) worthy of sharing on the IMDB. I was shocked to find that viewers were flabbergasted by Crash's beautifully desensitized comment on the perils of modernism. Crash does not attempt to fabricate an alternate envisioning of the future or the present. Interpreting this movie on the basis of reality is a mistake that rescinds its potency as an exploration of the autopsyche. Kronenberg's Crash is a marvel of cinematography as well as modernist psychoanalysis. His chilling insights into an emotionless, mechanized society definitely do not attempt to mimic reality, but they do reflect aspects of the collective subconscious that exist in the minds of every user who trashed the movie like Vaughan's car. If Crash seemed excessively violent and unappealing, it was Kronenberg's folly to release the film to American cinemagoers who seem unable to identify and appreciate the societal messages present within this dangerously stark movie.  "},{"Title":"Look beyond the obvious","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having just watched Crash and then reading through the numerous critics reviews, I must say I am shocked.  I really believed that more critics would have appreciated this compelling character study.  I don't believe this film was made purely for shock value or to titilate.  While not one of Cronenbergs finest, it is still am amazing piece of work  Give these fine actors some credit, for turning out some of the best, albeit subtle, performances I have seen in quite sometime.  Some actors rely on shouting, crying, yelling to express emotions, not in this film.  They say so much with their eyes, and slight facial expressions.  It's filmed in such a deadpan manner that lacks eroticism.  How could anyone criticize it on that basis?  If you are looking for something off the beaten path, and intelligent, see it. "},{"Title":"Scar Tissue, Stitched Skin & Sex (!?)","Date":"8 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Have you ever been turned-on by the sight of deep-gash scar tissue? Does the thought of being in a car crash make you horny? Are you sexually aroused by grossly mangled and disfigured limbs? Well, if you answered Yes to even one of these very revealing questions, then Crash just might be the movie that you've been waiting to see for all of your miserable life.Directed by David Cronenberg (the ultimate master of movie mumbo-jumbo), Crash is a literal head-on collision with weird. But this ain't no interesting sort of weird. No. This is the kind of weird that literally makes your skin crawl and leaves a bad taste in your mouth. Yep. There's no denying that.Crash is a steely-cold, and, yes, inhuman sort of movie. Its story takes a completely clinical look at alienated people, with their emotionally sterile lives, who find sexual arousal in automobile accidents and grossly disfigured bodies. (I don't get it) "},{"Title":"A film that's different it shows that everyone has different taste, as car crashes promote sexual energy!","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Finally after all these years I watched Crash and I must say it was fine it didn't let me down. As watching many David Cronenberg movies you know that they are different and raw and often travel on the edge and show the dark nature of life. With this picture Crash it shows just how people can become obsessed with pleasure after near fatal death. Really watching this is like a psycho sexual journey. Anyway James Spader is James Ballard a film director who in his spare time likes having sex with Asian ladies as his wife Catherine(Deborah Kara Unger)is somewhat of a bore to him. Well after James becomes involved in a near fatal car crash the incident leads to a meeting with Dr. Helen Remington(Holly Hunter)and soon the two develop a passion and an erotic attraction it's now a cat and mouse game of car sex and this underground underworld is a culture of raw violence and raw sexual conquest(Note I really enjoyed the scene of Holly in that silk satin sexy purple colored bra!) This film is clearly different as it explores erotic means and sexual ends in a raw and different way from the norm yet it proves and shows that people's attraction and energy is not the norm when involving sex and passion. Crash is one cult classic film that stands on it's own. "},{"Title":"Fertilizing Crashes","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Cronenberg's provocative 'Crash' tackles the theme of thrill seeking taboo by taking us into the dark and lesser known world of car crash fetish. The film might not appeal to all as the story and characters are cold and detached. Also it can be a little 'too far out there' for some that the concept may be difficult to grasp. However, 'Crash' is a well crafted interesting little film. A married couple, James (James Spader) and Catherine (Deborah Kara Unger), experiment with anonymous sex. Things take a drastic turn after James gets into a serious car crash which injures Dr. Ellen Remington (Holly Hunter) and kills her husband. Soon after their release from the hospital, both James and Ellen meet on a regular basis at the airport parking lot to have sex. Eventually hey discover an underground sub-culture (headed by Vaughan (Elias Koteas) of scarred, omnisexual car-crash victims who get off on car crashes. Through this medium James attempts to rejuvenate his sex life with his wife.The cinematography and lighting are terrific. Cronenberg successfully maintains an atmosphere that is dark, detached, gloomy and cold. He's also extracted some excellent performances from his cast. Spader is no stranger to playing sexually frustrated characters and he does nothing short of superb here. Deborah Kara Unger is terrific as James's wife. Holly Hunter and Elias Koteas downplay their parts with skill. Rosanna Arquette is chilling.'Crash' is definitely different from the usual Hollywood thriller. It's chilling to watch these characters, who were already so detached from the world, to get lured into this 'alternative' world of danger that knows no boundaries. "},{"Title":"Crash and Bump","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Tagline the most controversial film you will ever see. Uh, I think I've seen more controversial before and since. What I settled on was the most bizarre and plot-less movie I've seen.While I'll admit, I honestly didn't really get most of what 1996's Crash is all about, but the jist is female nudity, swingers and sex, mostly around vehicles.Here's what I did get out of it an open-relationship couple James (Spader) and Catherine (Unger) not only get around, they compare notes with each other. I'm guessing they're so unsatisfied with each other, so depressed in life, that they need the company of strangers. That all changes (or advances) when James accidentally crashes into a new sexual awaking, involving steal, metal and automobile demolition with a head on collision. We're asked to not necessarily accept one's unique sexual desire to be at its peak during a car crash, but acknowledge to each their own &#x96; a philosophy I live by, unless it harms another living being. This, however, leads into one of the problems I had with the movie the lack of realism. While stunt-driver/James Dean lover Vaughan (Koteas) isn't all there upstairs to begin with, Helen (Hunter) is all-but non-responsive when her husband is killed in the same crash that James caused. In fact, her only reaction is to get better soon enough, so her and James can have sex in a car in the airport's parking garage. Okay, fine, again to each their own, but you have to suspect the sanity of some of these character who are so detached from natural human instincts whether it be shock, anger, hatred, fear, love, depression, something, anything.The rest of the movie generally gets stranger and stranger as all characters in the movie push forward into more graphic and mechanical sex until their addition demands more. And that's what this is, right? Sexual addiction, whatever the means that turns these people on and like all addictions, it's progressive. One must keep feeding it to get that high. For whatever reason these people feel its necessary to mix intercourse with intersections, it's highly dangerous to themselves and others. This is where I pull back from the each their own. When someone is so selfish in their own desires, they ignore others that could be hurt, maimed or, of course, killed.Regardless of their self-centeredness, there's really not much more to this story. You could've easily been watching yet another film about drug addicts and watch how their lives alter from when they were just a social druggie to $600/day degenerate. And though I don't agree with the controversial comment (and if that's the only reason they made this, to make a controversial film, then I lost all respect for the filmmakers) you almost have to admire these people for making a very original film, albeit based on a very uninteresting subject. Side Note I did have to laugh out loud as this movie reminded me, strangely enough, as a line from Student Bodies. I could imagine any one of the characters from that movie saying in Crash, Cars make me hot! or Wrecks (or wrecked cars) make me hot! I guess, this means I didn't take the movie too seriously, and why should I when you get one (probably) unintentionally silly scene after another. Yeah, this did push my so-called open mind to other's unique hobbies a bit far. "}{"Title":"An OK film that tackles with a very original concept","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this film is very disturbing and shouldn't be watched by anyone who doesn't want to watch a film full of extreme sexual scenes. plus what makes these characters so messed up is the infatuation they have for getting turned on by watching car crashes. James Spader, Holly Hunter, Rosanna Arquette and Elias Koteas give pretty good performances. the film is basically set on these odd people that make a club and in this club they watch very harsh car crashes on the TV while either having sex or masturbating to it. as i said the film is very disturbing and i think this is probably the most controversial film ever made. i do think director David Cronenberg always tries to have something extreme in his film. if its not sex its hard hitting violence or something really strange. this film is definitely aimed at the Cronenberg fans due to its strange going ons. i'm not really a fan of Cronenberg's work but if i had to choose a favourite i'd pick A History Of Violence.this is a good film that is very original even over 10 years later this film has not been repeated so it should be watched by people who want to watch something different. even though the sex is really over the top it is a interesting look into the fetish's of something very strange. not brilliant but definitely worth a look.............. 6.5..............j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"What happens to people to who don't attend driving lessons?","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" They end up in this movie.David Cronenberg is back from his previous UN-Cronenbergian work with this disturbing assault of fetishistic and sexual images. To amp things up,he has recruited the extremely disturbing sex-actor JAMES SPADER.(Secretary,Supernova etc.)It was only a matter of time before this seriously disturbing actor found the right director.For Cronenberg, he has found the perfect actor to channel his imagination. The film is chock-full of sodomy, masturbation, sex, perversity and weird character motivations which stem only from sex. For God's sake, it BEGINS and ENDS with a sex scene!The film has some flaws for I found out that I could never relate car crashes with sex.(I'm gonna have sex with a guy I bumped on the the road?) It just doesn't add up.Nevertheless,IT IS STILL FUN! See bizarre sex scenes beyond your wildest imagination. Be shocked and repulsed by group masturbation accompanied by Howard Shore's music.And the best part of all is you get to see Spader do one of the most disturbing acts he has done in his sexually oriented career. I always wondered what it would feel like to watch Crash.I would never underestimate Cronenberg again. The film is disturbing and shocking. Watch at your own risk. Spader might bump his car into yours. and whoever you are, YOU WONT BE SAFE FROM HIM. "},{"Title":"Did a bad break up ever leave you feeling like a wreck?","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I see this movie primarily as a metaphor for human relationships. I love this movie, and I love the violent reactions it provokes, particularly here in the U.S. People will object to it as if it's depicting something real, like it's a documentary about car crash sexaholics. And I think the icy detachment of the film's style encourages that viewpoint for a lot of people. It's a clinical look at human sexuality, shot with all the clear, sharp focus you'd need to film an autopsy.There is a lot of humor in this film, but it's always mixed in with tension--usually an uneasy apprehension about an impending crash. You want to laugh because it's absurd, but you keep quiet because Cronenberg has forced you to be a voyeur watching some of the deepest, darkest sex fetishes people could possibly have. It's a made-up world, of course, but the rampant realism makes it seem deadly serious. But it's not.And the James Spader / Elias Koteas kiss is the hottest male/male kiss in all of cinema. "},{"Title":"James Dean, wheeled vehicles and  physical intimacy  All rolled into a single film.","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My first reaction regarding Crash is that a lot of unnecessary noises were made upon its release at the Cannes Film Festival.One close look at this film will prove that there was not even a single valid reason for censuring the entire depiction of human closeness, violence and vacuum in human society. Everybody know that what appeared torrid in 1995 is undoubtedly tepid by today's 2007) standards. The admirable quality of this film is Cronenberg's decision to film Ballard's book which has 3 most venerable elements known to human civilizationcars, closeness between a man and a woman and James Dean. No one will ever venture any inane guesswork that a film featuring the above elements can ever remain unnoticed. As human beings are always engage themselves in perpetual search for thrills in their hollow lives they end up doing things as portrayed in Crash. According to my understanding of this film, I reckon this is the unofficial message which David Cronenberg wishes to give out to the whole world. "},{"Title":"And The Moral Of This Story Is? Oh, I Forgot, There Isn't One","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The tag-line of this movie reads 'The Most Controversial Film You Will Ever See'. Well, not only was it controversial to the extent to which it was subsequently banned in cinemas throughout the UK 11 years ago, but the narrative and plot of the film was as ridiculous as it was distasteful. The idea of people getting turned on by car crashes didn't just sound stupid and lame but also sick. I for one am not the reader of the English newspaper the Daily Mail. I am not even middle class myself and so therefore, my views on this film in no way are based on or influenced by some tabloid press but rather from a personal point of view. Thus, what I dislike most about Crash however is that it has a stupid and inane premise and the fact that it was such a terrible film in itself.The plot of Crash revolved around a couple whose husband played by Spader ends up paralysed in a car accident. Of course this doesn't stop him and his wife from doing it with each other and even with other people. Spader's character has him having sex with Holly Hunter, in addition to this he even has a homo-erotic encounter with a guy (not that I have anything against homosexuality whatsoever that is). In fact, one of the main problems with Crash is the rather daft plot- its all about sex, sex and sustaining injuries and losing control of their libido by dangerous driving and that its all done in a cheap, tacky, demoralising and distasteful manner. When they have sex, they don't do it out of love for the other person but rather out of sexual arousal, out of desperation and out of weakness. They couldn't really give a toss about the other person's feelings, or the people they hurt. If anything those characters in Crash come across as being selfish, as well as perverse.Another problem is the actual point of this film- what message is this trying to evoke to its audience? What can the audience themselves take away from this viewing experience? And is there a point to all this? The answers to those questions can only be answered by those able enough to come up with meaningful answers. But unfortunately, they have not been addressed or tackled whatsoever within this movie.I failed to see how I could empathise with or feel remorse for the main characters. In fact, I utterly despised watching this film, that I was thinking as I was seeing the events take place, 'What the hell was that?'. I'm sorry but getting aroused at the expense of others and endangering others by getting involved in car collisions doesn't make for a good movie. It looked so tacky and on screen, the scenes would've offended those of whom were lucky enough to survive a car accident or two.There isn't really a moral to this silly story because let's face it, with a complex and controversial subject such as sex, in Crash with car accidents and people having sex with each other and other people, how on earth can there be one, for sure? David Croenberg has come up with some very strange concepts for films- hell, we often watch scenes in TV sitcoms and dramas for instance where the character is a novice at driving the car, or is attempting to drive the car and the other guy says something like 'imagine that this car is a woman and you're in a relationship with her/it' or some silly crap such as that. However, this one takes the biscuit as it has become a step too far. Crash was a terrible waste of a film and in Spader, Hunter and Arquette- of whom are three undeniably good actors, their talents were virtually unseen in this so-called diabolical 'porn' fest. For me, it was a nonsensical piece of garbage. "},{"Title":"fails to achieve any of the things that fans of this film use as its justification","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" as fans stick up for it and say that haters don't understand its aims, I on the otherhand can understand its aims and the context and still think its a pile of rubbish. none of the depth and tales of wisdom that these images are meant to represent come across well enough, they whole movie smells of cheap cologne, its actually pretty boring and you really don't have to watch anymore than an hour of this rubbish as they narrative/story just don't exist. so he uses a car instead of heroine, or we are all to absorbed by technology, whatever, the film doesn't have enough to say to justify the running time of this ultimate fake arty farty rubbish. madonna in that film with the candle wax was more entertaining, and there are hundreds of films about addiction or technology with more panache and substance requiem for a dream, trainspotting, primer, . this should be burnt and just forgotten. i turned it off after 1hr 15. and then wrote this, cos i hate people who think this stuff is some how great, and if you don't like it, its because its just too cool to be appreciated. get over yourself Cronenberg, not saying the topic s not interesting but this is a lame attempt at film making from someone who really should know better. "},{"Title":"a strange feeling","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First of all, I like Crash. It has nice social commentary on society, on isolation. I like Cronenberg, as he does always something interesting, at least. He's an auteur.At the same time, it left a very very strange feeling, indeed. Very empty. It begins, it kind of flows, it ends. All the characters are cold, clinic, sterile, just like a chrome on the cars. You just don't really care so much what you see, like the characters themselves; just drifting, in an atmosphere full of pressure, through their daily lives, with their empty lives.So, for me, it's a weird movie. I like it, but, on the other hand, I can't make up an ideal occasion for watching it. I really can't think any other movie, with such a sentiment. "},{"Title":"Was it just me, or did this suck?","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yes, it was you, you are closed minded (And I realize the topic name makes no sense)IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR A NORMAL MOVIE LEAVE THIS ONE ALONE! Also, it's no good for pornography (you'll just feel dirtier) If you didn't understand it or thought it was pornographic, you're probably a normal person(and/or haven't seen a good porno), and thats okay. The meaning is explained pretty well by some of the other posts if you need help. BUT I JUST WANT TO SAY...the people who REALLY GET the movie probably wont be affected by it in the way that the writer intended. Because they would already have so many of their own ideas about American culture. And they would probably say, Yeah? So? Does this make sense? My Boring story I watched this on Cinnemax and I thought it was the newer movie by the same title, which a friend had recommended to me. If you've seen this movie, you could imagine my surprise. At first I thought my friend had some issues. I soon realized of course, that it was a different movie. Ha ha hmmI gave it a 2 because I got through the whole thing. Its more captivating than Matrix 3 "},{"Title":"So why such healthy divergence of opinion?","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Almost ten years on and this still looks wonderful but causes all sorts of emotions running wild. Still difficult to write about too AND evaluate if the IMDb scoring is anything to go by. This gets as many one's as sixes and almost as many as it get ten, hence the mean average of just over five. So why such healthy divergence of opinion? I think really this film presents it's 'attraction' so uncompromisingly centre stage that with everybody being essentially different, they get to experience this film differently and with no normal narrative or back story/love affair, we have to confront the whole, sex/mutilation/death issue each his own way. Everything in this film is so cool, we have no guidance as to with whom our sympathies might rest with, we have to confront this issue, uncomfortable though it may be. I don't believe that anybody actually 'gets off' on all the sexualised violence here depicted but everybody must relate to a larger or lesser extent to what is essentially an issue of fetishism. Over the past ten years we have become more used to seeing SM or bondage orientated advertising and there is clearly massive affinity to what we once imagined such a small world, but whether that world is even yet ready for this is most unlikely. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg + Ballard = Boring","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Adapting JG Ballard's novel might have seemed like a good idea to a director as provocative as David Cronenberg, but if any book screamed un-film-able, it's CRASH. It may be filthy, but it's also extremely boring, which is especially disheartening considering the fact that at least two of Cronenberg's earlier films --- THE BROOD and THE FLY --- are masterpieces of modern horror. CRASH features a typically dull James Spader getting entangled with a group of car crash fetishists and having sex with various people including Holly Hunter and a hobbling Roseanna Arquette. Ballard's book was devoid of narrative and Cronenberg makes the mistake of trying to instill one. He's not successful and unfortunately CRASH is crap. "}{"Title":"It. helps to read the books, but that's not necessarily a good thing..","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like many of Cronenberg's other movies with a literary basis, it's hard to watch, understand, or review the films he creates without having seen the original movies.In an era when filmmakers are often criticized for ignoring the source material when adapting works to the screen, Cronenberg tends to go the other way, creating movies that are unrewarding nonsensical for people not already familiar with the source material (one of my favorites, Naked lunch, would likely be on the bottom of my list if I weren't already a William S. Burroughs fanatic).Likewise with Crash, a movie that will have you saying 'what the hell was that all about?' for the rest of the day after watching it, unless you already dig the psychotic, proto-rivet-head literary musings of J.G. Ballard. Of course, if you do, then the film won't give you anything new, just provide eve candy to supplant a work you're already familiar with.If you're a fanboy of the dementedly surreal and Cronenberg's perversely postmodern take on social commentary, you'll probably end up with this in the film library; if not, you'll probably be demanding your rental fees back.In a nutshell like much of Cronenberg's stuff - not guaranteed to make sense to anyone but Cronenberg himself, caveat emptor. "},{"Title":"beautiful sf","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I suppose the credit goes to JG Ballard for identifying the car crash as a remarkable instance of technology invading our bodies. The machines we use find their way into ourselves, often imperceptibly (eg television, see 'Videodrome'), but the car crash is no mere parable for this. The metal and glass remains imbedded.Had Ballard lived today, he might have had his characters substitute Meth or Cocaine for the dopamine-inducing near death experience. And frankly I think the sex/crash link misses the point. After the crash, there seem to be so many more cars. I can hardly bring myself to drive. Our relationship with cars has defined us--our cities, our foreign policy (oil), our jobs (which we need to buy a car to drive to work)---and I think SF needs to point out how odd these 2-ton machines are. "},{"Title":"Transport...tation?","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is what happens when you attempt to transport Grand Theft Auto without realizing that 9 1/2 Weeks is already in the pod. The movie that answers the question  Can a film be both sick and silly at the same time? Seriously, great directors usually miss by a mile rather than by inches when they miss and Cronenberg is no exception. Some actors of note appear here with Rosanne Arquette along just to make sure you don't feel more sorry for anyone else. Her character defies description... I mean where was the bird that should have been on her shoulder...a cross between Blackbeard the Pirate and Elvira. James Spader... James Spader ....is on TV now...and I feel much better about the whole thing. Lastly, Jayne Mansfield was not decapitated in her crash... I found that mistake oddly disappointing. "},{"Title":"prophecy or historic?","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i don't watch a lot of movies, but the ones i seek out and enjoy are ones like this. the weird dark side, to step outside society and Keep going, lol. i once knew a guy, who was pretty out there himself, who's stated opinion was that Whatever you can think of, there's someone out there who's into it. which is pretty scary, because i can think of A Lot of things, lol. Cronenberg is one interesting dude; auteur to the max. that which changes us inside that comes from outside. i gotta agree w/ the criticism that the plot is vague. what's kinda curious is that even the folks who comment on the movie and admit they've read the book don't note that the movie very accurately replicates the book's style, A Lot of the dialogue is taken directly from ballard's text, right down to the broken sentences. in fact, other than a few scenes and ideas, this film is a pretty accurate depiction of the book, a rare thing in these let's try and write an adaptation of a Stephen King book times. and, to the screenwriter's credit, those added scenes Really added to the theme of the movie. viewers of this movie might be interested to know that in the mid 80s, an American band, the butthole surfers, often ran high school driver education films during shows. the first show by them one i saw, they didn't even edit the film; they just ran it beginning to end. it was pretty ... abstract, blasting feedback psychedelia and scenes of people getting pulled from crashed cars and then a closeup of a stern faced state trooper, telling you something Really important about safe driving but, hey, the audio wasn't hooked up ... there was also a band from san diego called crash worship and, well, they were Really into performance art and i'm sure were influenced by the book ... note that both of these bands were operating a good 5 years before the movie was made. also, soon after Ballard wrote crash (1973), he got involved in producing simulated car crash exhibits at art museums and happenings. it seems worth noting that crash was one of the first books that ballard wrote when he began using a more terse, dare i say modern, writing style. again, i felt the cinematic styles Cronenberg used in the movie reflected the what was certainly considered abstract writing style of Ballard's book. and finally, it's certainly no accident that Cronenberg also made a movie of naked lunch, another truly experimental exercise in writing from the early 1950s by William Burroughs. it's been years since i've watched that one; i can't wait ...  "},{"Title":"*yawn*","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Was this supposed to be intriguing?  All I remember from being stuck in the same house as someone who rented this movie is that I found it really boring.  It just seemed to try REALLY hard to be cutting edge, disturbing, etc.  All it succeeded in being was dumb.  I couldn't even sit through it.  Don't bother. "},{"Title":"Really lame attempt to be shocking.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  CRASHRATING *1/2 (OUT OF ****)THIS snoozefest had people fleeing from film festivals?  I could write a more shocking movie in under an hour.  Crash is a cheap excuse for a bunch of sex scenes that hardly make any sense.  Quite honestly, I had trouble staying awake, and barely even watched it to the end.  Sorry Cronenberg, you're going to have to do better than this.  Pathetic. "},{"Title":"Gruesome, dumb, freak & BORING","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, here´s a movie that makes a lot of sense...¡¡¡to the sex addicts nutcases of an ill-mental freaks house!!!!I guess Cronenberg thinks of the world as a nest of rapist sexmaniacs or whatsoever, cause in all his films, people seems to be dominated by the urge of sex, be it with a person, a tree, a dog....or a car! ¡¡And a crushed one, for God's Sake!!!I thought Shivers was unpleasant enough, until I saw this one. Then I realized that this man's career has been going downhill for a while. I'm familiarized with movies that are odd and strange, but this one is just not bearable. How can somebody come up with a movie that stands on people getting horny by car wrecks, iron legs and blood cuts??? Besides, not only the characters are mad enough to like that stuff, but they actually behave strangely throughout the whole movie, in every aspect of their lives. And let's not mention the slow paced and boring script. I wasn't able to understand neither the story or the characters. All the purpose in this film is to reveal unsettling scenes to upset the audiences. It really get into my nerves to see that there's a lot of people trying to defend this silliness, which means that more garbage like this one is going to be made.It was a huge disappointment seeing this movie, i guess it was the low point for a lot of persons who happened to work on it. I really wished that Cronenberg got himself into one of those cars and smashed it against a wall or something, just for not having the risk to see a thing like it again....Let's just hope not! "},{"Title":"...sex and car crashes Plus Cronenberg, one of the most daring of all older filmmakers","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every few years a movie like this comes along that is like no other, probably only one filmmaker could have made it, is made with fresh audacity and seems utterly confident.One of the criticisms the film got was that, sure it's daring but it has no point. I would rarely ever say what a film's point is -- it's different for all of us -- and I often find that when a film is so obviously made only to illustrate a point or reflect something in modern society that it really misses the mark on what filmmaking is all about. However, is the film only about ...sex and car crashes, like Janet Maslin would have us believe? On a somewhat superficial level, I'm sure this movie is about just that -- people whose fetish happens to involve wrecked cars. The sleek, metallic surface; the revving engine; the Pulsating Power of the Pistons turns them on. On another, attached, level it's about the link sex and cars have had since the 40s or whenever cars became a popular location for teenage coitus. It's also about the fetishizing (it's a word) of cars, and machinery in general. It may also be, as a reviewer on this site mentioned, a comment on film sex.The film briefly addresses car crashes and a more normal impact they have on the driver. Spader says, There seems to be three times as many cars as there were before the accident. In Spader's first drives after the accident, Cronenberg really captures the tense unease of post-crash driving. Soon after, however, the characters are driving recklessly down freeways, bashing into each other.Someone also criticized the film for having no character development. Now, I'm all for growth and change, but isn't it more likely that a character will stay basically who he is? I mean, I speak the same today as I did yesterday.Some people have also noted -- and I agree with them -- that the characters in the film aren't really heterosexual, bisexual or homosexual, that they're just sexual beings looking to get off and that the gender of the partner (or their own) doesn't matter. I think the film is sexy despite itself. It's as if it tries its damnedest to show graphic sex and have it be completely anti-erotic, that we're lifted onto a platform of intensely erotic sexuality. I can completely understand why people would be bothered by this and the film. I mean, we've got Unger describing the scene of a car crash to Spader as she manually jerks his stick shift and Spader and Koteas licking each other's car-related tattoos. And autoeroticism (hee hee) isn't enough for these characters, they actually have to re-enact famous car crashes. And for all the hubbub made about Spader and Koteas' sex scene, Hunter and Arquette also have a go at each other in the backseat of a car.The actors here are all brave and they each have their distinctive qualities. Hunter looks as if she's missing something (or someone) and substituting sex for whatever it is she's lost. Unger reminded me of Patricia Arquette in that damaged type of innocence. Koteas is the most evil-looking of all the characters, probably because of his long laceration scars. Arquette (that's Rosanna), has her screwed up legs and Spader, amongst these people, is the most attractive of the bunch. He's got his usual seediness and sexually ambiguous secrecy.Aside from the fact that it may be the most famous celebrity car crash ever, the James Dean crash in the film holds a special significance, I think. For anyone who's read up on him and is familiar with the rumors of sexual deviance, the film, I think, draws an interesting parallel with the film's characters and him, most likely unintended. (Or maybe intended -- I've read and seen Cronenberg speak in interviews and he's practically the film world's biochemist -- I'm sure he thought out every avenue.)Now, I haven't read Ballard's book so I don't know if this is based somewhat on actual events, or if naming characters after him and his wife was a joke or if it was a metaphor for what was going on in Ballard's brain. As if he named the characters after himself and his wife because that's who he is in his mind, just unwilling to actually act out on his fantasies.The look of the film is silvery and gleaming, mixed with purples and blues and reds that look like the bruises on Spader's face. The way Cronenberg films the cars driving -- often with the camera attached (I'm assuming) to the front side of the cars -- is memorable.Cronenberg made this film when he was in his early 50s. Here's someone who doesn't mellow as he ages, he just becomes more polished. The coldness of the film is reminiscent of Kubrick, I thought, and specifically A Clockwork Orange, probably because of the sex in either film. His dedication to disease is like Lynch and I felt the presence of Atom Egoyan in a few of the frames, someone who's probably influenced heavily by Cronenberg. I'd recommend this to anyone interested in Cronenberg, weird films, or anyone interested in seeing cars go fast and get banged up. If that was the film's tagline, I'm sure it would have made twice as much as Speed or Gone in Sixty Seconds. And this one's got sex to boot.***1/2 "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this film without any other knowledge than it was supposed to be shocking and depraved. After watching I found an interesting analysis of people attempting to deal with loss and the desperation to feel emotion.Cronenberg brilliantly observes his characters and allows his audience to contemplate the images presented. It has a distinctly cold feel during some of the sex scenes, as these characters are not receiving the break through of emotion they need. It seems a lot of people have missed the point, thinking that Cronenberg is purely trying to shock in order to keep his viewers watching. I agree it is shocking, but my reaction purely made me intrigued and these characters are carrying out these acts for a reason that is structured and understandable.The performances are fantastic and produce a great ensemble cast, that fits the Cronenberg style. Spader is wonderfully controlled and carries the audience through his journey. Hunter is completely arresting in her poise and passion, as is Korteas - particularly after the James Dean crash! Unger is also beautifully cold, her physical control aids the disturbing sexual scenes to fantastic affect.Howard Shore weaves in and out of the film, always complimenting the scenes and never intruding. It has to be one of the best sound tracks I've ever heard!Forget the controversy and all that you think of this film - simply watch it with an open mind and you will be left stunned.  "},{"Title":"Don't let the glossy finish fool you...","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Supposed study of the estrangement modern people have with their emotions, and the sometimes perverted things they do because of it. Unfortunately, this doesn't really come off as the premise but instead is just an excuse to shoot graphic sex scenes. Slow paced and not even erotic - but you might get a kick out of how serious the actors take it all.    *1/2 (out of four) "}{"Title":"Don´t waste your time on this one","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow, what a crap! It would have gotten a straight 1 pt. if it wasn´t for cutie Debbie Unger showing her wonderful body. But even that wold not have prevented me from straightly leaving the cinema after 15 minutes if I had ever been so dull to waste my money on that one. What a luck I only borrowed the DVD from a pal... If the topic won´t make you throw up it surely is the needlessness of this movie and the waste of time that goes along with watching it. "},{"Title":"I love Cronenberg,but...","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is kinda SICK... I don't like it, i don't like how Cronenberg tries to stun viewers. Bad Taste,bad camera rollings,bad lights,not that good cast and an horrible story (even sick).. Probably the worst film from david  "},{"Title":"This film says nothing","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  So this is it, the Most Dangerous film ever made (Quoted from British News Paper The Daily Mail), this is the film that has enough power to shake the world to its foundation. We'll I'm sorry but for me I found the film to be slow, pretentious and devoid of any real message at all. There are people who have reviewed this film saying how it's a strong look at sexual perversion, a film that isn't afraid to take the viewer deep into the character's psyche and make the viewer confront their own sexual fears. Well once again I'm sorry, but all Crash showed me was that perhaps there are a small group of idiots out there who are so wrapped up in auto-erotica, that the final stage is to actually crash you're car, and the immediately have sex. Maybe I've missed the point (if the film has a point at all) and if you think I have then feel free to point it out to me, but as far as I can see Crash is as dangerous as an episode of Lamb Chop (and nowhere near as intelligent). David Cronenberg has always struck me of as an interesting film maker, but also a film maker of limited vocabulary, he seems to take great pleasure in recycling the same notion of man's metamorphosis with machine that began with his eighties classic Videodrome. He says nothing new here, but does prove he has an interesting take on filming the proceedings. The film looks great, with a very cold and detached atmosphere, and a production design of predominant cool blues, but he has no idea what he's talking about with the story. The acting is below par, the actors (Deborah Kara Unger springs immediately to mind) give very pretentious performances, but what else could they give trying to blurt out Cronenberg's terrible conceited dialog. Another thing about this film is that every single woman in the cast appears in some stage of undress at some point in the film, with Unger and Holly Hunter providing full-frontal shots, what with the camera lingering slowly over the shiny metal of a sleek sports car, then dissolving to a pair of naked breasts it's clear that Cronenberg is trying to market this film solely to upper-middle class high earning males with too much time on their hands. Crash is not a dangerous film, nor is it a complete waste of time, It's nothing more than a below average film that provides nothing more than pretentious (there's that word again) fodder for would be intellectuals or some disturbing kind of thinking man's porn. 4/10 "},{"Title":"shockin' - disturbin' - hardcore! Just great!","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I strongly believe that films's main purpose isn't to make you feel comfortable. I never vote for films in IMDB and I never reveal the plot of a film (apart from some basic elements sometimes). This film is weirdly erotic, almost sick, really shocking and REALLY original. The reason for which everybody despises this film is that its so hardcore and so strange that it seems without meaning to them. If you're into strange & original films, don't miss it!!! A great film from a great director. Freaks hooked on car crashes (??) will love it ;) "},{"Title":"Bizarre, but not well done, either","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's very rare that I really don't care for a movie at all or feel like I didn't get my money's worth, but such is the case with Crash. While the idea is original - if not bizarre, unreal and distasteful - unfortunately there was nothing to propell it into the realm of something to admire or gain something from. It was impossible to care about the characters and they weren't developed in a way where you could get any real insight. Good films about hollow lives at least give you some insight into why these lives are hollow, but this film did not. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Lots of pepole hated this film, but i didn't. For me everything in it is just great. Very well directed by David Cronenberg who is better known for his horror films. Great cast who took a huge risk with their careers in making such a film. The cinematography his marvelous and the blue texture of it goes perfectly with the mood.And to finish the story, people trying to get to the ultimate orgasme with car crashes his one of the most original plots to have ever been shown on screen.I loved this film. "},{"Title":"Grow Up People","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie about what every person in this entire world has one way or another and that is a FETISH.  Some people like legs, some people like tits, some people like asses, and some people get off on the adrenaline rush of having a car coming straight at you.  I'm sure some of you have been in this situation when you have had a close call with another car and you feel that rush of blood flood through you.  That is all that these people are experiencing in this movie.  And the sexual release afterwards.  It has to go somewhere.  Why have road rage, when you can have an orgasm.I totally enjoyed the sex scenes, because there was a little bit in for everyone - gay, straight, or whatever.And I just want to say, to see James Spader make love (and thrust), with his powerful ass and thigh muscles, is something everyone should get a chance to see.  He made me drip.  Serious.  And his scene with that guy.  HOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT. "},{"Title":"As clear as sheet metal","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's no need to summarize what has been said in reviews already. However, here are few things that struck me while watching Crash- Don't look for meaning in the dialog. Vaughn's comment that his earlier explanation of his great project was just a surface misdirection to sucker in likely partners serves as a wry warning to viewers against taking at face value *any* spoken explanation of what is happening.- The performances are perfectly in tone with the visual image. I have no idea how Cronenberg and his actors achieved this, though; I can think of no way the director could explain how the actors should move or speak and have it make any sense at all. Everyone appears to be heavily drugged yet highly lucid.- As Ballard, Ballard's wife Catherine, and Vaughn go through the car wash, watch the way Ballard touches the rear-view mirror and then the cut to Vaughn touching Catherine's face. The gestures are matched perfectly in their intent. This whole wordless scene seems to be the hinge of the film.- This is an extraordinarily beautiful and compelling film. It is also repellent and void of rationality. It may be the perfect projection of the id onto machinery... or something. See the first point above.Nothing else I have ever seen, except for Godard's Hail Mary, has simultaneously pulled me in and pushed me away with such force and intelligence. I can understand why people hate both films, and I'm hard pressed to recommend that anyone else see Crash. However, I was intrigued enough to do so, and I'm glad that I did. "},{"Title":"crash into me","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash by writer/director David Croenberg is a graphic film about people and their fetishes. Their fetishes are infamous since its showing at Cannes in 1996. Only because probably no one has this addiction and if they did their lives would be short at best.  But that's where the average movie watcher and critic goes wrong, judging the film on what their seeing not what it's saying.You see everyone has a fetish or two, but most people think they can control it when their only fooling themselves. The characters in Crash aren't fooled as their lives revolve around what turns them on, car crashes.  And that's probably where the average person's stomach turns and out of the multiplex they go, thinking how strange and perverse the characters are. But are they?Crash won Canada's version of an oscar, and I think that's a tribute to Canadian cinema. There's no compromise, no diluted material to be found in the film. Great films aren't always liked by audiences because they weren't made to be liked. That's why hollywood recycles scripts that producers know are well liked by a wide variety of people. That's why David Lynch can't seem to find American producers to back him. The result is bland movies that try so hard not to step on anybodies toes that they fail on any and every level of what cinema is.I was surprised by the average 5.5 rating given to such a well written and acted movie. I was going to give it 9 but had to go for a 10 just out of anger at the low score. I mean this was one of the best movies of 1996, and if voters are just going to give it a 1 because they can't view something outside their morals then they shouldn't vote.  Still the movies not for everyone and you should view with an open mind.  "},{"Title":"A very important movie","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a truly unique movie experience, very far removed from traditional Hollywood filmmaking, and that alone is reason enough to see it. The directors who dares to stand by their vision these days of conglomerate filmmaking seem to get fewer and fewer. Therefore I think Crash is a very important movie, and it moved me, even if I´m not entirely satisfied with it as a whole. It has however managed to stay in my mind, and turned me on to the rest of JG Ballards fiction, of whom I am now a great fan and recommend to everyone. This is a very ambitious attempt to bring his vision to the screen and perhaps I´ve seen too much movies, but I can´t help but think that David could have gone a little bit further. But overall, this is a movie unlike any other, as Ballards novel is unlike any other, and despite a few flaws, I love it. "}{"Title":"Jaw-dropping...","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Before any of the lamentable hype, I first saw CRASH in Paris during the Summer of '96. I'd heard absolutely nothing about this film...not even seen a still. My wife, Frances, almost dragged me to see it...we'd been in Paris for almost a week and were nearing the end of our holiday. It's Cronenberg she said and if you miss it you'll be moaning for ages. But he's made THE NAKED LUNCH and M BUTTERFLY I retorted indignantly and they were both s*** so no way...!!! Still, the feminine persuasive!!! So along I went...to the small Bastille cinema. I came out 90 or so minutes later looking at both the human sexual condition and the automobile in a VERY different way. That road towards the metro... Cronenberg's CRASH knocked my socks off. It's one of the few films in my post teenage years that has made any impression upon my psyche...sure there have been others; MIDNIGHT EXPRESS, SALVADOR,BLOW OUT etc but CRASH is, ultimately, an honest film from an honest director who has never compromised his vision despite corporate pressure. It's even more lamentable that he's not the one to direct Bret Easton Ellis' masterpiece AMERICAN PSYCHO. "},{"Title":"Cinema is not always showbiz","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What applies for Eyes Wide Shut also does for Crash. A large part of the public is totally unable to see the difference between another Hollywood film and a work of art. Some movies are seen and soon forgotten, some movies are watching you. I've read more than one comment stating than Crash is the worst movie ever! People exchanging ideas on Imdb should not go to such extremes. They should, at least, feel uncertain of their assessment, when others found the movie a masterpiece. Let's try to be a little more serious about the whole matter or the commenting itself is bound to become a trash can of so-called opinions. Who gives a damn? "},{"Title":"Not the slightest bit entertaining!","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen a few of David Cronenberg's efforts in the past and only The Fly and the recent Existenz have been any good.Some of his very early films like Shivers and Rabid had their moments but Crash is dull in the extreme! There was a lot of fuss in the tabloids about this film when it was going to be released in the U.K. which only gave this awful film the publicity it didn't deserve. The film lacked everything from interesting characters to a decent script. I was almost embarrassed to see Holly Hunter in such a film. Thankfully Existenz, Cronenberg's next effort was far superior to this load of rubbish.  1/10 - and that's being kind.  "},{"Title":"well-crafted but pointless","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cronenberg is an artist, but the sure-footed work done here does not mitigate the disaster.  Not only is the subject matter specialized to the point of obscurity (or maybe just indifference), the pointless mess reaches an ineffective non-conclusion.  Unsatisfying in nearly every way; some enjoyment in the cinematography, a bit less in the music and photographic composition (though, to be fair, I saw this on video). Awful.  "},{"Title":"One long bore","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Some people claim that this is a thought provoking masterpiece. Well I thought a lot - about what to cook for dinner, whether I'd paid that bill, was there any interesting ironing I could do, does the oven need cleaning. Eventually I thought, after 60 minutes, I might as well turn the video off and watch repeats of Sgt. Bilko. Even if I thought it necessary to see if it is possible to have sex during a crash whilst licking a scar, (not something that had occurred to me) I don't think I could stay awake long enough to decide. Even good authors and filmakers make mistakes. This was an unfortunate conjunction of both occurrences. Boring and pointless. "},{"Title":"Biggest Waste of true talent in film.","Date":"1 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash really has to be a true waste of movie-going time. The premise is really thought inspiring however that's all this movie has to offer. Its use of non-connected plot-lines leaves us the viewer wondering who is trying to get into an accident with who. Early on the plot tries to surface but fails soon after, eventually crashing in to a kind of plot soup that is pure garbage. This is best shown in the films ending where suddenly after having some kind of sudo-gay love affair the two male leads suddenly hate each other and one of them (after a cheezy car-chase scene) flies over a guard rail and exploads. With the acting talent this film could have went far but FAILS! "},{"Title":"This movie is awful; don't waste your time","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have seen some twisted *?#$ stuff in my day but this one takes the cake. the sex scenes are relatively erotic but the actual message of the movie that the car crash makes the character James Spader plays obsessed with car crashes to sexually climax is awful. There isn't an amount of awful words to describe this movie. there is no message the gore is not intriguing it is repulsive. From a regular watcher of the macabre and gory this is vile. Don't waste your time, in fact take the time to avoid this rancid picture. The ending of the movie is by far the worst because you feel as though there might be some resolution with Vaughan's death, but no James Spader tries to maim his wife and then when he finds her lying in the grass next to her beat up Miyata he says that he will hurt her in a car accident next time. What next time? Suicide is understandable, even cutting oneself I can understand but wanting to be injured in a car accident is sick beyond anything I have seen before. "},{"Title":"Arrrgh!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the most awful, wretched, gag-inducing film ever made. And that's just in the parts that aren't deadly boring! I wish I had those 2 hours (felt like 12) of my life back. Do yourself a favor and give this one a miss! "},{"Title":"What's the point?","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Upon reading the box of the video of this film, I though it sounded twisted but interesting. I was mistaken. The plot was non-existent, the acting was mediocre, even the sex scenes were pointless. It was puzzling as to why these people were turned on by car crashes. I just didn't get it. It might have been interesting to get into their minds and get some kind of understanding, but that never happened. There was no story line. Some of the editing seemed disjointed, jumping from one scene to the next with no smooth transition. Don't bother with this one. In the words of the great John Malkovich in the movie Rounders, I feel so unsyatisfied "},{"Title":"This won over some critics as artistic","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie made some top ten lists, but it made a lot more worst ten lists.  I would agree it was a terrible movie.  Why anyone would sit through this movie is beyond me.  It had lots of sex, but was not sexy.  The title crash had to do with people being sexual aroused by car crashes.  However, no one in this movie seems to really be sexually aroused, they all seem to be comatose.  Just a stupid movie.  Don't waste your time. "}{"Title":"A truly memorable film...","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was truly memorable as definitely the worst film I have paid to see, and probably the worst film that I have ever seen.Some movies are so bad that they are good and you have to see them - this film transcends that level of crapness.I remember seeing the opening credits roll. If I'd have known it was based on Ballard, I wouldn't have bothered going and I even contemplated walking out at that point.The film has no plot, no character development, and was banned in Britain (probably not as I first thought because of sex and violence, but more likely because it was so dreadful!)I watched this on National Cinema Day so it only cost me £1 to get in - I felt ripped off. Can I give 0 out of 10? "},{"Title":"Crash is Trash","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After 10 minutes of watching this 'thing', I was tempted to turn it off.  But, I said it will get better. It didn't.  Sex & death the 2 most powerful things in life, you would figure this would be a decent movie. NOT EVEN!!!!! Avoid this flick at ALL costs.  "},{"Title":"Inexplicably Psychotic and Sad","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A dreadful, lurching cripple of a film, straight out of the psycho ward. If there actually is a subculture of crash fetish weirdos, then they must surely hold forth in the basement of a maximum security asylum under lock and key, judging from the dismal, sad freaks portrayed in Crash. Picture this Steaming, shattered vehicles dripping with blood, dead and dying passengers, bodies maimed, lives destroyed... Such are the scenes of carnage that give our hero a woody in this film. His wife is not much better a specimen, with her perpetually vacant, schizophrenic eye-rolling and her penchant for humping anything with scar tissue. Pretty ugly, right?Okay, now picture a feature-length film that does not vary one iota from the above description from beginning to end, and you have Crash. Characters like this, incapable of even remotely normal social interaction, can't be allowed on the streets, never mind behind the wheel. Plot less, clueless, useless. "},{"Title":"Repulsive and Offensive!  Read this first if you value your time and money!!!","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's not every day that I feel compelled to walk out on a movie.  I think I have a high tolerance for bad film making.  I am more apt to see the point' behind films that others can't stand.  Heck, I even liked The Cook, the Thief, His Wife, Her Lover (if only on an artistic level).  But Crash unearthed nothing more than abject hatred from me.  I would have gladly walked out on this wreck of a film (no pun intended) if I were not required to write a journal entry on it for class.  Having lost a close friend to an automobile accident this past summer, I find it REVOLTING that any slimy Hollywood `artistic' producer would want to GLAMORIZE this horrific subject. I think the only reason for all the T&A and explicit sex was to draw crowds (which otherwise would never have come) and blind less intelligent viewers to the utter lack of tact and taste in Crash. I can just imagine the dialogue in the Producer's office as he conceptualized this movie...I KNOW!  We'll take the pain and anguish found at the funerals for REAL accident victims, throw it in the garbage, and then make a movie where the body of the Loved One and their horrifically mangled vehicle are turned into perverted sex symbols for nihilistic scumbags!  And better yet, we'll dress it up as a serious look at modern society and throw in some pseudo-intelligent dialogue so everybody will think we're geniuses!!!  What a good idea!Thanks but no thanks.   "},{"Title":"the worse film ever","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  when I think I paid more than 700 pesetas for seeing that stuff I get dizzy. It's the worse film I've ever seen, I still can't understand how could it be released. It doesn't have a plot, and if it does it's awful 'cause not even the productor could get it. Burn it! "},{"Title":"crash is the orgasm for the life.","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ballard's cult novel was directed by the 'cult master' david cronenberg.it brings us to the point; most of the people could have considered the movie boring,pornographic or non-sense,well that's because most of the people are boring,non-sense,etc.james spader,holly hunter,deborah karah unger,elias koteas and rosanna arquette form a kickass quintet in an excellent movie focuses on sexuality and modern life in an automobile's perspective.10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Sufficiently Extreme","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.`Fight Club' meets `Zed and Two Noughts' meets `Bladerunner' meets `Fearless' meets `Leaving Las Vegas.'I celebrate the intelligent vision of this film. But Fight Club wove a more engaging neurosis; `Zed' had a stronger disturbing vision; `Bladerunner' a more thorough sense of programmed sex; `Fearless' more visceral crashes; and `Leaving Las Vegas,' more relentless characters marching to oblivion (though it is not in the class of the other films).Cronenberg has a fine visual sense, but it is not strongly individual. And the same can be said of his metaphoric fabric. So although this film is worth watching, I cannot consider it important. What really bothered me was how restrained it was. We needed stronger discomfort (like `Shadow of the Vampire'), a more radical visual statement (like `Pillow Book'), excessively greater perversions (The Coens could do it), increasingly outrageous acting style (Garafalano, where are you?). This is a pretty tepid film given its aspirations.This is not a film about sex in the real sense -- it amazes me that anyone could think so -- rather, the technology of filming sex and what works in films for an audience with escalating needs. Folks the chief character is a FILM producer. The drivers in the club are FILM stunt drivers. The re-enactments are of FILM actors' deaths.Spader was chosen, I'm sure, because of his balance of in-your-face I'm-a-character no I'm-an-actor stances in `Sex, Lies' which also was a film about meeting the expectations of film audiences by directly phoning the sex memes. (Note how most of the sex -- and car smashes -- are from behind?)This film is a big goof on anyone who sees it and thinks it is about sex. Very clever indeed, as it also explains why someone would need to think so. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Cronenberg must have been insane or under severe medication to write, produce and direct Crash, which is one of the worst movies that I have ever seen. It opens at an airplane hangar where James Spader character is grinding against his wife in a brief encounter, and within seconds is doing the nasty with an Asian woman in a camera room at a film set. Shortly afterwords, he is driving down the road and crashes head on into another car. A man goes through the windshield, but his wife, played by Holly Hunter is bloodied, and she is shown in the passenger seat without a bra, and her breast is noticed by Spader. He is bruised and recovering at a hospital and meets the survivor by chance, in the hallway. For some unknown reason, he visits the salvage yard to look at his wrecked car; and guess who just happens to be there at the same time; Holly Hunter, of course. He drives her to the airport and they have sex in the front seat of his car after discussing the bad traffic situation. He then goes back to his wife, and they get frisky. They apparently have an open marriage. We then meet a guy, Vaughan, who is obsessed with car accidents. He even reenacts the James Dean crash from 1955 with the same Porsche. Rosanna Arquette is Vaughan's prosthetic wearing friend, and we are given plenty of strange sexual quirks, such as scar worship. Vaughan rambles on with psycho babble and I was bored within the first thirty minutes of this garbage. Besides the bad script, the soundtrack, is annoying beyond description. A guitar playing with inordinate amounts of reverb is heard from beginning to end. Crash is a crashing bore. "},{"Title":"Blip Time Part 3","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Technology is us. There is no separation. &#x96; Cronenberg (For Part 2, see my review of Cronenberg's Stereo) While Crash and Existenz revolved around technology, Cronenberg's Eastern Promises suggests a return to the corporeal. Flesh and blood are the recurring motifs. A throat is sliced, an umbilical cord is cut. A mother dies, a baby lives. But in the end, we seem to be left with machines. Cyborgs, completely scrambled.This disorientation stretches across Cronenberg's last five films. In a sense they reflect both a very postmodern schizophrenia and, in a very loose sense, the market's shift from exchange to competition, the traditional antagonism between capital and labour redefined out of existence such that the new man is an entrepreneur of himself. He is flesh as capital, his body the source of his earnings. As Deleuze says, man is no longer man, but a body in debt.This fragmentation extends in other directions. Firstly, in the technological sense, and this is what Existenz explores, Cronenberg recognises that mankind has moved from a society of the spectacle - the great unitary spectacle has been destroyed - to a society of participatory and interactive media. We are no longer passive, voyeuristic spectators, instead we actively give ourselves over to surveillance and eagerly scrutinise both others and ourselves. We fragment, multiply, and network ourselves and whatever we encounter. This no longer falls under the dipolar schema of subject and object, but rather has the form of a network in which everyone and everything is a node.Secondly, we are in what Baudrillard calls the third order simulacra, images/codes/signs etc now bearing no relation to reality, the various elements of art's critical traditions reduced to signs devoid of context. In this media-laden condition, we thus experience the death of the real. We live our lives in the realm of hyper-reality, connecting more and more deeply to things that merely simulate reality. The whole idea of a true or a false copy of something is increasingly destroyed we cling to simulations of simulations of simulations and art that is often itself nothing but cannibalised pieces of pieces. Again, think Cronenberg's Existenz, in which no ground zero reality seemed possible, just more levels nestest within levels.Concurrently we have moved on from representation to simulation instead of trying to capture the Real, we actively produce, to quote Seven Shaviro, fragments of a reality that is directly composed of images, the real micro-produced and virally disseminated. Every imaginary simulation therefore becomes altogether real, even as every reality is dissolved in simulacral multiplication.Thirdly, this digitization, fragmentation and atomization extends outward from technology to infect all social and domestic relations. For example, ignoring the rise in divorce and the collapse of traditional families, families themselves are increasingly atomized, children locked in their own rooms, family members no longer watching the same television programs, listening to the same music or sharing the same interests etc. As all desires are catered for, everyone localizes around their own desires.Fourthly, this outward fragmentation extends inwardly to the human mind itself. The works of Marx, Freud and Lacan have done much to expose the largely misdirected and naive belief in the sovereign Self. The Self is not to be found. There is no inner unity, no unified I Am, only relations with arbitrary and fuzzy boundaries which we hopelessly attempt to turn into unity. Man is alienated from himself and the death of self, or ego death, is a rift that can never be healed, the subject never knowing himself completely, always separated by The Symbolic. In our increasingly rapid-fire age, man therefore clings desperately to (or mimics via impersonation) the ready made or archetypal identities foisted upon him by the media, advertisements, religion, art, friends, family, corporations etc. In other words, these increasingly throw-away identities help us anchor ourselves or resolve our fragmentation in the same way the belief in God once did. We no longer define ourselves in relation to the God out there, but the ego-God in here.Fifthly, the outcome of this is what is known as the waning of affect, a whole new type of emotional ground tone comprised of contrasting, bipolar like intensities (extreme highs or lows). Here, the general depthlessness and affectlessness of postmodern culture is countered by extreme moments of intense emotion, such as is typically aligned with schizophrenia and a culture of addiction. And so with a narrative that jumps from one unsatisfying sex scene to a next, Cronenberg's Crash recognises technology as machine-man's ultimate drug. Here we see a culture that now can't be excited unless tech is involved, man combating anhedonia by (like Existenz) desperately plugging into machines. For the film's cast, sexperiences are only real unless they crash into movie stars, and desire is a drive which gets more and more accelerative until it morphs into total desensitisation and then sadomasochism, man now imputing pain to create space for pleasure.As desires are insatiable, Cronenberg's humans become desensitised to crude corporeal interactions, and promptly seek out increasingly new hyper-experiences, until they literally begin to reach out and merge with technology (like the motion capture Frankenstein monster cast of Avatar). They misguidedly want to unify with the cinema screen, fck the machines, go beyond bliss, suck on their better-than-reality augmentations, as though this unification (an impossible transgression) will bridge the Lack and lead to contentment. When Crash's cast become part of this grotesque, hybrid man-machine wreckage, you then get Cronenberg's Existenz. Cinema as the dominant techno-drug, in which there is a split between spectator and object, morphs into to the pleasure-networks of New Media, in which there is a perceived connection...but not quite. Today Cronenberg's crashes take the form of broadband speed, latency and internet lag, always accelerating...faster...and...faster. Significantly, all the characters in Crash are filmmakers. Cronenberg sees cinema, like technology, as a means of dangerously sublimating desire.(For Part 4, see my review of Cronenberg's Spider) "},{"Title":"Airbag's like Bedroom Pillows","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Cronenberg directs soft core porn for car crash fetishists.When I read the words erotic printed on a DVD/VHS case, I usually take it with a grain of salt as virtually any euro or artsy film with more than one close up of a set of lips, will get the brand erotica, but this was pretty genuine smut, and that at least I appreciated.James Spader does things in this film, some porn actors won't do.From the first scene onward we get fairly straightforward sexual escapades in virtually every scene, punctuated with car crashes discussions involving cars in some way. A man is in a car crash that kills one of the other passengers, he begins a strange sexual affair with his wife, who also survived the accident. Author JG. Ballard, survived WW2, as documented in Stephen Spielberg's Empire Of The Son, an autobiography of the authors youth, but considers this his most personal work; the main character is named Ballard.Ballard then meets up with a man who is obsessed with re-creating celebrity car crashes, and makes up multiple explanations for his actions which all sound vaugely reasonable, but like The Dark Knight's Joker, all of them are flimsy names for what is basically unexplainable chaotic impulse. Whether he is explaining Crashing as a fertilizing rather than a destructive event, mediating the sexuality of those who have died with an intensity that's impossible in any other form., or discussing the time honored back-seat boogie as reshaping of the human body by modern technology, its all just ego making excuses for Id.More sex is had, and Ballard's wife, and several other people come into the general swinging mix of things.The performances are emotionally stale even during sex, eternally alienated, everyone's looking for greater and greater kicks, and the story moves like any porn should with escalating extremities building toward climax, but if there is a climax, and I'm not totally sure there is one, it comes a little too late, and doesn't leave us with enough intellectual or emotional denouement.In the end everyone is as automatic and mechanistic as the cars they operate, and are forced to collide in order to create spontaneous human contact, but we get that within the first 30 minutes, so why the additional hour sex? A beautiful body is it's own reward, sex has become meaningless, who cares why not, are all decent enough answers, so you can pick whichever sounds best to you.That being said Cronenberg is as much a masterful director of the body and the human form, here as he was ever, veering between unease, violence, the grotesque, and the arousing eventually into a wreck, but a flaming wreck of a film, that fails, but does so in manner that can generate arguments and interesting thoughts, not a film for everyone, but for the minority interested in literate cinematic porn, there may be something amongst the debris. "}{"Title":"oddly intriguing (but the auto erotic joke has been done already)","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The best thing about this is the music Howard Shore composed for it. It is exactly right for this film. It sounds like the heartbeat of a cyborg.I was expecting to be more shocked by this film than I actually was. The injuries are not particularly stomach churning. In the original novel by J G Ballard, the hero (whom he named James Ballard after himself) suffers a scalp laceration and some kind of stomach injury that involves a description of what happened to his bowel contents.In fact, the novel contains a lot about bodily fluids, including a poetic description of vomit and much, much more. This element is rather lacking from the film.I saw the film before I read the novel, so I was not sure what to expect from it.The characters never get out of their depths. I wondered if one of them would find himself or herself stuck in a situation he or she could not handle too badly injured, or in too much pain, but that never happens.Given Cronenberg's history as a director of horror films, I did wonder about one of the characters actually dying and wondered what sort of afterlife they might find. Again, any concept of the afterlife was missing.Reviewers often bracket this together with two of James Spader's other films, sex, lies and videotape and Secretary. I think one of the big differences between this and those films is that in them, there is a heroine who breaks through the barrier Spader's character has erected (pun intended) around himself. In Crash, his character stays firmly in his own weird little world.It is odd that he shares his first name with the character he plays, but that can only be coincidence.I am not sure if the script girl we briefly see near the start of the film is fully naked, but of the main cast, Deborah Kara Unger is the only one who is completely fully frontally naked.I wasn't very impressed by the film the first time I saw it, but there is something about it that is quite haunting. Parts of it stay in the memory. "},{"Title":"Interest in Psychoanalysis overshadowed by boredom","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, in the first 10 minutes of the film, I caught myself yearning for more eroticism. Perhaps, that's quite an achievement for the filmmakers. I really did not know what to expect so I continued watching in the hopes that I would get something out of it.As I go on, I am convinced that this is really a weird film. There goes James Ballard and the rest of the characters with their own fetishes motivating their sexual lives (not to mention Vaughan who is really in love with his art called car crash). Basically, the only interest I had in this film was the eroticism (even with the absence of love). So I decided to wait for another boring scene so I could get rid of it. But then, something interesting is brought up--Vaughan (Elias Koteas) expresses something magical about the SEXUALITY of the people who suffered (or died) in car crashes. I figured that there seems to be a connection between manipulating a sexual life and driving a car. It goes without saying that both, if not maintained, could result to one's doom.Without a doubt, there really is an interesting metaphor that should be thought through. But this film is not intense enough from cover to cover that one would stop exploring the depth of its theme (at least, that's what I think). "},{"Title":"Sex & Drags & Wreck & Roll","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not to be confused with this years Oscar winning sensation, you can't help but conclude that Crash 2005 must be referencing its older namesake with the opening dialogue&#133; We're always behind this metal and glass. I think we miss that touch so much that we crash into each other just so we can feel something. Crash 2005 is a blockbuster on the controversial subject of racial tensions in Los Angeles. Crash 1996 was just plain&#133; controversial. A decade ago the British press ran a series of front page appeals for governmental pressure to ban a new film which they'd described as Beyond the bounds of depravity. The 1973 J.G Ballard novel, on which the film is based, had long been a favourite of mine but as the controversy raged on throughout the summer of '96' it became apparent that the film may never be shown in the U.K. Crash had already been released in France, so by the time this idiocy hit the point where an audience of paraplegics were invited for a special screening to see if they were offended or not, I had no choice but to leave for Paris where exactly one year later Ballard's 'cautionary tale' of car crash celebrity deaths would reach an apotheosis of sorts in an underpass at the Pont D'Alma.Described by its author as the first pornographic novel about technology the book is about a group of car crash survivors who, led by deranged T.V scientist Vaughn, see the car crash as a new form of sexual perversion. Vaughn's ultimate fantasy is to die in a head-on collision with the actress Elizabeth Taylor who, throughout the 60's and 70's was the Princess Diana of her day; constantly hounded by the press and ultimately crucified on the beam of her own celebrity. The film adaptation, directed by David Cronenberg, avoids the heavy traffic of 'serial bride' Liz's potential legititive clout and instead becomes 'a futuristic love story set in the present'. James (James Spader) and Catherine (Deborah Kara-Ungar) are a married couple so filled with inertia that they are desperate for some emotional connection by any means necessary. After a series of extra martial encounters they find themselves attracted to a group of disturbed members of a bizarre car-crash sect who enact famous car crashes for kicks. The pair soon find themselves willing accomplices in a tableaux of violence and desire until finally they attain some provisional approximation of actual love.Kara-Ungar's portrayal of Catherine exemplifies perfectly the icy detachment of a woman who appears to be observing herself from another galaxy. Unfortunately, the film hinges on a moment where the groups leader Vaughn, played by Elias Koteus who explains his philosophy of auto-geddon as a fertilising event rather than a destructive one to his disciple James. Koteus' delivery is addled and Spader (understandably) laughs; blowing the scene and almost the entire film with it.Nevertheless Crash is, above all, a brave attempt to explore an almost un-bearable subject &#150; the death of affect and our unconscious desire for violence. As we're bombarded with pseudo-events and war entertainment - designed to make us consume in ways that are of optimum benefit to multi-national conglomerates who really (forget governments) walk where the power is &#150; Cronenberg's Crash is as much a road sign warning of our impending emotional bankruptcy as it is to the sexual ambiguity of the highway pile up. "},{"Title":"sex, drugs, and head on collisions","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If only this story were true to life. If your average girl really was turned on when she was in a car accident and I would be purposely sideswiping all the most attractive girls on the interstate. But most of the time after you hit someone's car your chances are nil. Thats what makes this movie interesting. Its odd factor. There are some really disturbing shots in this film and some awkward love scenes, but like a good car accident you won't be able to take your eyes off of it. The characters are detached and zombie like while the fetishize about the strangest of things. Lots of allusions and reenactments of famous car accidents, Cronenberg did his homework. The characters in this movie are bizarre to the extreme. Rosalina Arquette shows that handicapped women can still be sexy. Holly Hunter is the woman in the business suit gone wrong, and Debra Kara Unger is detached and catatonic to the point of creepiness. Wonderful performances all around especially by Spader and and Koteas as well, as the portray characters hypnotized by obsession very well. If you want to see a disturbing yet always interesting film, in Cronenberg-esquire perversity, check this one out! "},{"Title":"Watch this movie","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film concerns horrific subjects Mutilation, death, and just about the silliest set of sexual perversions one can imagine. The worst thing about is that despite its total commitment to portraying filth in a very boring way, it is a lot better than many of the pathetic moralistic stories with which the US film industry continues to carpet-bomb the world. Watch this film, then wonder why this nonsense is more engaging than 80% of films made in Hollywood in the last ten years.When you have trudged through the lack of story, the superfluous sex, the very unattractive characters and all the rest of this megadeath of monstrosity, maybe you can consider that the author, JG Ballard, (one of the finest writers of contemporary psychodelic nightmares), is trying to make fun of the car-caressing, fender-feeling, specification - sucking class of humans who live and breathe auto-masturbation. This movie has cars, engines, naked girls, the whole lot. The only factor that defines it as imagination is that they are all torn and disfugered. However they retain their intrinsic functions.Watch it - I really recommend it. Then watch 'Priscilla, Queen of the Desert' as an antidote to our own crashing stupidity. "},{"Title":"Not too much of a far cry from the movie that just won Best Picture.","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Crash that just won Best Picture last week made some people forget that there was also this Crash, about some Torontonians who like to get in car wrecks. I should identify that David Cronenberg directed this, just so that you know beforehand that there are some pretty gruesome scenes. Some people are likely to find this movie really gross (and some scenes do make your skin crawl), but it's interesting if nothing else. James Spader leads the cast as filmmaker James Ballard, who slowly but surely becomes infatuated with crashes and drags everyone along with him. Also starring Holly Hunter, Elias Koteas, and Deborah Kara Unger.It's hard to believe that this was written by J.G. Ballard, who also wrote Empire of the Sun. "},{"Title":"One of the most bizarre films I've ever seen","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I heard people lately referring to the 2005 movie Crash with superlatives. Upon hearing this, I can't help but associate the title with this 1996 freak fest. I consider myself pretty open minded, but this was just a strange pointless movie. Spader is a good solid actor, and the rest of the cast should be commended for taking on a story like this. But the results are very mixed.Looking back, I suppose the acting was good, but it was hard to get over the absolutely freaky storyline. Different strokes for different folks, I suppose. I just can't relate. To me, a car accident isn't a hot date, it's an appointment with my insurance agent. Stupid. "},{"Title":"One Step Too Far","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Croneberg will never be remembered for filming crowd-pleasers, romantic comedies or even straightforward movies for that matter. His name alone conjures up titles like DEAD RINGER, EXISTENZ, NAKED LUNCH, THE FLY, THE BROOD, SCANNERS, among other titles. CRASH is no different. The story of a small group of disaffected people who converge in the discovery of their fetish for car accidents, he creates what no one else would even consider since neither go together and no amount of theorizing about orgasm being the little death can sum up what happens in this movie. Of course, this is not a conventional film, neither of the actors involved are playing conventional roles -- in short, this is by far the strangest movie to come by in years, and Croneberg is no walk in the park. Anyone who considers this erotica might hit a wall since there isn't a sexually charged scene here despite their repeated, graphic inserts among the main players. Science fiction it may be but its classification as such is elusive at best. The universe of J. G. Ballard is a parallel world where new societies exist side-by-side with the 'norm' and people undergo transformations, usually intrinsic with death, metal, and leather, and independent of gender. Because of this, CRASH is too uninvolved to be anything but an intellectual experience, but one that made me think what's the purpose? "},{"Title":"I thought it was kind of erotic","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Since I was drunk, I have a little bias about the movie but I watched it with my friends one Saturday night and I'll be honest, it was a pretty sexy movie. One of the actresses is really cute and I didn't mind the subject matter. This is one of those challenging movies, fine, a mirror to society if you will. But then aren't all of Cronenberg's films. I don't think I'm sick for finding the dog style sex atop automobiles and during accidents to be erotic. So what? People indulge in S&M so what's the damn difference? Seriously this movie isn't really shocking, it's just a character study of alternative peoples. This movie seems especially tame after the following night's viewing of Gaspar Noe's Irreversible. "},{"Title":"wasted cronenberg...","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I should start off by saying that I'm an enormous Cronenberg fan. In fact, Crash is the only Cronenberg film I've seen that has really disappointed me. One of Cronenberg's greatest gifts is the creation of characters who, despite having an assortment of extremely unusual characteristics and enduring most surreal situations (turning into a fly, being fed hallucinations over a TV signal, etc), are nonetheless deeply human, evoking compassion and often pity and even sympathy. This, or rather the lack of this, is the primary flaw in Crash. The characters are wooden; they do not seem attached to their motives or to have any sort of life or personality outside being a vehicle for their motives. After the first 20 or 30 minutes, I just didn't really care what happened to any of them.I also tend to agree with the other reviewers who felt that this movie wasn't the shocker it's often portrayed as. Cronernberg has given us some mighty visceral imagery over the years, but fails to serve up anything really gut-wrenching in Crash. That isn't to say Crash doesn't have its share of sex, violence, and violent sex; it certainly does. But such scenes don't have the impact they should; like the characters, they come off as wooden and fail to engage the viewer's emotions. In a sense, you could say that Crash has many of the standard elements of Cronenberg's film making, except the spirit.Fortunately, Cronenberg has more than made up for it since; Spider (2002) and A History of Violence (2005) rank among his best works. Even the brightest of geniuses must be allowed a slump every now and then, and Crash is such a slump in an otherwise brilliant body of work. "}{"Title":"Controversy and quality are not equal","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember this movie being released back when I was a wee lad, and all the controversy surrounding it, especially the infamous vagina scar, and thinking to myself, Holy *beep* that movie's gotta be nuts. I'm totally seeing that one day. So here I am, with my fancy college degree, so many years later, having just finished viewing the film. And yes, it was totally friggin' nuts.It's incredibly well directed, superbly acted (except for Deborah Kara Unger, who barely moves her lips the whole damn movie... oops, I meant to say she barely moves her UPPER LIPS, b/c the 2nd set gets a workout in this flick... more on her later, though), and overall, not a total waste of time by any means. Elias Koteas, Holly Hunter, and Patricia Arquette were appropriately creepy, although the only reason I can think of that Holly's name gets billing over the other two is her marketability during that era of Hollywood. She's in like... ummm 10 minutes? So. I'm thinking to myself, really, no one could possibly go into this movie thinking it's going to be a good time. If someone said, to the average moviegoer, Hey, wanna see a movie that explores the link between sex and car crashes, and along the way eroticizes death and scarring??? he or she would probably get a negative response. Not that such movies aren't valid or shouldn't be made, mind you, it's just that I can't see how anyone expected to get a whole lot of respect or money for putting a freakish amalgam of T&A and twisted metal, with a dash of homo-eroticism, on the screen.I get the point. It's actually kind of eloquent and well thought... but the necessity to film it somewhat eludes me. I didn't hate it, but I didn't love it.And onto the hot mess that was Deborah Kara Unger. She registered like .032 on the charisma scale. She freaking looked like a sleeping cat. And if my agent ever were to tell me that it was a good idea to do a film with a monologue like her tirade about penises and semen, I'd fire him or her, on the spot. That was just total crap... but I don't entirely blame her. I'm not sure there was much you could do with that turkey of a speech right there. I kept wanting James Spader to smack her and say, B*tch, you are SO ruining my mood. But I mean, hey, look how HER career took off after this blockbuster. Who the hell am I to talk? Anyway, I guess my point is, that there IS no point to the controversy surrounding this movie. Sure, there's a copious amount of chick parts, some guy on guy and girl on girl action, but it's nothing you're not going to see on the Real World on any given day. It's worth it if you want to check out a controversial and well made film, but other than that, I don't see the point. Not a waste of time, rather just one of those things that only contributes to your life so you can say Yeah, I did that. "},{"Title":"Honest Effort but Lacks Involvement","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you ever have read a work by JG Ballard (Author of 'Crash', 'Empire of the Sun', and several science fiction novels from the 60's) you will notice something trademark and reoccuring Ballard's characters.  They are mostly shallow, empty, and unlikeable.  That makes him a tough author to adapt to film.  Here's why as you can see in David Cronenberg's film, his direction attempts to take off into a twisted world of a cult's arousal from means violent and vehicular.  Problem is, it's depicted without particular detail of character.The characters all seem lost in their own worlds, which complements Ballard's style, but are not followed through by Cronenberg.  They are unmistakably original and interesting twisted characters that need development to explain why they act the way they do.  Take for example, James Spader plays the lead, and he is drawn into this mysterious world. I didn't come across any trace of an attempt by the usually brilliant filmaker David Cronenberg to immerse himself into this character and eventually explain this attraction into a cult that shares the interest.  Spader is almost like a robot as he goes through this world.I really don't think Cronenberg is to blame however.  The fault is the material he chose to adapt.  Yes, Ballard's fiction works are fascinating and haunting, but his methods of character development are in the world of his stories and really cannot be portrayed in film.  His characters are inexplicably empty, to be portrayed they would look, as I said earlier, like robots functioning in a way unexplained;  when really his characters have a signifigant amount of depth, while continuing a shallow existance at the same time.  That is what makes Ballard brilliant, but the film Crash a misfire.Another problem is that the film does not involve it's audience nor interest them in what is going on.  Scenes of gratuitous sex, although not unnessicary, are actually the least exciting in the movie, which is not surprising when looking at this film.  Ballard's brilliant devices are seen here as boring and intangible.The effort is understandable, but Cronenberg really doesn't seem to know how to complement Ballard in a way that satisfies the balance of the film. To do so he would have needed to create his own version and not try to stick so close to the novel so he himself could be creative with it.  Ballard's a difficult one to adapt and a filmaker would need to take on their own understanding of his characters and the way they are developed before establishing their project.  "},{"Title":"Engaging but very odd and disturbing.","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash was an odd, disturbing movie.  A NC17 and R rated version were on the DVD.  Who is going to not watch the R version.  If you're too delicate to watch the R version what are you doing watching this movie in the first place.  Anyway, I'm still not sure if I liked this movie or not.  The characters were not in the least appealing but I think the movie's premise touched on a bit of a morbid, sensational appeal that is part of most people's personality.  Maybe I feel a bit of guilt because part of me enjoyed this movie and part was turned off by the hedonistic, nihilistic personalities portrayed.  I try to believe in an overall goodness in society but recognize I am involved in gaper delays.  There were good performances in the movie by James Spader and Holly Hunter.  Elias Koteus was really creepy.  Deborah Unger and Rosanna Arquette were there for their physical appeal.  They did a good job.  The Holly Hunter character kind of disappeared halfway through the movie.  I think that is one criticism I can make about the movie.  The characters were not as important as the sensational story. (Maybe a SPOILER could be derived from the following.)  James Spader's and Deborah Unger's marriage was portrayed as a wreck.  Their need for external stimulus drove them to more and more extreme measures to get excited.  Their lives would end in tragedy sooner on later and that was how the movie ended.  It was not an uplifting end.  (SPOILER  warning defunct.)  Overall this was not a happy movie and its character depiction was disturbing but it touched on a morbid aspect of one's personality. "},{"Title":"could have been so much better...","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cronenberg's Crash is odd, violent, interesting, but also too slow and badly written. The idea itself is great, and it could have lead to a totally different and better movie. But unfortunately, Cronenberg doesn't care about his characters at all, who are really dull and not interesting. There isn't any kind of plot and the movie is too slow. Way too slow. With a better script, better characters, and with Cronenberg focusing on the psychological matters in stead of the gore, this could have been a masterpiece. Like this, it's only a decent, strange, violent movie, that just seemed too slow. Vote 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A story that worked better as a book...","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm a fan of the literary works of J.G. Ballard, so when I heard that Crash had been made into a movie, I knew I had to see it. Having read the original book by J.G. Ballard, I can honestly say that it's a story that worked better in book form than in film. Somehow the idea of people so emotionally detached from their own selves, finding solace only in the orgasmic chill of a near-fatal car crash just doesn't seem to work on screen as it does on the page. The book actually manages to keep you intrigued and want to keep reading in spite of the lack of emotion exhibited by the characters. In the book, it didn't matter that you didn't care for the characters because as a book it read more as a theoretical guide on the link between near-death experience and orgasm. This is not a strange idea since it has been theorized before that the brain experiences certain chemical reactions as a result of both death and orgasm. However, this film is not a documentary. It is a fictional drama (insert ironic laugh here) about people who are so out of touch with themselves on a sexual and emotional level that they involve themselves in mostly deliberate car crashes to reach the high of the ultimate orgasm. Sound intriguing? It's not...at least not in this film. David Cronenberg is a brilliant director with a unique style that can only be matched by certain other directors (two other David's come to mind...Fincher and Lynch). But somehow, he had the idea that this would work as a movie. The viewer ultimately do not care about the characters or their emotional desolation. The viewer does not find their acts of self-destruction interesting or attention-worthy. The viewer does not find their meaningless near-death horniness interesting to watch, nor does the viewer find the sex anymore enticing. It's literally a movie where everybody f**** everybody...but it just doesn't seem worth it. Controversial? Yes...but in a good way? No. The only saving graces are the visual style (which is both ludicrous and grotesque, but would work better as a series of disjointed images if it weren't for the attempt to put a story to it), and the outstandingly eerie score by Howard Shore (the man behind the score for Seven, The Game, and won an Oscar for Lord of the Rings). This is the kind of movie to watch if you need your faith in modern cinema destroyed. If you're looking for something that will reaffirm your faith in human dignity...this is not it. Point of order...READ THE BOOK INSTEAD!!! The book is interesting, whereas the movie is just...unnecessary. "},{"Title":"Well made, but it didn't seem to serve a purpose...","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     Some people get turned on by 'nasty' things.  Car crashes are 'nasty' things.  Put those two statements together and what do we learn?  Some people get turned on by car crashes.  Yes?? And??   Those looking for further insight will most likely be left disappointed.  The movie pretty much leaves it at that.  I found the sex scenes weren't as cold as some have suggested (although they definitely weren't my bag) and it was good to see something a little bit different from the mainstream, but it was hardly what I'd term a revelatory experience.  Quality actors working with weird material.  Serious fans of the cinema should see it at least once, because whatever else it DOESN'T do, it gets people talking, but it certainly ain't a masterwork...   See it to derail the PC brigade; but when all was said and done, I was left feeling that all the brouhaha generated over 'Crash' was very much a storm in a tea cup.  That goes for both the sex scenes and the film itself... "},{"Title":"ORIGINAL IDEA...SILLY MOVIE","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash is David Cronenburg's look at modern obsession, and as stated in the film by Elias Koteas, a plot focused upon, among other deeper things, modern technology reshaping the human form.  I had wanted to see this film mostly because of the great cast, in particular Holly Hunter (The Piano, Raising Arizona), and James Spader (Sex, Lies, and Videotape), yet after the movie was finished I was left quite unsatisfied.  Although I suppose the acting was as good as possible based on the script, the plot was just not a good idea for a movie.  The idea is better for a novel, not a film.  The film was centered on a group of nuts that find a sexual turn-on in car accidents.  Some members of this group have dedicated their lives to this obsession, and others get somehow caught up in it (almost like some freak cult brainwashing).  The film had no real meaning, not much entertainment, and the only remaining aspect, the notorious sex, was intentionally a turn-off.  The characters engage in sexual acts many times, yet always seem hollow, distant, and uninvolved.  Although the film received the NC-17 rating in the unedited version (the one I saw), the sex scenes only resembled a late-night HBO soft-core pornography, yet at least in those the characters seem attracted to one another, while in this, the characters lick one another's tattoos, car accident scars, and there is even a sex scene with Rosanna Arquette playing a woman with artificial legs.  If you haven't picked up the main message of this review, here it is This film is a silly escapade too focused on a plot that is very original, yet doesn't work for a movie.  If you are renting this for the sex, you will be disappointed, as the characters are either gross or distant--there are no hot and sexy sex scenes.  Anyway, I don't recommend this film, but if you like the sound of the plot, and are desperate for a freaky Cronenburg film, see it. "},{"Title":"Missing the humor of Cronenberg","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I add this comment onto the Crash pile, but it could be added to other films.It seems people continuously ignore the humor in Cronenberg films- and CRASH is one of the funniest. While it may not be roll-in-the-aisles like Videodrome, I read the reviews and am somewhat shocked that I do not see the humor factor even mentioned.I would be the first to admit that not all Cronenberg films are humorous, I'd say DEAD RINGERS and M. Butterfly are both fairly grim tales. The DEAD ZONE is appropriately bleak, but CRASH???? My lord, are you people dead??? The Spader/Unger scene in bed, while they talk rather clinically, had me laughing harder than anything I'd seen in years.I love this movie, but like VIDEODROME or the FLY, it is at least in part a comedy.Craig "},{"Title":"Worthwhile for Cronenberg and Ballard fans","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was my favorite movie for a long time.  Cronenberg was my favorite director at the time and despite the film's tastelessness and utter lack of appeal, there was a certain beauty to the execution that I found compelling.  I found it a relaxing experience to put this movie on- I have probably watched it at least 50 times.  You get to know a movie pretty well in the course of that many viewings.  At a certain point, the tone of the movie seems almost humorous in its unrelenting lack of emotion and expression.  In a strange way, for me, it became about the very things it seems to oppose.  Crash made me appreciate the liveliness of almost any life in comparison to the characters in this film.  By being devoid of even the slightest expression, the film highlights the possibility of expression and life in things one might not normally notice.  Cronenberg has said that Crash is about people who have had all the previous contexts of their life yanked out from under them and have to willfully re-assign meaning to everything.  It seems that these people's lives are so empty otherwise that car crashes and sex are enough to cause this.  They're not merely looking for depth of feeling, they're looking for meaning and truth in anything.  It's a given that, metaphorically, Crash touches on these themes in a broader sense (see Ballard's introduction to the French edition of the book), but a film so burdened with existential issues can very rarely have a point sharper than its atmosphere.  See also Natural Born Killers.              "},{"Title":"Sex with James Spader in a car wreck - can there be anything worse?","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash is probably David Cronenberg's worst movie to date. Cronenberg's merit is simply that he stays away from mainstream cinema and continues to make utterly bizarre movies.Crash however is completely pointless, without tension or development of a climax. It centers around a group of people fascinated by car accidents and sex. Half of the movie deals with every possible couple in the group having sex with each other in the vicinity of car wreckage. The scene in which the company is sitting in front of the TV touching each others genitals (though dressed) is probably the most ridiculous scene Cronenberg has ever filmed. James Spader is annoying as usual.The film is only saved by its dark atmosphere and Howard Shore's excellent-as-usual score. "}{"Title":"So PC...","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Maybe this will come as a surprise, but Crash is a very Politically Correct movie. The scandal it caused should never have emerged from a movie which never takes off the ground. OK, it features people having sex in crashed cars with different partners. But take away crashed from crashed cars, and you have very normal people leading bored lives and trying to get away from it. Did you notice there's a love scene for everyone in this movie a straight love scene, a lesbian love scene, a gay love scene... Now that's what I call pretty mainstream. Thank you Mr Cronenberg for letting us know there are different people out there. "},{"Title":"sex and car crashes, perfect!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay the only thing that this movie really is, is sex and car crashes. Freaky people that get turned on by the death of others, I warn their are some pretty heavy sex scenes and this movie not sutible at all for childern under the age of 17, actully in canada it is in porn sectioin. Even though this movie is just an orgy of kinky sex, and car crashes, I recommend it for the true Holly Hunter fan (which I am)10\10 stars "},{"Title":"Hentai with real actors","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was a little disturbing and seemingly pointless.  And a microcosm of modern film mainstream actors, in a time of recycled plots and been-there-done that, running to the refuge of marginal and freakish films and directors that were reserved to limited release and cult-only-audiences in the 1960's and 1970's.  There were a lot of self-inflicted car crash scenes, photo-taking, people breathing heavily while erotically rubbing their scars, and every possible combination of couple sex scenes... Melrose Place mixed with H.P. Lovecraft at 75 MPH.  If that appeals to you... have at it. "},{"Title":"SICKO RUBBER NECKERS!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cronenberg unique directing style brings out the true nature of the movie. No matter how warped, demented or perverse the scene...it's just like a car crash...you have to watch.  That's the beauty of the movie...you become one of them waiting for the next fix. "},{"Title":"Sexual fantasy meets metallic nightmare, head-on. (8/10)","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Based on the novel by J.G. Ballard, Crash is a marvellous encounter which assaults the viewer on many levels.  David Cronenberg, the director, has another cult hit on his hands.  It definitely earns it's 'R' rating, so keep this movie away from the children.  A Zipp0 scar-licking rating of 8/10. "},{"Title":"Deeply Twisted and Gnarled, Stays With You For A While","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Cronenberg fans who thought Naked Lunch was dark, disturbing, and hard-to-follow will be blown away by the absolutely sick, demented, and equally mind-boggling vision that Crash is.The basic storyline follows James Spader and Deborah Unger, who play a married couple obsessed with car accidents;  they view a car accident as extremely erotic and sexual.  When Spader has one(in quite a disturbing and violent scene), he kills a woman's husband, then proceeds to have an affair with the widow.)  Subsequently, the rest of the film deals with a local group of fellow fetishists, led by the creepy Elias Koteas, and Spader's involvement with them.The film is filled to the brink with sex, both heterosexual and homosexual. There are scenes that will absolutely give you the proverbial chills.SPOILEROne scene in particular which I cannot get out of my head is the entire group of car crash fetishists siting in Koteas' apartment, all watching car test dummy footage, and feeling each other's genitals, treating the footage as pornography.  The ending, also, has got to be one of the most audience-recoiling ever shot.After watching this film, it left me rather hollow and vexed and continued to disturb me throughout the weekend and the next few days.  It is certainly not your standard movie fare.  Cronenberg deserves credit for this highly volatile, shocking, sinister and repulsively interesting film.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's worst work to date","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, let me get this straight, David; You want to make a movie symbolic of the distance growing between people by showing how they have sex(but can't make love), after they crash cars? Yeah, right.I don't know how Cronenberg got the rights to make this piece of garbage, but it needs to be destroyed. Of course, all the pseudo-intellectuals will think it's a masterpiece, just like The Piano, and The Blue Lagoon. Why do people equate sexual freedom to idealism and individuality? He did an absolutely beautiful description of man turning to machine and growing more distant from each other in Videodrome, so I don't know why he felt it necessary to make it again, except pump more sex and less substance into it. The thing that gets me most, though, is the plethora of actors that have proven in the past they're capable of good acting and getting roles in real movies. Maybe they liked Dave. Maybe they thought it'd be an interesting move for their careers. Maybe they should get new agents. 0 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This movie is a BOMB!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Can U imagine for a minute...crash victims gather together in self-help group meetings and watch videos of car crashes starring crash test dummies and they find this erotic??? Did someone decide to combine two scripts from two completely different movies because I don't get it...WOW?! "},{"Title":"Buckle Yer Seatbelts...  =8/","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Odd, subversive little film from Canada's weird David Cronenberg(Videodrome, Scanners, Naked Lunch), proving that he is slowly but surely becoming moore and moore strange as time goes on.  Basically, this film is about a bunch of perverts who become erotically charged by automobile crashes, especially famous or personal ones.  James Spader(Sex and Lies on Videotape), and his wife Deborah Unger(Payback), who were preeverts before, are taken udder the wing of an even larger preevert, played by Elias Koteas(Prophecy), his mangled girlfriend(Roseanne Arquette, Desperately Seeking Susan), and a twisted accident victim/doctor(Holly Hunter, The Piano).  They re-enact famous death crashes, like James Dean's, run each other off the road with gleeful abandon, and have sex with each other almoost incessantly.  Because everyone involved is such a preevert, it's tough to identify with any single character; Cronenberg seems to be saying that there is a little Freudian preevert inside all of us, just awaiting the right stimuli to come along and flick the sickie switch, but it's hard to imagine the cownection here between erotic stimuli and car crashes.  For one, this MooCow can only associate car crashes with insurance headaches. =8P  Nothing like a night's rent watching cheap, ugly, disturbing sex. There are night for moovies like this one; hopefully, they only come once or twice a year.  On the whole, the MooCow says only jaded, warped-psychology loving fans will enjoy this offering from the real Master of Weird. =8P "},{"Title":"Crash and burn.","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having always respected David Cronenberg (for his vision more than his movies), Crash is one of those movies that has a good sense of style, but nothing else to bank on.The script is horrible, with mostly sexual dialogue that becomes tiresome after the first five minutes. The sex scenes themselves neither excite or repulse, Crash comes across more like a soft core porn film trying to pass itself off as a psychological study. But there is no intellect here. The book by Ballard shows their slow descent into madness, in the movie, they are all messed up to begin with. The characters are like psycho-sexual zombies, mangling their bodies in car wrecks and taking enormous pleasure in doing so. The reason why anyone would take interest in this is a total mystery.All the actors seem to play the parts in their sleep. James Spader and Holly Hunter, two actors I once held in high regard, do nothing here. Crash raised a lot of controversy when it was released, with a reputation that proceeded the movie as a sickening, bizarre, and highly offensive film. The movie was simply a bore. But it is the subject matter more than the film itself. The idea that people would take sexual pleasure in car wrecks is what offended people, but the movie barely scratches the surface.Some of the visuals and makeup were well done, obviously the work of careful planning. But if the movie was more faithful to the book, and more time spent on a decent script, Crash would have been a great movie. But to be sure, this is a movie only David Cronenberg could get away with making.  "}{"Title":"AVOID AT ALL COSTS!!","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No story line, no background or explanation for any of the character's behavior, the 'shocks' were all so blatantly written to be exactly that, they just felt so contrived that at points it was insulting that you were expected to go Oh dear! How shocking!!.You've got James Spader suddenly getting it on with a guy and then suddenly at the end for no good reason you have Holly Hunter and Patricia Arquette snogging, James Spader does it with Patricia Arquette by sticking his penis in these big scars in Patrica Arquettes leg, but there's no explanation for why they're having sex, or why they're suddenly hanging around together, the characters continually try to drive each other off the road for no good reason, the only reason I knew James Spader was an advertising exec and that the blonde woman was his wife was because I read it on the back of the video case half way through the film. James Spader and his 'wife' seem to start out knowing each other but just go off and have sex with other people for no reason, it made no sense, it had no plot whatsoever, it should have been a porno film but you know what, I think even porno film's would have more of a storyline, the film is SO stupid!! I can't believe I just wasted an hour and a half of my life on this piece of sh*t.AVOID IT AT ALL COSTS!!!  "},{"Title":"now that's bad cinema...","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie wants to shock you by suggesting a connection between the stimulation of car accidents and sexuality. It's not even like that's an offensive idea. You just kind of go OK fine! And...? This movie answers that question with scene after scene of attempted provocation.It takes itself very seriously and wants badly to be a breakout film for Cronenberg, but all it's pretensions are deflated by it's utter shallowness. There is no further point to embroider after the first sex/crash juxtaposition. It devovles into an absurd texture of meaningless sex scenes and it just makes you laugh in derision every few minutes. It has no dramatic arc (Thanks to flat, art-house poseur direction & line readings). I sat there resenting that it wasn't deeper as David Lynch might have pulled off, or that it wasn't funnier like John Waters could've done. How this didn't end up on a double-bill with Showgirls is beyond me. It's a thin line between art and kitsch. This is the latter. "},{"Title":"Boooorriiiiing","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie takes place in a screwy universe where the police don't exist, emergency services are happy to have sightseers come and take close-up photos of crash scenes, and motorists in general never get annoyed when they are cut up by a wreck being driven by a maniac.This film was so interesting, I actually interrupted the penultimate crash sequence to watch Richard & Judy do a fascinating article on golf ball theft. I'd say it just pips 'Eyes Wide Shut' to the post in the tedium stakes, but 'A.I.' probably still has the edge in giving you that feeling that you are really criminally wasting your life.Well, it's certainly a controversial and disturbing piece. Controversial in that it ever received funding (although it's no great surprise that the star of 'Stargate' was only too happy to sign up), and disturbingly boring.Screwy. "},{"Title":"Is this trip really necessary?","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After seeing this one, I can't really tell what it is about. No satisfying story-line, no moral. If so, what is it?? Just some useless  sex-excesses that had no meaning at all. The car crashes were useless and disappointing as well. If there were prizes to win for making a total ridiculous and unrealistic movie, Cronenberg should get the highest possible. Disgusting. No points...  "},{"Title":"What is this movie about?","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like many others I saw this movie ten years ago. Because of all the hype surrounding it I snuck into a screening while I was still underage. At the time I really had no thoughts on it except that I was glad to have not been booted out of the theater. As the years went by though I am suddenly hit with a sense of surreality Was that really what happened in that movie?. I guess I could rent it to appease my flashbacks/hauntings. I really think this movie was sick, why would anyone make this movie? Ihave two questions 1) Is it just me or were all of us sort of hypnotized in the 90's, because when it came out nobody pointed out the fact that it was truly abhorrent, & really a sadomasichistic, psychotic porno. I remember the theater was packed and everybody acted like it was nothing. Who else thinks that a movie like this wouldn't do well today? 2) I'm going to guess that the writer & cronenberg presume that there is some deep message here, probably about society, probably apocalyptic too. Anyone mind telling me what the message was. (Funny how after all my liberal arts education I don't know. I guess nerdy film directors with pseudointellectual musings know more than the rest of us. Cheese.) Thanks for reply. "},{"Title":"possible *spoiler* but, the trailer tells all...","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This strange little flick is just plain morbid.  I find absolutely no connection between making love and crashing an automobile.  When I rented this I was intrigued because, well, to be honest I have no clue why!  Anyway, I guess people get their jollies from sick, twisted car wreckage.  Crash is certainly not for the faint of heart.  To those out there that love the film, great, but please realize it's just a movie. "},{"Title":"Absolute boredom","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A crushing sleeper at least 25 years too late for any 'kink' arousal factor at all. Better to watch the French Connection 'el' chase scene on a continuous loop, with a second monitor showing any porno movie your jaded taste desires. Made in Canada. Because it was the only place they could raise the money. "},{"Title":"Dead Fish","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This one was a dead fish, and probably was intended to be. So much media hype, and not much in the film which lived up to it. It has already been said that this is not meant to be a porn flick, and believe you me, this is not. Red Shoe Diary does it much convincingly.And the whole thing is, just boring. The characters are living the boredom, even with their extremely violent behaviour, and we don't know whether it's a failure on the production's side, or a failure on the viewers' side (for not understanding it), or whether it was just meant to be boring. Sex, Lies and Videotape (also staring Spader) comes close to this, but in that film you could at least enjoy the sexual aspect of it. Oh it was erotic, a fine pornography with brain. But as for this one, nothing is attractive. I believe this deserved to be banned, not only because of the morally deteriorated presentation (which I agree it is), but more so because this film contributes nothing to the audience.So what do we learn from this film? 1. Drive safe, 2. stick with your spouse, and 3. do not dance to the music which the media plays (and I suspect none of these lessons were intended anyway). Reminds me a bit of the lesson I learned from Princess D** na's tragic accident.Because there are plenty of controversies tangling along on the surface, the viewers are welcome to read almost anything into it affirmation of sexual depravity, cynical view of (post) modern set of value, critique of whatever else, you name it, you'll find it. So if you want to act like a clever film critique in front of your girlfriend, view this one and say whatever you want to say. You'll probably impress her. That's exactly what I'm doing right now in front of you guys! "},{"Title":"What's the point?","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Upon reading the box of the video of this film, I though it sounded twisted but interesting. I was mistaken. The plot was non-existent, the acting was mediocre, even the sex scenes were pointless. It was puzzling as to why these people were turned on by car crashes. I just didn't get it. It might have been interesting to get into their minds and get some kind of understanding, but that never happened. There was no story line. Some of the editing seemed disjointed, jumping from one scene to the next with no smooth transition. Don't bother with this one. In the words of the great John Malkovich in the movie Rounders, I feel so unsyatisfied "},{"Title":"what the heck is going on??","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i couldnt make Any sense of this movie.. it was totally stupid !!! i still cant figure it out.. and all the characters needed to see motor accidents to get themselves all excited??? it just seems like everyone was doing it to each other.. it was SO weird... and even though i like James Spader.. this one disappointed me .. . even in White Palace i didnt like him in that either.. that one also made no sense....im sorry that i rented this movie.. James did a better job in Mannequin.. what was the director thinking when he made this stinkeroo??? to this day i still cant figure this one out.. do yourself a favor , and pass this one by at the video store.. if i could give this movie a zero i would..  "}{"Title":"Just plain bad","Date":"19 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Either this is the dumbest movie ever, or I am. I totally didn't get it. Everyone in this movie was more interested in their genitals than anything else - it's like they had no life outside of finding people to have sex with. And the sex was gross (IMO). Was this supposed to be sexy or provocative???? I'm no prude, but to me it wasn't. Holly Hunter has sex with the guy (James Spader) who killed her husband in a car crash shortly after they both get out of the hospital???? HUH??? It's just sex, car crashes, sex, car crashes, sex, scars, sex, lather, rinse, repeat. And the ending???? Dumb beyond belief! It's like everyone in this movie was a walking penis or vagina, and all they cared about was getting their rocks off. Even when your beloved wife lays possibly dying underneath a car, your first (only) instinct is to f*** her??? WTF! DVD features (New Line Cinema DVD) You can watch either the NC-17 version or the R version. I watched the NC-17 version at 1 hr 40 min. I can't imagine what the R version was like. If they took out all the explicit sex scenes from the NC-17 version, I'd imagine the R version would be all of 7 minutes or so! Extras consist of scene selection, language selection, and on-screen static text mini bios of the primary actors. Borrrrring! Oh, so why did I rent this? I'm in love with James Spader, but this movie did NOTHING for me.I now need to go add 1 star to all my previously rated 1- and 2-star flicks. However bad they are, they are nowhere as bad as Crash (1996). Crash deserves to be at the bottom of the barrel all by itself. "},{"Title":"I'm beginning to feel like a potted plant.","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember watching this film about ten years ago when it was first released. I was younger then, and I remember hearing all the hype that surrounded this devilishly dark drama by director David Cronenberg. I had to see it. So one night, I rented it and watched it after my parents fell asleep, and I couldn't believe it. This was a horrible film. I couldn't get into the characters, the story seemed forced, and nothing seemed to match what I remember hearing about when it was released. So, I decided to watch it again when I was older and wiser in the cinema world. I thought perhaps my perspective would have changed and this would be a better film. I had seen other Cronenberg films, so I was ready for this. Sadly, it was no better than the first time.I rented it and watched it, then suddenly returned it. I was unimpressed. Perhaps because I have seen scenarios like this work better in other films, or maybe it was just as I had described above. The characters seemed to just randomly do whatever they wanted, the story seemed forced and definitely not plausible, and finally there was just nothing spectacular about this movie. I really wanted Cronenberg to chisel his way into the human psyche after a traumatic accident like this occurs, but instead he resorts to a border-line sex film. While favorites of my like James Spader and Holly Hunter decently act their way through this film, there was nothing that made me excited about their characters. Their chemistry seemed basic and their on-screen connection seemed dull. They were not the best choices for this film. I felt as if Cronenberg was catering to the Hollywood community with this film. Overall, I needed a darker story, less sex and more character, and more Cronenberg. He has done better work, and I don't know why he gave up on this film. Perhaps he should take some lessons from David Lynch that may get him back on the right track.Grade ** out of *****  "},{"Title":"A movie about nothing!","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After watching Couple of Cronenberg's films I got to the conclusion that probably he wishes to deliver some sort of improved version of Antonioni's nonsense. Generally his movies are within 100 minutes time frame yet the scenes related to the final resolve of his movies are far less, probably 20%. I say improved version not by his genuine intention. He works in Hollywood so he has to deliver something viable for investors with Hollywood mindset. Crash does not follow the acceptable Hollywood cliché which has been created for a reason, to make movies dynamic. The screenplay follows the 10% rule which has to offer the hero an opportunity out of his ordinary life but after that its free ride of total nonsense. Too many unnecessary and irrelevant scenes and rather disgusting emphasis on body fetish and pornographic to lure audience, make it erotic enough to follow the nonsense. I am not against pornography as long as it contributes to the final resolve of the movie but to squeeze such scenes into the movie to lure the audience, I find it insulting to the intelligence of the viewer and that is exactly what Cronenberg does. The movie is boring and hard to watch in one piece with lots of whispering hard to hear dialogue so I recommend watching the movie with subtitles although one would lose nothing if miss some of of the dialogue due to poor audio management. On short, the movie is about bunch of accident victims who developed accident and trauma fetish and that's it from start to finish, some grotesque scenes and too much sex, irrelevant sex. "},{"Title":"A small group share the same kinky fetish.","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  David Cronenberg directs this weird tale of sexual deviance. This movie can be about erotic as it is non-excitable. Explicit sex scenes and graphic language make this a super strong NC-17. After surviving an auto accident that left him maimed,(James Spader)can only be sexually aroused in connection with a car wreck. He meets others that have been disfigured in the same way and they also practice kinky sex at the scene of accidents...real or reconstructed. These people are craving not just the sex act, but the fulfillment of pursuing their fetish.Rounding out this near rated X cast are Holly Hunter, Rosanna Arquette, Elias Koteas and the alluring Deborah Unger. I caught this on IFC and was mesmerized. I was not offended, just stunned with the subject matter. I hate to think that maybe one of Spader's greatest performances will be his least seen. This is not for every one. Do view it with an opened mind concerning gore, strong language, nudity and homo-sexuality. "},{"Title":"Works best if you're familiar with Cronenberg beforehand","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash fits perfectly in David Cronenberg's canon. It has the same fascination with cold, mechanical images that we see in The Fly and Videodrome. If this is your first Cronenberg film, you'll be understandably lost. It is certainly not his best, though. I like the film particularly for its boundary-pushing. Boy, does it push some boundaries! It has many unique and fascinating scenes. But it has one major problem once it shows us its ideas, it sort of just repeats over and over. It never really goes anywhere with its ideas. It should have ended at least twenty or thirty minutes before it did. But no one on Earth wants to see James Spader have sex with Elias Koteas. Oh, disturbing image! 7/10 "},{"Title":"You may admire this movie, but you won't enjoy it!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Crash' is a difficult movie to comment on.  Even though I am a fan of David Cronenberg, and of J.G.Ballard, who wrote the novel on which this movie is based, I cannot truthfully say that I ENJOY watching this. The main reason being is that Cronenberg has faithfully captured the cold, clinical feel of Ballard's book. 'Crash' the book is a difficult, and totally unerotic look at sex, and the movie is the same. Unless you share the main characters fixation with car accidents and find them sexually stimulating (?!) you won't get your jollies from this movie. Cronenberg has to be applauded for filming another unfilmable book, but 'Naked Lunch' was a much freer, more imaginative adaptation of an equally difficult text. 'Crash' is a movie one can admire, but not one you enjoy.One thing that must be noted is the violently negative reaction that this movie has stirred among many conservatives! Just what raw nerve has this equation of sex with violence touched?? Makes you wonder! "},{"Title":"Very Depressing.....","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Can someone make an adult movie about sex and sexuality with interesting, complicated characters and not be boring?I hated every one of the characters. I wished all of them were in a tractor trailer and killed in a spectacular, one-vehicle accident.               It's a shame because the movie had an very intriguing idea, a strong cast and the talented David Cronenberg. Crash was a major waste of time. See Last Tango in Paris instead. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I watched this movie","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to say, that of any movie I can remember seeing, this is the movie to rate all bad, horrible, and stupid movies by.  What really makes it bad is that i think the actors in the movie might have really thought that they were making some cutting edge, thought provoking movie.  I would have thought that they had to, at some point, said, Man, this is a really stupid movie.  Every character's actions made them so unbelievable, that I didn't care what happened to them.  I didn't care who lived, who died, whatever. The only benefit I guess i got, was a few laughs with my wife.  We must have shook our heads and said you gotta be kidding me 50 times. "},{"Title":"Is it possible to give this movie a zero...","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...because one seems too good a rating for it.This was a film by a respected director?  With respected actors?  Some executive green-lighted this?  I've seen better quality soft-core flicks on cable than this!When Crash was released here in Canada (lucky us got to suffer through it first), The Toronto Star gave it a unique rating.  * or *****, depending on you.  My friend and I, being Cronenberg fans decided we'd probably be the latter.  After spending $8 and what seemed like an eternity in that theater, I have devoted my life to warning people about this movie.I've seen plenty of bad movies in my time.  Most of them at least have something to offer.  A few laughs (intentional or not).  Decent acting.  A kitch factor.  A PLOT!!!  This had nothing.Without a doubt the worst movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Goes for shock factor","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Centres around a bunch of freaks who get sexually aroused by witnessing and being in car wrecks. Who on earth came up with the idea for this rubbish?. There are only three reasons to stick with this  pile of junk all the way through, and they are Holly Hunter, Rosanna Arquette and (especially) Deborah Kara Unger, and trust me they are VERY good reasons. The kind of film which looks a lot better on fast forward!!!  "}{"Title":"bad porn","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you read JG Ballard's book, Crash, it was likely in the context of his broader oeuvre, particularly High Rise & Concrete Island. He creates unique hermetic worlds with a physical, social, geographical & psychological reality unto themselves. And boy oh boy does it ever work. Just read parts of the Atrocity Exhibition story collection if you haven't the time or patience for his longer works. Ballard is truly a giant of contemporary literature & consciousness. But this movie version of Crash is something else entirely. Quite self-conscious, it bears more in common with those many Hollywood independent features which pretend to satirize the corruption & decadence of Hollywood (of which Barton Fink was one of the more admirable exemplars) but wind up being industrial vanity productions. This film should have been acosmic satire on modern alienation; instead it's a product/example of it. "},{"Title":"I don't get it.","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a comment from someone who doesn't claim to be a critic...in any way. Just a normal guy. This is a film that goes so far beyond any type of sensibilities that I have that is was just plain weird, not sensual or sexy. It's no wonder that it could never get farther than the artsy fartsy crowd. the proof is the number of theaters it was released in and the subsequent amount of money it made. The NC-17 rating assured a small release and small money. I question whether the director, producer, or writer are imitating life or trying to shape it. Trying to make us think that either we are all weird down deep or making us think, Thank God I'm not that bad. Who knows? What I do know is I'm not that bad...car crashes and similar tragedies have the opposite affect on me, sex is the last thing I think about. That kind of pain is a powerful turn off. I know there are all kinds, but the premise is so far beyond normal, it forces one to turn off a rational part of the brain to make it work. But then again, by my own admission, I don't get it. Big question mark in my mind on this movie. In my opinion, it really is a waste of a good two hours for anyone. "},{"Title":"Should come with a Warning Label","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My cable provider incorrectly listed this as Crash 2004, so after about about a half an hour into this movie, it hit me that this was not the award winning Crash. Its a rarity that I ever cut off a movie mid-way but I did it with this one. This movie should really come with a warning label, if you've ever been in a nasty auto accident, witnessed one first hand or dealt with the survivor of one you may find this flick severely disturbing. I can appreciate that there is a sexual fetish out there for just about everything and remain open-minded to discovery on this. But, this sexual fetish I find hard to believe, and I'm not the type of person who is turned off by scars or amputees. The art-noir attempt came off as tedious and boring, not the least bit fascinating. The lack of substance/explanation/identification with any of the characters is in part a problem. It was hard enough to get through the subject premise without also not having any connection with these characters. There is not too much blood & guts horror, that was not the negative issue here, its just disturbing on a different level. I suppose you could actually create a movie about the subject of sexual fetish related to deadly car accidents and pull it off, but I did not find that to be the case here. Fact is that car accidents don't give me a hard-on and if they do you. you've either never been involved in one or you should seriously check out psychological counseling. "},{"Title":"A-Hoy all you twisted freaks!","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you pick off your scabs while whacking yourself into a frenzy then this is the film for you.Decapitations to cause arousal? Shagging scars? Who thought up this rubbish? Never in my life have i been more freaked out by the idea that people will actually get off to this rubbish. James Spader, what were you thinking? Now, you're not just a crap actor but a pervert too! How does a producer approach you with this idea? Have to go, i've just fallen off my computer chair and my dog wants to lick my elbow. Great! DON'T WATCH THIS. AWFUL AWFUL AWFUL! "},{"Title":"One of the Sickest and Weirdest Movies Ever","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The producer James Ballard (James Spader) and his sexy wife Catherine Ballard (Deborah Kara Unger) have an open relationship with fantasies and extra conjugal affairs that they tell to each other to increase their sexual drive. When James has a car accident where the other driver dies, he changes his behavior and becomes obsessed for car-crash victims. The lame James befriends the widow of his victim, Helen Remington (Holly Hunter), and the sick maniac for accidents Vaughan (Elias Koteas) and he joins a world of people that feels pleasure watching and provoking car accidents, dragging Catherine with him. Crash is one of the sickest and weirdest movies I have ever seen. In the 90's, when I saw it for the first time on VHS, I liked it more than now. I have just watched again on a high-quality DVD and I found this time a pointless erotic story with an unbelievable plot that has the only intention of shocking. There is no message, no nothing but sick people having kinky sex related to car crashes. Deborah Kara Unger is extremely sexy and hot in one of her first works and the choreography of the accidents is quite perfect. My vote is four.Title (Brazil) Crash &#x96; Estranhos Prazeres (Crash &#x96; Weird Pleasures) "},{"Title":"James Ballard and his wife have a complicated sex life. After a terrible road accident Ballard starts to explore the thrills of danger, sexuality and death","Date":"23 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A real disappointment in Cronenberg! I used to like his films, but this one is reaching my limits! I wonder how the movie could get so many wins! It is gross, unpalatable and absolutely boring! There is nothing else to be said about it than that it is the most VULGAR film I ever saw.No wonder it has been banned in several towns in the UK! What I do not understand at all is that some critics want us to believe this could easily be the best Cronenberg movie ever! The prize they especially designed for him in Cannes is not even deserved! If being daring is fit for a prize I wonder why snuff movies would not get it!It is only disgusting. vote1 "},{"Title":"Where was the film supposed to be???","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am currently writing an postgrad essay on Canadian cinema and i have found this forum totally interesting! I'm writing about sexual perversion in Canadian cinema and obviously this movie is number one for that! However, I don't have my own copy of it and I was wondering where the film is set (is it in Canada? Is so, Toronto? or US?). I know the book isn't set in the same place as Cronenberg's screenplay so i was hoping someone would help me out with this.Also if anyone has any good ideas on this whole perversion in Canadian cinema thing then pls let me know! (All *helpful* advise welcome!) Peace "},{"Title":"Artistic Porn","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What can I expect? David Cronenberg doesn't surprise me here. He just eludes my interest. I can't believe a piece of garbage like 'Crash' can even call itself art. Maybe porn, but not art. Actually, it is kind of stylish in its own way. I think car crashes and sex make for an interesting combination, don't you think? Imagine, having an orgasm at the same time colliding into another vehicle doing 60mph. Man, that's gotta be indescribable! Even though I haven't read the book, I think the film blows (no pun intended). James Spader and Holly Hunter give minimal performances, and Elias Koteas is just plain weird. The only actor who was remotely tolerable was Deborah Unger (that scene where she and Elias Koteas are in the backseat when Spader goes through the carwash must have been hard). The abundance of nudity in the film, in addition to the graphic language and sexuality, only oversaturates the film and obscures the deeper appeal. This film is too perverted, even for me.  "},{"Title":"This movie stands no criticism","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am very sorry for my brewity. But this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Repeat, this film is a utterly dismal P.O.S. Thanks everybody for your kind attention. "},{"Title":"This film is not going places...","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have not read the book version of this film that was written by author J.G. Ballard, nor do I want to read it, after watching the debacle that is this film. When people tell you to read the novel the movie is based on, then the film has failed in telling you the whole story.I will now attempt to explain the plot of this film we first start with a woman (played very blandly by Deborah Kara Unger) having sex with a man in an airport hanger. Then we see her husband (played by James Spader) having sex with his secretary. Oh yeah, and then we see them having sex at home.Conclusions These people must really like to have sex.Then, Spader's character gets into a car accident with a half-naked woman (played by Holly Hunter) and some other guy who gets killed, so he takes to also having sex with her on a regular basis. Oh yeah, and then they meet this guy named Vaughan (played by Elias Koteas) who hires Spader's character to drive him around so he can look for woman and have sex with them in the backseat while Spader's character cruises along under Highway 401.Conclusions These people must really like to have sex.In addition to these people, we also find out that Vaughan really likes performing re-creations of famous car crashes. His friend (I forget what his name is) ends up getting killed in an auto accident while dressed up like Jayne Mansfield. There is also a woman (played by Rosanna Arquette) who seems to have trouble walking, and she has a giant gash on her leg, which Spader's character proceeds to have sex with at one point. Oh, and every member of the cast has sex with everyone else at one point or another in the film.Conclusions ???Needless to say, the premise for the film is very shallow and very stupid. All of the characters act in silly and immature ways, including sleeping with each other's spouses, a man chasing after a couple on a busy highway (and subsequently getting killed after going off the guardrail), and reckless endangerment of themselves and other civilians.What's probably the worst thing about this film is how it utterly fails to deliver on the promise of the crash culture. We see that these few characters like to have car accidents and have sex in wrecked cars, but is there anyone else who is doing the same thing? Yes, there are some people at the event where Vaughan recreates the James Dean crash, but for all we know, these people are just passive observers who have nothing better to do. As a result, the main characters look like total car fetish freaks.Bottom Line I'm sorry, this film is terrible. It's completely worthless, has terrible acting, a foolish concept, a ridiculous plot, AND the way it ends is stupid as well. I give this film a 2 out of 10, because it's David Cronenberg. "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Crash is one of my traumatic experiences in cinema. It reminds me of the most wasted money i ever spent.I will not stand on technical issues such us shooting, directing, acting etc. because they represent the smallest part of the movie's impression.The ethical principals are devastated, and the Godgiven gift of life is wasted through the way of living that the couple adopts. They are at their most productive age, being financially ok, and the only thing that concerns them is how they will satisfy their sexual appetite in a dreadful and most immoral way. "},{"Title":"Crash mix-up from on high","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had my DVR record Crash from Cinemax or something and I decided to watch it a few weeks later. I am watching the first half and I can't see how this trash won any awards. I check the description ever now and again (sadly, as if the DVR would realize its mistake and correct) to make sure I am watching the movie I thought. The network provided description is for the 2005 version, not this shop-class porno.Eventually, (after wasting 45 minutes of my life) I came to IMDb which cleared the whole thing up.So don't feel bad if you mixed up the movies, the networks can't seem to keep them straight either. "},{"Title":"Another challenging film from Cronenberg.","Date":"7 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash starts as film producer James Ballard (James Spader) is involved in a car crash in which he is badly injured, a man dies & his wife Dr. Helen Remington (Holly Hunter) is also hurt. James becomes fascinated with cars & car crashes, he then meets up with Helen who also has a thing for crashes & they start to have a sexual relationship. They meet up with a guy named Vaughn (Elias Koteas) who is the founder of a small group of people who stage car crashes for their own sexual fulfilment, they listen in on emergency service channels & turn up to car crash accident scenes & take photo's, they get turned on by watching video tapes of car crashes & get off on looking at pictures of people badly hurt in crashes...This Canadian British co-production was written, co-produced & directed by David Cronenberg & is a difficult film to analyse & at times is a difficult film to watch. The script was based on the book Crash by J.G. Ballard first published in 1973 & deals with people who have a fetish for car crashes, I have no idea whether there really are people out there who get turned on by such things but it wouldn't surprise me it there was, & in that respect it's quite a difficult film to relate too as I can't really put myself in any of the character's situations. Cronenberg is a meticulous filmmaker & he knows how to develop character's, how to write dialogue, how to shock & Crash is certainly an extremely well written film with brilliant characterisations. Crash is very much a character driven film rather than an events driven one, the character's dictate the on screen action rather than the other way round. There are some disturbing scenes but the film is never overly graphic or exploitative, people describing car crashes to each other as they have sex, getting turned on by someone else's injuries & voyeuristically looking at real life car crash accidents are strange notions & ideas to try & understand. While watching Crash last night the time flew by, in fact I couldn't believe how quick it went even though it's a relatively slow film so in that respect it certainly grabbed me & drew me in. I'm not to sure whether I enjoyed Crash or not which sounds odd I know but I just can't quite make up my mind whether I did or not & maybe I never will.Director Cronenberg is a top filmmaker & Crash has lots of style & is as artistic as a film about car crashes can be. There's a fair amount of sex both straight & gay plus a fair amount of nudity although it's not gratuitous, there's no blood or gore so forget about anyone having sex with dead bodies or open wounds. Crash was an extremely controversial film when it was released, here in the UK the national tabloids really laid into it & several councils up & down the country banned it although the notoriously strict BBFC passed the full uncut 'Unrated' version intact & is now freely available on DVD here in the UK uncut, personally I think it's the notion & ideas behind the film which are more shocking than what is actually seen on screen. Cronenberg's response to the controversy was brilliant & clever, he simply said 'there are two versions of Crash, one that exists on screen & one that exists in peoples heads' & that to me is the perfect answer because it's so true.With a decent sounding budget of about $10,000,000 Crash is well made, it's striking to look at & Cronenberg is just a great filmmaker & it's as simple & straight forward as that. Shot on location in Toronto in Canada. The film won the Jury Special Prize & the Golden Palm at that years Cannes Film Festival which apparently raised a few eyebrows. The acting is very good from a solid cast.Crash is a difficult film to analyse, sometimes a difficult film to watch but it's never less than fascinating & absorbing in a disturbing sort of way. I'm not sure I can recommend it as I'm not even sure I liked it myself, a real curiosity from Cronenberg. "},{"Title":"Total Junk with no point","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For all the controversy on the subject matter regarding this film. One point often gets over looked. The Film is garbage!! Complete utter trash. Some trash wouldn't stink up as bad as this. It is nothing more than gratuitous perverse sex. A cast of very talented actors wasting time, talent and money. Holly Hunter, James Spader and Elias Koteas are too good to be wasted on this. What were they thinking? I am not against anyone trying to get pleasure anyway they can(if with consenting adults). Knock yourself out. But to put this on film and try to pass it off as art? Please, there is no plot, bad acting, and nudity and sex, for the sake of nudity and sex. Get a porn. At least the makers of those movies don't try to hide what they are peddling.  "},{"Title":"David Cronenberg has Succeeded in Grossing Me Out","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wanted to give this movie a chance for awhile. I film professor recommended it to the class. At first I thought he meant the newer Crash. When the professor realized what he said was misinterpreted, said, No, the Crash by Cronenberg. The NC-17 rating scared me for a while, because I had never actually seen an NC-17 movie before, and knowing that this movie was about car crashes and sex, I wasn't sure what to expect.I was insanely disappointed from seeing this movie. I found myself in preparation of vomiting each second the story progressed. And the graphic sex scenes only got worse. The sex is relentless, and the people involved in the sex are unattractive. I wanted so badly to turn this movie off, and I wish I did, but I figured I had to finish it.I found myself scarred after seeing this, and found that I learned nothing from it. There was nothing artistic about this film, and I really adore Cronenberg's films. I gave it a shot, but I do not recommend anyone see this film. It was extremely unpleasant to watch, which was probably Cronenberg's goal. "},{"Title":"Stupidest Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I taped this movie the other day, thinking it was the Oscar winning Crash. I have to say it is the worst movie I think I have ever seen. What was in the minds of the actors/actresses that agreed to play in it? Were they that desperate for money of something? The premise of getting sexually aroused by car accidents and bodily injury is just ridiculous. Plus the sex scenes? Not sexy, just stupid.I've been in car accidents myself, and thankfully, no one was injured too badly. I wonder how some viewers that have suffered great injuries, or had loved ones get hurt, or worse, die, feel about this movie.Shame on James Spader, Holly Hunter and Rosanne Arquette for performing in such a piece of garbage. Hey Holly, light years away from Broadcast News, huh?? Plus I guess that Spader (key of B movies) really needed Boston Legal to save his career. "},{"Title":"Sick Movie!!!","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I set TIVO to record Crash I thought it was the new one that won all the awards. Once I started watching I thought it would just get better, but it got worse. I'm so disappointed in James Spader & Holly Hunter for starring is such a sick, twisted, sexual deviant, horrible movie! For some of you out there that say Why didn't you just turn it off? I wanted to be able to back up my opinion when I wrote this comment. Please don't tell me there are people out there that are willing to risk the lives of others in car crashes just to get a sexual thrill!!!??? That scene when the two men were in the back of the car and afterward one of them drove his car over the embankment and crashed on top of the bus. This is a good movie?? Makes me scared to get in my car!! "},{"Title":"waste of time and money","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i have seen cronenberg's spider and was bored to death.actually didn't manage to watch all of it.i didn't know this movie was also cronenberg's.if i knew i would never watch it.the movie is full of abnormalities.i can't believe there are people who can get sexually excited with car crashes.if i wanted to watch porno i would buy pure porno.it doesn't educate,recreate or make you think.nothing mysterious or enigmatic.just crashes and boring sex with boring actors.100% no meaning movie.if you like this movie go to see a doctor soon!!! pure junk!!! "},{"Title":"Curious, but too cold and detached to be involving","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  James and Catherine Ballard have become so jaded about sex that they can only get aroused by sharing each others infidelities with each other. When James gets into a car crash he begins an affair with the woman whose husband he killed in the crash.  The affair is based around the thrill of injuries and crashing.  Both James and Amanda get involved with Vaughan - a man who leads a group that stages famous car crashes and watch crash footage as if it was pornography.In the UK, Crash was greeted as if it was the anti-Christ.  All the papers hammered it, critics called it beyond depravity etc, it had few friends. Despite this it got passed uncut by the BBFC and perhaps got more attention that Cronenberg films generally do.  However the film that Crash is, isn't the film that the tabloids got terrified of.  The story is interesting in it's concept, however in practice it is little more than a long series of sex scenes intercut with dialogue and the odd crash.  The end result is that this is semi-porn, however it could have been worse without the director.Cronenberg gives the whole thing a cold detached air, this has a good side and a bad side.  The good side is that the sex isn't glamourised - it is cold ad unattractive, making it hard to call this pornography in any way. Unfortunately this cold air also makes us not care about the characters. By using a cold eerie score and using flat detached characters, this is hard to get into on an emotional level, so even when the ending sees the reunion of the two lead characters - it doesn't mean much because we don't care enough about them.  However the overal effect is beneficial - with a tackier approach this could have been soft-porn instead of a film.However what does it all mean?  I don't know - is it a cold look at the sexual mores of society against the longing for a steady relationship?  Is it a message about the consequences of infidelity and perversion being the same as a car wreck?  It's not clear because every-time the dialogue starts we have a sex scene...it covers the point up well!  The film isn't gory and it's not porn in the traditional sense.  The sex scenes and the crashes are sometime unpleasant but they certainly aren't titillating (although at times you wonder what purpose they serve if not to titillate, eg Hunt and Arquette sexily snogging!).The cast are good despite thew fact that they are all remote and dull! Spader does OK, but really I would have liked more emotion from a man on a journey into the dark bits of his soul.  Unger is OK but appears to only be in it because she's sexy.  Arquette is not given much to do, but Hunt gives a good emotional performance.  However the stand out of the film is Koteas - one of my favourite actors.  Here is a man who can make Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles good when he's onscreen! So here he's by the best, his cold border-line insane role is perfect and his character is by far the most interesting.Overall, this film isn't the monster that the papers painted it - it isn't going to kill us all in our beds! It is interesting but the cold detached way it is made makes it hard to bet inot, and the flat characters don't help either.  Yes, there's lots of nudity and different sex, but if that's all you want then there's plenty of films that have more enjoyable nudity. Not one of Cronenberg's best, the point is lost deep inside the flesh. "},{"Title":"One of the very worst movies I have ever seen.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just saw this utter piece of crap on HBO. Yes, it was the fully uncensored NC-17 version. My partner had recorded it for me just to show me how bad it was. He was correct.While my feelings about it are not quite as strong as his (he says that everyone associated with it should have been shot), I came on here hoping to find an average rating of no higher than 4.0. I cannot believe that it has gotten an average rating of 5.9! The fact that more than ten percent rated it a 10, and another ten percent or so rated it a 9, shows that there are some really sick and disturbed people in the IMDb community. Much worse than that, though, that means that there are this many people out here that obviously have no discriminating taste in films.Being gay and a proud liberal Democrat, I consider myself to be very open-minded, especially when it comes to art, literature and film, but the fact is that this movie is crap. It is well-made in some scenes; however, that means that it is just fairly well-made crap! I know, David Cronenberg really made a film about sexual obsession in general, using sex and something completely unrelated to do so, yadda yadda yadda. Other than that, IMDb Community, what the *beep* was the point of making this? My well-considered answer there was none.For one thing, all of the main characters are sick, uninteresting people. They get off on being involved in car crashes. In fact, this entire film is like a car crash you watch it for morbid curiosity's sake, but you eventually want to turn away. I didn't turn away; no, I made sure that I watched it through to the end. But I kept wanting to turn away from about the 40-minute point. I know that Rosanna Arquette pretty much had no career at this point and needed whatever paltry salary she got for doing it. But what the hell was Holly Hunter thinking??? She had just won the Best Actress Oscar for The Piano just three years earlier! Just like my partner, I would not dissuade anyone who REALLY wanted to see Crash (1996). However, be forewarned. And....PLEASE do NOT let the ridiculously high ratings for it on IMDb fool you! "}{"Title":"Sexual Violence 101","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Crash (1996) ** (out of 4) David Cronenberg's controversial blend of sex and violence centers on producer James Ballard (James Spader) who shares a sexually open relationship with his wife (Deborah Kara Unger) but after he's involved in a crash that kills a man the two of them join a club where sexual arousal comes from car crashes. CRASH was highly controversial when it was first released and many people thought it was a hilariously bad movie. I remember seeing it in the theater when it was first released and being really bored by it and that impression was the same this time. I thought I'd pay the film a second viewing after more than fifteen years but sadly the end result was pretty much the same. I'm not going to say that these types of people aren't out there. Shows like Taboo have shown that there are some pretty wild people out there. With that in mind, I really couldn't laugh at any of the people shown here but there's still no reason why I couldn't just be completely bored with them and not give two cents about what they were doing. There are certain lines that are usually not crossed in movies and this one here crosses quite a few. I don't mind films being dirty and I don't mind them going too far as long as there's a reason to it and to me CRASH is nothing more than one sex scene after another. There's nothing interesting about the characters. I'd say by the time the movie is over you really haven't learned anything about any of them. I'd also argue that the only purpose of this movie was to show weird sex in as many different ways as possible. I've read interviews with the director and it's clear he had a certain thing in mind when making the film but whatever those ideas were must have been left in his mind. For the most part the cast is good but even the performances can't raise the film any higher. Cronenberg does manage to build up a very bizarre atmosphere and I'd argue that the music score was also very good. However, these things aren't enough to make the film work. "},{"Title":"'Controversial' doesn't equal 'classic' &#150; remove the director's license, if anything.","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I don't know about other people but when I think of car crashes I think of destruction; I think of death; I think of loss; I think of the time and effort that it'll take to rectify not only the situation involving how the hell you're going to get around now the car's gone but also how you're supposed to recover from the shock of it. In David Cronenberg's ridiculous attempt at a film, when the character's think of a car crash, they think of sex and then some more sex and then even more sex after that.When I watch a film, I like them to have plots and developments and characters I don't spend the whole time despising for one reason or another. Sometimes, hating characters is good and can be done cleverly disliking an evil character or not liking the ways in which certain characters go about their business can also be good fun but when you see a film that is just a barrage of sex scenes, bizarre characters talking like they're in some sort of drug induced stupor and silly, unbelievable developments; it's very difficult to not only switch your mind off to what's going on but also be tempted to not switch the film off.Alas, Crash is a film that just wants to shock. It's like an eight year old child that you get in stores or any other public place, begging their parents for more of what they already have and making a really big deal about absolutely nothing for no reason; it's like the attention hungry child who wants everyone to notice them or the co-worker who 'bigs' themselves up to the point where you just don't care because you don't believe what you're hearing &#150; in Crash's case, it's 'hearing'. A film critic or maybe they were a film theorist once said that Cinema is a way of looking into other people's lives &#150; people who only exist on screen and have no knowledge of the camera and us. In essence, this is what Crash is it's a portal into the lives of James Ballard (Spader) his close to constantly naked wife Catherine (Kara Unger) who always talks like she's just had a shot of heroin and they're relationship which breaks up a little when James finds time to hang out with a bunch of equally annoying freaks in the form of Vaughn (Koteas), Gabrielle (Arquette) and a few other dregs whose main turn on are car crashes. This is one portal I wished I hadn't looked through.Crash just consists of a bunch of random sex scenes between two characters we don't even know in the first third, then consists of sex scenes between two characters we don't even give a damn about in the second third before trying to end up as some sort of tragic, poetic love story about two people who have now discovered what really sexually turns them on. Needless to say, it misses that particular mark by an absolute light year. There is one scene that is constructed and shot in such a way that it could resemble a sex scene in a film even though it's not. It's the scene when James and Vaughn are driving slowly past a crash site as Vaughn takes pictures of various things; getting off over the blood, the death and the way the victims are trapped the camera shots are close ups of numerous things such as the still bodies, the blood on the door and the way the pliers are applied by the firemen as they crank down and break off the metal framework blocking them from rescuing the victims &#150; this is not only disturbing in the sense it's supposed to be entertaining but odd that the film-makers assume that we even care about what's going on and think we will like these characters.Crash is a film that fetishises car crashes and glorifies them as if they're as desirable as sex is. In fact, take away most of Vaughn's dialogue and some scenes involving characters talk about nothing in particular and the film would be pornography. Pornography doesn't need to have a plot but when it does, I'm sure it's at a very basic level with minimal character development and talking; again, Crash fits these two descriptions and it's absolutely shocking &#150; Crash is quite easily a wreck of a 'film' and probably one of the worst I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Why didn't I have my teeth extracted instead","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is diabolical. My original review was declined for profanity, so this one is a bit toothless so as to make it through the filtering process. I don't get it if you're the type of person to be shocked by a bit of foul language then why would you be considering watching a film where the idea of sticking your penis in a wound is broached? Honestly - save yourself a couple of hours of your life and go for something better if somebody offers you a viewing of this flick, or a kick in the balls, take the hours of gasping winded feeling I beg of thee. I have to questions why is there a demographic for girls under the age of 18 for this film? girls under the age of 18 thought this film deserved...5.1 Poor dears - they should be reported to their parents, or better still to councillors who will try to undo the damage done by being exposed to such awful trash as this. When I saw it at a cinema in Norwich about a third of the theatre-goers (including myself) left prematurely. Not because it was distasteful, although certainly it is a very dirty little film, but because it was laughable, and worst of all - really very boring.I don't know what the people giving this film marks like 7,8,9 & 10 were watching! All I can imagine is that they were looking at their own reflection on the surface of the TV and liked what they saw. Aah, vanity.So on the whole - not bad, but could be better. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've seen ever...","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" And frankly I've never been a fan of James Spader either. I've always thought he was partial to B-movies both for their poor acting and generally shoddy story lines.In 'Crash' all I see here is an excuse for Spader to get it on with the likes of Rosanna Arquette, Holly Hunter and Deborah Unger. Beyond that, I fail to see any story line beyond the obvious notion that near death experiences can result in closer physical relationships. Maybe this is true and I've heard as much before in the real world, but frankly I view 'Crash' as nothing short of pornographic in content and more deserving of the 'X' rating. Don't get me wrong, I don't mind a decent sex scene, but this film has one too many that qualify it for the porn shop and not Blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Crash","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From director David Cronenberg (Videodrome, The Fly) comes one of the most disturbing and most obviously banned films I have ever seen, and I thought The Evil Dead was bad. I'll agree with the critics about this film being original and possibly five stars, but in my opinion I did not like the film that much because it was too controversial. Starring James Spader as James Ballard and The Piano's Holly Hunter as Helen Remington, basically these two people are involved in a serious car crash. When they meet they pretty much immediately have sex, even with their injuries. I think the biggest shock is not just having sex after a crash, but taking pictures of one for fun and being turned on by the description of people dying, e.g. mention of blood. Sick, but interesting and original in one of two places. It won the Cannes Film Festival Award for Jury Special Prize, and it was nominated for the Golden Palm. It was number 64 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments. Adequate, in my opinion! "},{"Title":"Cronenberg crashes and burns","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" David Cronenberg has matured from a director of good films, to a director of mediocre ones. It's a huge shame that this has happened as the man definitely has talent, but recently he's been wasting it on films such as 'eXistenZ, 'Spider' and now this. Crash is a film that has the story to be a provocative tale, detailing obscure sexual tastes, but instead it's nothing more than another lame drama that is empty when it should have been deep and complex. James Spader plays James Ballard; a man that is involved in a car crash, and later finds himself involved with a bunch of weirdo perverts that, for some reason, take pleasure from car crashes. These people recreate famous car crashes, such as James Deans', for fun, and find taking pictures of car crashes, and the fact that a car crash mangles people's bodies, arousing. The fact that it is never explained why they do this is most probably meant to be a commentary on sexual tastes, as many people have certain tastes for no particular reason...but it falls down because as we don't know why they do it, the premise fails to be fascinating.This film oozes a deep and arty feel throughout, but it's really just a cover for the fact that this film is hollow and empty; and devoid of anything resembling art. Cronenberg has packed the movie with sex scenes. These are, obviously, relevant to the plot and, at times, are even quite erotic but due to his poor characterisation, we have no reason to care about anything shown; making this a glorified porn movie. In a movie named 'Kissed' (also released in 1996), we are presented with the subject of strange sexual desires. Kissed deals with a more outlandish subject material than this movie, but it never indulges in showing us sex scenes; putting the focus firmly on the subject material, the character and the fascination they hold for their desire, but because this film does indulge more than a little bit; it doesn't get inside it's subject material, rendering it a rather trite and pointless viewing. Especially since if you're watching a proper porn movie, you don't have to suffer the talking scenes in between the sex. All in all, this is not recommended viewing. "},{"Title":"Just a porn movie","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'Crash' was basically only about sex, so I was a bit disappointed. Maybe it was because I watched the censored version, so the scene that a guy had sex with a wound was cut. I did not get anything from the film, apart from that there are a few people who liked car crashes. There isn't even a story, but a collection of porn scenes.I don't get this film at all, the only message I got was that these people need to have sex constantly. This film is a huge disappointment, given the stir it created in Britain. "},{"Title":"Well-shot but dramatically uninvolving.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It's certainly a well-shot film, and the blue-ish cinematography has its own kind of beauty. But it's so far removed from reality, so lacking in normalcy, that it's impossible for the viewer to get involved in it. And the characters are so devoid of basic human emotions, such as jealousy, anger, guilt or sorrow, that they end up looking more like aliens wandering on our planet by accident. If you want to make a provocative and shocking film, you should set it in an at least vaguely realistic world, so that there can be a contrast between the normal and the shocking; if your world is warped from the beginning, the impact just isn't the same. The film also suffers from an excessive amount of sex scenes (about 14, if I counted correctly), and there is one scene, involving Rosanna Arquette's scars, that is REALLY icky. (*1/2) "},{"Title":"This Is About As Low At It Goes","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"13 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is so bad that even the ultra-Liberal film critics saw nothing of redeeming social value in this mess about weirdos who get their jollies out of car crashes.The first part of this film is nothing but soft porn. Later, it returns to that periodically and even includes gay-lesbian scenes. These actors are so sleazy themselves in most of the roles they have played n screen that it was no surprise to me they all got together for this horrendous bomb of a movie. I'm speaking of people like James Spader, Holly Hunter, Elias Koteas, Rosanna Arquette, etc.This story is insultingly stupid but if you are looking for a demo to prove how morally bankrupt Hollywood can get, just how low it can go, this is a good one to offer as evidence! "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A bunch of people are sexually aroused watching car crashes. The more gruesome the injuries, the better they like it. A bizarre film from the sick and twisted mind of Cronenberg. There's lots of nudity and sex but it's all pretty much canceled out by equal number of scenes showing grotesque injuries to victims of crashes. There is a scene where Hunter and Arquette make out (in a wrecked car of course) but then we also have to put up with a sickening love scene between Spader and Koteas. Yuck. Spader seems to be in a daze throughout, probably wondering why he ever agreed to star in this stupid movie. Whatever statement Cronenberg is trying to make is drowned out by the sound of crashing cars. "}{"Title":"Awful and disgusting!","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'm not much of a prude, but I hated this film - I thought it was sick, disgusting and I just don't know what the point of it was. Didn't enjoy this at all, people who do like watching it..you're the kind of people who slow down when you see a crash on the motorway - if you enjoy this film, I think there's something wrong with you! I guess there was nothing wrong with the acting, but I just didn't like the plot of the whole film. Frankly I don't want to know about people who get off on car crashes and it was really unpleasant to watch. I've been in a few car crashes myself and there is nothing sexy about horrible deaths and bloody carcasses. "},{"Title":"Just horrible","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Sick, pointless film about people who get sexually turned on by car crashes. They stage elaborate reenactments of famous car crashes and they purposefully HAVE car crashes to satisfy themselves.I do admire director David Cronenberg for taking on risky material, but why he chose this is beyond me. The movie has little plot (and what it does moves slowly) and has some good actors giving their worst performances. James Spader, Holly Hunter, Rosanna Arquette are stone-faced throughout the entire movie. Also there's a disgusting sequence involving Arquette and her scars which almost made me turn this off. I DO give the actors credit for doing some pretty raw sexually explicit sequences which earned this film an NC-17. The one between Spader and Elias Koteas was really surprising.If there's a point to this it totally escapes me. I give it a 2 for Cronenberg's good direction and the sex (it's not erotic at all but very interesting). If you must see it get the NC-17 version--the R rated one is cut to ribbons. "},{"Title":"This Film is Awful Big Time 0*  Don't Confuse With Oscar Winner","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the worst films I have seen in recent memory.The automobile association and others should be up-in-arms with this trash.We are seeing the glorification of automobile accidents. This is outrageous.A group of people are aiming for Jayne Mansfield and James Dean like fatal accidents. What an awful plot! With today's violence, who needs junk like this for our teens to see?To state that smashing up a car is conducive to sexual freedom is the sickest message one can give.This film should be banned from the universe. "},{"Title":"Unworthy Of The Hype","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This has a really interesting credit sequence of the titles slowly driving towards the screen with a really bleak and haunting soundtrack . Even more interesting is the fact that the music was composed by a then unknown Canadian muscian called Howard Shore who later won Oscars for the pseudo Wagnarian soundtracks to FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING and RETURN OF THE KINGUnfortunately as soon as the title theme stopped so did my interest in the movie . Yeah okay there`s a nice in-joke of having the main protagonist named after the author of the source novel , but this is sandwiched in between three sex scenes that make up the first five minutes of the film . Three sex scenes divided by five minutes doesn`t go because three sex scenes divided by five minutes never = good movie , and the more the movie drove along at an erratic pace the more I found my interest colliding with questions , things like don`t accident investigators investigate who was responsible for fatal crashes ? Don`t they take away all personal items like photographs during an investigation ? Don`t policemen and firemen stop ghouls smoking and taking snap shots at pile ups ? Are Elias Koteas and Christopher Meloni the same person ?It`s impossible to talk about this movie without talking about the controversy it stirred up , and as always the controversy and in some cases bans are totally unfounded . There`s nothing here that will turn a rational sane person or even a slightly deranged one into a sex crazed hell driver . As the real experts ( ie registered IMDB  members ) have pointed out this is a boring uninvolving character study full of unsympathetic characters on the fast track of a nihilistic highway with a dead end . I do wish David Cronenberg would go back to making movies like RABID and THE FLY instead of shocking audiences with explict scenes of kinky sex  "},{"Title":"A truly silly sexual-fetish drama that will have you laughing.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Or How I Learned to Appreciate Cars With Bad Safety. Or How I Love to See You Die In A Car Crash While My Girlfriend Unzips Me. This movie is what you get when a director of horror films gets into a mid-life crisis. Exactly what Cronenberg was thinking when he decided that Ballard's book has a great premise, is anyone's guess. The absurd premise that people can get sexually stimulated by car-crashes, scars, amputated limbs, and scratches on cars, is so ludicrous that the movie can at no point be taken at all seriously. The fact that the viewer can neither identify with the characters nor their laughable and idiotic obsession makes it even harder to watch this and not chuckle a bit.Let's now meet our lovable, life-loving, happy, though a little moody, pack. First we have Spader; he plays a man bored with his money, jet-set lifestyle, and quick in-outs with ready-and-willing young Asian camera girls. So a true improvement is introduced into his life-style when he gets crashed into by a horny Hunter, who wastes no time in masturbating to her unsuspecting victim, while they both bleed. However, the victim, Spader, soon learns to appreciate the not-oft recognized sexual qualities of metal and steel, and joins Hunter and her deranged car-freaks in an odyssey of self-exploration (not to mention self-mutilation). Then there is his perpetually horny girlfriend, Deborah K.U.; this woman thinks with her vagina all the time - to the point where her brain is in a constant comatose state (hence her slow and pointless utterances). She is so horny that even an (intentional) accident can't put her off sex; this happens at the end, when Spader goes at it like a bunny, but not before asking her are you alright. Oh, why not... Just because I have multiple injuries, scratches, open wounds, and blood all over me doesn't mean I'm not in the mood for it, darling... she must have thought. After realizing she is in (relatively) okay shape, Spader then gently reassures her that next time they will be luckier. Really romantic stuff. Then we have Koteas, who overacts in his portrayal of the leading psycho of this sorry bunch. He babbles about his project, and eventually decides that women just aren't interesting enough so he goes at it with Spader; needless to say, the absolute low point of this wanna-shock-society piece of nonsense. (I had to fast-forward this scene. I'm a little disappointed that Cronenberg's mid-life crisis got so out of control that he decided to live out his gay fantasies with this unwatchable scene. (It's one thing to ask for tolerance for what homosexuals in the privacy of their four walls, but it's an entirely different thing when that action is shoved into our faces Here! Two gays having sex! Watch and learn!)) We also have Holly Hunter, an actress with an inferiority complex (and rightfully so, I might add); Hunter was probably ecstatic to finally get offered a role where she is a sex-object, and gets to show her pitiful pair of breasts. Sorry, Holly, but that accent and speech impediment don't exactly make you any sexier, either. And let's not forget Rosanna Arquette; a woman who, unlike Hunter, probably never did a film without showing her breasts. She plays a half-cyborg half-human with an enthusiasm for spare parts unrivaled in the Western hemisphere. This film makes Naked Lunch look like a kitchen-sink UK drama.A sequel in the planning Crash II Cars Aren't Interesting Anymore Let's Cause Nuclear Devastation And Unzip Each Other While Millions Burn And Perish, My Love.3 out of 14? Well, well, looks like some rabid Holly Hunter fans have ganged up on my humble little review. I had no idea she had as many as 11 fans! Damn!SHOULD HUNTER END HER CAREER DUE TO EXTREME UGLINESS AND HER INABILITY TO TALK PROPERLY? CLICK YES OR NO. "}]