[{"Title":"Sorely underrated, and a personal favourite.","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"176 out of 198 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This review is not coming from someone whose top ten films consist primarily of Farrelly Bros. films, nor do I have a particular liking for anyone involved in the film.First of all, hats off to Jim Carrey. I read under the trivia section that his role wasn't originally intended for him, but be honest; can you see anyone else playing the cable guy? He was brilliant. He takes the film from what would have been a run-of-the-mill comedy, to levels of greatness, and anyone that thinks I'm being too kind either doesn't like Carrey (it was the film that made me do a complete turn around), or needs to see the film again.The overall tone of the film is a bit of a mix, it gets darker as the story goes along, but the jokes never mollify. I mean, it's a stalker story with clever film and television references... It's really hard to pin down the identity of this film.This ranks as Stiller's best directorial performance to date. Reality Bites and Zoolander are good, but not great. This film expresses a lot more of his prowess. I see him as a very capable film maker, he is just yet to make his mark with something more widely appreciated.The Cable Guy is by no means a classic film, and admittedly, you wont see it on any AFI lists anytime soon, but there is no denying the quality effort that was put into this film by all of it's contributors. And there are many of them -- check out all of those cameos! Chip Douglas' (Carrey) contrived relationship with his customer Steven (Broderick) ranks as one of the most memorable in recent history. It has set a precedent in black comedies that has scarcely been touched since.I would have seen this film at least 30 times by now and it still seems fresh, and this has lead me to believe that the film probably needs to be viewed more than once for it to completely appreciated. I only wish that there were more people out there that 'get' this gem.This concludes our broadcast day. Click. "},{"Title":"watch it again. highly underrated","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"164 out of 189 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  the most astonishing thing about the cable guy is that it simply wasn't liked by critics! however, this was to be expected given the way it was promoted. Not just another Jim Carrey stupid humour movie as it was unfortuanately promoted as, the cable guy was an entirely different genre; a comedy so dark it bordered on horror/thriller. and it is utterly brilliant.to watch this movie a second time is highly recommended, as is an open mind to the dark web that Ben Stiller weaves masterfully. The actors fill their roles extremely well; Broderick perhaps a little underwhelming, but Carrey's astonishingly dark and eerie portrayal of his character carries the film. the cameos are brilliant, and show the respect the movie received by those who read the script, with many top actors willing to appear for only short roles. in the vein of other Stiller comedies that must not be taken at face value, such as the classic Zoolander, this film genuinely needs a repeat viewing. and try to forget Carrey was ever Ace Ventura before you watch the movie. naysayers will be converted! full marks!  "},{"Title":"One of Carrey's Best Performances","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"93 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  When first released, Cable Guy was such an unusual departure for Jim Carrey and his usual slapstick, manic, goofy comedies that people just didn't understand it or like it.  When word of Carrey's enormous $20 million paycheck for this film spread, hopes were high that Cable Guy would be smothered in Carrey's slice of hilarious dementia to the extreme.Carrey certainly brought an air of craziness to Chip Douglas, a lonely, TV-addicted, and creepy cable installer who befriends the unwilling Matthew Broderick (here, looking just nervous and bewildered for the entire film).  But something was missing from this Carrey vehicle from the others he was not all fun and games. In fact, he was downright funny weird, not funny haha.So here lies one of the major problems people have with this film it veers from dark comedy into darkness, period.  Carrey isn't making an ass of himself in every scene.  No.  Instead, Carrey's Chip Douglas is an obsessive, extreme, two-faced sociopath.  The result? What would be Jim Carrey's best performance to date, surpassed only by his Truman Burbank in The Truman Show.Sure, it's got a story that's been done to death normal guy meets psycho and is stalked.  But oh, what fun it is to see Jim drag Matthew Broderick into such uncomfortable situations as playing Porno Password with his parents (Carrey whispering Nipple into Broderick's ear is absolute brilliance).Cable Guy is definitely not for fans who want to see Jim Carrey do what created his career; that is, silly, goofy, and flailing comedy.  However, avid fans of black comedies will love seeing Carrey's first step in his evolution as a gifted, serious, and undeniably interesting actor.8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Maybe you have to be a movie buff to get it?","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"99 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" To some people, movies are more than a passion. They are a way of life. For me, movies are not only one of my favorite hobbies, but I feel that all films express a certain reflection of the individual watching them. They say that you can tell a lot from a person by the way they act, talk, walk. I believe you can also tell a lot about a person from the sort of movies they like. And I think that for Chip Douglas (Jim Carrey), movies and television are more than disposable entertainment. They are his entire life. He is consumed by film to such an extent that he creates multiple personas based on TV personalities. Many critics bashed Carrey's performance for being too sadistic. I think it's perfect because it's daring and hugely different than his other movies, and accurately reflects the mindset of a troubled individual who has grown up on his TV, rather than actually experiencing true life. Not many movies are like The Cable Guy, and most of them don't have the guts to make a statement so bold and striking.In The Cable Guy Carrey is the title character, his real name supposedly Chip Douglas, but towards the end we're not really sure what's true and false anymore. Chip works for a cable company and offers to hook up new apartment tenant Steven (Matthew Broderick) up with illegal cable. All Douglas asks for in return is a friendship, which Steven reluctantly agrees to. But what he doesn't realize is that Chip is an obsessive monster -- bred on films as a child and unable to separate celluloid from reality, he pursues a Fatal Attraction route and begins to stalk Steven. This is one of those movies, like What About Bob?, where the hero is apparently the only one who realizes how crazy the bad guy is. Richard Dreyfuss went nuts trying to convince his family of Bill Murray's insanity in Bob. In The Cable Guy, Matthew Broderick has a tough time trying to expose Chip's sadistic side.I am not Carrey's biggest fan. But I have to admit that over time the comedian has grown on me. And when I see him in Dumb and Dumber I can't picture anyone else taking on the role. Here he is in another role where I can see no one else portraying his character, and yet he still hasn't convinced me that he's a great talent. Strange.I think Carrey's comedy is distinct and the reason his films have become more well-received over the years is because he has invented a certain area of modern-day comedy and thrived in that cubby hole for quite some time. I believe that humor is not existent; it is invented. Different forms of humor come and go. Right now, Adam Sandler and Jim Carrey are two of the highest-paid comedians the world, and yet in fifty years, where will they be?Comedy is constantly changing. Humor is invented and re-invented to the point that what was once funny no longer is. That is why so many comedies from various eras of American history seem so outdated by today's standards. We are living in a world of Jim Carreys, Adam Sandlers, and Mike Myers. Although they still receive jobs, Steve Martin, Eddie Murphy, Bill Murray, and especially Dan Aykroyd -- some of the most popular comedians of the '80s -- have found themselves all stuck in ruts, filming kiddie movies for Disney and -- some of them (especially Murray and Aykroyd) -- departing comedy to pursue more serious careers in an area of film that will never become outdated drama (for Murray, it is Lost in Translation; Aykroyd is less lucky with projects such as Pearl Harbor, which might as well be classified as comedy).The movie was directed by Ben Stiller, who carefully balances the neurotic against the sweet. The movie has its fair share of cameos, and in a great sequence Owen Wilson stars as a confident jerk who takes out Steven's girlfriend on a date. The Cable Guy finds out and, thinking he's doing Steven a favor, assaults Wilson in the bathroom of a fancy restaurant.Perhaps the reason so many critics disliked The Cable Guy when it was released in 1996 was because they found themselves relating to Carrey's character. Maybe not. All I know is that it is one of the most daring and surprising comedies of the '90s -- not especially great but very unique and entertaining. I relate to its main character because we both love movies. My obsession is much calmer than Chip's. But the film does have a good eye for spotting good areas of satire. Yes, it's often rather dark and absurd. But isn't that the point?4/5. "},{"Title":"Hidden Comedy","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"70 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Regardless of what people say, this movie has some very funny moments scattered throughout. When I first saw this movie, I will admit I didn't find it that funny. But it's one of those movies that grows on you with time. Even if you don't like it at first, give it some time. You have to accept this movie for what it is. A dark comedy aimed at poking fun of the lighter things in life. Jim Carrey obviously carries the movie with his infamous quirkiness, but Matthew Broderick holds his own as the anal retentive guy which he is great at playing. Whether you are talking about the Midevil Times restaurant scene or the karaoke scene, this movie is a gem. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Carrey's greatest!","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"78 out of 101 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I divide movie fans into two types - those that love The Cable Guy, and those that don't. The latter I try and avoid. Welcome to the most misunderstood, unjustly dissed movie of the 90s! Even Homer Simpson hates it! I'm not going waste time trying to change anybody's mind on this gem. If you don't see the sheer brilliance of this you're beyond hope. All I can say is that it ROCKS in every way. Jim Carrey has never been better as the creepy, psycho stalker Chip Douglas, and Matthew Broderick is wonderfully likeable as Chip's unsuspecting customer. Add to that a tremendously cool supporting cast of cult legends including Charles Napier, Janeane Garofolo, Eric Roberts, Mr. Show's Bob and David, Sean Whalen,Owen Wilson, Andy Dick and BOTH members of Tenacious D, among others.Full of memorable sequences - the Karaoke jam, the Medieval theme restaurant, director Ben Stiller's recurring duel role - The Cable Guy is smart-as-a-whip, black, surreal, FUNNY, FUNNY stuff! "},{"Title":"A Different Slant...","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"59 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The Cable Guy has now all but been forgotten by the movie world. It was released when Jim Carrey was on his way to being the new A list comedian, and thus, was considered only a slightly funny version of 'Ace Venture'. or The Mask' Or whatever. Personally, I don't consider The Cable Guy a comedy at all. Sure, there are some side splitting moments - Carrey is hilarious alongside Matthew Broderick's by the numbers 'average Joe', but id suggest that anyone who was not taken in by this film to look at it a little differently...This is a horror film. I swear!For me, Chip Douglas does not come across to me as a harmless lisping clingy chump - HELL NO! The guy is a maniac. An obsessive, intelligent, controlling, stalking Fatal Attraction styled nutter!Watch it again!For me, this is Jim Carrey's career launching performance. He has a lisp right? after a while, you don't really notice it do you? Right. This is an incredibly difficult task for an actor - maintaining a speech impediment for an entire film, keeping it level, and not exaggerating it, its really something to take a look at. Carrey's character is sick, and very very creepy. With Broderick et al giving relatively standard performances, Carrey's performance is a stand out, and Ben Stiller should be proud of this film and what it lead to in terms of Jim Carrey's career.Trust me, if you didn't like this, take another look, and prepare to be freaked out by a very not funny, very creepy Carrey performance...8/10 "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"42 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Some people really hated the movie. I saw it, I'll note I saw it on video and frankly I loved it. I think this was the start of Carrey really coming out although it has a couple of crude jokes I could have done without. You really feel for Broderick who starts out having a slightly annoying friend and ends up dealing with a stalker! Somehow the stalker goes from being exceedingly annoying to outsiders gaining acceptance from everybody around his victim. He casts a spell having his victim believe that he is in danger of losing everything if he does not co-operate with his tomentor. Anyway, if you like a bit of light dark comedy and order a pizza, I think the movie is worth a watch.  "},{"Title":"Daring tragi-comedy which satirises the effect of TV on the modern world. Carrey's song in the famous karaoke scene is NOT TO BE MISSED!","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"45 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Matthew Broderick asked his girl to marry him and she asked him to move out. The eccentric guy who shows up to install cable in his new pad arrives just at the right time to become his friend. Only The Cable Guy (Jim Carrey) wants to be a little closer than Broderick is comfortable with...The Cable Guy is a brave and daring tragi-comedy, a rare sort of movie where you're laughing one minute and scared the next. I'm not sure if we'll ever get another chance to see Jim Carrey go this far out on a limb director Ben Stiller has seemingly given him total carte blanche, resulting in a seemingly completely over-the-top characterisation, yet not so over the top that we can't get involved in the plot and take what his character does as really happening.Notice the way that the cable guy often mimics moments from his favourite movies and works them into his controlling of the plot of this movie - or how he starts humming movie-music along to certain scenes, while the actual music of the movie mirrors the music the cable guy is creating. This will clue you into the other subtle elements which add towards this movie's satire of the effect TV has had on the modern psyche.Its worth the price of rental alone to see Carrey's rendition of Don't You Want Somebody to Love in the famous karaoke scene.After repeated viewings since its initial release, its one of the most memorable Carrey comedies, and one of the most memorable flicks of the 90's. 4/5. "},{"Title":"The Future is Now...","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This movie is one of Jim Carrey most perfectly crafted. His subtle style slipped through the cracks after his horribly obnoxious endeavours in both Ace Ventura and The Mask (but they were funny too). He actually addressed this phenomena in a SNL sketch, where in his opening monologue a fat guy in the front row refuses to laugh at any of the jokes except his trade-mark lines i.e. Sssssssmokin'!, or Alllllllrighty-then!, or Le-hooo... -zeherr, and so on. This sort of attitude continued onto the Truman Show set, where none of the crew were allowed to comment on any other of his meatball sort of films. Ahhh boy.Anyway, this film is unsettling and funny. Chip Douglas is an interesting guy because he is both desperate and confident. On one hand, he can't believe someone wants to know his name, on the other, he is adept at sabotaging Stevens life, even putting him behind bars. Clever huh? It is underrated and Carrey's manner is really very good. It is jam-packed full of subtle connotations and interesting undercurrents as Chip crosses the line again and again... "}{"Title":"Joker Noir on TeeVee","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Humor is a matter of taste, but when it is as dependent on timing and tone as this is, one at least has to admire it. You might consider this as rooted in a comic story of obsession. Or you could easily ignore that and get into the posturing of Carey. But what I see is an attempt at twisting noir the idea that the viewer perturbs life, usually the life of a random innocent. Its a profound notion this noir idea that the watcher delivers the movie. Here the watcher is in the movie, delivering it via cable. He has the identity of past movies.Its amazingly clever.I watched this because I recently saw Heath Ledger in Dark Night. As widely publicized, Ledger and Nolan drew heavily from Clockwork Oragne. But Heath had a very hard time finding the voice. I believe this helped him. The similarities are striking.Next up in this study; Equus.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood!","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I think the problem for a viewer of this film is they have a clear preconception of what to expect and think they are getting less than what they paid for. This was undoubtedly what hindered my appreciation of the film the first time i watched it a few years ago and i think why some critics and the IMDb mark it poorly. The only mistake of the film is it tries to please Carey fans with classic Carey comedy (which he does so well in 'Ace Ventura' and 'The Mask')and challenge the viewers intellectually as well. As a viewer this is a difficult duality to comprehend and enjoy, however on 2nd and 3rd viewings the inherent quality's present themselves. Careys character (i say character because he has a multitude of names in the film) although surreal is the product of a technology that effects us all the television.---------SPOILER---------------------In a sense he is the darkest product of that technology a man without a singular identity but that engendered by years raised by the television. Careys character has no understanding of social interaction in the real world and so fails to connect with reality. Instead he acts inappropriately within every context and is subsequently rejected by Steven (Played by Matthew Brodrick who brilliantly captures the normality of the average joe, in a sense he is the pure opposite of Carey, almost grounded in reality superfluously) i just don't have enough room in my life for a new friend. The film ends poetically with Carey's epiphany that he must destroy his creator. Symbolically Careys conflict with television represents every child's relationship with its parent culminating in the child's rebellion. Great film 8/10  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey delivers an outstanding performance","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" i am a huge jim carrey fan, so any movie he is in I'm guaranteed to watch. this movie is by far one of my favourites. jim carrey passes of as a cable guy desperate for a friend who stalks a customer steve covacks (matthew broderick), who also plays a fine performance. this film uses dark comedy well, and as a fan of comedy film's this is one of my favourite dark films. jim carrey's neurotic character, with his lisp and need to hide his true identity under the false names of television characters is great. i love how he plays chip douglas, or whatever his real name is. if you love jim carrey, you will be surprised with the performance. it is unlike his others, he plays a dark stalker unlike the jolly crazy characters you usually see him play. if you love jim carrey, watch this film ). "},{"Title":"VIEWS ON FILM review of The Cable Guy","Date":"29 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy is the type of dark comedy that may have been overlooked by many critics and a host of moviegoers. When it was released in the mid-90's, Jim Carrey's fans were expecting another Ace Ventura or Dumb and Dumber. When they were taken down a different road, they kind of stayed away (a rare weak box office take for the Gumby-like funnyman). I, however, embraced the darkness and relentless mischief that his character displayed. Make no doubt about it; he earned his paycheck ($20 million I believe). And yes Jim sometimes goes over the top (the lisp thing got a little tiring), but he finds common ground with the addition of Matthew Broderick playing straight man to his lonely, desperate soul (Carrey's character has 3-4 names which I won't reveal).The film is not really about cable installment. It's about the need for friendship and the measures taken to achieve it. With each viewing (if you decide to view it more than once), you realize more and more that The Cable Guy is vastly underrated. Look for funny cameos from young unknowns Owen Wilson, Lesile Mann and star in the making Jack Black (pre Hi-Fidelity). Ben Stiller's direction is risky but it pays off showcasing a flick you can laugh at while feeling a tiny speck of empathy at the same time. Oh and watch for a side plot involving Stiller. Just think the 1993 murder trial of the Menendez brothers. Remember it's a parody so there is no need to take it too seriously. "},{"Title":"Necessary protest vote","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I wouldn't normally have left a review for this but stumbled on the shockingly low mark and was compelled to write something! What a sick joke this movie has such a low rating on IMDb. I have a sneaking suspicion it's down to the pathological Jim Carrey haters rather than based on the movie's merits. I'm giving it a star more than I would have otherwise as a protest vote.I guess if a particular person in a movie annoys you that much then it's going to preclude it from being a good movie for you, *but surely* you can take a step back, and say something like ah now wait a minute, that's just my personal dislike for an individual and it wouldn't really be fair to transfer that dislike onto any collective effort they happened to be a part of. What about the poor writer, director, other actors and the crew? I know I've made a big assumption there and it's possible people just didn't find it funny. I find that so hard to believe though - I've seen *a hell of a lot* of comedies over the last 40 years, and find the vast majority made from 1990 onwards to be safe, lazy and badly-written, or more recently trying to be zany or alternative and failing miserably. However I found this surprisingly well-written, well-made and brilliantly-acted(comedy acting, not Oliver/Gielgud!) and all-round compelling and bloody hilarious.I think it's a great idea - the central character's minor misdemeanour at the start results in immediate payback in the form of a demented psychopath taking over his life. It gets pretty dark in a couple of places which somehow makes the humour work better.Whatever you think of Jim Carrey, the range of stuff he pulls off on screen is incredible. Like a reanimated old Vaudevillian on PCP. I found him totally convincing as the lonely Walter Mitty/psycho who really just needs a friend and uses what he knows best to make it happen. Broderick is a born fall guy and effortlessly provides the anything-for-a-quiet-life victim, ill-equipped to halt the psycho's hostile takeover of his life.There's also a micro-element of social comment on using people, friendship, the abuse of power, and the influence TV can have on a person's life. Tutt and scoff all you want at that, but can you honestly say there's even that much depth in any other comedies made now? So for anybody who doesn't hate Jim Carrey, please don't listen to all the negative reviews and give this one a chance. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood half-thriller","Date":"4 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Steven Kovacks (Matthew Broderick), a designer who just separated from his girlfriend, has cable installed to his new apartment. Enters the quirky and slightly deranged cable guy (Jim Carey) whom then never exits...A rather simple plot which became in 1996 a very odd and yet pleasurable film indeed. Although following a pretty straight forward structure, the script provides enough background to Jim Carey's character to make of him a lot more than just a run-of-the-mill weirdo while Matthew Broderick aptly counterbalance the excessive title role by a fair performance of the without-a-glitch nice guy of the piece. The constant referencing to TV culture also makes it an entertaining and strangely enough somewhat nostalgic experience. It is quite obvious that a fair amount of improvisation was incorporated to the piece to sometimes great effect (the Silence of the Lamb episode anyone?) which I suppose is probably the most effective way to work with someone such as Jim Carey. Curiously however, the main asset of the film also becomes at some point its main shortcoming. This was to Jim Carey what 1994's The Good Son was to Macauley Culkin a departure from their comedic roots to more darker territories, but as opposed to Joseph Ruben's thriller, The Cable Guy seems to always hesitate to boldly go as far as its story would allow it to. In Jim Carey's work this is certainly darker than anything he had done up to that point but if this was also supposed to be a thriller then it felt a little bland, the star's antics sometimes overshadowing the actual depth of the story.Still, don't let this put you off for The Cable Guy, playfully directed by Ben Stiller, is one of these misunderstood films that are really worth watching for its clever take on the media in general and the hidden harm you find it does to people's mind once stripped off the apparent sense of comfort it is supposed to bring. It might have been done a little too light-heartedly maybe but at least it was done at all. And decently done too. This is a more serious film than it looks at first glance and that alone makes it an interesting one. No masterpiece mind you, but then again, it never pretended to be one. Like many films of that ilk, it was generally trashed upon by critics back then, in this case for its lack of downright slapstick-laugh-out-loud moments (Carey's salary the true reason for the furore) although they also criticized Ace Ventura when natures call for being completely empty, the previous year. Oh well, sometimes one can never win... "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey is top of his class.","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I've always been a Carrey fan, so when I stumbled upon this while DVD hunting at a local video store, naturally I bought it. I was not disappointed. Jim Carrey was made for the role of Chip Douglas. His acting in this movie is all but un-paralleled. He really shows us what he is capable of in the acting department. If Jim Carrey can be said to be one of those actors where you either love him or hate him, then the same can be said for this movie. It has a very particular type of often quite dark humor in it, which doesn't appeal to a lot of people, but in which Carrey thrives. If you didn't like this movie, give it another watch. You might change your mind. This movie is a must for any Carrey fan, or any fan of good 90's comedy. Ben Stiller does a fantastic job directing, and the rest of the cast supports Carrey's role brilliantly.10/10(Also, I heard that the Chip Douglas role wasn't originally intended for Carrey, but after watching it, can you honestly picture anyone else executing it so damn well??) "},{"Title":"My Favorite 90's movie!","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Well in my opinion one of my favorite movies ever. The humor is 90's and a lot of people don't like that. I grew up with this movie, and I loved it ever since. Jim Carey is my favorite actor, and to see him so dark and creepy just makes me like him even more. His performance was outstanding. I do recommend this to anyone who loves Jim Carey, 90's, and great twist. This movie also includes an outstanding cast that we still see today such as Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller. This movie is just too awesome, I don't know why the critics didn't like it, but this movie just was not marketed well like it should have. Everyone in the movie was outstanding and I just wish this movie got more because it was very good and 90's. Just watch the movie, you might not like the humor but you will love the story and movie! "},{"Title":"If it was released NOW it would have been a SMASH HIT! 10/10","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" OK i never got it as a kid, but 10 years later,... i think Ben stiller should re-release this, it was just ahead of its time. Haters, try watching it now... its amazing man! The cable guy is utterly insane! I completely got his character, hes just a Complete NuttEr! hahaa... Its well paced, well filmed, Lots of jimbo at his best and wackiness! Its Bonkers man, Probably even more wacky than the ace Ventura character. I've never laughed so much at a jimbo film, and i understood his character and felt his pain and anguish and it definitely gave me my Jim Carry HIT! i do feel that, because it got a bad review years ago, people watched it with a bad expectation and therefore hated it before they watched it. But watch it again with a clear head and make your own judgement...if your a fan of Jim Carry, your in for a real treat!! a masterpiece ... the comedy is in the NOW man! "},{"Title":"Much better in retrospect","Date":"28 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This is a film I, along with many others, dismissed as bland,strange, and bogus upon it's release in 1996. I wasn't, and am not now a Carrey fan. His comedy during his build up years was too wacky and manic for me. Kind of funny if one was high I suppose, but thats just me. Millions of people adored the guy. Stiller I did like then,thinking of him as somewhat of a genius at the time and in the next few following years of his work. Strangely this has reversed. I appreciate Carrey's work now much more in retrospect and Stiller seems stale to me.This movie is a very dark film, bordering on horror-suspense. I saw someone mention that Carreys overacting mania is, and this is probably the only time, quite appropriate for his role. In his zany comedies, yeah I get the point, I just get turned off by it. But here, it totally works with the role.The failure in reviews and box office, if in fact this was a true B.O. failure, I cant recall, was due to people not ready for Carrey in anything but zany stuff. The critics found it unfunny and uneven. They were wrong, as was I, this thing has aged very well. Put this release next to Carreys subsequent work in quasi-dramas and you cant deny this is a top-notch portrayal. Not an easy movie, not a hilarious movie. Just a very,very dark and very, very good movie. "}{"Title":"Laugh-out-loud, on-the-floor hilarious film!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" In my opinion, THE CABLE GUY is a laugh-out-loud, on-the-floor hilarious film! When the cable guy (Jim Carrey) sang Somebody To Love, I laughed really hard. One thing I couldn't stand about him was his lisp. Also, he just couldn't seem to leave Steven (Matthew Broderick) alone. If my cable guy was like that, I'd get a restraining order. When the cable guy whispered a part of a woman's body when he and Steven's family played Password, I was really grossed out! In addition, Robin (Leslie Mann) was a very beautiful woman... especially in the clothing she wore when she went out on dates. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, Be careful who you trust. Also, find out if your cable guy is really a cable guy. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this laugh-out-loud, on-the-floor hilarious film to all you Jim Carrey fans who have not seen it. "},{"Title":"Carrey's best comedic performance, and a terrific dark comedy","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Jim Carrey has only been better than this in two movies, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, and Man on the Moon, but both were more or less dramatic roles. Aside from the classic Dumb and Dumber, none of his comedy roles can even begin to compare to his superb, electric performance here. Most people I know don't really enjoy this, but that's because they can't really relate, or they don't want to. Carrey plays 'Chip Douglas' (which might be his real name, or it might not), a Cable Guy brought up on TV and movies. His performance works so well because he normally goes too far with his antics, making himself seem annoying on occasion, rather than funny. Here, he plays a lunatic, so there are no limits for him to adhere to, and where he would normally seem over the top (the Medieval Times sequence), he is genuinely hilarious.Now, I might not be a cable guy, but I'd be lying if I said that I don't spew lines from random movies out of nowhere, and I'd be lying if I said I didn't have an obsession. Maybe it makes fellow fanatics a bit unsettled to see themselves compared to maniacs like Chip (which is probably why the critics assaulted this as well). Although this is by and large Carrey's movie, there is no doubt that Matthew Broderick, Jack Black, and Leslie Mann help elevate this film further with excellent performances. Ben Stiller has directed a few other films, but none of them even come close to matching this. He keeps a perfect balance between the dark and the funny, so The Cable Guy doesn't come across as too mean or sadistic. He also shows up in a running gag as a former child star from a cheesy old sitcom who shoots his own brother and goes to court, a trial whose verdict is highly anticipated by pretty much everyone. Owen Wilson has another great cameo as a cocky ass who takes Steven's (Broderick) girlfriend (Mann) on a date and gets assaulted by Chip when he goes to the washroom.I have never seen a movie like The Cable Guy, and chances are you haven't either. This is a great movie and one of my personal favorites. It's important you don't watch this expecting a cheery slapstick comedy. If you know what to expect, this will be a fun time.8/10 "},{"Title":"Unplug It.","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy (1996) Dir Ben Stiller / Cast Jim Carrey, Matthew Broderick, Leslie Mann, Jack Black, George Segal Demonstration of what can happen if parents allow their children to be babysat by the TV. Title regards attachment and the cable represents a person. After marriage problems Matthew Broderick moves into a new place and hooked up with free cable by the cable guy. Broderick cannot get rid of him as he makes repeated visits and calls often. After politely calling off the friendship he goes to jail for equipment found in his home. At one point the cable guy sings Somebody to Love while Broderick is seduced by a prostitute. There is also tasteless game that Broderick's parents are pulled into. Director Ben Stiller delivers upon the message but it plainly isn't funny. He previously made Reality Bites, which is a different style film. Carrey is miscast and largely predictable and too silly. Broderick's role is more believable for his dilemma is one that viewers may relate to. Leslie Mann plays Broderick's girlfriend in what amounts to a standard role. Jack Black also appears as a friend of Broderick's. George Segal and Diane Baker have the thankless roles of Broderick's victimized parents. Energetic visual style adds to the mood but potential message of dysfunctional relationships is devoid within a screenplay that isn't worth plugging into. Score 5 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I usually don't like dark comedies, but this one is an exception. It is well done and actually has humor. Through exaggeration and absurdity the movie achieves psychological realism. The most biting and accurate scene is the one in which Jim Carrey's character has the family playing porno password. It is spot on.Most of the reviewers who pan the movie simply did not understand it. Both Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick gave great performances.Watch this movie. You may say, when the movie ends, huh? But the next morning you will appreciate it.Nine out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"Unfunny But intriguing.","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" this movie was very unfunny to me and personally i don't think Jim Carey was the best choice for the part. i thin robin Williams or someone else may have been better for this film. i like Jim Carey,don't get me wrong, i just don't think that he was best for this role. i will say that the idea of the film was a unique and intriguing one but i think that Jim Carey went a little overboard with his performance. i was expecting much more from this and i am a bit disappointed but i found the humor almost to dark to laugh at. watch it and make your own opinions. After all I'm sure people like this movie, and I'm sure some people hate movies that i like. if anything i would try watching it just because it had a unique idea! "},{"Title":"Misunderstood. Carrey's Best","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I'd like to start off by saying that The Cable Guy is disliked by a lot of people. This would explain it's low rating. But don't be thrown off by that. The Cable Guy is a black comedy. So, some people will be unsettled by the plot of the movie. Chip is a disturbed Cable Guy, raised on television, who only wants a friend. Steve is a designer, recently kicked out of his girlfriend's apartment. Moving into his new apartment, his friend Rick tells him to bribe the cable guy, to get illegal cable. But the cable guy, Chip sees this is an invitation to be best buds. Steve, trying to be nice fakes an interest in his work, but this just brings Chip closer and closer to him.This movie is a misunderstood classic. And in my opinion it's Jim Carrey's best movie. It's a nice change for Carrey's character, having him play the psychotic two faced Cable Guy. With Steve(Matthew Brodrick) in the most awkward of situations by the hilarious Cable Guy(Jim Carrey) this movie should bring you laughs and enjoyment. It does get progressively dark as the film goes on but it's nothing major. The film also has many, many film and T.V. references that you'll enjoy along the way.In my opinion, The Cable Guy is the motion picture version of mar-mite. You will ever love it or hate it. And I love it. A must watch! "},{"Title":"Great fun!!!!","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" If you like Jim Carrey and strong emotions this is definitely for you! I rated 10 because few movies made me laugh so hard, be afraid, be really scared, be lost, feel strange stuff, see awesome scenes in such a short period of time. I don't even know how to describe the feelings this movie gets you... Just watch with friends willing to have fun and you have a great time!Jim Carrey acts so Carrey in this movie even the other actors couldn't resist... so many awesome faces, so much bizarre and yet a great dramatic story.The plot isn't the best and Ben stiller does absolutely nothing during the movie. He just appears as a lesser supporting actor.No, seriously, focus on Carrey's acting and you will have a real roller coaster ride of craziness. "},{"Title":"it is a matter of comedic taste","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" In order to rate this movie you must have a good sense of what comedy consists. Most people have a sense of humor that involves the lameness of Napoleon Dynamite and it's completely humorless involvement with society. Ergo if you are a Napoleon Dynamite fan please do not rate any comedy other than your favorite. If I were a sociopath then I should not rate anything involving emotions. You should not rate or judge anything you do not understand. Therefore if you are a Napoleon Dynamite fan it is very obvious you do not have a comedic sense of art. If you do enjoy Woody Allen and Napoleon Dynamite then perhaps you have a split personality. (I am a Woody Allen fan ;-) There is only 1 comedy that has won the Best Picture award (yes it was Woody Allen). This fact illuminates the fact that people do not understand comedy, the reason for this being that comedy does not have a universal appeal. Humor is much more unique and personal than drama. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Black Comedy","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy is a dark comedy film that was directed by Ben Stiller.It features Jim Carrey, Matthew Broderick and Leslie Mann. It is a story about a needy, psychologically unbalanced cable-television installer that forces his friendship upon an unsuspecting bachelor, who has just broken up with his fiancée. Steven is forlorn over his recent breakup with girlfriend Robin. When he moves into a new apartment, Steven comes in contact with Chip, who shows up to hook up the cable. Before he knows it, and whether he likes it or not, Steven has a new best-friend in the obnoxious and clingy Chip. However, Steven soon learns that obnoxious is a walk in the park compared to Chip's behavior when Steven tells him he doesn't want to be his pal anymore. What's worse, no one believes Steven when he accuses the seemingly harmless Chip of being a malevolent menace. This is one of the most underrated comedies of all time.It brilliantly constructs awkward situations that neither character can find ways to get out of and deftly plays with the bizarre nature of human relationships.Also,it is a hilarious black comedy that proved too dark and too smart even for Jim Carrey fans.Definitely,a must-see. "},{"Title":"Just as much fun as a game of Porno Password.","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" While somewhat notorious in its time for star Jim Carreys' then-astronomical payday of $20 million, this twisted comedy deserves to be known for more. While it does trade on the actors' inherent likable goofiness often, the tone is decidedly more dark than some people may be prepared for, which is undoubtedly why it wasn't as successful as his earlier comedies. It works as a pretty biting comment on just how deeply television infiltrates human lives, and is fascinating to watch now, 16 years later, as cable installer Chip Douglas (Carrey) marvels over the potential of the information super highway. Chip is a sad, lonely soul in desperate need of human contact, so he forces himself on a vulnerable customer, Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) who's just been dumped by his girlfriend Robin (Leslie Mann). Steven, a designer, enjoys the friendship to a degree before Chip starts taking things just a little too far, stalking his new buddy and using various connections to make his life a living Hell. Actor / director Ben Stiller, working from a sharp screenplay by Lou Holtz, Jr., has great fun with the premise and the details, as Chip and Steven go through episodes such as some fine dining at a restaurant named Medieval Times, play a game of Porno Password, and have the rocking-est karaoke party you ever saw. (One simply must see Carreys' rendition of the Jefferson Starship classic Somebody to Love.) One great recurring joke is the real life scandal of two washed up twin acting brothers, both played by Stiller, and the court case that erupts after one kills the other. (Eric Roberts plays both in the inevitable TV movie adaptation.) In addition to Stiller and Roberts, other comic cameos are provided by Kathy Griffin (as the Cable Guys' mother, one of those types that used the TV as a babysitter, hence his identification with shows and character names), Owen Wilson, Andy Dick, Janeane Garofalo, and George Segal. Jack Black is fun as Stevens' friend who is turned off by this aggressive, creepy new dude in his buddy's life; look also for a bit by the late actor Charles Napier as a uniformed cop. This early credit for producer Judd Apatow, who of course would marry appealing leading lady Mann, is good fun provided one *can* appreciate a comedy with a dark tone, and are willing to accept Carrey in more than just goof ball parts. The finale is pretty over the top but Stiller and Carrey do make it work. Overall, they did a good job with this fairly interesting bit of entertainment. Eight out of 10. "}{"Title":"Actually not a bad movie.","Date":"8 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" In this movie, besides Jim Carrey, actors like Jack Black and Owen Wilson are making their debut in what we call the movie world.The story is dark, a bit funny, but also very sad, in fact.Chip Douglas (Jim Carrey) is a cable guy, who just wants to make new friends. He had a terrible childhood, and nobody to play with.This explains the person he is today.He doesn't know how to act with people. As a result of that, he annoys people so hard, they're starting to dislike him.He's trying to be a good friend, but he doesn't know how to do that.Steven Kovacs, his client, just left his girlfriend, after a not successful marriage proposal. To give her some time to think about their relationship, he moves out of the house/place, and he calls the cable industry to place cable TV in his new apartment.What follows is a cable guy, who wants to become Stevens friend. At the beginning, everything is going good, but the more time Steven and Chip are spending, the worse it gets.It's more than a comedy, in fact. You're starting to feel sorry for Chip, because he isn't a bad guy (although he's doing some really bad things during the movie).When you're watching this movie, you'll discover a Jim Carrey as we know him (silly, a bit crazy), but also you'll discover a Jim Carrey, full of emotion, friendship and many more.Certainly a movie you should watch, really not bad. "},{"Title":"Open your mind for this film.","Date":"10 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I love Jim carrey films, and you have to open your mind for this one and try to see it for what it is, its a disturbing comedy about a mentally disturbed man the cable guy Jim carrey.All he wants is a friend to be wanted and to be loved, the way he goes about winning that friendship is disturbing, and carreys performance is brilliant hes far more than a comedian he a one of a kind actor there's no one else out there that could execute this role as good as he did, the film is shot in a way showing humans obsession with the television set, how we now rely on it and we stray away from what we should be concentrating on (our family life) i think Ben stiller is trying to bring this point forward.This film was wrongly criticised by some critics for what ever reason. I recommend you watch this film twice maybe three times before you make you judgement.For me its a cult classic. "},{"Title":"When the truth is found to be lies","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" To me, Cable Guy was just another 1990ies movie, until I learned to my shock and amazement that there was a huge controversy about its quality here on IMDb that belittles the epic international struggles of history -- the World Wars, the conquests of the Golden Horde, Bavaria Munich vs. 1860 Munich. Well, quarrel no more, for I been sent thee to conclude this strife.In all fairness, it's an ambiguous movie. There are several memorable Carrey-moments, such as the Medieval Times-scene. Or the baseball game. Or the Karaoke party (Grace Slick, eat your heart out). Some other scenes don't work out so well, such as when Carrey's character, always a manic glint in his eye that would make Snake Plissken speed-dial 911, manages to convince a rather prissy girlfriend to reunite with her former lover, or when he charms an entire family by playing Porno Password with them. Matthew Broderick is uncharacteristically pale throughout the movie (maybe director Ben Stiller didn't want him to get in the way of Jim Carrey, who was being paid a record salary for his appearance?), which is a serious flaw as Carrey always needs some sort of dramatic counterweight to make his comedic venom palatable.One fundamental issue with this movie is that it references tacky 1970-80ies TV shows which I, along with probably a large percentile of the audience, don't know the names of and have much less seen them. So a great number of the jokes was simply wasted on me, which is frustrating in a movie.Most of all, the grand culmination doesn't hold any water. The buildup is too weak, the movie doesn't generate enough interest for the televised trial scene. (By the way, when Carrey cuts the TV and millions of viewers get nothing but static, the scene is strangely reminiscent of the final scene from Truman Show several years later). It just feels as if a scene from Mr Smith Goes To Washington had been shoehorned into a screwball comedy. The fact that Carrey turns out to be not just a needy nutcase but a criminal genius who manages to rig the entire system to work against his personal enemies is completely ludicrous.And why is Cable Guy so needy for the attentions of a random client in the first place, when other scenes (e. g. the Karaoke party) show him as some sort of social maven, or at least as someone who controls half the town through his free sports packages? In an early draft of the script, Cable Guy was stalking a woman, and that would have made more sense (but also a completely different movie).I guess the problem is that in a slapstick comedy, plausibility isn't a great issue. But if you're making a slapstick comedy with a serious side to it, then you have to make the entire movie waterproof.Overall, it's an enjoyable but not memorable movie. And as something we can all agree on, it's got plenty of good Carrey-scenes in it. "},{"Title":"Okay Movie","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" As a huge Matthew Broderick fan I will say not his best. The movie wasn't all that bad. But it wasn't all that good either. I remember being so excited to see it and the wishing somewhat I hadn't. I will say though I like it well enough to have it in my movie collection. But that is mostly cause I love Matthew. Jim Carrey does a great job acting in character has a freak psycho and that does put some interest in the movie. If you haven't seen it yet, you should see it at least once. I will say that it is worth seeing once at least. Though I wouldn't highly recommend the movie, I will recommend to some. Maybe not all. But to some. "},{"Title":"The Cable Guy is Different!","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I kinda liked this movie...even though I watched it for 10 minutes then turned it off because I couldn't stand Jim Carey's over-the-top acting. I think Matthew Broderick saved this film from being trashy. When I decided to watch the movie again, I decided to ignore Jim Carey's facial and character stretches (hard to do) and concentrate on the story content. I laughed at this black comedy. Actually, the Cable Guy reflects societies problems. Our family and personal cliques; obsession with doing the right thing...as society deems proper; and the overall loneliness of most people who are trying desperately to make friends and contribute to other people's lives. The Cable Guy is truly a pitiful person. He's lonely and doesn't know how to make friends. His extreme actions don't endear him to many people. Most scenes are not too convincing; however, the Medieval Times restaurant segment is very funny and totally believable. Matthew Broderick lends credibility to his perplexed character. The ending is ridiculous. However, how else would you end this movie? I didn't buy this for my film library. A rental is good enough. "},{"Title":"NOTHING SPECIAL","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Really. Why? The story seems to be interesting and the movie is quite enjoyable to watch, but sadly nothing more. Jim Carrey did it's job o.k., though not so good than in Dumb&Dumber or in the remarkable Truman show. Others were here unnoticed.Like a said, quite a solid movie, which will soon be forgotten, that's why a5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Too Much Carrey","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a good movie if someone other than Jim Carrey had been playing the lead. Carrey falls back on his usual obnoxious character and ruins the film. By the end of this movie you are so sick of the Carrey character that you can't feel any pity for him. The movie's theme that TV is dumbing down our culture, has been done better in Natural Born Killer and others. As an interesting side note, the great Lou Reed song Satellite Of Love is briefly heard being covered by Porno For Pyros in the soundtrack. Oddly enough this song contains the lyric Like everybody else, I like to watch things on TV. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever Made!!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I love Jim Carrey but this is not only the worst movie he ever made but it's the worst movie ever made period!!! If anyone was to ask me the worst movie I would have to say this or the Spice Girls movie. Jim Carrey is usually brilliant, but this just reeks. I can't believe Ben Stiller directed this waste of film and time. The only memorable scenes are at the karioki party and the end when Jim makes a new friend. Advice for those who haven't seen it Don't.   "},{"Title":"Say it ain't so, Jim","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  When asked to list my favorite and least favorite movies of all time, I use a different criteria than most. If a movie succeeds at what it was meant to do, it's a good flick. That's why (IMHO) ID4 was a good movie, and so is Plan 9 from Outer Space. Both did exactly what their creators meant them to do. That's why Cable Guy is on my list of worst movies. It had all the ingredients of a good movie, including two of my favorite actors, and it fell far short of what it should have been. Stupid is not the same as funny. "},{"Title":"A very underrated comedic masterpiece","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" First and foremost, I would like to thank the TBS TV station. If not for them I wouldn't have even heard of this classic comedy.I was up at like 2 in the morning and this was on. It was freaking fantastic! I went and bought it the next day. This movie was way ahead of its time, with great direction by Ben stiller and a Judd Apatow production. Also was the brilliant and yet creepy performances by Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick. they played a very good comedic team, and Jim Carrey really shined as the film's antagonistic cable guy who just needs a friend. this is one of those hidden masterpieces that people don't know about. Go buy the movie folks. It's $6.99 at best buy and worth every penny. Although it has very dark undertones, it never ceases to put me in a good mood for like the rest of the day. I love it. 10 out of 10 for sure. "}{"Title":"Horribly underrated movie","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This is the first comment I've ever written, so I thought I'd right it about my favorite movie. This is one of the only two 10's I've ever given, and not just because it's underrated, which it is. This is one of the most hilarious movies I've ever seen, and easily the best dark comedy ever conceived. Ben Stiller is a great director, Jim Carrey is amazing, and Broderick isn't as annoying as everyone says he is. The only possible reason this movie's rating is so low is that many people watched this thinking they were watching another dumb and silly Jim Carrey comedy. This movie is actually very smart. So, if you watch this movie knowing that it is not the usual Jim Carrey fare, you will probably love this movie as much as I did. "},{"Title":"2 Funny Scenes","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The Cable Guy looked like it might be a funny movie, but it was a disappointment. Matthew Broderick is a normal guy who moves into a new apartment and Jim Carey is the Cable Guy. He gives him a good (and illegal) hookup. He is a strange guy wants to be Broderick's friend.There are two very funny scenes. In one they are dressed up as knights in a Medieval Times theme Restaurant. They are supposed to be pretending to be having a battle but Carey takes it seriously and almost kills Broderick. It's over the top, but it works. There is another scene in which they play a pickup basketball game with some of Broderick's friends. Carey dresses up in an basketball, outfit from the 1970's, shortshorts, headband and all. It's a very funny scene.   Unfortunately, the rest of the movie isn't funny at all. It's very bizarre. In fact, there are time when you don't even know if something is a bad joke, or if it's supposed to be taken seriously. Carey starts to act crazier and crazier, but not in a funny way.    Bizarre is probably the best way to describe this movie. Why Carey's role was done in such a dark and disturbing way is baffling. This simply isn't very entertaining.   I'm not a Carey fan or a basher. Some of his movies are good, and some are horrible. This movie is the latter. Because of the two hilarious scenes, I give this movie a 4. Otherwise, it would be a 1 or a 2. "},{"Title":"Dark, wicked and hilarious first rate Carrey comedy","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Of all the movies our dear rubber faced friend Jim Carrey has starred in I guess The Cable guy is the one I've seen most often. I have a strange habit of watching it every now and then although I've seen it so many times I already know it by heart. I can't really tell why I've chosen this film as my personal Carrey favorite because for example the ingenious The Truman show was certainly even better as a movie. The Cable guy is just some sort of a perfection as a wacky Carrey film and it's impossible to grow tired of it. Every time I'm feeling a little blue...well you know where I'm getting at here.The fascination of Carrey's most famous comedic character Ace Ventura is based on a fact that he's totally unpredictable and basically able of doing anything. Audience will never know what kind of lovable stupidity pops out of his mouth when he opens it next time. Even though Carrey isn't quite as over-energetic in The Cable guy his performance is just marvelous. All of his mannerisms are luckily still there. This film has so many classic moments it's improbable for me to say I've seen them way too often. The basketball game, duel at Medieval times, karaoke-scene, porno-password and even the tiny little details like Owen Wilson's hilarious small visit as Robin's vexatious date (You're sexy. You heard me. I love that line, the bloke is so corny!)I can't understand those old school Jim Carrey freaks who feel that The Cable guy shows too dark side of Jimmy. What do they mean, have they really seen the same movie as me? Of course The Cable guy is darker than Dumb and dumber but it's also a whole lot of smarter. This is a funny piece of entertainment that puts me in a good mood and even if it is a slightly blacker Carrey comedy it's safe to say it isn't exactly The Exorcist. So if this happens to be the only Jim Carrey movie you haven't seen do something about it. The Cable guy might just be the laugh riot you've been looking for all of your life. "},{"Title":"The blackest of black comedies.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is a funny movie. Some of the crude humor is actually hilarious. But, yet this is really a very serious movie. Jim Carrey gives a thrilling performance as cable guy, Chip Douglas who soon turns the life of one of his customers (Matthew Broderick) up-side-down. This film contains many scenes of comic brilliance. I conclude that this film is probably under-rated. I have seen many under-rated films and this is one of them. It got passed up because of some of the unbelievable situations and some of the humor. But, if you think about it, it is not just a comedy. It is also a very serious film. Sit down and give it another watch if you don't think so. This film deserves the credit that it has not yet been given. THE CABLE GUY 4/5.  "},{"Title":"The movie is as schizophrenic as its main character... (SPOILERS)","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy can never decide whether it wants to be a comedy, a drama, a thriller, or a social satire. Not enough of the comedy is funny, or of the same type; any attempt at drama is undercut because of the annoying lisping of Carrey's character, and the movie is never particularly thrilling because we don't care about any of the characters. The one small area where the movie succeeds is in its satire. Even here the points made have a slight whiff of familiarity about them. Whilst the one thing The Cable Guy can never reasonably be accused of is unoriginality, the theme that TV can be a corrupting influence is hardly groundbreaking insight.As mentioned before, the comedy here alternates between the kind of silly slapstick we've seen Jim do before (the Medieval Times & basketball scenes) and much darker comedy that borders on not being funny at all (the violence that is not portrayed as slapstick) Neither of these routes would I have had a problem with if they had just decided which one they were going to use and stuck to it. Instead, they try to combine both. Slapstick should not be present in a 'dark' comedy, it just destroys the tone.Broderick is annoyingly whiny in his role as Steven Kovacks. I would have though that the object was to show just how clingy the Carrey character is in his quest for friendship, but the supposed 'hero' is almost as pathetic as he is! Admittedly, some of the elements in the film would have worked well as vignettes, as they are wonderfully realised, but they don't suit the bigger picture. It is possible that audiences stayed away from this because it was Carrey's attempt at something 'different', but that never harmed The Truman Show, did it? More likely it flopped because it really isn't a very good film. "},{"Title":"Rather disappointing","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The problem with this film is it doesn't know what it is.  It tries to be a comedy, but isn't that funny.  It seems to try to be a drama, or a thriller, but these elements don't really work either.  Jim Carrey at his best can be very funny, but here he is sometimes funny, but when he tries to be dramatic, he isn't very convincing.  Overall a disappointing film.  "},{"Title":"Don't answer the door if Jim Carrey (The Cable Guy) knocks!","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is clearly not one of Jim Carrey's better movies. And I can mention several reasons. To start off the direction and script of this movie is way to dark. Carrey is at his best when doing comedy supported by the most funny script, and in Jim's other movies all his characters are likeable. You have Jim as a lonely cable repair guy who just needs a little attention. Carrey's not likeable character stalks his way into the life of Matthew Broderick to fight for attention and maybe more. That's another problem with this film the character study of Carrey's cable guy is unclear first we think of him as a possible serial killer type then I get the impression that he could be a homosexual by the way he hounds Broderick's character. The character study and basic point of the film was unclear. Jim is much better in comedy films his performance takes a step down in a dark satire like this. You can't blame Jim for everything that went wrong with this film and you know no person in their right mind is going to turn down $20 million. It is not Jim's problem, but the $20 million he was paid for the film probably doomed the project. The entertainment business should always try to make the best films possible and not get caught up in the hype of $20 million. Jim Carrey has many talents, but The Cable Guy is not one of his better works even if most of the blame should be shouldered at the studio and others stay away from this one. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of 1996!","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Without a doubt, hands down, the best and funniest movie of 1996.  Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick make a hilarious comic duo.  Jim Carrey is as funny as he ever was in his role as a lonely and troubled, but psychotic t.v. repair man.  Matthew Broderick is funny too in his role as a clueless executive who also is the latest victim of The Cable Guy.  My favorite scenes include the medieval fight, the basketball game, and the karoke dance party.  This movie should be a classic.  10/10  "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Dark comedy hasn't been this sweet since Very Bad Things and American Beauty.  True, Jim Carrey may not be fit for the dramedy genre, but some might also say he wasn't fit for the drama genre.  But he does fit in almost everything, so he fit here.  Carrey plays a Cable guy (guess his real name and win a prize) who starts to try and make a friendship with one of his customers (Matthew Broderick), but it flails.  So dark (yet very funny) comedy ensues.  Great fun, especially considering this is Ben Stiller's 2nd directorial project (his first was Reality Bites).  One of the best film of 1996.  A+ "},{"Title":"Erm...","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is too bad to be true.I rented this film about a year and a half ago, and I haven't seen a film nearly as bad since.The storyline is an utter mess - you are taken from location to location, but you never know quite why, because none of the events in these places actually do anything to advance the plot.As well as this, the characters are so instantly unlikable you actually want to kill them.  I mean REALLY kill them.But the worst thing is the fact that this is supposed to be a 'comedy' - the jokes are never witty, instead they're just stupid.  None of Carey's crazy remarks seem to make you want to laugh, let alone smile, instead you find yourself frowning and saying, 'What was THAT bit all about?'But, if you like that sort of thing...well...fair enough. "}{"Title":"the cable guy, he only wants to embrace your life and to be your friend forever","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" 20 000 000 millions of dollars. Jim Carrey asked this substantial amount to hold this miscast role for him. This Pharaonic amount of money is just as equal as his overwhelming presence in the Cable Guy (1996). If he tries to renew his image by acting another type of character who is a disturbing psychopath (a will already contemplated with the rather poor Batman Forever 1995), on the other hand, his acting hasn't changed still bombastic with grimaces and frenzied gestures by the bucketful. Beside him, it's hard for Matthew Broderick to play opposite him. As for the rest of the cast, its members are relegated to the roles of walk-on parts. It's a shame because if the basic idea isn't new (we have seen the topic of the disturbing character invades a peaceful universe many times before in the cinema and in a better treatment), Stiller's making is more careful and vigilant than in his Zoolander (2001) flick. Sometimes, he succeeds in exuding a grain of madness which gives the whole, for a while a mad tone (the scene of the restaurant). Moreover, the satire is well present even if it is excessive due to the numerous targets consumer society, television and computing overequipment.To sum up, the Cable Guy in spite of a decent making is mainly a flop because spoiled by Carrey's omnipresence who leaves bits to his partner. To crown it all, the latter asked a comfortable fee, the movie didn't prove very profitable. Carrey's fans must have said to themselves please Jim, don't change! "},{"Title":"Comedy at it best with catchy story","Date":"26 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Jim Carrey is a very funny guy he is a cable guy who is the lonely person and is a good cable installer there is some very funny scenes. I love this movie the basketball scene along with the Medieval Times scene and the beginning part where he's installing the cable. It is a must- watch movie especially for Jim Carrey friends and the fans.I think it's funny how Jim Carrey is a lonely guy and kind of desperate for friends. The other actor I forget his name it is also good he plays. a character that's having a tough time with his girlfriend and Jim Carrey is trying to help him out.It makes you think Jim Carrey is he bad guy butt I think he's just troubled and is looking to make new friends and help out. But overall Jim Carrey did a good job with this movie. "},{"Title":"Don't you want somebody to love?","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy, as most know by now, was a major departure for Jim Carrey. With Carrey playing a cable installer fixated on an unsuspecting customer, The Cable Guy is easily his darkest movie. The idea of an obsessive cable guy is quite humorous, but this is taken to the extreme to reveal a very disturbing character in the Cable Guy. The Cable Guy is one of these films that is funny in places and in other places generates a sort of nervous laughter, giving the comedy meaning rather than just comedy for the sake of comedy.For comedy to work, it must be taken seriously; real laughs come from playing it straight, and Stiller is a master of this technique. He is to be commended here for extracting a tempered performance from Carrey by reining in his natural tendency toward over exuberance (which has worked for him in other projects, but would have been detrimental here). There are some hilarious moments in this film Chip throwing a Karaoke party for Steven; a scene that takes place at a Medieval Times restaurant (with a terrific cameo by Janeane Garofalo as their waitress); and a bit with ongoing news coverage of a murder trial in which Stiller plays twin brothers Stan and Sam Sweet. But there are just as many uncomfortable moments, which tend to leave the viewer somewhat uneasy, such as the scene in which Chip dupes Steven's family into playing Porno Password. We feel Steven's discomfort as well as his frustration with his own inability to control what ultimately becomes an ugly situation. Or when Chip confronts Robin's date (Owen Wilson) in the restroom of a restaurant.The Cable Guy has a stellar enough lead performance and enough good points to be worth the watch. In fact, it's much easier to appreciate it now with a decade's hindsight, now that we've seen a lot more range from Jim Carrey. The film certainly has its moments of brilliance; the Sam Sweet side-plot (with a good and minor cameo from director Ben Stiller) and its conclusion is a wonderful touch, that compliments the ending and its point, and Jim Carrey's karaoke scene - beyond the obvious chuckles you may get from his lisping and catatonic singing - is also a disturbing one, and one shouldn't overlook the choice of a song (Jefferson Airplane's 'Somebody To Love'). The Cable Guy is not as good as it might have been but it's a daring creation, certainly the most daring one for Stiller as a director.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Underrated dark comedy/thriller","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I just have to say I love this film. I have heard it be called Carrey's worst film and I couldn't disagree more. It is one of my favorites of his and I think it is completely underrated. It is important to remember this isn't a straight up comedy but rather a comedic psychological thriller so it isn't about having non stop laughs but rather an interesting story with occasional laughs. I love its darker/twisted story and all the actors pull their weight. I think Jim Carrey is great in this and gives his character a good level of depth so that he isn't just 2D wacky character but one with a deeper reason behind his eccentric behavior. All in all I recommend people watch this with a more open mind and without coming into it expecting it to be a typical Carrey comedy. "},{"Title":"Cable me up","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" So far as Carrey movies go, this one is perhaps his best. It's different from his others, which shows a darker side to Carrey. Essentially The Cable Guy, is a comedy, but it's a dark one, with the mood of seriousness and comedy play well, where there's really a discomfiture about lonely Carrey's mental state. He's an overzealous cable guy, Ernie Douglas, a character he borrowed from the hit show, My Three Sons, as he relates that character to his mentally unfit self, but is he really a cable guy, you might ask? Causing quite an intrusion on recent single guy (Broderick-okay here) who's moved into a set of apartments, he forms with a friendship, with a less enthused, Steven Broderick, and it isn't long before his lounge is revamped (karaoke and all) his room is filled with crazies, and he's set up with a hooker. When Broderick breaks the supposed friendship, that's when Carrey really cracks. Carrey can do dramatic roles, as proved prefore to his Ace Ventura days. This overnight sensation can play stupid with a great acting range and versatility, as this is how the style that the characters are 'spose to be played, where it's naturally unfair to take digs at his acting. Owen Wilson making a brief appearance as a heartless narcissistic pig, is quite unforgettable, a bad guy role, he's never really plays. Anaconda followed. Carrey's character is interesting here, a more darker inner self, where really I wish this comedy had got much darker and his character too, where it really wouldn't be a comedy anymore. Carrey is so darn entertaining with his over acting, and there are some memorable scenes, none more than the Medieval Times, theatre staged Restaurant (what an original touch) plus a karaoke singing scene to Jefferson Airplane's Don't you want somebody to love with Carrey at the helm. Also one poignant Midnight Express scene, remade just shows love in a whole different light. The film is so much fun, and just stands alone to Carrey's previous films, where this change into a more serious arena, was due. The Cable Guy is pretty funny, not Carrey's funniest, but it just has many other things to offer, where he's out of the arena of slapstick here, and after seeing this, I'm glad. Leslie Mann is so cute as Broderick's ex girlfriend, where Jenine Garafolo, you'll never forget as a much unenthused waitress at Medieval Times. Carrey also how you can substitute chicken skin for real skin in an Hannibal Lector moment. Highly recommended watch, even for non Carrey fans. "},{"Title":"Fun, stupid movie with Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Ben Stiller and released in 1996, The Cable Guy stars Jim Carrey as an oddball cable guy obsessed with establishing a relationship with a customer (Matthew Broderick). Leslie Mann and Jack Black play the girlfriend and friend of the latter. There are numerous small roles and cameos by the likes of George Segal, Diane Baker, Eric Roberts and Owen Wilson. If you can imagine Ace Ventura as a demented cable guy trying too hard to be friends with Ferris Bueller in his late 20s you'd have a pretty good idea of this movie. It was barely moderately successful at the box office likely because Carrey's character has a sinister side and becomes increasingly unlikable or unbearable as the story progresses. The first half is great with numerous laugh-out-loud sequences, like the basketball game, while the second half is merely amusing in a black comedy/parody way. It helps that Broderick and Mann are such likable protagonists. I'm giving The Cable Guy a solid grade because I laughed a lot in the first half and the rest of it I found entertaining even though Carrey's character is annoying and somewhat scary. No matter how you slice it, the movie gives you a good time for an hour and a half. The film runs 96 minutes and was shot in Culver City, Buena Park, Long Beach and Pasadena, California.GRADE B "},{"Title":"A good stupid movie..","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I have to say, Jim Carrey really did a good job in playing a criminal cable guy! He would honestly make you laugh even if some his jokes were definitely uncalled for. Matthew Broderick was good too as he can also play a very stressed out businessman who is trying to get his love life sorted and having to come across a cable guy freak! Man, I would hate to have a hard life like that!I was surprised to see Ben Stiller hasn't acted in this movie but he was shown as a criminal on television, I found that rather odd to be honest. He was the director or this right? So then, why couldn't act in this movie at all? He would make it even better in my opinion! I didn't find the ending very realistic, I would've thought that the cable guy would die from that fall because believe me, anyone would! Ben Stiller should've either killed off the character or get him arrested by the police. It would've been better to be honest.I suggest anyone who is a hardcore Jim Carrey fan to watch this! "},{"Title":"When Ace Ventura Met Ferris Bueller","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Cable Guy is a rare misstep for Jim Carrey when he was at his most popular, thanks to movies Ace Ventura, The Mask, Dumb And Dumber and his scene stealing turn as the Riddler in Batman Forever in the 1990s. Plot In A Paragraph Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) has just been dumped by his girlfriend, he is waiting to get cable installed, when his best friend Rick (Jack Black) suggest bribing the installer with $50 for free cable. When The Cable Guy (Jim Carrey) arrives Steven fakes an interest in his work, which The Cable Guy takes to heart, and he sets out to make Steven his new best friend.It starts off well with Carrey playing his usual wacky off the wall type of character, but then it all becomes very dark and there are not too many laughs to be had. That said, whilst I like Carrey as a person, I never really laughed a lot during Ace Ventura, The Mask or Dumb And Dumber they were watchable, and had some funny moments, especially Dumb And Dumber I smiled, chuckled and had a but of fun, but were largely not my cup of tea. Jack Black and Leslie Mann offer more than adequate support, and look out for Owen Wilson in one of his first roles.One thing I will say is The Cable Guy made some scary predictions which all came true. "},{"Title":"an underrated movie","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" People think of Jim carry as a goof ball. they think of all the funny movies he has done, but as soon as he is in a serious role it is shot down. Why? People can only except actors for their stereotypes. Yom cruise can only be an action star, morgen freeman can only be a serious actor, Jim carry can only be a goof ball. these are all wrong. Jim carry is a talented actor who has skills in improvisation and comedy. but that does not mean he is not good at other things to. People expected a funny Jim carry role when they went to watch this movie (cabel guy) but instead got one of his most impressive roles in his lifetime. the only other SEriouse movie that Jim played in that was better then this was the number 23. Jim carry can play more then just a freak he can play anything but people seem to dislike it when he does. why is this? is it the fact that we want to believe that Jim carry is truly like his characters in movies or is it the fact that we only ever saw his funny side until now. anybody who watched this movie and disliked it should re watch it only this time take everything you know about Jim carry and throw it down the drain. "},{"Title":"He wants to be your friend...","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" When Steven Kovacs moves into his new apartment he picks the wrong cable guy - this guy doesn't want money for his work, he just wants to be your friend for life and he won't take no for an answer.This film starred Jim Carrey, Matthew Broderick & Leslie Mann.The Cable Guy is an OK film, it isn't a great film but I have seen worse. This isn't up to the standard of other Jim Carrey films such as Ace Ventura 1 & 2 or The Mask but it is OK and I can sit through it and have a couple of laughs across the way, I do recommend this film to fans of Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick. Also I only just found out that Ben Stiller directed this movie. However I don't feel this movie reached it's full potential but it does have some funny scenes, so give it a watch.***/***** Could be worse. "}{"Title":"A rather dark comedy.","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The general consensus on the credibility of Jim Carrey as an actor is forever varied, there will always be a divide in opinion. Some people are thoroughly entertained by his exuberant on-screen persona, whilst others believe he's too outrageous to be found funny. Personally, I have never come to a conclusion.The first movie I saw was 'The Cable Guy', one of the popular mid 90′s comedies that began to shape his style, helping him become the household name that he is today.'The Cable Guy' revolves around Steven (Matthew Broderick), a designer who relocates after an unexpected breakup with his girlfriend, Robin (Leslie Mann). Tempted by the idea of illegal television, he contacts Chip Douglas (Jim Carrey) who becomes increasingly involved in every aspect of his life. When Steve attempts to terminate the 'friendship', Chip goes out of his way to make his life a hell.The movie has a darker sense of humour than Carrey's previous roles as he walks the line between insanity and loneliness. He builds upon his usual performances as his character flits between various television references at a speed, clearly showing a man who has been deprived of a proper childhood. My only gripe being that it didn't expand on this a little further so that the audience could build more of a connection with the character, perhaps showing more of his solitude rather than just his excessive search for acceptance. However this isn't what the film set out to achieve.This is primarily a comedy and it works well doing just that but it veers incredibly close to horror at times as Jim drifts between overly- devoted friend to a complete psychopath. With surprise appearances from the likes of Jack Black and Owen Wilson, I was taken aback by their lack of screen time. Jack isn't even part of any of the laughs, playing more of a concerned friend overall whilst Wilson, who I am no particular fan of anyway, only appears in one scene.'The Cable Guy' is an early example of Jim Carrey trying to develop himself as an actor and whilst it isn't too far from his quirky roles like 'Ace Ventura' or 'The Mask', it showed his potential and how he could try to distance himself slightly from his average goofy portrayals prior to him being involved in later films such as 'Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind' or the less successful 'Number 23′. It wasn't a perfect film although it did give some satisfaction in knowing that his acting range is more varied than I was led to believe by others as he had moments where he truly shined. Whilst it isn't essential viewing it is perhaps worth a glance by fans of his other work such as 'Me, Myself and Irene' as the two are not too dissimilar in their plots. "},{"Title":"An interesting thriller/comedy.","Date":"12 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" When I was a kid and I saw the front cover of this movie I was shocked! I see Jim Carry raising a cable, grinning (not the goofy grin like always, but creepy grin) with the bolt of lighting in the background I was thinking What? Jim Carry is in a horror movie? No way! Of course I was too young at the time to watch it much less rent it. When I started coming into my young teen years I read the back of the copy and I was a bit disappointed, I was hoping to find something new in Jim. But I thought you know? what the hell. I'll give it a shot. After all it's Jim Carry! So I took it from my aunt's shelf of movies and watched it, expecting to be disappointed. Well, my friend, I was wrong.Here's a guy named Steven who's depressed with the fact that his girlfriend, Robin, kicked him out of her home and is determined to live in a sh!tty apartment. While trying to get comfortable he waits for a cable installer that he called early in the day. When he finally meets this total stranger he finds him very awkwardly...uh...awkward, and after his business is done with he gets more involved with Steven than Steven can understand. He hangs out with him everyday, offers him friendship he never had as a child and asks for the same from Steven in return. Now, this cable guy is a liter and goofier version of Clint Eastwood's The Man With No Name because he literally has no name. As the painstaking friendship between them becomes a nuisance to Steven he is determined to put his foot down once and for all and reject him with as much courtesy as possible. But that didn't stop the cable guy. He transformed from happy cartoon-like friendly cable installer to vengeful laughing psychopath. He tries to make Steven's life a living hell in his own way Steven is arrested for stolen items, gets fired from his job, makes his family thinks he's crazy, and has to save his girlfriend. In the middle of all that he tries to get some answers on who this obsessed stalker really is.Wow. Just wow. I never thought I see it that way. I was really impressed with this movie. It's not the best movie of all time, but it's something of a cult classic. I really enjoyed because it's a different comedy, different movie itself, funny of course, and a bit scary if you think about it a complete stranger stalking you with the attitude of a kid who ate a sh!t load of sugar and never gives you one single day of peaceful solitude. The movie kind of freaked me out and I'm satisfactory. It's kind of what I've been looking for. And I haven't seen Jim portray a good bad guy since he was the Riddler. and I think a lot of people did not like this movie because they weren't ready for him to be a bad guy. Yes he is the bad guy, yes he is a psychopath but not a murdering psychopath; he doesn't kill people in this movie like he did in Batman Forever. But the movie might have been a little better if he did.Like I said, I really liked this movie. It's original and new to Jim's work. It might be kind of stupid for your taste, my friends, but it's supposed to be; it's a comedy--not horror. Well more like a comedy thriller. Give it a try! "},{"Title":"Betamax Mabuse","Date":"12 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" In 1922, Fritz Lang made a film called Dr. Mabuse - The Gambler. It was about a criminal mastermind who manipulated the reality of the film by controlling what the characters experienced as their narrative, framed in images. This was crystallized in an amazing scene where Mabuse, disguised for the umpteenth time in the film, wowed a movie audience with a show where a procession of people and animals magically walked out of an empty canvas screen.It was stupendous for its time, speaking of a new uncanny seduction with images, illusions that we power by watching. It was the birth of film noir among other things.There was no TV at the time, and even the possibility must have been unheard of for most people, purely futuristic, including those in the movie industry. What the film rendered so astutely, was the cinematic experience as rooted in centuries of live theater a narrative that was firmly beyond our control, was being fabricated out of sight, as the characters felt Mabuse to operate, and we had the luxury of a set time to apprehend the mechanisms behind a given set of images.We know that Lang fled Nazi Germany in '34. In '36, he arrived in the US having, by all likelihood, fabricated his escape into a narrative of stupendous danger and intrigue. That same year, the Berlin Olympics back in Germany were the first to have live televised coverage.Now TV wasn't going to take off until after the war, and another twenty years for most of the world. In that time Lang's story had come to be accepted as fact, not least of all or to to the point that it was recounted as such by himself in Godard's Le Mepris - or was it a clever ploy? By the time this was made, TV was second life for the majority, changing channels was pure instinct.What is not so often appreciated about TV, given the usually subpar product, is how it downright smashed through those centuries of theatric tradition. Gone was the set viewing time. The set images. You were in control, with images quite literally at your hands. You fabricated the narrative as you went, patching it together by sight. The internet has taken this to unprecedented levels, with new information being fed by click-hopping every other second. The much publicized destructive influence of both TV and web, aside from the cultural junk, is precisely that a lot of us remain unconscious of our control over sight. We watch at random, jamming the mind.Instead of using it to become profoundly aware of how we process reality - imperceptible edits in the field of perception, as Pudovkin had theorized back in the 20's - we change the channel. We edit more in our vision.Now you have to assume the filmmakers were aware of the implications on some level, probably low but enough to make a difference. They used as template Peter Weir's film about a creepy plumber who won't go away, and instead made it about a guy working for a cable company. He would harass a man instead of a woman, to avoid sexual motivation as a factor. I have not seen that film but presume this has a slightly different undercurrent grew up lonely, in front of TV, and wants to be your friend. The effect is probably the same, the awkwardness of social situations.Taken as such, the film would be a mere diversion. But it has something else going for it. Our guy is the recent installment of Mabuse for the generation that was growing up on cable, betamax, VHS, moving illusions now transferred for home viewing. He has lived a life in images. Controls them and controls his own. Fabricates, or better yet replicates narratives from them, folding himself in the process.Note as a pivotal scene the one at the karaoke party. It has all been staged by him, every last bit, of course the technology, but even the guests. He has set up the bland protagonist with a girl. The film dizzily cuts back and forth between the girl fondling his head, the seduction staged by him, and our cable guy performing a song. He rushes back into the room to snap pictures of them together, literally framing this image he has created.A lot of hijinks take place, sometimes bordering on madness. Broderick and Mann are both bland, routine actors, suitably so. The whole has rather unimaginative flair, more obvious in the obvious dream scene.But none of this would've mattered one bit for me, if only the thing was more focused. I believe the original idea, at least the proper idea, is that we would see through the eyes of this man installing images into peoples' homes. We would tune into different lives, affecting the outcome of each channel. Perhaps the entire film would be something we fabricated as we switched channels and did not exist anywhere as one piece.What we have, is as much about the tribulations of the characters inside the channels, if not more so. Our man is often the comedic diversion, the show being watched.I'm sure Carrey understood this was a huge opportunity missed. He hopped on The Truman Show a few years later that Peter Weir was directing. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood Comedy -- Depends on your POV","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I'd like to add a different interpretation to all of the review on here. There are two POVs for this movie Steven's (Matthew Broderick) and The Cable Guy (Carrey). From Steven's POV this can be a dark comedy or horror about some nut job that has formed some strange attachment to him. I believe this is what causes a lot of confusion about this movie. You really have to view this movie from the main characters POV-- The Cable Guy. All he wants is a younger brother. Yeah sometimes older brothers are douche bags that torment their younger brother but they love them none the less. Keep this in mind when you watch the film and you may get a new appreciation for the movie. The is Ben Stiller's second best movie as a director in my opinion. The first being Zoolander. "},{"Title":"Funny BUT Flawed","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Jim Carrey is one of the masters of slapstick comedy and he has made some really funny movies. He's also made some comedies that are funny but do not the reach the expectations of the viewer to the highest level. That's what The Cable Guy did for me. I had some good laughs but it was few too many. The Cable Guy is a roller coaster ride of emotions. In this movie, The Cable Guy, played by Jim Carrey is a lonely character who has a lisp and is only looking for friendship. Except he doesn't know how to really keep a friend the right way. We learn this as we see Steven (Matthew Broderick) get sucked into a heap of trouble that takes an awful long time for him to clear his name. At first, The Cable Guy seems like a guy who's only trying to help. But he soon turns into a bad apple. Jim Carrey can be funny as a bad apple but it has to be done the right way. This is not one of them. By the end of the movie I still felt conflict because I couldn't decide whether The Cable Guy was likable or not. I still can't now.So besides Carrey being an annoying character, what else is wrong with this movie? Here's what - the film never took a side on what the viewer should really feel. There are so many times in the film where I was at a loss of what to feel for The Cable Guy. Some moments, I felt really bad for him and others times where I laughed at the things he did or said. Then there were other moments where I wanted to leave a couple knuckle imprints on his face. And it's not even how fast the movie changed tones but it was how frequent these feelings occurred. Seriously Stiller? Pick one tone will you? Stop making me laugh in one scene and get mad in the next! That's one thing I could not agree with.Matthew Broderick along with several other actors, including Ben Stiller (director cameo), do a good job portraying their characters. I will give credit to Jim Carrey that he did have me feel The Cable Guy WAS annoying. I did laugh a couple times but I expected more. I truly DID wish I laughed more, but the film didn't speak to me in the way it spoke to me in Ace Ventura Pet Detective. I am glad there was not a sequel to this film. I'm not sure if I would want to see another cable guy film unless somehow The Cable Guy's personality changed for the better but still had his silly goofiness. That would be more interesting to see.The Cable Guy has its funny moments due to Carrey's forte in slapstick, but there might not be as many laughs as expected. Due to the negative connotation that The Cable Guy is portrayed, viewers may be turned off by his obnoxious personality. "},{"Title":"Able Guy","Date":"3 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Jim Carrey in his prime back in the day when actors of the calibre of Matthew Broderick, Jack Black and Owen Wilson were happy to play 2nd, 3rd and 4th fiddle (in that order!). I've read that Jim likes to perform extra takes despite a satisfied director. Never more obvious here, Jim's energy explodes on the screen and every scene is done to perfection. He somehow makes you (and often his supporting actors) laugh whilst keeping you on the edge of your seat and takes the p*ss out of the industry all at the same time! The movie maintains a cracking pace, has many layers, and Ben Stiller's direction is the icing on the cake. This one safely makes my desert island collection. "},{"Title":"I Learned The Facts Of Life...From Watching The Facts Of Life!","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why everyone is saying that this film is the worst Jim Carrey has ever done. But to be honest I think that this is the best and funniest role in a movie that he has ever done.The film is about Steven Kovacs played by Matthew Broderick who has just befriended his Cable Guy Chip Douglas played by the always wonderful Jim Carrey. But when Steven decides that he wants to be very far apart from Chip. This takes on a whole new meaning of Don't You Want Somebody To Love.This is actually a very entertaining movie because of the actor who holds it u the most; Jim Carrey. This is actually the guy that I would love to be around any time of the day. I recommend it.Rated PG-13 For Dark Thematic And Crude Humor.1hr 36min/96min.****/**** "},{"Title":"Jim Carry succeeds in a different type of character","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" What this movie turns out to be is not a typical Jim Carrey comedy, but rather a more thrilling version of What About Bob? Where What About Bob is a comedy, The Cable Guy is a thriller. Though it is funny in spots, and Carrey's antics are worth watching, this movie deals more with a boy that has been twisted by television and a man who has suddenly found a friend who smothers him.Our hero has been kicked out of the flat by his girlfriend after asking her to marry him, and now is setting himself up. The strange thing with Matthew Broderick is that we have watched him grow up in a way. Okay, we didn't see him in movies when he was a kid, but we saw him go through High School, Collage, and onto work. I won't go into depths with it, but it is interesting watching a life of Matthew Broderick, as seen on the big screen.Anyway, here he is getting cable TV installed, and the guy is a little weird. Things become worse when this guy literally invites himself into Broderick's life and clings to him. Broderick puts up with it for a while, but tries to let him down gently. Then he decides to push him out and suddenly the Cable Guy gets so upset that he brings Broderick's life down around him, including having him arrested, blackmailing him, and making him freak out in front of his parents.What we have is not a guy like Bob Whylie in What About Bob? But rather a boy who never had any friends, no real family, and a mother that spent all of her time at the pub picking up strangers. He was simply left alone in the house watching television, never knowing how to interact with people and slowly becoming more of an outcast. Now he is simply a cable guy and is offended when he is simply treated like a guy who is used and then thrown out. What we learn though is that he has constantly stalked lots of people, not because he is mean, but that he simply wants a friend.The movie has a very strong anti-television streak to it. The subtle message is spoken through Carrey's character, as we see a man who's only social skills have been developed from watching too much TV. The thing is that he grew up in a single parent, unloving home, but it had a big impact on him. What this movie shows is that childhood, and especially one's parental influences, have a very big effect on the way children grow up. Carrey, having grown up in such a household, turns out to be somebody that is so starving for friendship that he reaches out to anybody, and thus smoothers them. "},{"Title":"The cable guy inside all of us","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" When people ask me my favourite film of all time I seem tempted to say something of my all time favorite directors (e.g. Andrei Tarkovsky, Scorsese, Bertulucci) but for some reason my favourite all time film has always been 'the cable guy'.Honestly everyone I've said this to has thought I was drongo but here I am trying to justify my reasons.Sure its not everybody's cuppa I'll admit but for me this film has been the most continuously enjoyable I have ever seen. The Lynchesque harmony of contradicting genres, subterranean middle class existence of an all too forgotten about American city, black humour, political in-correctness, satire, horror and psychological thriller.The film to me seems like a self parody of the western world, our interconnection via T.V. but also a nod to our ability to see through the blatant manipulation and stuff that fills the airways.All in all we all have a part of the cable guy within us but our humanism sympathies with that part of each other and this film for me realises that fact that I should probably sympathies with that part of myself that writes this review and searches forever for the best entertainment humans have to offer. "},{"Title":"under appreciated film","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of Carrey's best. It showed that he could really take his acting up a level higher than just slapstick comedy. It's humorous and dark and twisted. A film that shows that if you don't manage your kids, and let the TV do so, bad things can happen.Carrey is a great actor, and the film had a great story. Plot + good acting = a great genre crossing film. "}{"Title":"Not a classic, but it has its moments","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The Cable Guy is not a brilliant comedy. It has its flaws that bar it from classic status but it does manage to be consistently watchable and entertaining that make it well worth trying. In my view Jim Carrey is miscast as the Cable Guy. His frantic mugging does not go well with the more natural style of all the other actors. A straighter faced performance would have given the film a darker feel as the Cable Guy would have been truly threatening. The film does also try to make points about the TV mad world we live in, but Stiller's direction is too heavy handed at time to make it effective. That said, the film does have its inspired moments such as the hilarious scene at the medieval restaurant and Carrey's rendition of Somebody to Love. A missed opportunity, but rewarding all the same. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Strange mix of comedy and black humor.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  When you first begin watching The Cable Guy, you are under the impression that what we are about to see is another one of Jim Carrey's crazed, manic, hilariously funny comedies.  It was very funny, because of Jim Carrey's hilariously annoying character.  But then, it turns into a darker movie, mixing hilarious slapstick with dark humor.  The result is one that dumbfounded critics and viewers alike, as well as hurting box-office records.  It was said that this was Jim Carrey's least grossing film.  I don't know what to make of it myself.  Jim Carrey's rubberfaced humor had me down on the floor laughing 'till I hurt.  Then something strange happened.  He started to scare me.  This is the first movie I have ever seen with Jim Carrey where I was actually scared by him!  I think that they wanted to make a slapstick comedy with Carrey doing what we haven't seen him do yet annoy the hell out of someone and never leave them alone.  Matthew Broderick pairs up great with Jim Carrey as the unfortunate victim of Carrey's antics, yet there are times when he too looks scared by Jim Carrey.  People were saying that the mix of comedy and dark humor was what ruined the film and the laughter altogether.  I don't know.  I still find it very funny.  I'll always love Jim Carrey's movies(minus Ace Ventura 2), and this is still a worthy chapter to his comic legacy.  However, The Cable Guy has got to be the darkest film he has made to date!    "},{"Title":"Good clean fun for Carrey fans","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I know this movie has been ripped, and I can see why, but I have enjoyed repeated viewings just the same.  Jim Carrey plays loner/loser cable guy, with Matthew Broderick as his very hesitant new friend.  Carrey's desperate and often lunatic efforts to keep Broderick's interest is what drives the movie.  Many good if oblique references to tv series and movies, including on-going coverage of OJ-type murder trial.  Look for Janeane Garofalo in hilarious bit role as Medieval World waitress.    "},{"Title":"Loved it!!!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  When this movie came on my cable channel (of all things!) I watched it having let time be kind to it. It had been a long time since it flopped at the box office here so I gave it a go!Boy did I laugh my head off. I am always looking to expand my home theatre system and when I saw Chip's gift to matthew Broderick I was in heaven. ....... and the scene in knight suits where Carrey is singing the battle music of Star Trek's Amok Time episode just had me in stitches.Well done Carrey!  I actually thought the humour of The Mask was forced and this was a more natural role for Jim Carrey.8/10 "},{"Title":"A dark gem","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Forget what the critics have said and see this film. It's a perfect example of an overlooked movie that's been exposed to the herd mentality. Carrey shines in this black, and extremely funny exploration of the isolating nature of TV culture. Stiller was wise enough to give Carrey enough room to lay on his usual brand of schtick. Where as in other films it can be just too much, Carrey wields it in this film like a scalpel turning the character of Chip Douglas into a perfection of gesture and expression. Carrey's physical fluidity and timing captures the obsessiveness of a character who exists on a diet of television reruns, endlessly repeating scenes in his head. In The Cable Guy, Carrey plays the perfect manipulator, able to engineer any situation to his advantage with a hurt look, or a cruel dismissal, the largest irony of course that he cannot 'make' anyone actually like him. No one has played mad and bad with quite the same degree of intensity for some time.In many ways a better film that The Truman Show, certainly more effective and inventive, making use of Carrey's physicality, a feature I felt largely lacking in TTS. Matthew Broderick is also very enjoyable. Although, by no means an outstanding performance, I guarantee you'll be gritting your teeth in sympathy as you see him so easily bullied into Carrey's plans. Stiller has hit upon a seam of rarely mined humour not used so effectively since John Hughes' excellent Trains, Planes and Automobiles and John Avildsen's Neighbors with Belushi and Aykroyd. This has to be the definitive pain-in-the-ass-that-you-just-can't-get-rid-of films, the most galling of situations for the fact that its *your* own politeness that prevents you from showing these nutcases the door!In terms of out-and-out comedy, the basketball game and the men's washroom scenes deserve to go down in history as examples of perfect technique and execution. OK, i've gabbled enough, just go see it. "},{"Title":"wonderful allegory of television culture","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Chip Douglas as not so much a realistically troubled person but a science fictiony character in his being a human whose psychology is created entirely by television.  He conveys deep sentiments in talk show quotes, he performs daredevil stunts that are only cool when viewed on TV.  And EVERYONE instantly trusts him and lets him into their homes because they general have such faith in and dependence upon TV.  This is hilariously illustrated in the scene where the Broderick character is in jail (due to Chip) and it's revealed that even the guard is one of Chip's preferred customers.  And the way the family and g/f took Chip's side when the Broderick character was trying to get rid of him made a really interesting point about how people will believe television over real life (especially since Chip was feeding the family all of the talk show cliches as explanations of his friend's troubled state).  Television-dependence and the ensuing banality was depicted hilariously in the television segments that involved the twin murder trial (I think it was an Asian gang or something, they looked Asian and they were speaking another language, I think it was Asian!).  And I love the scenes leading up to the Cable Guy's plunge into the satellite where he's desperately sputtering out lines that reveal the worst that pop TV culture has to offer (Dry land is not a myth, I've seen it!... Waterworld... I am the bastard step child of Clare Huxtable!... I learned the facts of life from watching The Facts of Life!)  I liked how they showed a guy picking up a book and reading after the Cable Guy fell on the satellite but I wish they had done more with that type of happy ending. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Look -- the reason most people don't like this film is that most are Jim Carrey fans.  This is a Jim Carrey film for people who don't like Jim Carrey.This is one of those movies that you watch with awe as it just gets better and better with each viewing.  When I saw it in the theatres, I was impressed, but as I've watched it, I'm convinced it is one of the better  comedies of the 90s.   But if you hate it, there is little point in going on and on about why it is so good.  You either get it or you don't, and if you're looking for Jim Carrey slapstick screwball antics, you are almost guaranteed to be disappointed, since, although he does some of that stuff, that is not the raison d'etre of this film the  way it was in so many other Carrey vehicles. "},{"Title":"An underestimated movie!","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I think it's a shame that this movie is rated so low here (5,4 when I started to write about this movie). Maybe it's because people didn't understand anything about the story (it's a weird sort of movie). The theme of the film is excellent and Jim Carrey is great (not really laughable, a bit sad actually). I give it a 8/10.  "},{"Title":"In a word  Brilliant","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I had the advantage of seeing this movie after never having seen either Ace Ventura movie or Dumb and Dumber, and I'm glad.  I honestly think that the people that don't like this movie went into it expecting something that wasn't there, and were disappointed.  This film is by no stretch of the imagination a comedy.  It is a brilliant dark thriller that occasionally also has moments of comic brilliance.  The basketball scene is an all-time classic.  My girlfriend and I must have re-wound it 3 or 4 times, and ended up laughing hysterically everytime.  The Medieval Times sequence is also hilarious.Carrey's (and Stiller's) genius in this film is in creating a character that is simultaneously your worst nightmare, a car crash that you can't tear your eyes off of, a darkly funny villain, and an oddly endearing and pathetic loser.  He's the stalker that grows on you because he tries so hard to be liked when he's not ruining your life.I think this movie suffers from the same problem that Rushmore does.  Some people are turned off by movies with main characters that are essentially deeply flawed human beings.  Like Bill Murray and Jason Schwartzman's repellent and twisted characters in Rushmore (which I also loved), Carrey and Broderick's characters are not meant to be people that viewers should relate to.  They're dysfunctional people that should never have met. Therein lies the humor. "},{"Title":"The Cable Guy was sorely under-appreciated, and a new cult classic.","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Since I saw The Cable Guy in 1996, I have done nothing but rave about it to nearly everyone I've come into contact with.  Most of the humor in the movie is understated, which is why it needs at least two viewings to be truly appreciated.  Once you learn to enjoy all of Carrey's facial expressions, the movie becomes an absolute gem.  Perhaps average viewers were estranged by the fact that Jim Carrey did NOT take his performance over-the-edge.  The Cable Guy is a classic straight guy-weird guy story, like many others, but the Cable Guy takes the formula into a really dark area.  There are also parts of the movie that are downright hilarious.  Take for instance their first meeting, when Broderick accepts Carrey's invitation, and Carrey jumps like a little kid.  Anyways, this review way not sway the naysayers, but, The Cable Guy will always be my favorite movie, and it's fans like myself that make this movie a cult classic! "}{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Just like everyone else said, you have to watch it more than once. Brilliant direction by Ben Stiller. This is one of Jim Carrey's best roles; Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick, who'd a thunk it? They are excellent together. Matthew's expressions and body language during porno password are hilarious. We've never seen a movie like this before. It is a classic, although, granted.....this one has an acquired taste. "},{"Title":"A dark gem","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  A comedy that is very funny, but carries a truly menacing streak. Jim Carrey is as manic as ever, but shows a darker side, and a glimpse that he can handle drama as well as dumb comedy (consolidated by his performance in 'The Truman Show'). Matthew Broderick is the perfect foil for Carrey's disturbing lunacy, and, despite having read many reviews to the contrary, I feel he does well in an understated kind of way. An intriguingly plotted, relentlessly paced black comedy, with some of the funniest set-pieces I have seen for a while, of which the Porno Password scene has to be my fave. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Jim  plays lonely cable installer Chip Douglas who after giving  Matthew free cable,will not leave him alone.Clever black comedy should have done better than it did.Director Ben Stiller has a funny cameo.Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Not Carrey's worst, but just the opposite","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I find it hard to believe people call this Carrey's biggest bomb. He went away from the real corny comedy and into the more in depth comedy. True, you may not understand some jokes the first time you see it, but it contains some truly classic scenes. The basketball scene, Medieval Times scene, and karioke jam scene are hilarious parts. Stiller produced a real classic with The Cable Guy. If you don't find 90 minutes out of your time for this movie, it is only your loss. "},{"Title":"really deserves a second look-cause it's his second best","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I really love this movie-better than Ace, better than Liar Liar, better than the Mask-(but not better than Dumb and Dumber).  I liked how Jim Carrey was revealing a different kind of comedy...the kind that you don't really notice at first (that hilariously subtle lisp) and then slowly creeps up on you and slaps you in the face.  Matthew Broderick was good as the one played off of (although he had the same look on his face the whole movie) "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie, the second time you see it.","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit that I hated this movie the first time I saw it, but then one night it was on TV and I laughed my butt off. I don't understand why I didn't like it the first time, then loved it the second.  I liked it so much the second time I saw it I went out and bought it. Now it is one of our movie groups favorites to watch. I must say that if you didn't like it and you only saw it once.  Watch it again and see what happens.  The Cable Guy is a great film. "},{"Title":"phew","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I'm so happy other that there are other people out there that realize how great this movie is. The truth is nobody really likes this movie the first time round, I didn't. So see it again and lift your grudge against it. This movie deserves more "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's best!!!","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  It is a shame that so many people think 'The Cable Guy' is Carrey's worst movie. I think it is the best. People just don't seem to understand how brilliantly he performs the character of a lonely man who desperately needs a friend. And in his psychotic attempt to do this, he ruins it by being too pushy. I really think the movie is underestimated, and that Jim Carrey performance should have given him an Oscar. See the movie one more time and think about what I have said, and maybe, just maybe you will realize what a brilliant movie it is. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's Second Best Movie, If Not His Funniest","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  PEOPLE criticise Jim Carrey for being an over-the-top lunatic in films like Ace Ventura and The Mask. Then he tries something different, and they criticise him for not being an over-the-top lunatic like he was in Ace Ventura and The Mask. But more people like him, and appreciate his incredible talents, which are on display here.Carrey was never going to do cartoon characters forever, no matter how hilarious he is, and here he plays a character with psychological problems. See the problem? Every kids favourite film silly star in a nasty role. Especially since this came immediately after Carrey's biggest and most successful role as The Riddler is Batman Forever, People felt let down.But as a movie itself, it's unique, it's interesting, and it's one of Carrey's funniest. The basketball scene made me cry laughing first time I saw it, watching Carrey do his warm up shuttle runs, then when he uses another guy's back as a step ladder and slams the ball through the hoop and hangs there screaming as the backboard smashes, and then falls on to the floor with a thump as the glass rains down - this is SO funny! How anyone can watch this scene and not even raise a titter is unbelivable. Just thinking about it makes me want to burst out laughing. Surely the most underated movie of all time. If you're a little tired of Ace Ventura, Liar Liar and The Mask but you love Jim Carrey (and who, under the age of 18, doesn't?)give this a try. It may not be Carrey's funniest film, but it's funnier than Liar, Liar. It's not as good as The Truman Show, but nothing is, and as a complete movie it's Carrey's second best film. "},{"Title":"A film you have to see twice before you appreciate!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Once the credits came up on the screen the first time I saw this, I was left a bit confused by the whole film.  Not that it's a confusing film - I was just expecting the usual Jim Carrey film.  Then I watched it again and found it funnier, and each time I've watched it since I've found it funnier and funnier.  The performance by Carrey is superb and really believable.  The reason why this may be seen as a 'flop' is because people expect something totally different - like I did.  I would rate this as my second favourite Jim Carrey film (after The Truman show).  I wasn't overly impressed by Matthew Broderick's performnace but this was the film's only fault.  After a few times of watching it, you won't understand how you didn't find it hilarious in the first place!  The karaoke jam, the toilet scene, the fight at Medievel Times, are classic scenes!  This was the warm-up for the Truman Show and I love it! "}{"Title":"Raise your hand if you luv this movie! (I'm joking)","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  As a Jim Carrey Fan, I know all his good and bad movies he has done, and this is his worst movie...EVER! Playing as the diabolical, lonely, stalkin' Cable Guy gave me a reason to wake up screamin' at night. It took me a year to get over it (Thank God for 'Liar Liar') "},{"Title":"Brilliantly played by Jim Carrey--watch him stalk Matthew Brodrick!","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Most people I know (including myself) have needed to see this movie at least twice before appreciating it.  I hated it when I first saw it, and it's now one of my favorite movies.  The script is brilliant and very original.  A combination of dark humor, light humor, thriller, and drama, this is an excellent movie.  Classic scenes include Porno Password, Midevil Times, and the Kerioki Jam, among others.  DEFINITELY rent this and try to just enjoy it and see it a few more times.  You'll love it eventually...  "},{"Title":"Hilarious black comedy","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was unjustly panned when it came out mainly because of Carrey's against-type role. He's excellent though, as is the rest of the cast. All of Ben Stiller's movies and his TV show have been on the darker side of comedy and full of pop-culture TV references and in this one he's at his peak. The trial-of-the-century subplot works beautifully with the main theme of Stiller (and our) love-hate relationship with the idiot box. If you like dark comedies and are able to accept that Jim Carrey has a wider range than just slapstick (although I also loved Ace Ventura) watch this.The climactic end scene alone makes it worth it but there are plenty of funny moments and good dialogue. If you enjoy it then try to find tapes of The Ben Stiller Show which also went without the recognition it deserved.Stiller is definitely one of the best talents in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"bad rap","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is sincerely one of my favorite movies alltime.  aside from Jim Carrey's most brilliant preformace to date, it delivered a fantastic message about the dangers of movies and television and the effect of neglect.  Most people just didn't like this movie because it wasn't typical Carrey. Well, that's exactly why it was good,  just because he didn't talk out of his rear end doesn't mean he was bad.  "},{"Title":"Nope, don't think so","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Ordinarily, I'm attracted to characters normally considered unsympathetic, like Mr. Blonde or Leland Gaunt. I expected to thoroughly enjoy _The Cable Guy_, based on what I'd heard of its plot.Instead, I found myself glancing frequently at the VCR clock, waiting for the end of the flick. I found Chip to be simply annoying, someone who needs a good smack with the clue-by-four, and Steve is a spineless wimp who actively courts Chip's abuse, then whines about it. Janeane Garofalo's turn as the bitter, p*****-off waitress was the best part of the movie, IMNSHO.I like Broderick and Carrey, generally, but The Cable Guy just didn't do it for me.  "},{"Title":"good, Carrey craziest than ever","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  To be as neutral as possible, I would say that the realisation shows a lack of experience and that it's not the best movie Jim Carrey has made (see Truman Show, The).  But the starting idea is extremely original, and this movie will teach a lesson to parents who think they can put their children in front of TV and they don't have to worry about them.  I don't think anyone would want to have a child like Chip Douglas!  Personally, I liked this movie (I watched it twice during the same night). There are very hot scenes, such as the karaoke and the medieval fight, but the final product is inequal.  At last, the soundtrack fits perfectly the movie, particularly Filter's song (Hey man nice shot) during the basketball game.  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey is one of the Most versatile talents of today - Magnificent","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I have been in stitches over Jim Carrey's cartoon character comedy from the first.  In the Cable Guy Mr. Carrey used his exaggerated style to arouse terror. (my first reaction shock - then came increasing amazement) The Jefferson Airplane Kareoke scene is absolutely brilliant.  With his recent version of I am the Walrus on George Martin's latest release I can't wait to see his recording career in full bloom.  With The Truman Show I couldn't help but fall in love with him. Is there anything he can't do? You're CLASSIC Jim! "},{"Title":"This is the worst film that I've ever seen.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I think the summary says it all; this is quite without doubt the worst film that it's ever been my displeasure to watch. I hated Jim Carrey in it (yep, he's good in The Truman Show) and I hated Matthew Broderick (who isn't in The Truman Show, but is in Godzilla and is bad, but is in The Graduate and is good).That's all. DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM! "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  First of all I am a fan of Carey's and even a bigger fan of Broderick's so I was sure I would love the combination!  Well, I was wrong.  Don't get me wrong, it had its moments.  Unfortunately they weren't strong enough moments to me.  The entire movie comes across as one big skit centering around the antics of Carey's annoying character.  Broderick's character was so ho-hum I don't even think that HE could believe this could be a real person!  Sadly, the best part of the film for me was the closing credits.  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's only bomb was actually a great movie that deserved a second look.","Date":"20 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I think the first time anybody sees The Cable Guy, they automatically feel letdown. That's because they expect Jim Carrey to be YELLING and TWISTING and FLAILING HIS ARMS AROUND. But his performance in The Cable Guy is actually an excellent one, maybe even better than his dramatic turn in the critically-praised The Truman Show. Here, he plays Chip Douglas, the lonely cable installer who stalks Matthew Broderick. And he's not his usual, Somebody-Stop-Me whirlwind of comedy. He's dark, manipulating, and very, very intense. He's dead-on as the tag-along friend, because everybody knows somebody like The Cable Guy. And the more you watch this movie, the more brilliant his performance seems. Not too long ago, Premiere published an article called Ten Great Movies that Didn't Deserve to Bomb. I was happy to see The Cable Guy at the top of the list, because Ben Stiller's comedy is actually a classic- if you see it more than once. "}{"Title":"Dark comedy was never a cooler genre!","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Brilliant!  Jim Carrey tried something different and was amazing.  The only drawback was Matthew Broderick.  I can't explain it, I just don't like the way he played the part.  I loved how the story combined both Carrey's freaky, laughable antics and the serious problems of a man who was severely neglected as a child.  You really want to feel sorry for Chip Douglas, and then he freaks out and your scared of him, and then in the end you think to yourself, man this guy had it rough  I think that's why I ended up not liking Broderick and his character.  Finally, I'd like to extend a virtual middle finger to everyone who moaned and groaned for Carrey to do something different and then moaned again when they were taken off guard by this movie.  Make up your pathetic minds people!  He is brilliant in any role!  "},{"Title":"Terrible. Really terrible.","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I am very disappointed that I stayed for the duration of this film. It really is awful, in my opinion. I like stupid humour, when it's done properly like Monty Python or Aeroplane. This was just poor. Jim Carrey plays a psychotic yet supposedly lovable former cable guy. The purpose of his character seems to be more focused on saying random jokes than advancing the plot in any way. He starts the film as a stalker and does not develop. Matthew Broderick is also annoyingly bad in places, though not nearly to the same extent. This film failed to make me actually laugh once, although I did manage a smirk a few times. If you like smart dumb comedies, this isn't for you. If you like laughing at anything said in a funny voice, prepare to be entertained. "},{"Title":"Hair plugs....","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Steven Kovak has been kicked out of his apartment by his girlfriend. Steven has a new apartment, and decides to slip Chip, the cable guy $50 for free cable. He then fakes an interest in Chip's line of work. However Chip takes this to heart trying to become Steven's best bud. When Steven no longer wants to be Chips friend, he goes on an all out assault to ruin Steven's life. All this runs along a little sub-plot of the trial of a former kid star for murdering his brotherThis never flopped, it wasn't as successful as Dumber, Mask, Ventura, as they all featured the same shtick, Carrey acting all goofy.So when the trailer gave us a misleading campaign, who wouldn't be freaked out to see psycho Carrey, stalking poor old Ferris.The film certainly has flaws, but one cannot deny that the film is daring and highly original. And kudos to Stiller, for making the the most bankable star of the era and literally getting him to do something totally inspired and left field.Today, Stiller would write, direct and star, and Jonah Hill would probably play Steven. This saddens me. What we have here is well acted, genuinely funny and terrifying at the same time, proving that Carrey is an immaculate actor, and Stiller has a lot of talent.Whether they can make another film like this is another question, but it makes you appreciate the nineties for its consumerism and it's left field ways.This is the film that defined Carrey as a star. "},{"Title":"I don't get why some critics hate this film so much","Date":"28 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I personally thought this film is a bit underrated, sure it's awkward but still pretty intriguing although some parts doesn't seem that necessary. But if your a movie buff, you might enjoy watching this more than just a casual movie watcher. This is pretty much a dark comedy that has some thriller aspects to it as well. It's far from being a fantastic movie, but it most definitely doesn't deserve the bashing some critics are giving in my opinion. So the premise is about a psycho and lonely cable guy who has a vast knowledge of televisions and movies that is in need of a friend, and when he thinks he found one things turn a bit creepy. Although it isn't a laugh out loud funny movie, it still is intriguing and entertaining from beginning to end, with is amusing performance by Jim Carrey playing the TV psycho. Like I said not one of the best in this type of genre, but not bad as some critics claim it to be.6.2/10 "},{"Title":"Dark slice of comedy pie from Carrey & Stiller.","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" As with everything in life, the internet also has its good and bad angles. Here with The Cable Guy, I myself salute the internet highway and in particular the many users of IMDb who have come forth to support this most divisive of movies. Lambasted on release by regarded critics and chided by many a cinema goer who went in expecting Mask & Ace Ventura like fluff, The Cable Guy was thought to be the death knell for Carrey's career. It wasn't of course. He would revert to pleasing box office friendly type the following year with Liar Liar, and would continue to surprise with his choice of roles, and the performances with them, in the likes of The Truman Show, Man On The Moon & Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind. As a point of reference with his career overview, The Cable Guy stands up as a bold choice by Carrey, and one that serves notice of his willingness, and ability, to take on more challenging roles.The film itself is a mixture of high Carrey comedy mixed with dark, almost horror, undertones. It's thematics of loneliness and the need for companionship makes for an odd bedfellow with the berserker antics of Carrey as he plays off Matthew Broderick's ordinary Joe. Yet director Ben Stiller, the cop out finale aside, has achieved the cheeky fusion with much success. Utilising Carrey's energy as both a force of comic nature, and a bubbling under the surface desperado loony tune. Along the way, well before it goes real dark and gets edgy, we are treated to some delightful comedy moments. A Karaoke sequence and dinner at Medieval Times stand out, but the knowing jokes referencing movies and the TV infatuated world are also unheralded, and astute, stabs of fun. Far from perfect it be, but it's a film that was badly timed, or even, misunderstood by the scribes of the time. Thank the lord for the internet for we can now find those prepared to admit they like much about The Cable Guy. Yes, I be one of those hardy souls too. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sorely underrated. Nah I'm just messing with you!","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Jim Carrey had a meteoric rise to fame. After years of playing second fiddle, Carrey's manic energy drew notice when he landed the starring role in Ace Ventura Pet Detective. And followed it up with similar hits in The Mask, Dumb & Dumber and Batman Forever. By the time of The Cable Guy, Carrey was getting 20 million a film. Something unheard of in 1996.Jim Carrey's career was founded on larger then life antics, rubber faced gymnastics and off the wall wackiness. And The Cable Guy was a noble effort to try something different. So not surprisingly The Cable Guy got the cold shoulder from Carrey fans. Many people saw it as his first real flop. Although it earned a more than modest 100 million worldwide. More then Ace Ventura brought in. I think people have selective memories.Its true the reviews were mixed. Many people weren't sure how to accept Jim Carrey in the role of a psycho stalker. (They seemed to ignore that when he played the Riddler the year before. Again, selective memories). But while some have been attempting to redress the balance since, I'm afraid The Cable Guy really has too many flaws to be hailed as some underrated classic.Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) moves in to a bachelor pad after splitting with his girlfriend Robin. All that's left is cable service. After a four hour wait, and while he's in the shower no less, Steven finally gets a visit from cable technician Chip Douglas. Chip is all watts and no volts. And he has a smile that can make you queasy. When Steven slips him $50 for free cable, he's made a fatal mistake.Chip gives him the cable package alright. But to him, Steven's request is an invitation into his life. And he suddenly starts stalking Steven, convinced they're the best of friends. And the more Steven tries to push him away, the more Chip tries to take over his life. Even stealing Robin away from him.The Cable Guy tackles a subject really quite dark for a comedy. Stalking. But that leaves the film in an awkward position. How to make a film about stalking funny? Well its very simple. You don't. There is nothing funny about stalkers, so what we have is a comedy looking for laughs in a subject where there's none to be found. Its an unworkable premise.There are quite a few things wrong with The Cable Guy. One problem I had with it is that Steven isn't very sympathetic. When the topic is stalking, we need to sympathise with the victim. But Steven is a bland character. One fails to see what Robin + Chip see in him. Indeed Matthew Broderick looks awkward in a lot of his scenes with Jim Carrey. Probably because he has no clue what to do when you're sharing the screen with an unpredictable lunatic.Certainly since he was getting a 20 million dollar paycheck for the role, Jim Carrey puts everything into it. In some scenes he really pulls out all the stops, like when he manically attacks Jefferson Airplane's Somebody to Love at a karaoke do. In two really sadistic scenes, he takes Steven to his favourite restaurant, Mediaeval Times, and the two do battle with swords, clubs, axes and jousting lances. And then beats up a man trying to chat Robin up in a mens room.I actually found scenes like these more disturbing than funny. And that's largely the problem with The Cable Guy. When it tries to be funny it just comes out weird. When it tries to be sinister, it comes out silly. You'd be hard pressed to find a film more confused. Jim Carrey may have been trying to flex himself as an actor, but its just the same old shtick in the wrong kind of movie.The supporting cast is more interesting. We have quite a few before they became famous names on the credits. Look out for Jack Black, Owen Wilson, and the film is even directed by Ben Stiller. In fact, one wonders what the film might have been like with a bit of recasting. What if Jack Black had played The Cable Guy and Ben Stiller had played Steven? Black can play tightly controlled mania far better then Carrey can. And Stiller is great at playing put upon schmucks bending to pressure. Matthew Broderick just isn't right for Steven. He was a perfect Ferris Bueller, and a great teen hacker in WarGames, but as Steven he's just straitjacketed into the role of an uptight yuppie, with all his cocky charisma bled out of the character.The script feels unfinished. Steven and Jack Black's friendship is vague at best. Why Chip is disturbed is never really explained. We guess its because of a lonely childhood spent in front of the TV. So I think there is supposed to be a hidden message there. How television has saturated its way into society. The numbing effects of television on a person. Steven's doorbell even sounds like a gameshow buzzer.All the people in the film are glued to their sets watching an ongoing court trial. Chip throws himself onto a satellite transmitter, disrupting cable everywhere (one fella decides to read a good book instead), so I think the moral of the film is man triumphs over the effects of television. But that's a muddled message at best. The Cable Guy never really finds a balance between the satire it tries for and the thriller it could (should?) have been. One for die-hard Carrey fans. "},{"Title":"Doesn't deserve the rap it gets.","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I am surprised by how negatively this movie is generally considered. I think personally with the one exception of the Truman Show, people just hate seeing Jim Carrey in anything other then his usual comedic roles. Yes this film is slightly dark at times but never ventures into the thriller or true drama realm so rest easy. In fact some scenes in this film had me laughing out loud(particularly Jim Carrey's insane karaoke version of Somebody To Love). As for the acting Carrey truly goes all out for what he is given in this film(people at this time of course were not used to seeing him act seriously), Matthew Broderick isn't terribly good but does what is required of him as always. Stiller also shows some promise as a director and overall the film is a fairly well put together. I think its downfall lies just in the irregularity of its feeling, by which I mean the film doesn't stick to one specific genre and some might consider this a bit sloppy. In any case, this is by no means a bad movie and I would recommend to anyone as a nice late night cable flick. "},{"Title":"Only the Lonely","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" As many others have said.This film is so underrated! It struck a chord with me as it reminded me that even though the Carey character is wacky,zany,annoying and eventually becomes a dangerous (in some respects) stalker.He is the really no more than a small child in a big playground,desperate for other kids to play with.Would you want this guy as a friend? I doubt it? But was he always as crazy and OTT.Did the loneliness and desperation to find someone to accept him make him more and more pushy? It's as if he is saying.'Right if no one want to be my friend and help me away from this awful lonely life,then I'm gonna FORCE someone to be around me' It is actually quite a sad film.I'm in no way a fan of Carey.I find his character portrayals way to OTT for me...But in this instance I feel the character fits his acting style perfectly.A film for all those who have stood in a corner while the world played without them. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey is simply superb !","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Like some other poster has mentioned in his review , i can also watch this movie , any number of times ,not only for Carrey , but also for Brodrick , who have presented some different shades of characters ; An apparently normal , peace loving , submissive , and sincerely working guy , confronted with an aggressive , weird , abnormal , psychologically disturbed , yet quite intelligent and tricky , when it comes to taking revenge of the denial ,for his offer of friendship ! Every move of the Cable Guy , be it dashing into the vulnerable Brodrick's house , or winning every body's heart at the family get together by his funny games ,sprinkled with even obscene mischief , hanging on the poles , Carrey has given it a mind-blowing dimension , with his extra -ordinary ability of body language , mimicry , powerful dialog delivery , and screen presence . Ben Stiller as the director of the movie deserves to be congratulated on handling the theme and the plot line in a very competent manner ; Why has the Cable Guy become a neurotic ? A deeply disturbed individual , who takes pleasure in harassing his unsuspecting victims ? The glimpses of his childhood explain the trauma and the subsequent abnormality . Yet , it's very touching towards the end , when Brodrick tries to prevent Carrey from jumping , but a desperate and eccentric Carrey lets go , and is luckily saved , but suffers major injuries . All the other supporting characters seem so real , and natural .A lot of hard work has gone into script writing and shooting , be it the office meeting scene , while Brodrick is about to be arrested , and his secretary is trying to signal him , or Brodrick speaking to Carrey , when he is behind the bars , and some action of Carrey evokes interest in other prisoners , thinking he is gay ! That was very funny indeed , though it might seem a little vulgar , with Carrey making those slurping sounds with his tongue ! This movie simply attacks you with it's powerful handling , acting and the flow of events , like Naigara falls . Jim is brash , brazen ,yet a lovable psycho ! All those who love him ,or even those who hate him , do see this movie for it's sheer psychological impact . "},{"Title":"Carrey Carries Cable Guy","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I will start this off by saying I'm not Jim Carrey's biggest fan, I liked the Ace Ventura films, Liar Liar and The Mask as a kid but as I've got older I realised they were pretty poor films really. I thought Dumb and Dumber was funny but I'm not a huge fan of that type of comedy, Bruce Almighty was rather average and the less said about Batman & Robin the better. However I loved Cable Guy which is why I find it so odd others don't. Carrey is superb and carries the film almost single-handedly producing some genuinely classic comic scenes including the 'Dont You Want Somebody to Love' karaoke scene, the beating of Owen Wilson in the toilets by Carrey dressed as some kind of Freddie Mercury lookalike and everyone's favourite, the truly hilarious 'Porno Password' scene. The best for me though is the dream scene where he is trying to bang down Broderick's front door which is as disturbing as it is hysterical. Matthew Broderick wasn't as bad as some critics made out but its Carrey's film all the way, hes only been better in The Truman Show, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind and perhaps Man on the Moon. This is also my favourite Ben Stiller directed film to date, he took a gamble with what could have been a flop (it wasn't it actually made a substantial profit despite critics suggesting otherwise) but his bravery paid off, I'd like to see him do another dark comedy but he seems to have settled into making your average run-off-the mill type comedies in the Farrelly brothers mold which I think he should leave with them as they seem to have nailed the genre down, although this isn't necessarily a bad thing I did enjoy Zoolander and I've heard Tropic Thunder is good.Still I hope Stiller has another shot at this type of film, I just hope the unfairly poor reviews haven't put him off. Also I hope Carrey starts taking some more daring roles, he has so much talent that he could be winning all types of awards including an Oscar but he is quickly being typecast as little more than a slapstick comic, which sadly he could end up being remembered as. "}{"Title":"A smart comedy that thankfully didn't kill Jim Carrey's career.","Date":"25 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I learned the facts of life from watching 'The Facts of Life!' - Chip Douglas Released in 1996, following a string of successful Jim Carrey comedies that included Ace Ventura Pet Detective and Dumb & Dumber, The Cable Guy takes a darker, more subtler approach to its material and therefore is a film not a lot of people got. Jim Carrey plays the villainous role (similar to that of The Riddler in Batman Forever) of Chip Douglas, a cable guy with who has raised himself on TV, and who just wants to make friends with his new, preferred customer, Steven, played by the hapless Matthew Broderick. After doing a solid for Broderick's character, Chip assumes they are buddies and follows him around like a lost puppy. Buying him extravagant gifts &#150; which range from stolen electronics to prostitutes &#150; and interfering with his relationship and family life &#150; culminating in a hilarious game of Porno Password &#150; Chip becomes not only a stalker, but a genuine detriment to Steven's well-being.Directed by Ben Stiller, the film is notorious for being one of the earliest Judd Apatow productions, and features a very talented cast, some of whom would go on to bigger and better things, such as Jack Black, Leslie Mann, Andy Dick, Janeane Garofalo, Owen Wilson, George Segal and even Stiller himself. The true star is really Jim Carrey, as always. Carrey brings to life yet another of his wacky and weird characters, although, this one is more complicated than some of his earlier roles. With lisp and all, he makes the creepy stalker/sociopath almost too real, which seems to have paid off in his later, more serious roles. While the film isn't exactly full of laughs like one would expect, it is consistent and entertaining. A dark comedy that could be interpreted as a cautionary tale on what happens when your child grows up in front of the TV; it's darker and more layered than the average Hollywood comedy. Ironically, TV junkies will pick up on an assortment of retro references that pre-date Family Guy and anyone who enjoys a nice, brainy comedy now and again will find The Cable Guy to be an unheralded gem of the 90's. "},{"Title":"Thorough fun","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Ever been menaced, threatened, harassed ,stalked by your cable guy? Daddy Carrey is what &#133;--like the best comical actor today. He's a fabulous comedy booster, an enhancer.As the creepy cable guy, he rules a tale of harassment&#151;often explosively funny. I mean, that's like prehistoric fun.I'd believe the down&#151;talkers, if only they wouldn't be so damn good at praising every possible wrong lad instead.In CABLE GUY the humor is sometimes conventionally gross, others it's plain sick.The best scene was the one with the porno passwords. "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny hands down Jim Carrey being Jim!","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" You will never imagine the movie that I saw the other night. It was this hilarious little flick full of laughs and drama at every turn. The story line fills everyone with emotions that we all have felt before and keeps you guessing all the time. This movie will take you on a thrill ride and make you laugh till you drop. The movie is called The Cable Guy, (1996), featuring Jim Carrey, as the Cable Guy and Matthew Broderick as Steven Kovacs, and Leslie Mann as Robin Harris is sure to produce and is awarded with my two thumbs way up. It all starts off with Steven (Broderick) who is a middle aged man going through a tough time with his girlfriend Robin (Mann). He is living in a new place and is just moving in when the movie starts and his cable is not working. Therefore, we see him call the Cable Guy (Carrey). He calls and waits for hours for the Cable Guy to arrive, and then when in the shower, we can hear the maniacal CABLE GUY!! from Carrey's lips. Also, you can hear him knocking on the door. After this initial encounter with the Cable Guy, whose assumed name we learn is Chip Douglas, we start to feel out who Chip really is. We find that he is a man Hell bent on gaining friends and will do anything to fulfill his goals. He wants to gain a life that he never had before. We also, find out that he is from a very distinct and somewhat tragic background. His parents were never around really and so he was left with his only friend, the television. He was raised on television and has a vast knowledge of movies and shows alike. After, Chip fixes Steven's cable, they agree to be friends and start a friendship. The cinematic aspects at this point are very basic, but as the journey continues, they get more intimate and up-close. Chip starts to wreck havoc on Steven and Robin's lives. In one scene Steven and Chip are in Medieval Times and fight in the pit and the music and close up angles of the camera really catch this moment. Another scene where the camera uses a lot of low to high and close ups is a scene where Chip joins Steven and his friends for a pickup game of basketball. The shots by the camera make you feel as if you are on the court and in the game. As the movie goes on however, we start to see that Chip may be borderline psychotic. He is really desperate in his quest and is desperately trying to earn the trust and friendship of all he meets. It is this desperation that causes a lot of trouble throughout the movie. This is the more serious aspect of this movie. At one point in the film, Chip beats a man senseless and brutally just to fix things between Robin and Steven. He also, just gets very stalker-like and scary. This may be true for certain parts of the movie, but don't forget this movie has a very humorous side to it. Jim Carrey produces a very funny side. He is quick to reference numerous movies, such as the infamous hello Clarice... bit from Silence of the Lambs,(1991). He calls out the XENA warrior cry during the Medieval Times fight scene. Besides these comic bits, Jim Carrey is just Jim Carrey and will leave you dying of laughter in some of the scenes. It is just his nature and who he is. Broderick is also humorous in the film doing multiple dialogues with Carrey and not matching, but almost just as funny as Carrey. All and all, this film is a movie that will leave you thrilled and chock full o' laughter. It also leaves you wanting more and doing circles in your seat. The story line is one that I am sure many can relate to and it is definitely a movie for everyone. If you loved Jim Carrey as I did in the Ace Ventura Pet Detective, (1994) and Ace Ventura When Nature Calls, (1995), Then you will absolutely love The Cable Guy, (1996). "},{"Title":"Perhaps it hits a little too close to home...","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Steven M. Kovacks (Matthew Broderick) is in transition time. At work, his boss is using the current account he's working on as a daily Sword of Damocles, as girlfriend Robin (Leslie Mann) reacts to his marriage proposal by kicking him out (a true romance killer). Buddy Rick (Jack Black) suggests that, as part of moving in to his own place, he slips whatever cable guy shows up an extra $50 to snag the premium channels for free. Steven repeats this to the Cable Guy (Jim Carrey) that DOES show up to install his cable.Big mistake.Oh, yeah, all this takes place against the backdrop of the trial of angry, disgruntled former child star Sam Sweet (director Ben Stiller), an event being celebrated as if it were the Super Bowl.I'd like to get the contemporaries of the film out of the way first. It's the kind of casting that only Stiller could concoct, which is one of the trademarks of his films. You can see performances of members of Stiller's own inner circle--Janeane Garofalo, Andy Dick, and even charter member Owen Wilson, as well as Black and his Tenacious D cohort, Kyle Gass, Kathy Griffin, Sean Whalen, Mr. Show masterminds David Cross and Bob Odenkirk, and a truly priceless cameo by Eric Roberts, easily one of Hollywood's greatest sports. Set pieces and scenes are mini-stories in themselves, played for laughs, as you might expect. The atmosphere is classic Greek tragedy by the way of Saturday Night Live and Madison Avenue, with just the slightest dash of Mark Twain. (I'd offer a ransom to hear what Mark Twain might say about television.) Which brings me to the point--a lot of what I hear about this film courts terms such as underrated and overlooked. I have a theory about why that is. First, know that at its heart, The Cable Guy is satire, a second-home genre to Stiller. Satire normally doesn't do very well at the box office, because it is usually an honest attempt to hold a high-definition mirror up to society. This perpetuates truth, something, according to history, humans hate. The worst effects of television on society are on display in this film, and they're funny because they're truth. It's extremely fair to say that it's not a comedy--possibly more accurate to say that it's not JUST a comedy. It's easy to dismiss a film like this while we gallop right back into the arms of Will & Grace, Ultimate Fighting Championship, Survivor, The O.C., TMZ, or the ruling distraction of the moment. The darkness, whether in Carrey's performance, or the resulting interplay (say what you will of Broderick, but doing the straight man ain't no piece of cake), is validated by everything else. Again, it's funny BECAUSE it's true. Take for granted that if you have even a little TV in your home, you have a little Chip Douglas in you. Yes, even you. "},{"Title":"This and 'The Mask' are IMHO Carrey's best to date","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I agree with 'The Gent,' though there is NO movie in this world I would be interested to see 30 times!!! -O Just happened to catch the film by chance on cable, or most of it, and was just as entertained and mentally stimulated as the first time. For sure it is a dark comedy, showing how blurred the line can be both for stalkers and stalkees as to what is permissible and when what seems harmless is on the brink of becoming dangerous. This is what makes it an especially interesting film for me. Passion and need combine to make a potentially deadly cocktail for both parties, and happily the movie ends with neither of the lead characters meeting their demise. Though it does end on what seems to me to be a particularly realistic note, and that is that the nature of the stalker is not changed. He just shifts targets. And that he was willing to die to kill the babysitter is a sign he recognized he was irreparably damaged by the neglect he suffered in his childhood. He saw no way of fixing the problem in himself. Like lots of other people like him, he felt that going out with a message was worth the going out (the message obviously being 'My mom neglected me so I became a hopeless needy psychotic being who has no potential of real happiness or satisfaction in this life, therefore it is not worth living and I am ending it - and by the way, the fact she stuck me in front of a TV instead of nurturing me is one of the major ways she destroyed my sense of self and the idea that I had any value to another living being whatsoever). It is an intelligent and introspective film that examines the direction our society has been going for some time in the U.S. and elsewhere, and we should all take stock of the points it makes for ourselves and loved ones, as well as the future we wish to create and leave behind. "},{"Title":"A dark comedy that gets darker every minute, Carrey is outstanding","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Businessman Steven (Matthew Broderick) has moved into his own apartment, due to continuing troubles with his beautiful wife, Robin (Leslie Mann). As the boob tube is a major relief from his present worries, he calls the cable company for installation. The doorbell rings. In comes a man who says his name is Chip Douglas (Jim Carrey), ready and very eager to give Steven the best. However, the cable guy is curious indeed about the circumstances of Steven's present living arrangements. When he hears the brief tale, Chip invites Steven to go with him to see the place where the cable originates, a giant disc in the country. From there, Chip manages to infiltrate Steven's life, throwing parties at Steve's house, taking him to dinner at a medieval-themed restaurant and giving him lavish gifts. But, Steven is wary and tells Chip that he just doesn't think they can be buds, even though he is grateful for Chip's attention. Now, that was the wrong thing to say, as Chip is more than slightly abnormal, mentally speaking. Will Chip seek revenge for the rejection? This is an amazing film, with several running themes and wonderful performances. Carrey is outstanding as the lonely cable guy who wants friends in the worst way, only to have folks push him away because of his neediness and his unstable mental condition. Broderick, too, is quite fine as the nice man who finds it hard to break away from a kook's attentions. Mann, Jack Black, George Segal, and Ben Stiller (in a most unusual cameo), along with the other lesser names, give terrific turns, too. The story itself is part social commentary, part psycho, and part dark comedy. What a mixture! The costumes and sets are okay, but are relatively of small importance, although Mann always looks nice. Stiller's direction is pretty seamless as well. The ending is pure genius, revolving around the concept of how many folks become attached to their own television sets. If you are a fan of Carrey's or just like dark, edgy, uncomfortable comedy, this is a first choice for you. It is not just another day at the beach, cinematically speaking. Catch it on your own cable station soon. "},{"Title":"This film doesn't get the credit it deserves","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This is truly one of Ben Stiller's best film's, and one of Jim Carrey's best starring roles. I have no idea why it has such a low rating everywhere, because for its comedic purpose, it does exceedingly well--unlike so many comedies out there today.Jim Carrey plays The Cable Guy himself. He's a man who is lonely and mentally disturbed, but more importantly, has a comical lisp. He's so lonely, in fact, that whenever someone acts friendly, he takes it too seriously--and immediately assumes that they're best friends. He takes this to an extreme with Matthew Broderick's character, literally forcing him to do stuff with him. And when their relationship turns sour, Carrey goes on a mission to make Broderick's life miserable.The other actors are great, including Jack Black. His Tenacious D costar Kyle Gass also makes a cameo towards the end.This film is altogether an enjoyable comedy, even though it's a little short. It's not stupid, and it's not overly complex. It's just right. If you're looking for a funny way to spend 90 minutes, then The Cable Guy is for you. "},{"Title":"Underrated and Carrey is Superb","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I'd only seen clips of this film before watching it in full, I'd heard the usual stuff that is thrown around about this film...'Jim Carrey isn't funny' 'his worst film' etc. But if they took the time to analyse the film as an independent film rather than comparing it to Carrey's other wacky comedy films then they'd see that The Cable Guy is a really good film. It starts by throwing us straight into the story with Mattew Broderick (Steven) living in a new apartment after we learn that he has recently separated (tempararily) from his girlfriend Robyn. Then comes Jim Carrey as Chip Douglas, the strange yet harmless cable guy who gives Steven free cable. From then on, he becomes more and more infatuated with Steven and wanting to become his friend, the scene in the Cable van sticks in my mind where Chip is touched by the fact that Steven has asked him what his name is. It only emphasises his loneliness. After a tricky start, everything seems to be going well for Chip and he feels like he's found a friend in Steven before he finds out that the girl at his Karaoke party (which includes some hilarious scenes) who he slept with was in fact a prostitute hired by Chip. This sharply turns everything round for their friendship and Chip is told to leave immediately. This fires Chip in to wanting to make it up to Steven and he even patches up his relationship with Robyn for him but despite this, Steven still feels there's something not quite right about Chip and tells him that he doesn't want to be his friend in a really well acted scene by both Broderick and Carrey. This next turn fires Chip into another direction, a revenge scheme. He uses devious ways to interfere with Steven's life such as turning him into the police for accepting his stolen goods such as the huge plasma TV and Jukebox system. He visits him in prison and hilariously parodies The Midnight Express while also informing him that he's going to 'take care' of Robyn in more great dark acting from Carrey. Once Steven gets bail, Chip then loses him his job and mixes with his family while ever getting closer to Robyn who starts leaning towards Chip rather than Steven and starts to worry over Steven's change of personality. What ensues is the climax of the film in where Chip could truly change Steven's life forever and his own in a superbly acted, and also slightly moving ending. Throughout the film there is also a running back-plot which is revealed at the end and finalises with a great twist which adds to the films quality of story.To summarise, I'll start with the often slated performance of Jim Carrey. Carrey is one of my favourite comic actors but he's not only that..he's got a lot more in his locker than that and this film proves his amazing talent as an actor rather than just a zany comedian. He really does perform the character of Chip fantastically well, the loneliness and pain inside him is acted so well and at the same time is funny throughout the film. One of my favourite scenes of the film is where he leaves about 10 messages on Steven's answer phone..its funny and yet makes you really feel sorry for him at the same time. When you start feeling sorry for a character and really seeing his personality traits shine through as well as Chip's in this...you know that he's put in a great performance. So what if he's not Lloyd Christmas or Ace Ventura (Great though they are) anymore...this is something new. Something different, a new character with more too him. An edge, the creepiness, the loneliness, the strange and dark humour he has. Its a really fine performance off Carrey which is so underrated by many. Matthew Broderick also performs really well as the 'straight guy' of the film, his baby face and soft voice plus good acting really give across the feeling of Steven being a nice guy, just a genuine, helpful and thoughtful to others kind of guy. This unfortunately for him is seen by Chip who uses it and takes advantage of it. The supporting actors also play their part and its actually really well directed by Ben Stiller whose only other film I've seen (which he's directed) was Zoolander which I thought was awful. The comedy is also great in the film and isn't lost and combined with the extra edge is amazing. The only real problem or improvement that could of been made was more flashback scenes to further explore his upbringing rather than one scene being used to explain for Chip's behaviour and state of mind. Highly underrated by many, as I said before, people need to stop singling out Carrey's performance and comparing it to his other comedy films and think of it as an independent film and they should see that its not as bad as they thought. Carrey was huge in 96 (the $20 million pay cheque is only proof) and they were obviously expecting another flat out wacky comedy from the comedy man that is Jim Carrey. They weren't open to the fact that he has a lot more range in his acting ability. He's gone on to prove it many more times in films such as The Truman Show, The Majestic, Man on the Moon and The Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind etc. This was just maybe the first real sign of that acting ability and people weren't used to it and couldn't adapt to it. People who don't like change and would of preferred another Ace Ventura following from the appalling Nature Calls (1995). I loved it and I'm glad I gave it a chance. Directed well, superb acting, funny, has got an edge, creepy, dark, moving...a truly unique comedy film which is badly underrated. "},{"Title":"Number 4 On Top Ten Jim Carrey Films","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The most under-rated movie ever. This is probably the greatest dark comedy in existence. Unfortunately it did badly at the box office as it attracted Jim Carrey's fans he obtained doing films previous to this such as Ace Ventura Pet Detective and The Mask. These fans wanted another light-hearted, no-brainer comedy and so they weren't happy with this dark, dark comedy which is actually quite smart. Then critics gave very mixed reviews. Many got the film and hailed it for the greatness it deserves. Many didn't get it as they again were expecting a comedy and got a film which is more like a dark thriller with comedic bits. Ben Stiller shows fantastic promise as a director, especially how he uses colour to show the movie's dark undertones and as always Jim Carrey is fantastic. Owen Wilson, Jack Black, Matthew Broderick and Ben Stiller also star -although Owen only has a bit-part and Ben only has a cameo... well technically two cameos. This film rules! The Cable Guy The Cable Guy 10/10 "},{"Title":"one of the best, most underrated films of the nineties.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" When I saw this film for the first time in the theater in 1996 it was shortly after Ace Ventura had come out and a bit after Carey had left In Living Color what I was expecting was a screwball comedy, what I got was a dark cinematic masterpiece that I didn't appreciate until two years later when a friend insisted I watch it again. Jim Carey in this film demonstrates that he is a genius. One of the most talented, best acted, comedic performances of all time, no joke. This film is brilliantly written, not a bad note, skillfully directed and coupled with outstanding acting from Jim Carey this becomes one of those rare cinematic gems that like a fine French wine or Farrah Fawcet gets better with age, as time goes by this film gets better and better with each passing year and can only truly be appreciated with repeated viewings. "}{"Title":"An okay dark comedy","Date":"1 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy symbolizes a new challenge for Jim Carrey. Without leaving behind his comical talents, he shows us his evil side here.This is a dark comedy which is funny, interesting and original at the beginning, but as the movie runs it loses some of its original impact and turns into a strange and macabre film. The cable guy (who says so many different names all over the movie) goes too far and to the extreme, which causes a strange feeling of tension and suspense. I say strange because it's strange to see Jim Carrey playing the role of a comic villain.The cable guy is a mysterious man he's a lonely guy who desperately wants a friend, so he chooses Steven Kovacs in a night when he goes to his house to install cable television service for free. At first they become friends, but the cable guy shows his friendship in bizarre and often violent ways and through weird behaviors, which forces Steven to put an end to their friendship. The cable guy doesn't take «No» as an answer and then goes to the limits he resorts to stalking Steven, but ends up having a tragic ending and that's when he apparently reveals his real name, but we don't know for sure if that's the real name.The cable guy is a complex character I never knew for sure if I should hate him or feel sorry for him. He does awful things, but on the other hand he only wants a friend so that he doesn't feel lonely anymore.Overall, a reasonable movie. Watchable but not great. Tense, dark and with suspense, without being really scary. But, above all things, this is a change for Jim Carrey. It's great to see him showing his dark side for once. "},{"Title":"The Blackest of Black Comedies....","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" THE CABLE GUY is a twisted black comedy about a manic cable TV installer who invades the life of one of his customers well beyond the point of comfort. Director Ben Stiller brings a decidedly dark twist to what could have been a standard comedy that distracts to the point where we're not sure how we're supposed to feel about the central character...are we supposed to like him? Fear him? Pity him? It's hard to determine exactly because the screenplay is all over the place and Stiller's rein on the manic Jim Carrey in the title role isn't quite tight enough. There are some on-target jabs at the television industry but most of the laughs provided here are nervous ones. Carrey works hard to make his off-the-wall character likable but only succeeds half the time. Matthew Broderick makes an effective straight man as Stephen, the young architect whose life Carrey invades. The film also features Leslie Mann as Broderick's girlfriend, George Segal and Diane Baker as Broderick's parents, and Jack Black as his best friend. Owen Wilson can also be glimpsed in a brief cameo as a blind date of Mann's. Director Stiller is also featured in an amusing set of cameos as twin former child stars whose murder trial is being covered on Court TV. Jim Carrey was paid 20 million for this film and after seeing it, you have to wonder why. "},{"Title":"It really wasn't what I expected","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I have heard non stop things about this movie and how funny it is, not to mention how many people praised Jim Carrey's performance. While The Cable Guy has a couple moments that were pretty funny, I was so upset because I normally find Jim Carrey very hilarious, he was kind of annoying in this role. It just seemed like he took on a lisp and only had funny physical gags. I was really looking forward to this movie, maybe that is what happened, you know where a movie is built up so much and it's not what you expected? But I think we all seem to be having that problem with this movie seeing how it only has a 5.6 rating.Basically it's about Steven, a man who has just been kicked out of his house by his girlfriend and is about to purchase cable in his new apartment. When The Cable Guy shows up, he hooks Steve up with illegal cable and then they hang out afterwards just releasing stress. But in a twisted fatal attraction, The Cable Guy doesn't want to let Steven go and desperately wants to be his friend, no matter what it takes. When Steven just flat out refuses his friendship, The Cable guy turns out to be his worst enemy.The Cable Guy is a decent comedy with a couple laughs here and there, but in my opinion it was nothing special or to brag over. I'm not sure if I would recommend it, or at least if you are going to view it, ignore the comments you've heard about it and just judge for yourself. Like I said, it's like a twisted version of Fatal Attraction, it has it's fun moments, but it has it's alright moments as well.5/10 "},{"Title":"Works much better than the films is spoofs such as The Hand That Rocks the Cradle and Single White Female","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I am confused as to why so many people seem to hate this movie. Its easily the best comedy Jim Carey was ever in. I guess his fans (and the critics) weren't just ready for this likable performer known for his simplistic gross-out comedies to play a full-blown psychopath. The Cable Guy is a zany comedy, but is also a very dark one with some subversive messages included. In my mind, it works much better than the films is spoofs such as The Hand That Rocks the Cradle and Single White Female.The acting all around is very good. Matthew Broderick is a bit on the bland side, but makes for a likable and sympathetic protagonist. He is overshadowed by Carey though. Carey's character is annoying, but many people didn't understand he was meant to be. He is also revealed to be an unnerving psychopath in the final third of the film. Some have complained that the last third (in which things take a turn for the seriously dark) doesn't mesh well with the first two-thirds which are more comedic and slapstick (albiet of a twisted nature). I disagree strongly. The one main flaw with the film is that I wish they had explored Carey's character more than just the explanation of him having no parents to raise him and just the TV set.Aside from it being well made, it is hilarious, which is the main thing most people are looking for. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Engaging comedy - Carrey's brilliance shines again","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Jim Carrey for a long time has been one of my favourite comedy actors and this 1996 comedy further emphasises his brilliance.The Ace Venture character stars along side Ferris Bueller's Broderick and both perform brilliantly in an enjoyable comedy about an obsessive friend wanting workman, wishing to be accepted.It's a very engaging story, purely because of Carrey's brilliance. The way other people work with him is beyond me, h is simply a remarkable talent and this is probably one of his better performances.Broderick to performs well alongside him as the conscious Steven, wishing to get along in life without being bothered.The film is made good by Carrey. The character he plays is a good attachment to the central plot, making it engaging to see a character that is upbeat and energetic despite his difficulties in life and that type of character is rarely seen in films these days.The story is slow with a somewhat touching storyline but plenty of comedic elements, especially at the medieval restaurant and the basketball game.With Carrey on top form the film is believable, engaging and funny throughout as audiences are taken through the lives of different social aspects.The film maybe seen as preaching through an audience to convince that a long time of TV can have an affect on your minds.Perhaps a breakdown towards the end where it seems exaggerated but the last line of the film is amazing and brilliant which will bring a smile to your face.The relationships between the characters were vital for the films greatness. They all perform well alongside each other and make a great reflection on society work, what some people are like, what effects some peoples, relationships, jobs etc.The comedy elements are well mixed with stress emotional scenes making for a widely spread issued film.Lacks at points with an exaggerated ending but Carrey acts his heart out alongside Broderick making it a good watch. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This is a quality movie and shows Jim Carrey can act. The problem was, everyone was expect it to be like Ace Ventura which it was never meant to be.It is a dark, black comedy about a lonely cable guy who just wants to be liked. Jim Carrey does a perfect job playing the role of the cable guy. He really makes him believable and quite eerie.I never really bother with critic views as that is just one persons view. What they don't like, others might. Also a lot seem quite hypocritical. They go along with the masses just to be popular. They clearly didn't see this movie for what it was suppose to be. It was never meant to be Ace Ventura and Jim Carrey wasn't meant to be playing yet another wacky character.This movie was great and if you didn't like it the first time, give it another try. Forget Carrey's movies before and look at this as if it was his first. "},{"Title":"Someone has to kill the babysitter","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy is a better film than it pretends to be. It's important to remember that it was made before Carrey began to show its dramatic side in excellent films like The Truman Show, Man On The Moon and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. The Cable Guy was thrown into the pile of low-brow oddball comedies he was famous for like Ace Ventura and Dumb & Dumber. As such, it just wasn't funny enough; and it was way too dark to appeal to Carrey's young and comedy loving films. I can certainly say that at the age of 12, it sure didn't appeal to me. That's because The Cable Guy's biggest problem is that it's not quite sure what kind of film it's supposed to be; it wobbles from oddball comedy to psychological thriller, never really achieving focus in any one genre, never really being realized enough to be able to consider it a genre-transcending, solitary creation.Still &#150; The Cable Guy has its many merits, and it's an interesting enough creation to be worth the watch. And it's certainly not a comedy for kids. In fact it's a much more intelligent film, one that deals with the destructive effect television may or may not have had on many of the post-TV era children, but more importantly than that it deals with loneliness, insanity and exploitation. And Carrey's performance &#150; laden though it is with his trademark physical humor, perfectly fit for the role &#150; is good and dark enough to hit that. The Cable Guy is one of Carrey's most fascinating characters, and he's as dark and distressed as he is pathetic and laughable; the entire film in fact is much darker and more disturbing as may be apparent in first sight. A supporting cast filled with familiar comedians and frat-packers &#150; Jack Black, Owen Wilson, George Segal, Andy Dick, Jeneane Garofalo, David Cross &#150; doesn't help in detaching the film from its crippling 'comedy' label. Still, they all get the job done; in fact, Mathew Broderick, who plays straight man for Carrey, is probably the most forgettable actor in the film &#150; which is probably for the best, because he plays the ultimate everyman loser, and he too does what he has to do.It only occurred to me after re-watching it that The Cable Guy has very much in common with a more recent film that also deals with maddening loneliness and longing for human companionship &#150; One Hour Photo starring Robin Williams. Like that film, The Cable Guy never really reaches the full of its potential, and has a story that's unbalanced and unstructured, and so remains an unsatisfying experience; but like One Hour Photo, The Cable Guy has a stellar enough lead performance and enough good points to be worth the watch. In fact, it's much easier to appreciate it now with a decade's hindsight, now that we've seen a lot more range from Jim Carrey. The film certainly has its moments of brilliance; the Sam Sweet side-plot (with a good and minor cameo from director Ben Stiller) and its conclusion is a wonderful touch, that compliments the ending and its point, and Jim Carrey's karaoke scene &#150; beyond the obvious chuckles you may get from his lisping and catatonic singing &#150; is also a disturbing one, and one shouldn't overlook the choice of a song (Jefferson Airplane's 'Somebody To Love'). The Cable Guy is not as good as it might have been but it's a daring creation, certainly the most daring one for Stiller as a director. Not exactly one for the ages but a unique and interesting film that's worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Its funny, and it isn't meant to be taken literal.","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Although i am aware of the skeptics who say this movie doesn't fit together well...To me those people don't really have a wide sense of humor. Its probably shortened to scatilogical humor...And maybe just maybe...A little dry and not very humorous.This movie however isn't really anything to have a problem with...It was an attempt at something and it DID make money...So therefore some people had to like...(Some Being a few million) I for one thought this movie truly pulled through and it had some good kicks to it...And i enjoyed the creepy overhang.Jim Carrey always has that kind of overhang and he shows it in his acting/comedy. Mathew Broderick played himself very well too. The shy, uneasy guy who doesn't do much on the edgy side of things. (Yeah whatever ferris beulers day off was cool in the 80s) "},{"Title":"I saw this movie six times,i don't what all the fuss was about.....it ruled!!","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy is a departure from carrey's earlier movies,such as The Mask and Ace Ventura (which i also enjoyed by the way)in that it is a much darker film with a plot that is more at home in a phychological thriller than in a comedy but i think that carrey manages to portray a pretty odd man in a humorous way so it's a nice balance.I didn't really like Matthew Broderick in this film as much,i don't know why but i can see that his character was a good platform for carrey to really shine in his role.The two best scenes in the film are the bathroom scene with the hot jazz music (hehe) and the basketball scene (which also features an early performance from jack black) In summary,if you are not a big carrey fan,and think that his early films were silly,this film might just change your perspective. "},{"Title":"The Cable Guy.","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy is just a comedy made to make people laugh. The Funny-Man Jim Carrey plays amazingly well as a fraud cable guy, when Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) offers him fifty bucks to get all the movie channels, the cable guy says no, Steven is dazzled, this cable guy doesn't want money, all he wants is a friend for life. Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick play their parts well. When The Cable Guy gets his friend, he goes through an all-new experience. He learns that friends are harder to keep than he imagined. When Steven turns The Cable Guy down and say's, I don't have enough room for another friend. The Cable Guy is disappointed. Now, where ever Steven Kovacs is hiding or going, The Cable Guy will be there to scare, annoy, and frighten him. "}{"Title":"A poor unfunny movie ...","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't believe I sat and watched this movie.  Okay, I like Jim Carrey but in almost every movie he does he seems to portray that character from The Mask.  I loved that film, but in The Cable Guy it seems he's trying to see how many different ways he can do that character again.  Perhaps it's just me.Anyway, I found this movie to be totally unfunny, except perhaps the fight scene in the restaurant toilets - well it raised a smile at least.  As for the rest, it looked as if Matthew Broderick couldn't wait to finish the film just to get away from Carrey's ever expanding ego, never mind getting rid of Chip.One thing that bugged me in this movie was that if Chip was sacked from the cable company ages before, how did he know when to come and conduct the installation?  Okay, so he might have tapped in to the telephones.  Hmmm a dodgy plot?I can't say much more about this film, well nothing nice anyway.Sorry Jim. "},{"Title":"Too over the top.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  It's been seven years since the films release and I just barely saw it. The cinematography used in this film made it ng.  I think the strongest character was Steve, played by Matthew Broderick.  I know most of us can't get over him being Ferris Bueller, but he is an incredible actor on stage and screen.  This is a typical Jim Carrey film, he was hilarious and I think he fit the part perfectly.  However, it was too much.  Instead of laughing at all the dumb things Skip (Carrey) does to win Steve's friendship, I found myself getting frustrated.  Too many dumb situations, and overall the movie is very predictable.   "},{"Title":"He'll Juice Ya Up!!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  THE CABLE GUY (1996) *** Jim Carrey, Matthew Broderick, Leslie Mann, George Segal, Diane Baker, Jack Black, Ben Stiller, Janeane Garofalo, Andy Dick. Cameo Eric Roberts.  Jet black comedy with obnoxious Carrey (in a complex comic/creepy performance) as a friend-hungered cable guy who hooks up Broderick with free cable and a whole lot more than he bargained for.  Kind of Ace Venutra meets Fatal Attraction but surprisingly with a deeply disturbing message tv can rot your brain.  Fiendishly funny and genuinely unsettling at times with Broderick making the most as the straight man with some moments of normal guy in Twilight Zone mode.  Stiller (who directed) makes a cameo as a celebrity on trial for murder and the broadcast chain of events leading to a heady climax.  May not be for everyone but shows some range in rubber faced Carrey; he pulls it off.  Best bit dinner and entertainment at Medieval Times and Porno Password! "},{"Title":"DOH, why spoil a good idea?","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  My simple thought is DOH! Here the director had a pretty good script with a really creepy idea. But what does he do with it? He makes it a pretty lame comedy, instead of refocusing it, make some slight changes and make a really creepy thriller. I think that the producers have wasted Carrey's talent on too many comedies. Let us see him do something like this but really evil instead. "},{"Title":"starts good but goes too far","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Frustratingly uneven black comedy about a man who's recently broken up with his longtime girlfriend. He still yearns for her, and questions his cable guy (Carrey) on ways in which he can get her back. Unfortunately his cable guy is a deeply disturbed individual who is fixated on becoming his friend...by any means necessary. The story is unusual but interesting, has a lot of clever in-jokes, and is well-performed, but the film suffers from an identity crisis; the humor shifts tone from fun and lighthearted to dark, disturbing, and ultimately unpleasant. Star Carrey makes an effort, but his character just isn't very appealing. ** "},{"Title":"Sick comedy takes a bizarre look at stalking","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  By far the worst film yet for the talented Mr. Carey. I found Carey's character completely annoying, not to mention the pansy ass part that Broderick played. I've never been stalked, but have had obnoxious losers try to attach themselves to me in the past this picture was an unwelcome reminder of those folks. Some of the film was funny, but for the most part it was a dud. "},{"Title":"He who hesitates...","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I tuned into the Cable Guy late one night on Channel Four and thought it would be pretty poor as it has been panned so much. I now have no idea why - I think Carrey is at his best in this film. Just watch the basketball, duelling and karaoke scenes and see for yourself.When reviewing this film why do people feel uncomfortable with not being able to pigeon-hole Chip into being a good or bad guy.  Surely that is what makes his character so interesting and funny.  In some ways you wish you knew someone like Chip, but in others you know it would be a complete nightmare.Brilliantly funny film, Carrey and Broderick are superb.  I'm off to watch it now! "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's Best Film To Date!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why people considered this film a bomb.  I thought it was an entertaining dark comedy.  It had a message and it would've been even better if the film had an even darker tone to it, as Jim Carrey said he wanted for it but the studio didn't let him do it.  Ben Stiller does a fine job directing but the script coulda been a bit better.  Janeane Garofalo has an amusing cameo even though she's quite possibly the biggest ballbuster in show biz, she's cute too, in a highly low libido, asexual type way.  And Jim Carrey does a good job as a psycho cable guy.  The rest of you can keep Ace Ventura.  I'll take the unstable cable guy any day of the week! "},{"Title":"Ever Heard Of Anything Like That?","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  **Possible Spoilers**	Jim Carrey is `The Cable Guy' in this dark comedy from director Ben Stiller.  In one of his best (and underrated) performances, Carrey stars as a lonely, pathetic and very disturbed individual desperately in need of friendship and some very serious psychiatric care.  Neglected by his mother as a child, and left in the care of the `babysitter' (the television) for nurturing, he has grown into adulthood as a man orbiting somewhere along the fringes of reality.  Even his name is an enigma; using various aliases from the sitcoms he grew up with, he is `Chip Douglas' (My Three Sons) when he happens into the life of the unsuspecting Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick). 	Steven is coping with problems of his own; when he proposes to his girlfriend, Robin (Leslie Mann), she responds by kicking him out of their apartment.  Steven rents a new place and, of course, has to get the cable hooked up.  Enter the Cable Guy.  Acting on the advice of his friend, Rick (Jack Black), Steven approaches Chip with the idea of setting him up with free movie channels for a fifty dollar gratuity.  `Ever hear of anything like that?' he inquires.  Chip responds with a feigned admonition about `Illegal cable,' then readily agrees to `Juice him up.'  Unwittingly, Steven thereby forms a bond with Chip, who he later learns can be `His best friend, or his worst enemy.'   	For comedy to work, it must be taken seriously; real laughs come from playing it straight, and Stiller is a master of this technic (As both actor and director).  He is to be commended here for extracting a tempered performance from Carrey by reining in his natural tendency toward over exuberance (which has worked for him in other projects, but would have been detrimental here).  There are some hilarious moments in this film  Chip throwing a Karaoke party for Steven; a scene that takes place at a Medieval Times restaurant (with a terrific cameo by Janeane Garofalo as their waitress); and a bit with ongoing news coverage of a murder trial in which Stiller plays twin brothers Stan and Sam Sweet.  But there are just as many uncomfortable moments, which tend to leave the viewer somewhat uneasy, such as the scene in which Chip dupes Steven's family into playing `Porno Password.'  We feel Steven's discomfort as well as his frustration with his own inability to control what ultimately becomes an ugly situation.  Or when Chip confronts Robin's date (Owen Wilson) in the restroom of a restaurant.  There is an edgy humor to these scenes, but the underlying hostility has an unnerving effect. 	With a supporting cast that includes George Segal and Diane Baker (as Steven's parents), Andy Dick (as the Medieval Host), and Eric Roberts (as himself), `The Cable Guy' is a tense and entertaining film.  Some Jim Carrey fans may be a bit put off by this one, though, for it is not the typical Carrey offering.  This is a glimpse at the effects of a deranged mind.  It is a dark and somewhat disturbing movie, and in the end, issues are left unresolved; but addressing Chip's psychoses was never intended here.  This film was made, not to enlighten, but to entertain; and in that, it succeeds.  If it is just laughs and light fare you're looking for, however, be advised  this is definitely not where you want to go.  I rate this one 7/10. 	    "},{"Title":"Appropriately demented, but not very funny","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Befriended by an over-eager, off-balanced cable-installer, a young businessman (played by a fatigued Matthew Broderick) finds the nutcase is quickly taking over his life. Black comedy, sloppily directed by Ben Stiller, hopes to get by on the leeringly obnoxious lead performance by Jim Carrey alone. Carrey, an acquired taste, gleefully runs roughshod over this thin material, take it to irritating lows. The movie is intentionally twisted and uncomfortable, yet it is unsuccessful at mining laughs from its unpleasantness. Broderick, who has affable moments, is mostly around to gape, while director Stiller shows intermittent visual style but can't seem to reign Carrey in. *1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Not funny, just annoying","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I've read a lot of good reviews for this movie, and I'm wondering what I'm missing. Jim Carrey's Chip Douglas is one of the more annoying movie characters this side of Jar-Jar Binks. The Porno Password, pick-up basketball game, and karaoke party scenes were almost unwatchable because of Carey's irritating, over-the-top, and not at all funny performance. The only time I laughed was the scene where Broderick's character tells Carey (who has an obvious lisp) that his brother is a speech therapist, to which Carey cluelessly responds, So? Other than that, the movie was a major letdown. It's just not funny and if I were you I wouldn't waste my time with it. "},{"Title":"This movie was annoying as hell.","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" It's indeed a typical Jim Carrey movie. But to tell you the truth I never really liked Jim Carrey. Sure, he has talent, but that talent annoys me. Especially in this one. This movie is also a thriller. The acting is OK. But all of them are really annoying. The story wasn't that good. But I guess it was fair. It's about a Cable Guy who's lonely and needs a friend. They really wanted you to hate The Cable Guy, that's for sure. It's as if they wanted us to hate Jim Carrey's character. I wouldn't say I hated his character. Just found him annoying as hell. Ben Stiller did awful direction too. The guy is pretty good at Comedy, but face it, he isn't a director. I recommend this to fans of Jim Carrey or Matthew Broderrick. Apart from that, it's best to skip this Comedy/thriller. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Ridiculous film, but still enjoyable","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This was quite an interesting film and definitely funny as Jim Carrey (Overactor No. 1) stars as the manic Cable Guy. All he wants is a friend, so when he turns up to install cable TV for a bloke named Stephen (Matthew Broderick) he decides to get a friend. But Stephen is not in any need for new friends, but as The Cable Guy turns stalker and gets progressively weird, it seems that Stephen won't get rid of him easily. With some hilariously entertaining scenes such as a medieval battle between the two at a fun role play restaurant. The laughs are quite frequent and the overacting from Carrey is very enjoyable, he quite visibly gives it his all, and in a film where just about everything is quite surreal and odd it just ensures that you'll be able to sit for a couple of hours totally happy whilst laughing without control at this really funny man. And he also misquotes The Silence of the Lambs... he says Hello Clarice when it should be Good evening Clarice - for me this mans the loss of a point, but also illustrates that the makers are not God??!! "},{"Title":"Very dark, very weird.......not my cup of tea.","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Matthew Broderick, Jim Carrey, Leslie Mann, Jack Black, Dianne Baker, George Segall, Owen Wilson, Ben Stiller, Charles Napier, Andy Dick, Janeane Garafalo, David Cross, Bob Odenkirk, Kathy Griffin, Alex D. Linz and Eric Roberts.Very strange film that has a lot of comedic talent with non comedic roles. This is about your normal everyday guy(Broderick) who makes friends with a cable guy(Carrey) who gives him free cable, and then the cable guy goes crazy. This movie was a first for some popular comedians including Ben Stiller as a twin actor who killed his brother, Owen Wilson as a cheap boyfriend, Jack Black in the supporting character best friend role and Janeane Garafalo as a waitress. The cable guy is sadistic and this movie gets really stupid and dark. Directed by Ben Stiller.my review-C- 71%. rated PG-13 for sexual innuendo(porno pictionary) including some body part names, some dark campy violence and language.98 minutes. "},{"Title":"Delightful Black Comedy","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This film was surprisingly good, and if you view it for what it is, it was quite enjoyable. As far as dark comedies go, it was very true from beginning to end. And above the stellar performance of Jim Carrey, it also makes a funny social commentary about society being raised by the TV and observing just how much our society is wrapped up into it. I enjoyed the references to concurrent events (Menendez), and the overall character that was played by Jim Carrey was fascinating and comical, and it was a genuinely good basis for a black comedy. The originality of the script and the way that it was handled to form this film was quite ingenious. It puts other films like the Mask to shame... Overall, if you are looking for a decent laugh, this is a good comedy to turn to. "},{"Title":"dumb movie","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I hated this movie so much! it was just a dumb and un-exciting plot, in the beginning it was kind of funny but in the middle and the end it was just boring. I gave up on it at the very end because i couldn't stand one more minute of it. This was the only Jim Carey that i absolutely didnt like at all!!! "},{"Title":"frustrating","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This film isn't quite as bad as everyone says it is, but it still has some problems. It has a tendency to shift from psychotic thriller to dark comedy which makes it uneven. Carrey is good, but would have benefited from a better script. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Very average -- but strange -- film","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The Cable Guy is a really strange film. It tries to be so many different things comedy, thriller, drama, and some sort of statement about the evils of TV, or something like that. While it is far from as bad as I expected, it never succeeds fully either not as a comedy (although it is funny at times), not as a thriller (you kind of just go 'huh?'), and not as a drama. Jim Carrey's character isn't particularly funny, just sad. Well, like I said, it's not a total failure, just a very average (if strange) film. (4/10) "},{"Title":"How about a little love?","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This movie gets a lot of flack, but it's a hidden piece of comedic gold. It's sadistically dark and twisted, and in my opinion offers one of Jim Carrey's best performances as the creepy impedimented bipolar super best friend. The script ain't that great. That's why it's amazing to see what Carrey does. I've got to say half of the disease of the film is Matthew Broderick's half interested performance -- kind of part Demorall daze/part Leave it to Beaver Gee whiz! That's dangerous! But Jack Black? Ben Stiller? Owen Wilson? Janeane Garofalo? This movie just doesn't get the credit it deserves. Definitely worth at least a look and an open mind. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" When The Cable Guy first came out, it flopped and most people considered it sort of lowly. But I immediately found it impressive - if dark - and I hope that in years to come, more people will. The plot of course has bummed-out everyman Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) getting cable installed by a TV-raised cable guy (Jim Carrey). After that, the cable guy starts treating Steven to many things, apparently wanting to be friends. But then, it turns out that he wants to be more than friends. And he's not taking no for an answer.Really the reason that this movie is worth seeing is because it looks at the effects that TV has been having on our society for the past sixty years. The cable guy spends much of the movie referencing TV shows, while throughout the movie, there's a murder trial vaguely resembling the O.J. Simpson trial (director Ben Stiller plays the defendant). Jim Carrey of course went on to star in another TV-centered movie, The Truman Show.All in all, you should check out The Cable Guy. It does bring up some interesting points, even if the presence of Jim Carrey gives everything a slight sense of goofiness. There's also some before-they-were-famous appearances Jack Black, Owen Wilson, and others. "}{"Title":"This movie flat-out rocks.","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This movie is definitely the best movie I have ever seen, and I have seen a lot of movies. Jim Carrey brilliantly plays his performance as the enstranged cable guy. Matthew Broderick's acting leaves something to be desired, but Jim Carrey easily makes up for it. As well as the acting element, the movie has a certain darkness. In some movies, when the two main characters become mortal enemies, it is slow and seems unimportant, but the rain scene in about the middle of the movie when they become enemies is a perfect representation of how enemies are formed. The story is excellent, and is pretty much what goes on in our hearts every day. Not to mention the movie's hilarious quotes, made funny by Jim Carrey, who can easily be called the star of the movie. Jim Carrey is what makes the movie come alive. There is an amazing showdown at the very end between the two enemies. The showdown in awesome, and is the best ending for a movie I have ever seen. The This is definitely a movie to invite some friends, order some good pizza and mountain dew and watch 2 or 3 times in a row, late into the night. "},{"Title":"completely underrated -- one of carrey's best","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" it just makes me mad when a few intelligent critics label a movie as crap what happens next? a flock of sheep/followers decide they too can be smart around the water-cooler by bashing a movie this is how good movies get a bad rap and end up getting a 5.6/10 scorewhy can't people see this movie for what it is -- dark humour it's supposed to be strange, and jim carrey does an amazing job he is purposely acting over the top because that's what his character is -- mentally deranged there are countless scenes in this movie that are hilarious, yet not stupid (even though many people will label them as such) the protagonist struggles so much against his new 'friend' but ends up only making everyone who loves him drift closer to his enemypeople are quick to overlook the little nuances of the film and call it crap as quick as possible so that they don't appear stupid in front of their peers. so next time you watch this movie, throw away any preconceptions and biases you may have about this movie and judge it for yourself and I am sure you will enjoy it far more than you would've "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Best Jim Carrey movie I've seen. Very creative character. I have watched it over and over and still find it funny. The movie is very indicative of my generation, one of the first generations being brought up on television. Like most of my friends can at the drop of a hat regurgitate lines from TV shows and movies. His imitation of the Jefferson Airplane song was priceless. It had a bit of everything in it. It is sort of a comedy thriller. Jim Carrey plays his usual bizarre self but with a very dark twist. I'm not sure why a lot of people did not like it, possibly a little too dark for young children. After watching the Cable Guy I started paying more attention to Ben Stiller. He's not just another typical comedian-he has done some very funny stuff. "},{"Title":"Super Movie. Highly Underrated.","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" First off, let me say that I am a Carrey enthusiast, and this movie was for me the highlight of his career. The comedy was so dark at times and yet it managed to stay light throughout. My personal favorite scene is the fight between Steven and chip wherein chip compares their epic battle to the time on Star Trek when Kirk had to fight Spock. Having Carrey sing the theme music was the best. Best Friends forced to do battle... I Particularly enjoyed the side story with Ben Stiller. It was clever when they tied it in to the plot line at the end. My favorite quote from that is the part where stiller says, Oh my god, my twin brother's been shot, I think it was an Asian gang or something... I saw someone, he looked... Asian. I think he was speaking another language... I'm pretty sure it was... Asian...Time to go for a little ride on the information superhighway! see-ya... bye... "},{"Title":"why this movie is so good","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Sam Sweet (Tape of his phone call to the police) Oh my God! Oh my God! My twin brother has been shot! I think it was an Asian gang or something... There was this guy, he looked Asian... and he was speaking another language, I'm pretty sure it was... Asian. This line is just funny, putting it down on paper doesn't justify how well Ben Stiller delivers this piece of comic genius. The Cable Guy is a compelling piece of viewing which i personally have experienced 20 odd times. Forget what you've heard about this movie, forget that Simpsons episode when Homer destroys the script for allegedly ruining Jim Careys career. Just enjoy this dark comedy which on occasion borders on being extremely perverse yet at the same time remains makes you wanna beat someone up in a toilet funny. "},{"Title":"A good try but deeply flawed","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Steven Kovacs is getting cable installed when the cable guy offers to add some channels for free.  Steven pays him some extra and feigns interest in the cable guy to get the job done.  However the cable guy believes that Steven is his new friend but when he is rejected he sets around stalking Steven.The Cable Guy came as Carrey's career was really taking off based on the back of his silly faces etc.  So it was a brave move to basically adapt Play Misty for Me and make this dark film.  The film starts well enough with the cable guy being a nuisance, however this quickly is the film's down fall.  While it was brave to try and have a dark edge to the film Stiller needed to commit to it, the result of his uncertainty is an uneven tone.  At times wildly funny immediately followed by creepy unease &#150; this makes it hard to get into and feel patchy.  The plot's attack on television is lost in the background too easily, despite the subplot and this affects how we enjoy the main thread.Carrey is good because he bravely tries to do more than Ace Ventura-esque mugging and do something much darker than his usual comic book style.  Broderick is, as he showed in Godzilla, not a leading man.  He doesn't have the presence, here he is playing second fiddle to Carrey, but it's a long way second.  The relationship between the two is well handled but Broderick doesn't convince as well as Carrey.  The rest of the cast are good with names like Wilson, Garofalo, Segal and Stiller making up support but really this is rested on Carrey.Overall this was a brave try at something that Carrey fans weren't ready for and hence it became a flawed mix of Carrey mugging and darker stuff.  Neither worked perfectly and both elements detracted from the other. "},{"Title":"Got An Undeservedly Bad Wrap","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" 'The Cable Guy', Ben Stiller's 1996 bizarre take on comedy, is a very in-your-face kind of movie that has widely provoked mixed responses. Starring Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick, the film, on one level, takes a multi-genre look at just how valued the unspoken rules of society are, and how violently disrupted life can be when these rules are ignored. But on another, more apparent level, it's just plain strange.Lonely, heart-sick Steven Kovach (Broderick) has recently moved out of his girlfriend's house. After he proposed to her, she became troubled with their relationship and they decided it would be good to spend some time apart. In setting up his new apartment, Steven organizes to have cable television installed. When what should've been a simple hello, goodbye interaction with cable guy Chip Douglas (Carrey) is forcibly extended by Chip into what he perceives to be a firm friendship, Steven finds himself stuck with this strange man he barely knows and whom he can't seem to give the hint to that he doesn't want to be friends.Although the film begins as somewhat of a flimsy comedy in which audiences may chuckle occasionally at Chip's eccentric behavior and unhealthy obsession with television and film and at poor Steven's unusual predicament, around halfway through it breaks through the predictable elements and becomes an almost semi-horror. After finally biting the bullet and telling Chip that we would rather they weren't friends, Steven soon finds that Chip is more than just an oddball, but a sick sociopath who will not accept rejection. Feeling as though Steven has betrayed their non-existent friendship, Chip slowly turns Steven's life into a nightmare, and Steven suddenly realizes that he and the people he loves are in very real danger and he is the only one who can see it.The problem to be had with this film is that so much time is focused on Carrey acting crazy that interest can soon be lost. The essential plot can very easily get misplaced in Chip's antics then the movie is nothing more than one of the 'Ace Ventura' films, which were entertaining for children but served as little else.However, the performances in 'The Cable Guy' are surprisingly impressive. Matthew Broderick brings, as he always does, his sweet-hearted nature to the role of Steven to pull off rather well the image of a generally nice guy who is just really down on his luck. Jim Carrey, as the infamous cable guy, has actually begun to put his insanely comic behavior to good use in this film. Wild as always, he gives an irritatingly convincing portrayal of a man who has, in substitution of love, had to seek all his needs from television.The film features some interesting cameos Tenacious D members Jack Black and Kyle Gas appear, Director Ben Stiller also has a small role as the famous child-star whose court-case trial has been televised throughout the world. Even Stiller's long-time friend Owen Wilson pops up.The concept of 'The Cable Guy' is a gem, and it has a lot of potential to be a great film. The writers were onto something, but unfortunately, the film-maker's approach was a little shallow. However, stylistically the film is quite remarkable. "},{"Title":"No this is not good","Date":"21 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This is maybe the worst movie ever made. And that comes from a person who usually loves everything Jim Carrey does. And actually he isn't doing anything wrong, he's a great actor, not only in Dumb and dumber, but in this movie to. The thing is, he should never have participated in this film. The script, the story and everything else with it makes me sick. I bought the movie for about 50 cent, and I can tell you this, I want my 50 cent an 96 minutes back. The beginning of the movie seemed quite interesting, and you thought, this could be one of those movies like Ace ventura or Me, myself and Irene. But then the minutes past and you started wondering when the funny parts would come. The sad truth is, they never came, until the end when the movie ended. "},{"Title":"Black comedy turns stupid second half","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) is a meek proper guy who got kicked out of the apartment by his girlfriend Robin Harris (Leslie Mann). Cable guy, Chip to his friends (Jim Carrey) is a crazy wackjob desperate for friends.What went wrong with this movie? This was universally panned. Jim Carrey is doing his crazy wildman like Ace Ventura. Matthew Broderick is going for the meek everyman. I just never liked the duo. They are not that funny. The Medieval Times battle was partly funny. Matthew Broderick is too meek and too pathetic. It would be better if he's just a simple nice guy. Anyway, the movie was going alright until the story starts to turn midway through.The reaction from the other character just don't ring true. It starts earlier with the basketball game. If somebody broke the backboard in my game, everybody would be whooping it up, highfiving, and backslapping. That was awesome, but the characters look like somebody took a dump. It feels wrong and fake.When Steven gets arrested, I don't understand why nobody believed him. People saw Chip. People know who the guy is. Robin should know he's the cable guy. And the game just seems too desperate for jokes. Again the characters seem to be very unrealistic trying too hard. It doesn't make any sense.The first half had a nice black comedy feel. It had problems but it still could have been fixed. Then the second half goes bad. It's like the story didn't know how to progress so it tacked on a police procedural ending. "},{"Title":"Must Watch If You Love Jim Carrey","Date":"26 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" We want to like Jim Carrey. A movie that makes us dislike him is a strategic mistake. The opening scenes of The Cable Guy are promising; Carrey seems to be playing a variation on his usual hyperkinetic goofball. Then our reaction grows more puzzled This is supposed to be fun, right? By the end, the movie has declared itself as a black comedy about one very deeply troubled cable guy.The plot centers around a character named Steven (Matthew Broderick), who has just been turned down for marriage by his girlfriend Robin (Leslie Mann). He moves into a bachelor pad and calls for cable service, and Chip Douglas (Carrey) comes pounding on his door (making sure, of course, to arrive very late and while Steven is in the shower). The cable guy is a manic nerd with a lisp and an under slung jaw. He wants to be Steven's friend. He has a lot of trouble pronouncing certain words. My brother is a speech therapist, Steven says helpfully. The cable guy says, Tho? Soon the cable guy has insinuated himself into Steven's life and is offering detailed advice about life (which he reveals he has learned that morning from the summation at the end of a Jerry Springer program). His strategy for getting Robin to come back Watch Sleepless in Seattle with her. Women are suckers for it. Many of these strategies works, and we're reminded of the relationship in the British comedy classic School for Scoundrels (which Carrey should remake) in which a cad teaches one-upmanship to a loser. But soon the movie drifts into murkier waters. The cable guy has an unhealthy need to be Steven's friend, and he pursues that goal with behavior designed to scare anyone. He's a stalker. He's obnoxious and peculiar and inappropriate and relentless, and we start disliking him, and that's when the movie jumps the rails. The director, Ben Stiller (Reality Bites), throws in a lot of gratuitous but funny asides; there's a running gag about a CourtTV trial involving Hollywood twins whose relationship ends in murder. And in-jokes, as when the cable guy covers his face with fried chicken skin to imitate a scene from Silence of the Lambs (the actor Charles Napier, whose face was borrowed by Hannibal Lecter in Lambs, turns up here as a cop). And there's a fake TV commercial showing Eric Roberts plays a dual role in Brother, Sweet Brother, the docudrama based on the Hollywood trial.Maybe it would have worked better if the cable guy had become a real friend to Steven, devising love strategies and Machiavellian schemes to win back Robin and thwart her other suitors. As it is, the movie goes in one direction and the cable guy goes in another, and by the end we aren't really looking forward to seeing Jim Carrey reappear on the screen. Note to the producers There's an old showbiz saying that satire is what closes on Saturday night. To which could be added another Black comedy is not what you pay someone $20 million to-do.******* BUT STILL MUST WATCH IF YOU LOVE JIM CARREY ******* "}{"Title":"Carrey at his best","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why people don't like this...it's def got darker undertones in the humor but it's not quite a cult dark movie. Carrey is Perfect in this..before he became too..well Carrey lol he's just the right amount of Insane..not too over the top ala Ace Ventura... ( which was still funny, just diff) Well made..Stiller puts his touch on it sure with the Sam Sweet bit lol has so,e Good Cameos..Owen Wilson is really funny in this, i wish he had more parts like this..he plays that role well.As good as Carrey is in this it wouldn't work if Matthew Broadrick was any less than the nice can't say no guy it wouldn't be as funny. You can feel his tension in this lol this is actually my fav Carrey movie overall because it's one of those movies u can watch multiple times and it's still funny..I only have one more thing to say..HELLO CLARISSE..SO NICE TO SEE U ;) "},{"Title":"This movie still cracks me up","Date":"19 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I recently watched this movie for the first time in about 10 years and it is still as hilarious to me as it was the first 10 or so times.Ben Stiller's direction and sense of humour combined with Carey's impeccable timing make for a laugh fest that will last for decades to come.Chip's speech atop the satellite is prophetic in hindsight given the technologies we have access to today.Great cast too - Andy Dick is gold as the medieval host.Owen Wilson as the victim of the bathroom beating is also good value.It is such a shame more people didn't enjoy this comical outing -the whole brother sweet brother back story continues to provide movie banter between me and my younger brother to this day.Love it! "},{"Title":"Made for cable guy","Date":"12 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" You know what is there to say about this film it is not good it is not bad but yet not in between either it is just kind of there. This movie starts out with a guy Steven who was kick out of his house because he proposed to his girlfriend and so of course he gets cable. Well the cable guy named Chip played by the usually funny Jim Carrey installs it but he is so addicted to TV he never had a social life so when someone is just being nice Chip goes all stalker crazy and won't leave him alone. That is the entire movie basically.Now the story isn't bad the plot keeps your interest the whole time you think what will this crazy guy do next to screw over Steven but the ending message is just so retarded it kind of kills the film where you're like wow really that is what you were trying to say.The jokes because this is supposed to be a comedy these suck literally I laughed once in this film due to a Star Trek reference. The rest just had me not mad just sitting there thinking OK now what happens. If you are a big TV buff you will love the references Jim Carrey makes through out the film but thats it.Overall honestly if this is on cable see it I guess I don't hate this film all the actors in this have done way better movies but if your'e bored see it you won't hate yourself but in no way will you leave that movie thinking wow what a film. "},{"Title":"Time to take a ride on the information superhighway!","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I find this hilarious movie extremely underrated. Many people find this movie too dark, but the reason I love this movie is because it's so dark and witty. I actually think this is the best Jim Carrey movie and also one of my very favourite movies in general. The ending is great and throughout the movie there are plenty of laugh out loud hilarious moments and it is an awesome movie because it mixes comedy and creepiness and I like dark comedy, and also Jim Carrey is my favourite actor, he's hilarious and also acts in more serious movies like Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind and The Majestic. There many funny Jim Carrey classics like Ace Ventura and The Mask and this movie definitely ranks among them.I would have to say this one of my favourite movies in the world. 10/10! D "},{"Title":"Carrey nearly shouts down the script.","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" It comes as no surprise to this critic when he reads that this was not originally a Jim Carrey project. The script has too many downbeat ideas and attempts at social commentary that just don't fit with what Carrey had done to that point in his career. Carrey's price tag was half of this film's budget, and that's a good thing since his mugging is about all you'll remember.Jim Carrey plays a lonely cable installer who stalks yuppie Matthew Broderick after installing cable in his new apartment. It seems that Carrey was raised by television shows rather than actual parents and now uses obscure names of TV characters for his own name. Mostly he goes by Chip in this film, but I don't recall if we ever learn his real name. Anyway, the Broderick character quickly learns the cable guy is a nut. Honestly, how long would you have to hang around any Jim Carrey character to figure that out! Broderick would much rather re-kindle his broken relationship with his girlfriend than spend a moment with Carrey. Will he be able to rid himself of Carrey before Carrey destroys what's left of his life??The film does provide laughs. You have to give Carrey some credit. He was just doing his thing, and really has no input on the social commentary we see. The film is trying to warn us about watching too much television, I guess, but this is hardly an original idea. Even in 1996. And yes we are still too obsessed with show trials like the one they give us here in a side-plot. As I write this, many people around the country are waiting with baited breath for the verdict in the Casey Anthony trial as fireworks explode outside their windows on this our day of American independence. But I digress. All you can really expect to get from The Cable Guy is Jim Carrey acting crazy. And that was always good for a few laughs. Too bad even he has resorted to making penguin movies for a living now. Also so funny cameos that are too numerous to list. The film is full of stars just waiting to break out. Look for Jack Black, Owen Wilson and Mrs. Judd Appatow (Leslie Mann). The film is worth a look if nothing else in on and you haven't seen it for a few years. 6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Careys Most Brilliant Performance","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I don't know how anyone can interput a character any better, Carey was spot on genius in this film. The Cable Guy was a psycho, disturbing to be around, yet he enthralled in every scene. Some of the supporting cast was weak, but heck, Carey could carry the whole movie! Frequently funny, and interesting. Jims acting was a treat to behold.This is one of those DVDs you will want to watch again, and again. I suspect that those who did not like the film just couldn't take the intensity of Careys performance. If that doesn't tell you its brilliant what will? Again, Jim Careys best, if you have to pick one of his films, this is the one to see. "},{"Title":"It's the cable guy!","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Let me start this off by saying that Jim Carrey was PERFECT for this role! It was like this role was made for him, and only him! Seriously, can you picture anyone else other than Carrey playing the crazy cable guy? Impossible.I'll be honest. When downloading this, I wasn't really expecting to get a lot. I thought it would be horrible, as people and critics have said that this was the movie that almost wrecked Jim Carrey's career. Seriously? I thought this was a gem! Sure it had some dark themes, but none was that much to make you want to hate it. Right?I actually thought Chip was quite nice. In the beginning, we see a crazy cable man trying to force Steven to be his friend. He does all sorts of stuff to make Steven be happy and accept him. That sounds like a typical role that Carrey usually plays, am I right? But, we find out later that there's more to that crazy TV guy, than what meets the eye. Watch this movie to find out what and who the cable guy really is! "},{"Title":"The Twenty Million Dollar Man","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Lonely lisping Jim Carrey (Ernie Chip Douglas) is The Cable Guy who hooks up Matthew Broderick (as Steven M. Kovacs) after the latter is dumped by pretty blonde girlfriend Leslie Mann (as Robin Harris). Mr. Carrey, who was famously paid $20,000,000 for this role, may evoke the same polar reactions as Jerry Lewis; an inventive performer, Carrey brings a lot to the role. Director Ben Stiller is in a parallel universe, working the film into a stinging satire on 1990s television; in clever vignettes, Mr. Stiller appears as a Menendez Brothers-type pair of killers.The Carrey/Stiller combination works, but more as a spaghetti-throwing exercise; you've got to admit, some of it sticks. Interestingly (or not) Carrey plays around with a homosexual attraction for Mr. Broderick; if you don't pick up on the early signals, Carrey's installation of cable is clearly likened to sexual intercourse. Later, Carrey gets into Jim Morrison's pants for a karaoke version of Grace Slick's Somebody to Love. Pop culture references abound.****** The Cable Guy (6/10/96) Ben Stiller ~ Jim Carrey, Matthew Broderick, Leslie Mann, Jack Black "},{"Title":"One of the most under appreciated comedies of all time!","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Cable guy is one of my favourite comedies ever! Carrey is fantastic and shows his darker side for the first time, later to be echoed as Riddler, as Hank in the hilarious Me myself & Irene, Lemony Snicket, and even the Oscar worthy Man on the Moon! I think Cable guy is a misunderstood masterpiece! People went into this movie expecting and wanting Ace Ventura 3 and Dumb and Dumber style comedy, but instead got a darker twisted creepy stalker movie. But I'm glad, because this showed a little more of Carreys acting range and a broader comedy style. Also this film is funny as hell. Only beef with it is that Jack Black and Owen Wilson were under used, though Wilson was a superb jerk.I urge those that hated this on first release to re-watch it with a fresh mindset, and not expect it to be like Ace Ventura. This film is too clever and funny to get such a low IMDb score! Its criminal. Also, the trivia on here about this is interesting too. "},{"Title":"Either you get it or you don't","Date":"27 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" While we all have our own opinions about what makes a good movie sometimes films present us with something that some people understand while others completely miss.The Cable Guy was released in 1996 and was a role not typical for Jim Carrey at the time. After asking for all the pay channels for free and taking a tour of the information superhighway, Steven becomes an unwilling friend of cable guy Ernie Douglas, a.k.a. Chip. What begins as an awkward attempt to keep the benefits of free cable soon becomes a much more serious problem for Steven. Chip offers many unusual benefits for being his friend, but consequences for neglect and resistance.Many fault the film for its Dark Humor or the psychotic nature of the Cable Guy himself, who's real name is never revealed in the film. Others question how it deals with the subject of stalking and in dealing with such an issue in a comedic film there will be some who will be put off by the film. Chip and Steven have a few moments of what seem to be sparks of true friendship, but Chip's questionable and often insane/criminal behavior changes him from a trickster character to an outright villain. Perhaps the negative response to the film comes from seeing the Cable Guy change in this way, maybe it had something to do with the way Steven's life crumbles around him without him having any control over what happens to him. Maybe it just went over the heads of a lot of people.While The Cable Guy isn't a film that will be liked by everyone, it surely doesn't deserve the reputation it has had as Carrey's worst film. It is not a bad film by any means, but it is a film that goes deeper into its message than most comedies, which usually don't have messages to begin with. "}{"Title":"the funniest movie ever","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I think this was Jim Carreys best performance! I mean Jim Carrey with a lisp you can't top that. Matthew Broderick is a good supporting actor as well. There are so many cameos from great actors in this movie. Jack Black, Owen Wilson, Andy Dick and the director Ben Stiller. I love this movie. I want to go eat at medieval times someday. Such a great scene in the movie! I love the part of the movie where it turns from a comedy into a thriller/horror. All Chip Douglas wants is a friend, and as the Cable Guy he can either be your best friend or your worst enemy. I recommend this movie to anyone who has never seen it. Seriously it should be a part of everyones collection! "},{"Title":"Not horrible, but not one of Carrey's best movies.","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Sadly though the low score I give this movie is less because of Carrey and more because of Matthew Broderick. I have nothing against him, but there were a couple of guys in this film that would have been better in his role than was Broderick. In fact, I would have to say Ben Stiller, the director of the film, would have been much better in the role. Jack Black is also in this film and would have done a better job. Broderick just did not really work for me. The story has a man who gets the cable man to come over and asks him to fix him up with some extra stations. The cable guy readily agrees and declines payment for this service, unfortunately he seems to take his payment by fixating on the poor sap whose cable he has just put in. He tries his best to be buds, but the guy is a bit taken aback. However, they seem to become close friends and then an incident happens and then the guy goes from being someone looking for a friend to someone who wants revenge. Carrey is very good in his role, he is dead on. I also liked the bizarre trial that would come on occasionally making fun of the Menendez brothers trial. The film got a bit dark at times and also became a bit unfunny at times too, but it was an okay film. About the same caliber to me as the first Ace Ventura movie. "},{"Title":"Hugely underrated, I like this movie","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I have seen a lot of movies, and while The Cable Guy is not the best movie or comedy ever for me I have a great time watching it. It is a tad too short, and there are one or two dull patches, but this is yet another example of a film that hits all the right buttons. The story is great, it has a darker edge to it later but it never ceases to be entertaining. The script is witty and smart, the film moves briskly, the visuals and soundtrack are wonderful and Ben Stiller does a super-efficient job with the direction. Jim Carrey brings a darker edge to his performance as well as being wacky and he is on top form. Overall, this is a very good film. It is not perfect, but it is a million times better than it is made out to be. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's most underrated film","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" When The Cable Guy finally hit the movies theaters here in my country, movie goers from this part of the earth knew beforehand the kind of the reviews it got from around the world. So, when some friends of mine had asked me to join them to see one of the most bastardized piece of film of its age, I said No, thanks. Ten years later, during one of those lost Friday evenings, I caught The Cable Guy on cable; and let me tell you, it's a hell of a movie. Well, it's not The Godfather o The Decalogue, but it's dark comedy with an air of there is more than meets the eyes.Sure, the plot is a bit formulaic and the premise weird guy stalks another person is not that all original, but the performances are really solid, especially Carrey who makes the character credible (at least) and sympathetic. All this joined by some of Carrey's best scenes (Porn Password scene) and one of the greatest comedy scenes ever (the karaoke scene). And this is not the end of it, as in this film there is a critique of Amercian television in general, though not being very deep, is done with a great comedy timing.One thing I didn't like however, is the ending. Of course, being it a comedy, I wasn't expecting some dramatic or disturbing ending, but I felt that I was a bit contrived and unrealistic (the very last scene). Nevertheless, the film is very consistent in all its part, and it sad darker atmosphere, which makes this film oddly pleasant.So, to sum up, people bashed this movie because there were used to the typical Carre's flick in which he would same the same goofy things and be hysterically hyperactive from beginning to end; and let me tell you, that is the reason why I enjoy this film the most, because here we start seeing a more range of Carrey's acting skills. I guess people hadn't realized that "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey was born to play this role, no question about it.","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I remember first seeing this clever and hilarious comedy on the big screen in the summer of 1996, and loved it the first time around. It's just as good every time I watch it! Here is a guy who is so lonely he would say/do anything or go anywhere just to become friends with someone. This may or may not be the kind of person you'd want coming to your house. Not that I'm complaining or anything, But Matthew Broderick isn't given much to do here. Trust me, his character is just as interesting as the cable guy is obnoxious. But Broderick is basically giving a one-note performance. There's battle between these two, but no war. Everything Steven Kovacs says and does is a treat to watch, but if he so desperately wants to get rid of this guy, how come he doesn't do anything about it. The closest he comes to this is when he pushes his friend out the door after barely eating breakfast together. Also, the movie never deals with the reality of the situation, and the ending doesn't make any sense, because it's not a pay-off. It doesn't show us the fate of these characters. That's about it. But those are just quibbles in an otherwise funny comedy.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Brilliant...","Date":"19 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" For Starters This movie Should be Rated 10 out of 10,Jim Carey Steals The show in this Wonderful Movie,I mean He's HILARIOUS!!!,It's been Well Written,Well Acted,Great Screenplays,I have no Idea Why People think it almost Destroyed Jim's Career,There's no way it's one of those Sick Black comedy's where you're Gonna murder someone,It do sen't even Contain any Spoilers or bad words which is pretty good for a comedy movie including Jim Carey,Matthew's Performance Was Also Fantastic,Considering That The Cable guy just wants to be Steven's Friend,to which he goes to drastic measures to do so,It Isn't So Dark but rather Light-hearted,No One Ever Knew That Ben Stiller Could Pull off such an amazing job!! "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable dark comedy","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I always meant to see this entire movie after catching the hilarious Medieval Times scene on TV one time, but just now finally got around to it. It's as good as can really be hoped for, and makes you wonder why this guy named Lou Holtz Jr. has never written any other films. I've always heard that this film didn't do well at the box office but that's hardly the measure of all worth in film artistry or even in culture. There are a lot of elements in this film to make it feel relevant and to attract fans who might perhaps not remember Jim Carrey's rubberfaced heyday. This was probably Carrey's first attempt at a more serious performance actually, as far as I've seen. The film represented a setback in producer Judd Apatow's career, but in retrospect seems to presage his later melodrama/comedies. It also features cameo performances by future stars Jack Black, Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller, the latter of whom also directed the film.It was partly because I enjoyed Stiller's Tropic Thunder so much that I finally got around to watching the film in fact. I'd say his directorial style is very much present in this film, although the main thing that makes Stiller interesting is his writing in my opinion more so than his acting or directing. This film takes it primary characters more seriously than a Stiller script would.Speaking of the primary characters, I don't think you could really improve on Matthew Broderick, still baby-faced as a young corporate executive who meets up with the wrong cable guy, played by Jim Carrey. Other than a few scenes where Carrey allowed his typecast persona to shine through, which really were just concessions to his massive popularity at that point, his performance is just as impressive here as in any of his later dramatic films. Broderick is a perfect sort of everyman, doomed to what seems to be punishment far out of proportion to any of his wrongs or faults. The character is similar to quite a few that Stiller has played in his leading man career, but Broderick was never able to fully make that transition to comedy leading man. Part of the problem with this film is that it doesn't have the kind of sweet lighthearted romance that helped make Jim Carrey more popular in The Mask -- here the relationship just doesn't connect for some reason. I think too much of the running time is concerned with the Carrey/Broderick relationship for the romantic situation Broderick has with Leslie Mann's character to really stick.Like all of Stiller's films, this is a deceptively gaudy and sometimes glossy looking film with a melancholy heart. The titular character is a man who has no ability to form meaningful relationships, who patterns his entire life on television shows he saw as a kid, and who suffocates the potential friendship with Broderick's character by massive overkill before his attentions turn to outright stalking and terror. The greatest weakness in the film is that it makes Carrey's character a bit too nasty, and there's a rather simple polarity between his freakish behavior and his victimized background. I wanted him to be more like the Peter Sellars characters in, say, The Party or A Shot in the Dark, but even though the script gave him more time for character establishment I don't think Carrey was able to really show us the soul of the character. But the Broderick character is very easy to relate to and anchors the film to a great extent, so the damage is minimal. I would have liked to have seen maybe more of Broderick's relationship with his girlfriend and his buddies. But what we got was an above average comedy with a lot more ambition than most. "},{"Title":"The Cable Guy","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Directed by Ben Stiller, this is a quite good and quite funny satirical comedy about the power of television, i.e. how it can affect you. Basically Steven M. Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) has moved into a new apartment after his girlfriend Robin Harris (George of the Jungle's Leslie Mann) kicked him out. Steven is waiting for the Cable Guy to hook him up to more channels, and his friend Rick (Jack Black) suggests he slips him $50 for free movie channels too. The Cable Guy, Chip Douglas (Jim Carrey) takes it to the heart to become Steven's best bud, even though Steven's only pretending to be interested in his work. Chip seems to be stalking him, and Steven was bound to tell him to leave him alone. It is after this that Chip goes psycho, well, he was a bit during the friendship too, and plans to ruin Steven's life. Also starring as George Segal as Steven's Father, Diane Baker as Steven's Mother, Ben Stiller as Sam/Stan Sweet, Eric Roberts, Janeane Garofalo as Medieval Times Waitress, Employee of the Month's Andy Dick as Medieval Times Host, David Cross as Sales Manager, Amy Stiller (Ben's sister) as Steven's Secretary, Owen Wilson as Robin's Date and Charles Napier as Arresting Officer. Carrey is funny and sometimes creepy as the sociopath cable guy, this could be along the lines of what I call the nut-case film (like Fatal Attraction). Worth watching! "},{"Title":"He Is The TV !","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Yes, simply and openly (Jim Carrey) in this movie is the television with all its negative images ! Didn't he look like a noisy music channel sometimes ?, a very stupid quiz show for other times, and a long silly soap opera all the times ?!I think the final plot or statement which made (Carrey) as the avenger who takes revenge on that Homey electronic substitute for parents is such a solution for making a catchy climax only, because (Carrey) here personifies the substitute itself ! However with a much powerful disturbance, and the message is so clear  turn it off, or at least don't take it as a friend.(Ben Stiller) said at (Inside The Actor Studio) that Jim Carrey was coming to the set everyday with 20 ideas to perform one scene and he loved it. But for sometimes you'd feel that (Stiller), as a director, let (Carrey) do whatever he wants maybe as his creative colleague, or maybe as the bankable star of the time who took 20 million dollars for his role which was historically unprecedented at the time and too overrated from my point of view as well, putting in mind many ultra-silly moments and the fact that the movie's outcome at the box office wasn't quite good. I only loved that scene at the end when some man loses the TV transmission then begins to open a book with exploratory look on his face. It's very forthright I know (Books instead of trash TV) but nice and well-meaning.It's a devil-in-our-home kind of movie. Yet, not as a Horror spoof, inasmuch as a Horror only ! So what a noisy, brusque and too silly Horror that is ! "},{"Title":"Medieval Times Home of the flogging Larry Kilgore!","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Your local cable guy is nothing compared to the Jim Carrey version - psychotic, lonely, and TV-oriented. This cable guy gives you free movie channels - but for a price.I loved the Medieval Times scene. Carrey was crazy in battling Broderick. Its a good thing he can't battle worth a crap because he sure took it too seriously. Plus, the stolen goods, the prostitute the Cable Guy hired, the basketball game, the secret video, the restroom brawl. Everything that is crazy - happened.Overall, it was very enjoyable to watch. It can easily be seen why Carrey was so sought after in the 90s. Take a look! A- "}{"Title":"The world needs more dark comedies like The Cable Guy.","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy is about an ordinary man named Steve Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) who recently broke up with his girlfriend Robin (Leslie Mann). After moving into his new apartment he realizes something's wrong with his TV, so he calls up a cable guy. The cable guy is named Chip Douglas (Jim Carrey) and he quickly makes friends with Steve, much to Steve's displeasure. At first Steve is fine with hanging out with Chip, even though Chip acts way over the top and is extremely obsessive. However it is once Chip helps get Steve get back together with Robin that things go way downhill. Chip only wants to be friends with Steve, and will go to absolutely any great length to either be his best friend or his worst enemy. Soon Steve fully realizes that not only are Chip's antics and personality obsessive and creepy, but he is clearly out of his mind insane. All due to the fact that Chip was raised on television shows and wants to live life just the way his favorite characters do.The Cable Guy is quite a dark comedy, there are things we shouldn't laugh at but we do anyway. While the movie is very funny it is not timid to reveal it's message, and that is the effects of television on one's own personality. Jim Carrey is the perfect contender for the role of Chip because his comedy is so over the top just like the character. There is one hilarious scene where Chip and Steve are at a medieval style restaurant, and they are put on the stage in medieval armor and told to do battle for entertainment. Chip takes this all too seriously and begins singing the Star Trek theme song while attacking and chasing Steve around with a giant fake Axe. Steve tries to tell him that this is not Star Trek, but Chip seems to completely believe that they are Spock and Kirk fighting to the death. This scene and many others parody things like this that are not funny at all in real life, but on screen it's hysterically funny. This is definitely one of Jim Carrey's most vastly underrated movies.While not everything in The Cable Guy is realistic or possible in real life, it shows that things like this could actually to happen to people. Chip is a funny character but he's also a sad one, because he doesn't quite understand how to make friends or deal with his loneliness. As a boy he had no friends and his mother was barely around, so he would just watch TV sitcoms all day. Which basically warped his mind into developing all those perfect life TV character traits into his own personality. TV sitcoms very commonly go over the top and that wildly shows up in Chip's insane behavior. Matthew Broderick's character Steve is the victim because he is affected both mentally and physically by Chip, who soon seems to have control over Steve's life including his parents and girlfriend Robin. If you ever unwillingly became friends with somebody like that you'd be terrified too.This movie develops its characters and plot very nicely. Some audiences however may not like the switch from a dark comedy to the sudden darker unfunny messages, but I thought the message was interesting. Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick work well together in the funny scenes and dark scenes alike. The jokes and over the top humor were very funny, and definitely made this an underrated 90s classic. I give The Cable Guy a 3.5 out of 4. In an era with mostly garbage comedy flicks, the world deserves better funnier comedies like this one. "},{"Title":"An electrifying experience of Jim Carrey's","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Another great comedy from the A-list comedian Jim Carrey,The Cable Guy is a bit different to other Carrey films as it has a more sinister theme to it instead of being light-hearted.It is one of,if not my favorite Jim Carrey comedy movie as he doesn't let down to give us another humorous performance.He portrays Chip Douglas/The Cable Guy alongside his co-star Matthew Broderick who portrays one of his favorite customers,Steven M.Kovacs,who starts to develop a friendship with the Cable Guy.There are also some cameos from Eric Roberts,Owen Wilson and Ben Stiller(who also directs this film).Leslie Mann co-stars as Steven's love interest,Robin and this film was produced by Judd Apatow who is absolutely great at producing/directing comedies.What made this film even more funny was that the humour was morbid as well as references to movies such as the James Bond film Goldeneye,Sleepless in Seattle and other films that,in a way related to the film's context.Bravo and well done! "},{"Title":"What's the Problem Here folks?","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This movie rules! How can you be a fan of Jim Carrey and not get this movie or enjoy it? Here's my take&#133;Jim Carrey was a huge star in 1996. In two years he went from Ace Ventura to a mega star commanding $20 million a movie. Pretty impressive for anyone.As a funny man in rather light hearted roles (I mean, Dumb & Dumber isn't exactly mentally taxing&#133;am I right?) and then he gets nailed with this dark comedy in The Cable Guy. It doesn't fly. His fan base is shocked because at this time he was intensely popular with kids. I know&#133;I was an elementary teacher and have the same last name as one of his famous early roles. I used it to my advantage daily and every kid knew Jim Carrey.All of the classic Carrey comedic improves are in this movie. Ben Stiller directed with skill and balance. This is a great movie. How do I measure greatness? Simple. I laughed out loud over and over and over and the movie was a blend of scenes that were rememberable. Carrey was brilliant. Another reviewer said it well that this would have been a marginally average movie with another actor. Carrey took this role and added comedic steroids. Stiller obviously let him role. The only over-the-top-scene for me was the dark dream when Carrey pounds on the apartment door with the evil eyes.Imo, this should be a college campus classic, a cult classic, some type of classic&#133; "},{"Title":"Unfairly underrated. A sui generis black comedy that's actually funny.","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Cable Guy may not be Carrey's best but is still a great black comedy that mixes perfectly the typical American plastic humor and elements of thriller and drama.The story is not the typical comedy because it involves a disturbed (probably insane) cable guy who didn't have a happy childhood by any means (he was raised by the t.v. because his mother didn't pay any attention to him and he never knew his father). His hard childhood turned him into a loner with no friends, women, or anything. He only wanted friends but his horrible attitude can desperate even the most peaceful person.Until he meets Steven he finds out what friendship is although Steven gets tired of him too soon... BIG MISTAKE.The humor is really good and Carrey steals the show with his nerve tensing, psycho performance. He is surely the man of a 1000 faces.On the other side, Matthew Broderick is excellent as Carrey's counter part. He's naive but has a strong character and kind attitude. That's why he's a perfect victim for Chip's obsession.Memorable funny moments include the medieval fight, the ending, Carrey beating Owen Wilson, the Karaoke party, etc. I couldn't help but feel sorry for Chip. There are many men in the world just like him; I mean, without friends. The typical person that nobody wants to hang out with because of their personality.Overall this is a great comedy that should be watched by those who enjoy clever dialogs and plenty of black humor. The sub-plots are equally good and also make some kind of criticism against American society which centers around t.v. and cable. The perfect example is when towards the ending the fat man discovers a book and enjoys it more than watching t.v. a message? You bet. "},{"Title":"The Cable Guy.","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy is a good Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick comedy that while being very dark is pretty good. The movie is about a guy who has just split up with his girlfriend Robin and while getting cable in his new apartment he meets His worst nightmare in The Cable Guy. The movie is pretty enjoyable and has been rated far too harsh and some people who say this movie is awful are full of crap and if they do not like it so much then to just stop whining. Overall the movie is very dark, funny and enjoyable so watch it and you will not be disappointed as long as you like Jim Carrey stuff. So I rate it a fair 64% and go Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick as they do very well in this movie. "},{"Title":"Salt Peanuts! Salt Peanuts!","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Oh my gosh. This has to be one of Carry's most underrated movie. It is filled with hilarious dark humor. This movie is about Steven, a man who just moved from a relationship. He calls the cable guy (Carry) who is the guy that tries hard for you to like him. Like he says I can be your best friend or you worst enemy. He starts to stalk Steven and finds out about his old girlfriend. He talks to Robin and tries to turn her against Steven. Steven gets framed and is outraged at Carry.(SPOILERS AHEAD!!!) Steven finds out by his co-worker/friend Rick (Jack Black) that he is not a member of the cable company and was fired. Carry takes Robin to this main cable satellite that he took Steven to earlier. You'll have to watch to find out the climaxThis is one of those movies that is filled with many memorable quotes. It was a movie that was overlooked by many people. What makes this movie so funny is the performance from Carry. He has a lisp and it makes this movie all the better. I thought Ben Stiller did a great job directing this film. My all time favorite scenes are the part where Carry goes to the basket-ball court and plays a crazy game of ball. Another is when he throws a karaoke jam for Steven and takes pictures of him with a prostitute. And my favorite scene is The Medieval Times scene. I wont spoil that one it is the most hilarious scene in this whole movie. I loved every moment of this darkly twisted comedy, it also stars early appearances of the frat pact like; Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson, and Jack Black Give this movie a chance, you will love Carry (and his lisp) **********10 Stars/10 "},{"Title":"Another Carrey success underestimated by ammatures.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Many people were disappointed by this movie only because it appeared to be quite different than other Carrey films, mostly because of the constant dark humor, something that has never been included in any other of Carrey's movies. However, I find that people underestimate this way too much only because Ben Stiller has attempted to have Jim Carrey pull off a movie full of much different humor than in his other movies, and I have to say, I actually believe it was a success. Jim Carrey is still extremely funny. It's definitely worth a shot, and it would be the wrong idea to ignore this review, for I am hoping that I am right about this being pulled off very nicely. "},{"Title":"and you thought you had problems","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This is the second feature film directed by Ben Stiller,the first being Reality Bites which i have not seen.anyway the this movie is basically about the cable guy from hell.Steven Kovacs (Matthew Brodderick) has just been kicked out of his girlfriend's place.he now has his own apartment and is waiting for the cable guy to show up.The cable guy(Jim Carrey) shows up and installs the cable even giving Steven all the movie channels for free.From then on,the cable guy ingratiates himself into Stevens life,thinking they are best pals.one he realizes Steven doesn't feel the the seam way,things take dark turn.Jim Carrey is very good as the cable guy,showing his dark side,as well as the usual Jim Carrey manic hi-jinx.Matthew Brodderick is good in his role,although he is given little to do except react to Carey.This is a dark turn for Carey,a sort of dark comedy.but it works well,showing Carey has some range.Ben stiller does a good job directing this one,as it must have been a challenge reigning Carrey in for more serious scenes.i have to mention there is on hysterical scene,involving a particular word game.7/10 "},{"Title":"way too underrated","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The cable guy is a hilarious movie. I'm not a huge Jim Carrey fan, most of the things he did in the 90s were to stupid even for someone as dumb as me. But somehow i thought he was very good as Chip Douglas(the cable guy). I also thought Broderick gave a good performance as his typical loser, wimp character. In the film Steven Kovacks(Broderick) tips a cable guy(Carrey) 50 bucks to get all the movie channels for free. Then Carrey's character believes this must mean they are bestest buddies. This movie reminded me a lot of such films as the classic movie Stangers on a Train and Bill Murreys What about Bob. I'm not saying this is a great movie but it is way too underrated. How could anyone say this movie is not one of Carrey's best. I give the cable guy an 7/10. "},{"Title":"Bashed by critics and about 80% of the human race, Cable Guy is still the most gut-bustingly hilarious comedy-thriller ever made.","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" A 10 might seem a bit much for an average comedy featuring Jim Carrey and Mathew Broderick, but this film needs all the 10 votings it can get! I really like this movie, why people call it bad I will never really understand. It's a comedy, and I laughed. A lot, and hard. Isn't that the point of comedies?? Jim Carrey takes insane character acting to new heights as Chip Douglas, the very lonely cable installer whose sole purpose in life seems to be lisping out lines from TV shows, movies and this-and-that. When he meets the dorky, recently dumped Steven M. Kovacs (played to nervous-wimp perfection by Matthew Broderick), he thinks that he has finally found a good friend. Pity Steven doesn't think so.What follows is a series of hilarious, kind of dark, and mean at places, but still hilarious, scenes where Chip and Steven do stuff that pals do (going to the Medieval Times restaurant and duelling to the death; playing porno password with Steven's family; playing basketball; and doing the karaoke (Carrey's version of Don't you want somebody to love is not to be missed!)).After numerous hilarious scenes Steven finally goes brutally honest on Chip and tells him that he's not his friend and doesn't want all the help with stuff, that Chip can offer. That was the biggest mistake he ever made...After this it becomes some kind of weird, hilarious psycho-horror-thriller, and this is probably what puts most people off (or perhaps Carrey's lisp). But I love every second of the movie, it's original, it's dark, it's actually funny, it's absurd, almost surreal, and of course it has Jim Carrey in it, in my opinion one of the greatest actors of our time.If you want a big laugh, don't be put of by all the negative reviews and the low ratings... Ben Stiller wanted to make a comedy and try something new, so he made it really dark, used the subject of stalking for originality, and the result is a laugh-out-loud-funny movie, full of gags, violence, stalking, romance, yes everything you can wish for. A movie that more people should enjoy! 10/10 "}{"Title":"great evil comedy!","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I can't understand why this movie flopped, it's one of my favorites.The story is about a quite weird cable guy (played by Carrey) who more and more sneaks into the life of an average guy, who lost his luck (played by Broderick)and makes his life even more uncomfortable.This movie features a good cast, Carrey is funny and frightening at the same time, while Broderick is the perfect choice to play an average guy and Jack Black ( as Brodericks characters best friend) is just as funny as he usual is. Also the way Ben Stiller put himself into this movie is great. Also the references to other movies make this film an enjoyable dark comedy for people with a rather black humor. "},{"Title":"most people do not get it, but if you do it is great","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" this is one of the best movies I have ever seen. most people do not get the humor and think it is horrible. but if you understand this type of humor, get the jokes and enjoy dark comedies you will love it. ben stiller did a masterful job with this movie. his small part in it is great. he plays the part of stand and sam sweet, 2 child stars who grew up and kind of lost it. the one brother killed the other brother and coverage of the story and the court case is seen throughout the movie while characters are watching the news. the 911 call that ben stiller made that they play in the court room is too much, OH my god my brothers been shot, i think it was an Asian gang......I'm pretty sure they were speaking Asian this could be Careys best performance of his career. Jack Black has a small role and his attitude is classic. there are so many memorable scenes. The bathroom beating scene could be the best. Owen Wilson is in this scene and Jim Carey beats him senseless in the bathroom of a restaurant. See this movie. I have seen it over 100 times and have pretty much the entire movie memorized. I could do it as a 1 man play. Hey Rick, thanks for the boost, I've never made a slam dunk before. Might wanna buckle up I've had a few drinks, I'm just jokin with ya, thats my humor "},{"Title":"The Cable Guy - JC at his best","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I honestly think the Cable Guy is JC's best performance. A rather weird and bland storyline is rescued by a hilariously brilliant performance from JC. I think Broderick's character (Steven) is boring and Jack Black is just annoying as Rick. However I have seen the film half a dozen times and there are several scenes which have me in hysterics. The toilet scene in which the then unknown Owen Wilson gets knocked out in usually has water running from my eyes, and the medieval, the house party and family get together scenes are pretty funny too. I can see why the film flopped. The storyline is a little bit weird and there are too many things which JC character (Chip Douglas) does which just do not make sense. Apart from JC cast are useless and make no impression. The trial (Stiller plainly the two brothers) is pointless. A good idea which with JC could have done so much better. JC they let you down... Still worth a watch though. "},{"Title":"HIGHLY Underrated","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" The Cable Guy is that kind of comedy that makes you laugh without too many jokes. This is not one of Carrey's usual comedy films, as a matter of fact, if you really understand the sense of this movie, you'll find a lot of Drama, because Chip Douglas is not only an idiot, actually he's a mentally challenged guy. This movie is not bad, it's just different. It's not like The Mask, it's not like Ace Ventura is something you have never seen before, and I think that's why it's too underrated, cause The Cable Guy was something Jim Carrey never did before. Because by that time, everybody thought that Carrey was only a funny guy who could make a lot of stupid faces...The Cable Guy is hiliarous, dramatic, even realistic. It's a good movie. "},{"Title":"Disturbing, frightening, and hilarious.  Grow a sense of humor already.","Date":"11 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I actually do understand why people didn't like this. They were uncomfortable seeing Ace Ventura, the pet detective, as a twisted, clingy, insane loser. It's a dark comedy, and people just don't generally like dark comedies. But this was also a JIM CARREY movie, and so people went expecting non-stop slapstick in the vein of Ace Ventura Pet Detective or The Mask.And to a certain extent, this was justified. After all, Carrey hadn't yet made The Truman Show or Man in the Moon, so who would've expected dark subject matter in a movie he starred in? So forget about the warnings from critics who said that this wasn't a typical Carrey movie (and the critics were just as short-sighted as the audiences, generally), let's go watch Jim Carrey talk out of his butt, or whatever other zany thing he's gonna do in this! The Cable Guy actually follows two separate stories simultaneously at the forefront is the story of Steven, played by Matthew Broderick, who's trying to get back together with his ex-girlfriend but keeps being hounded by lonely, psychotic cable guy Chip Douglas (not his real name, it's a reference to My Three Sons), played by Jim Carrey; in the background is the story of the murder trial of Sam and Stan Sweet, a scathing commentary on the media's obsession with murder trials a la the Menendez brothers (specifically parodied here) or OJ Simpson.It all starts with Steven getting his cable hooked up by the (apparently) sweet-natured cable guy, and asking for free hook-up of the pay channels. Carrey's character is happy to oblige, but it comes with a price Steven wasn't anticipating; Carrey's character wants a friend, and he starts popping up, wanting to hang out with Steven. This doesn't get too bad at first; they go to the local cable satellite dish, for example, and afterward, Steven thinks he's done with the cable guy. But he keeps popping up more and more, and things escalate, with the cable guy ruining a basketball game played by Steven and his friends and taking him to Medieval Times to joust. The cable guy doesn't seem to realize how much Steven really dislikes him, and Steven doesn't have the heart to say anything. Things come to a head when the cable guy gives Steven some gifts, including a big-screen TV and a karaoke machine, and they have a karaoke party at Steven's apartment, where Steven unwittingly sleeps with a hooker paid for by the cable guy. When Steven finds out in the morning, he gets angry and throws the cable guy out. This is when things really escalate, as the psychotic cable guy now starts trying to ruin Steven's life, his job, and his relationship with his girlfriend, and Steven goes to jail for accepting stolen property. Through all this, he sounds like the insane one as he tries to say that it's all the cable guy, and no one believes him. He's released from jail and goes to a party at his parents' house with his girlfriend, and the cable guy is there, buddying up to his parents and his girlfriend, and basically making Steven look bad by being embraced by them as Steven keeps ranting about him. One of the funniest scenes in the movie occurs here, as the group gathers to play Porno Password (the cable guy's suggestion, of course) and Steven is forced to say humiliating things to his mother (one of the words he has to convey is nipple). Everyone else loves it, but Steven is deeply uncomfortable. In addition, the cable guy tries to blackmail Steven by threatening to tell Robin about his tryst with the hooker, and show her the picture he took as proof, blackmailing him into being his friend.Steven can't get anywhere until his friend Rick digs up some dirt on Chip Douglas, and they find out that he was fired from the cable company, and that it's not even his real name. In addition, the cable guy has taken Robin to see the satellite dish (he apparently plans to kill her), and Steven must stop him. At the dish, there's a struggle, and the cable guy is defeated, ruining the satellite dish in the process, just before they give the verdict of the trial. After this, we see stunned viewers unable to get the closure they need as media and TV obsessed people, a montage that closes with somebody seeing a book on the table, and picking it up.Message there's more to life than TV.I loved this movie. Broderick and Carrey are both terrific, as is Ben Stiller as Sam and Stan Sweet. The smaller parts are good too; Leslie Mann does a good job as Steven's ex Robin, and Jack Black is good as Rick. George Segal and Andy Dick both have funny smaller parts, and Janeane Garofalo is hilarious as usual as the Medieval Times waitress (There were no forks in medieval times, hence the ARE no forks AT Medieval Times. Would you like a refill on your Pepsi?) As written by Lou Holtz Jr. and directed by Stiller, the movie goes from amusing to disturbing to downright scary, but it never loses that twisted sense of humor. At the end, as the injured Carrey is being carried off the dish by a helicopter, the pilot calls him Buddy. Do you mean it? Am I really your buddy? Carrey responds, suggesting that his story is far from over. This movie made many people uncomfortable, and people didn't get what they expected, and you can't necessarily expect fans of Carrey's earlier work to enjoy this kind of dark humor. But I loved it, and thought it was extremely underrated. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This movie was extremely underrated. It had comedy, sex, twists, and Jim Carey! The movie, directed by Ben Stiller, starts off when Steven, Matthew Broderick, being separated from his wife. While starting his new life off alone he calls for cable, that's when Jim comes in, and The Cable Guy shows up. Jim Carey who is actually not a cable guy is asked by Matt for free cable and he gives it to him. But, unknown to Matt, it is not free. Jim, who has a somewhat dual personality and a lisp, constantly stops by to the point that Matt can not get away from him. When Lesile Mann, Matt's ex-wife Robin, begins to date again, with Owen Wilson, Jim steps in and beats Owen to a pulp in the men's bathroom at the restaurant because he is so obsessed with Matt. From there Robin and Matt re-connect and, somewhat, conspire to have Jim sent away, which brings a whole whirl-win of comedy.10 Stars ********** "},{"Title":"Oddly put together, but worth a look","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I've been a fan of Jim Carrey for many years. Honestly I was initially embarrassed when this movie first came out, because the clips and previews I'd seen of it portrayed a lispy, under-bitten, very dorky Carrey in a movie I wasn't quite sure what the heck was going on with it. However, after recently viewing the movie with a critical eye and more open mind, that embarrassment has declined.Overall I find this film to be 'laugh-out-loud-abley' humorous with a unique, interesting plot. The humor in this film, to me, was saturated in the subtle. The 'over the top' scenes involving the Cable Guy (basketball, Medieval restaurant battle, karaoke, mustached C.G.) at times went on too long, and were too slapstick for me. But Carrey and Broderick's facial work/expressions in key scenes (Steven signing the Cable Guy's forms when they first meet, the spider creeping across the Cable Guy's face) were hilarious. Broderick does an excellent job with his deadpan, unenthused attitude toward Carrey's outrageous, clever demeanor. It is an unusual casting in my opinion first off, but it does actually work as the movie progresses.Additionally unusual was the tone. It tried to be dark and creepy at times, but all the humor inter-spliced made the film kind of confusing as to what it was trying to pull off.The acting was pretty well done by all involved. Not only was Carrey humorous, but he seemed to nail his character very well. There were a lot of subtle expressions and spoken words that was consistent with the character throughout - a man raised poorly only by cable programs, who had little human socialization skills, desperate for a friend, and will stop at nothing to get one. Again, with the exception of a few scenes, subtlety was Carrey's strong point here, which was surprising from how I expected him to act. With Broderick, again, his placid expressions and demeanor was a great opposite to Carrey.Ben Stiller did a good job with a lot of the humor involved in his directing. The scenes with himself in it were random and good. Jack Black did a nice job playing Steven's suspicious and quirky friend. Another very funny scene was Eric Roberts' cameo - see it to believe it! So, even though the 'darker' side to this film clashed strangely with its humorous side, it's worth watching for the subtle yet hilarious humor, decent character development, and the memorable smaller characters. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of all time","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Cable guy is a very funny movie the highlights of the movie are the karaoke scene,the bathroom scene, and the mid-evil times scene. It would be a bad to miss it especially if your a Jim Carry fan, It is almost as good as liar liar. In the movie he plays a cable guy who befriend his customer and helps him get his girlfriend back by beating up her boyfriend in a bathroom at a restaurant and giving her free cable, then his customer refuses his friendship and he becomes evil and psychotic and tries to ruin his life. It is a funny movie and no other actor could play the role but Jim Carry. I liked it but try before you say you don't like it, it may become your favorite movie of all time. "},{"Title":"This is not a regular comedy!","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is a truly masterpiece and in my opinion Jim Carrey's best movie. He is perfect in the role as Chip Douglas and the acting is outstanding. The other characters are good too but Jim really stands out in every scene. The porno-password game, the fight at medieval times restaurant and the karaoke party is all great scenes. But the most of the audience and critics doesn't like it!? In fact, they think it was a disappointment and a piece of crap compared to Ace Ventura and The mask. Why?I think the reason why some people don't like this is the bizarre mix between funny jokes (some scenes are VERY funny) and the fact that Chip Douglas is a VERY tragic person! He has spend all of his life watching TV-shows and movies and have absolutely no feelings for love and friendship. He is just that person that NO ONE will have as a friend. The ending scene on the big parabol is one of the most saddest scenes I've ever watched!  "},{"Title":"Weird, sometimes very funny, but I liked it.","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  In Ben Stiller's 'The Cable Guy', Jim Carrey shows some progress as an ACTOR, not just a comedian. I liked him in 'The Truman Show', loved him in 'Bruce Almighty', kinda sorta liked him in 'Batman Forever', and now this. Matthew Broderick, one of my favorite actors, is also good as the hapless 'preferred customer' who gets stalked by Jim Carrey's Cable Guy. The reason I capitalized it is because we never find out his real name. He just uses names of TV characters as his aliases. Also, Jack Black in an early role is good for the few scenes he's in. Above all, this movie is weird, sometimes funny, and just plain creepy at times. But I liked it. I give it 3 stars out of 4. "}{"Title":"Watch this movie again.","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Jim Carrey is great in this film.  He gives such a terrific performance, filled with twists and turns, subtlety and really broad moments, honest emotion and completely making fun of himself.Matthew Broderick is good as the straight guy and Ben Stiller does a great job of directing a comedic version of Cape Fear.  Maybe it's not everybody's cup of tea, but I think that people were way  too hard on this movie when it came out.   I think some people might not have realized that alot of the scenes in the film were from television shows and movies that Jim Carrey's character had seen so many times he knew them by heart.  Scary, but funny.  It's a dark movie, but I really liked it.  I think some people missed the boat on this one. "},{"Title":"Cable for Nothing and your Guilt for Free","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Chip Douglas (Carrey) is a cable installation guy who gives Mathew Broderick free cable extras, then psychopathically wields that favor to progress their buddy-ship.An above-average movie, jealously maligned - for the wrong reasons. Incorrectly marketed, burdened by the speculation regarding the largest actor's salary in the world at the time, misunderstood by critics and panned by mongoloid fans who only wanted more Ace to sit on their face, The Cable Guy (at the time of its release) was routinely dismissed simply as The Film That Wasn't Worth A Twenty-Million Dollar Paycheck.If your agent is savvy enough, if your producers can talk a good enough game to your funders, if the marketplace will support the burden, well - go ahead, I say - take the 20-mil and run - you're not going to be on that pedestal forever - you might as well luxuriate in that tax bracket if you've got the clout. Why did this CAPITALISTIC, supposedly DEMOCRATIC society vilify Carrey for that aspect? This is the American Way that those soldier grunts and duplicitous politicians are fighting for, no? Aspiring to a 20 million paycheck is EXACTLY what all the flag-waving is about, is it not? Supporting THIS way of life, where a person can rise from a janitor to a job better than the President's. RIGHT?Highest praise to Carrey (and his managers/agents), not only for the circumstances that allowed him to secure that wage coup, but for the sheer talent he possesses which has so righteously been rewarded. (Rest assured, I'd be whining along with the critics if the excruciatingly unfunny Jason Biggs was in Carrey's shoes.)But look around in 2004 - actors *regularly* draw above-20-mil paychecks because the bloated economy can now more readily support this hedonism. These actors do not even need to invest as much effort in their role as Carrey did for his Cable Guy persona, relying on marketing to tout them as box-office draws, in a circular, self-fulfilling fiscal cul-de-sac, which feeds off itself and ultimately pats itself on the back during Oscar season. Ironically, it is this commonality of avarice, this passé flippancy towards Hollywood's golden-haired elite, which allows The Cable Guy, in retrospect, to suffer less the slings and arrows of outrage over the 'greed' of its leading man. I say again, Bravo! to Carrey for pioneering the pack.The movie and eponymous character are dark, foreboding, blackly funny and - like Kilmer's iconic Huckleberry Holliday - complete departures from anything anyone had come to expect from Carrey at that juncture in his upwardly-spiraling comedic career; critics and fans alike were taken aback at the frightening surrealism that Carrey brought to his disturbed character. The critics were too enamored with that 20-mil to delve any deeper than Carrey's 'offensive' lisp; and the contingent of ass-speak fans sat by numbly, waiting for an Allllrighty then! which would never come.Admittedly, Carrey's hamming had reached King Kong-ian proportions by the time this film hit cinemas, his two preceding films being Ace Ventura When Nature Calls (an excursion to the zenith of over-enthused surf-wave-smirk and ultra-over-acting) and Batman Forever (where Carrey actually saved the movie from Tommy Lee Jones' attempt at Jack Nicholson and Chris O'Donnell's mannequin non-presence, with his over-ultra-supra Method); one of his lines in Batman may have summed up what many perceive as Carrey's shortcoming, when his Riddler character says, Was that over the top? I can never tell! Forthwith, audiences expected that slam-hamming to be carried over into The Cable Guy, which the misrepresentative trailers wrongly portrayed as such. Not having a convenient hole to pigeon this movie, marketeers and critics dismissed it as 'unfunny', 'dark', 'puzzling', simply because it didn't fit conventions or stereotype.And here's the clincher - when Carrey played those over-the-top outre-hams in previous films, they STONED him for it; denigrating him as if from thrones of thespian munificence, yet when he subtly alters persona to portray someone more complex than the cartoon characters they begrudge him, suddenly they don't WANT him to change, because it taxes their stunted filmographic vocabulary to have to actually THINK about his interesting and layered role.Watch for Owen Wilson (at that time, not yet The Nose That Saved Hollywood) as the insincere date; Bob Odenkirk, Andy Dick and Janeane Garofalo (Stiller's Posse), Jack Black (only hinting at the Tenacious within) Kyle Gass (as the Couch Potato!), Eric Roberts (in a screamingly-funny self-parody), George Segal ('Are you on the pot? You know you're KILLING your mother!') and director Ben Stiller himself, playing twins, parodying the Menendez Brothers TV murder trial/fiasco ('The killer was - Aaaaaasian!').The makers of The Truman Show learned the lesson when they DIDN'T market that film as a 'comedy', thereby allowing Carrey's acting prowess to shine, unburdening themselves from the pressures of public expectation. Indeed, The Truman Show is an extension of The Cable Guy's themes of alienation, false perception, reality misapprehended. That film's deeper psychological impact was so pronounced because we were now seeing Carrey as an ACTOR (not a comedian or overpaid janitor) in a role which extended The Cable Guy's predicament to seeking not only friendship - everyone in town was 'pal' to Truman Burbank - but SINCERE friendship. Truman, like The Cable Guy, was a victim of illusion.To any who may take cues from public consensus, heed not the simplistic puling of those who crudely decry The Cable Guy - view it for yourself, taking into account that it is merely a black comedy about a stalker; a lonely psychotic who will do almost anything for acceptance in the middle-class society he grew up alienated in. There is hefty psychological meat all over the movie, and its themes (underlying and overt) will leave you simultaneously disturbed and sated. Enjoy the movie's merits and let its faults be MOVIE faults, not socio-political contrivances and jealous gossip.(Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"Totally unappreciated!!! No spoilers!!!","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The Cable Guy is one of Jim Carrey's movies that has been unfairly maligned. I find it to be a darkly funny film. Jim Carrey goes for broke in role that would be impossible for anyone else to play. He plays a lonely and disturbed cable guy that tries to befriend Mathew Broderick. The film is dark, but not as dark as it could be, Jim's character has been brought up by television, He is obssessed with old TV show plotlines. Jim Carrey's performance is great, he makes his character funny, but also dangerous, but not totally unsympathetic. He hits the right tone, always with tongue firmly in cheek. Critics and audiences stayed away, but I prefer this to some of Carrey's weaker films, namely Ace Ventura and the Mask.Grade B "},{"Title":"This is one of the BEST Movie's Ever","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  It is so cleverly Crafted, all the actors are gifted and perfect for their role, Jim is Almighty, he plays the role to a T, and carries it off with Finesse, all the little things thats what do it, like looking for the cable in the wall, Every movement and sound in every scene is spot on.Mathew is perfect for the normal guy, I know I was in this situation, and can relate to both of the characters, he was not a cable guy, but another fruit loop I could not get away from.And Ben the directing and writing is superb, , every scene works and the movie flows really well, the only down side is the ending. I cant fault anything else though I only wish they could get together again for another film, well done guys you are the greatest  "},{"Title":"Superb Movie","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Superb movie!Thats all i can say about this one, true dark masterpiece I like these type of JC movies better then ace ventura/the mask , even though they are pretty funny aswell10/10, cos the rating of 5,5 is really disgusting for this one, and needs to get higher "},{"Title":"A great dark comedy...Broderick and Carey are perfect for this cast!!!","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  A great dark comedy...could not have picked two more appropriate actors (Broderick and Carey) for the cast.I'm in no way a fan of Jim Carey, but I absolutely admired his performance in this film!  The kareoke party was my favorite scene, it was a great blend of comedy and chaos! "},{"Title":"Cable Guy Syndrome","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Cable Guy Syndrome is a term i use when i see a movie the first time and hate it and the next time i see it i love it. The first time i saw the Cable Guy i thought it was the worst movie ever....this is coming from a huge Carrey fan too. But then for some odd reason i saw it again and i loved it. This movie is full of stupid little jokes that make you laugh. Very dark for Carrey but he plays it well. Plus Jack Black is in it... everyone likes Jack Black right? Anyway if you saw Cable Guy and didnt like it watch it again, and if you never saw it watch it and then watch it agian........o yea and I think the guy was Asian.Rating Six Thumbs Up "},{"Title":"I like it.","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I don't really have many complaints about this, sometimes i'll admit the dialogue is a little sick and twisted, but to me that's part of the attraction i have to it. I know when i first saw it the drastic role change of Carrey had me a little Closed-minded during the first few minutes. But that's the whole thing, it's change. Once you force yourself to realise that this isn't just another goofy Jim Carrey movie like The Mask, Ace Ventura Pet Detective, Dumb and Dumber, etc.. etc... you ShOuLd be able to view it as it is A dark comedy. It's twisted. But it's funny. Open your minds and SEE it as that. Don't just complain because it's nothing like he'd done before. (nor has really since.. except perhaps The Truman Show) Not that it's necessarily a bad thing that Carrey has kept with these roles. There are a LOT of his movies where he's goofy that i have fallen in love with and own.But i can also say that this is another one that has a place in our video collection. It's different, sure. It's twisted and dark, sure. But it's not exactly meant to keep you laughing all the way through, no. It's not that kind of movie. If you open your mind to this fact.. you just might enjoy it. "},{"Title":"a brilliant movie","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  At first, I though it was just OK...After watching in a couple of times, you realize its a Brilliant Movie !!!  Jim Carrey has so many classic (and quotable) lines...Matthew Brodrick is the perfect straight man....I can watch it over and over and laugh my head off....Just remember....He who hesitates, masturbates....  "},{"Title":"Tops","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I actually heard a standup comedian (a not so funny one at that) poke fun at this movie for being Carey's worst.  Stunned me, this was his best in my opinion.  In particular I like the 'Salt Peanuts' beating in the men's room. It's dark (but not too dark, I mean porno password, medieval times) and Carey is plain unleashed.  It's his best movie and will hold up better than the rest of them over time.  For people who wanted a suburban Ace Ventura, too bad. "}{"Title":"Misconcieved Black Comedy.","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Well when I first saw this film I had no idea what to expect. It totally blew me away and Carey's performance was second to none!A lot of people thought this was stupid, thats because they were not expecting a dark comedy, which was a first for Jim Carey. I think it is a brilliant film that works on so many levels.Awesome effort guys! "},{"Title":"a misunderstood masterpiece...","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The Cable guy is one of the most misunderstood movies in the history of Hollywood. The movie is very engaging and has a very cleverly engrained message. Ben Stiller's direction is to be commended and so to are the performances of the two leads. Carrey's lisp is side-splittingly hilarious. "},{"Title":"Highly Recommend to anyone 17+","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  From my point of view i believe that so many people disliked the cable guy at first because they were watching it expecting to see an ace ventura type comedy.  obviously this movie doesn't quite meet those expectations and the humor is directed towards a more mature audience than the Ace Ventura movies.  but that is just how i see it, my theory may not be true for everyone that disliked this movie.  i do know that this movie deserves more credit than it's 5.5 rating. "},{"Title":"Amongst Jim Carrey's best. WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Black comedy more notorious for Jim Carrey's $25 million salary when he made it than for the excellent film that it turned out to be.This is a splendid movie, basically with something to say about the power of television in a way that THE TRUMAN SHOW did in similar ways some time after.Matthew Broderick gives an understated performance as a white-collar worker who is suddenly offered free cable by a repairman (Carrey) and suddenly finds himself having to be his friend. Unfortunately, Carrey has misinterpreted Broderick's friendship and takes it to unbelievable extremes, leading into some hilariously silly moments and a clear climax.Directed with panache and style by Ben Stiller, THE CABLE GUY is a deserved cult classic and one which will rank high on Carrey's career path. "},{"Title":"A little of Jim Carrey goes a long way...in this exaggerated black comedy","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Cable Guy, The (1996) Jim Carrey, Matthew Broderick, Leslie Mann, Jack Black, George Segal, Diane Baker, Ben Stiller, Eric Roberts, Janeane Garofalo, Andy Dick, Harry O' Reilly, Owen Wilson, D Ben Stiller. Broderick moves into a new apartment after separating with his girlfriend (Mann), then his manic (and lonely) cable TV installer and him reach deep understanding of one another, but he goes to great lengths to be buddies, making his customer's life a living hell. Wacko black comedy is an unusual hybrid of stalker movies and television culture-and curiously, homosexual implications-that's hedonistic and annoying and switches to a dark and more dramatic tone. Director Stiller has a recurring cameo, but his joke as a twin brother murderer never develops itself. Running Time 96 minutes and rated PG-13 for dark thematic elements and crude humor. **  "},{"Title":"Great movie, one of carrey's best! (Some minor spoilers)","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  (Some minor spoilers, nuttin to worry about.)I dont get how this movie can have 5,5 points. I guess many people think it's not appropriate to make a comedy about a sick, sad ,stocking psycopath. But hey! Everyone knew what they where getting into when renting this masterpiece. This movie is VERY original, Carrey is if possible even more funny in this one then in Dumb & Dumber. The plot is great, maybe broderick could have been replaced with someone else but at the same time i don't see any reason for it. He made his part in this one without remarks.Everyone has their favorites and this is certainly one of mine, i must have seen it 10-11 times and i still watch it from time to time, it always gets me in good mood and it always makes me laugh. For example the smile Jim gives Broderick in the car when asked for his name, when they are playing basketball or when they go medeval at each other! Heads up for Ben Stiller who has created a great movie that might not get the recognition it deserves at the moment, but probably will in the future when people get better humor. So anyhow see this one, it's one of the best comedies out there!9/10. ..Since im saving my 10-pointer for the future.. "},{"Title":"This is his best","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  about 80% of the people dont like this movie or have never heard of it. This is smart comedy. Jim Carrey delivers a master piece of a movie, I don't understand why this movie didnt get much recognition But if u like comedys like dead man on campus, zoolander, kung pow, etc then this is for u "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Now, I never liked the story of this movie but the whole movie was funny because of Jim Carrey. Just how he acted was brilliant. It must have been very difficult to act like a person trying to be your friend and not stop. This dark comedy is very funny but I think that this movie was an okay movie. Jim Carrey uses his talent and gave a powerful performance of comedy. I expected more out of Broderick. I've always been a big fan of his and i thought his performance was a little shaky. Overall i thought this movie was funny and I recommend it to all viewers who like some suspense comedy. "},{"Title":"very underrated","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  this is really quite a well done film, stiller is a good director, zoolander was funny and very professionally done i think ... however, without the ending cable guy has, i think it would have been a much worse movie ... *spoilers* there were the notions of jim carrey's character's motivations and reasons for being the psychological manipulator he is, his upbringing, his desire first to spread free cable to the world and then realizing they would do better to have none at all; until those surfaced in like the last 15 minutes (though there were clues before, namely in his endless knowledge of television and all its details characters plots etc), this was indeed a simple suspense/horror ish film and while i will always respect ben stiller for his skill as a director (also as an actor), and while it was for sure entertaining, and NOT boring, as many have told me, it was very shallow and typical even ... the ending really picked it up for me, i have much more respect for it as a whole because of that "},{"Title":"Spectacular Performance by Carrey","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Carrey's role in this is a little disturbing, but his performance is hilarious and beautiful.  The acting is fantastic.  I only wish that people could get past the Carrey's role as a sadistic, obssessive best friend or worse enemy, and see the true beauty of this film. "}{"Title":"I have no room in my life for a new friend","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This truly is a hysterical movie. Most people here seem to short change this movie, and say that it isnt funny, that the characters were too boring, etc. The thing that people dont realize is that this movie deserves a second viewing. There are so many underlying jokes (take a look at some of the expressions on Jim Carrey's face at some points in this movie, and you will know what I mean).(Some Spoilers)The plot centers around Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick), a architect who was kicked out of his previous house after proposing to his girlfirend Robin (Leslie Mann). Down on his luck, Steven moves to an apartment, and since the apartment is free of cable, Steven calls up the cable guy to give him some cable. Along the way (after a recommendation of a friend), Steven asks for free cable. The Cable Guy, Chip Douglas, (played by, who else, Jim Carrey), does give him free cable on the basis that he and Steve be buddies. Things dont work out for long, however, because the obsessed Chip Douglas finally gets on Steve's nerves, and after a while, Steve denies the right of the Chip to be his friend.After this, however, Chip had already given Steve a big screen TV and Karaeoke Machine, made a video of Steve running down his boss, and took a picture of Steve making love to a prostitute, basically setting up Steve if he was to ever turn his back on Chip. He did, and things started to decline for Steve. He was taken to jail for stealing the electronics and was fired after the videotape was shown to the boss. Nobody realized the danger of the Cable Guy besides Steve.There were many funny parts of this movie. First off, the Medieval Times scene had to be the funniest of the movie. In this scene, two members of the audience (Chip and Steve, ironically) were chosen to fight to the death (this isnt a normal thing at these Medieval Times shows). Chip takes this fight rather seriously, and Steve shows how truly scared he is of the Cable Guy.The other part I really liked was when Chip performed Jefferson Airplane's Do You Want Somebody To Love. That was truly funny, and I had tears in my eyes after watching that scene. The porno password scene also was very funny.The acting was well done across the board in my mind. Jim Carrey was funny as usual, albeit in a very different way this time around. Matthew Broderick did his part really well, as the straight man who falls victim to Carrey's obsessiveness. Mann was also very good, along with the rest of the supporting cast.Overall, this is a funny movie, that some people wont like due to the dark comedy that it has, but still a high quality movie from very high quality actors, such as Carrey and Broderick.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Multiple Watch Recommended","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Note As always some very fundamental aspects of the plot are included in this review. This is not meant to be a spoiler and in fact more information about the actual scenes in the movie is located on the back of the box than in this review.I recommend watching this movies 3 or 4 days in a row. This movie is at first a comedy. The story of a man plagued by a crazy, aloof, and possibly mentally disturbed individual. Getting into one hilarious fix after another. This view of the movie as a straight forward comedy is completely shattered by the ending.It is also the story of a terminal loner. The loneliness that this guy feels is hard to watch and really tugs you deep down. No wonder under this lonely existence that this individual latches onto any friendly attitude directed his way. When those friendly attitudes turned out to be more protocol and less genuine than he hoped, he reacts like a lover spurned, lashing out in his frustration.This is a very complex and deep story and deserves to be watched several times, this is not some cheap blow it up movie that's only good to fill a few hours of your life. This story is way more than that and I doubt anyone could soak in exactly what this movie is about and the subtle messages the movie relates in a single watching. I still get something new out of this movie with each watching.One of the best movies to come out of the 90's and I do not expect to see its match in this decade or the next. A must watch, perfect for your collection. "},{"Title":"I normally don't like Jim Carrey movies...","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  but I liked this one.  It's a comical movie especially if you go into it with an I am about to see a Jim Carrey movie mind-set.  Is this an oscar winning thinker film?  No.  Is it funny and entertaining?  Yes.  Worth renting or even owning the DVD.   "},{"Title":"Quite possibly underrated","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  At the time that The Cable Guy was released back in 1996, a big deal was made of the fact that Jim Carrey had earned more than $20 million for his performance in the movie.This is irrelevant.Carrey plays the title character much as he did compared to one of his characters on the TV show In Living Color, Fire Marshall Bill. The plot of the movie itself concerns Matthew Broderick's character, Steven Kovacs, an architect who is on the outs with a girlfriend after she refuses his proposal of marriage. A friend (played by then-unknown Jack Black) suggests he asks for free cable for his new apartment.When asked, Carrey complies, but for Broderick, he will learn that that choice will make him his best friend or your worst enemy.As directed by Ben Stiller, The Cable Guy drives home the idea that we are all connected too closely to what we see on television. In Jim Carrey's case, TV is his character's best friend until Broderick comes along, and when he does something that Carrey doenn't like (and what TV doesn't do) he pays the price for it.With a mixture of hilarity, creepiness and a subplot about a murder trial of a former child star (played by Stiller) The Cable Guy wasn't given a fair shake, especially by viewers who only saw the goofiness of the Ace Ventura movies. Jim Carrey can do anything he allows himself to do, and this is proof of it. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  So many people hated the Cable Guy because it wasn't Carrey but I find it to be a great black comedy about obsession.Although the lisp Carrey has can be annoying at times but Ben Stiller works around in a comical way.Matthew Broderick didn't have to do that much work for this as he just flowed nicely through the movie letting Jim Carrey do his thing. Whatever that thing may be.The support cast did a good job (which included Jack Black as Broderick's best friend)I like Ben Stiller and enjoy all three of his directed films (Reality Bites, The Cable Guy & Zoolander)Professionally, I think the main reason this film was panned was because Carrey was paid a LOT of money to be a slapstick kind of character and that wasn't what they got.All the same I prefer this film to the Ace Ventura's, Mask, Liar Liar any day... As for Dumb and Dumber....Hmmmmmmm.7/10 "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  People who don't like this movie are stupid and must beeliminated.  If only Jim Carrey had been given the Oscar hedeserved for his amazing performance then there wouldn't havebeen of millions of dollars wasted on all those poor attempts likethe Majestic or Man on the Moon and fewer children would have todie from watching them.  Also, I have a big poster of the Cable Guyand I put RoboCop's head on him and it looks awesome!!!  "},{"Title":"Great film with a bad rep.","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I watched the film I didn't get it. But the second time I was hooked. There are some truly great scenes in it that you do not want to miss. Carrey as a brave knight, attacking poor Broderick. Or when Carrey sings karaoke. And sweet scenes about manly friendship. The film contains both morale issues and comic relief. And also makes a comment on the life in front of the TV-syndrome. It's too bad the film has got a bad reputation...it's a great film that works on many levels. "},{"Title":"underrated-SEE IT!","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  seeing a lot about jim on t.v. regarding his new movie Bruce Almighty made me want to check this one out again.i think it's a really good movie and it totally entertains.  i really think matthew broderick is the only thing that makes the movie lull.  this guy, unlike the movie, is terribly overrated.  he really fails to be all that engaging.carey however is a genius and shines in this performance.  the comedy is not really that dark, but it is indeed funny.  it's also interesting to see jack black in an early film role as well as owen wilson getting his ass kicked by chip douglas.anyway, don't be afraid of this movie, it's really worth seeing a couple of times.  matthew, stick to broadway and neil simon. "},{"Title":"A bit flawed but still worth watching","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film recently it's about a man named Steven Kobak that's been booted from his apartment by his gf Robin Harris. It stars out with him waiting for a cable guy named Chip to arrive when he finally does he's upstairs taking a shower and has to ring the doorbell like 5 times. Steven then bribes the cable guy $50.00 for free cable. So he starts flipping through channels. the cable guy Chip needs a friend so he asks Steven to be his friend. But Steven ignores him to get Robin back and Chip gets upset and leaves 11 messages on Steve's phone machine. So to make it up to him Steven takes Chip to dinner and an event. The event involves them dressing like knights. To teach Steven a lesson Chip gets him arrrested and when he goes to get Steven he tries to get Chip arrested then Chip asks the cop about how he likes the sports package he was receiving. While Steven was in jail Chip and Robin had lunch together. In the end Chip becomes injured and Steven and Robin tell him goodbye. Like I said a bit preachy but it's still certainly worth watching.Seven Stars "},{"Title":"Funny!  and not as dark as people say...","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  At heart this is a surprisingly gentle comedy, which uses Jim Carrey's physical comedy skills to great effect - he just wants be loved.  Aaaaaaah.  Some hilarious scenes, of which my favorite is the homage to star trek during the medieval fight scene.  Sinister? Disturbing?  No way.  To be honest I was a bit disappointed that the humor wasn't darker!A pleasant way to pass 1.5 hours - catch it on cable or network. "}{"Title":"a mixture of genres","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  There are a great many reasons why so many people disliked this movie.  Most of them have already been brought up, such as the fact that Jim Carrey wasn't just a big goofball the whole time, it was too disturbing seeing him portray such a psycho, etc.  I think one of the biggest reasons this movie has been so trashed and swept under the rug of film consciousness is that it is a collection of multiple genres and (in their minds) not terribly successful on any one of them. Here's my take If you can stand a little dark humor, the laughs are there, and they come early and often.  The movie is a hilarious comedy. It is also a drama.  A drama about a normal guy (Broderick) and his problems with a lonely and troubled cable tv installer (Carrey).  Carrey's loneliness in this movie (starting with his childhood, in which the television was his only friend) is an interesting story in itself. It is a psychological thriller as the cable guy gets ever closer to his preferred customer and resorts to all sorts of things to keep from losing his newfound friend. Is the movie completely successful each level alone?  I don't think any could be.  But it combines them about as well as any movie possibly could, and it's more than worthy on all three levels.  Bravo Ben Stiller, on a stellar directorial debut.  Great film!  But it's the kind of film you'll either love or hate.  I love it. "},{"Title":"Deserves to be watched again.","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  When this movie first came out, many people didnt like it, mostly becuase Jim Carrey character was evil, but this is one of his best movies. This movie is damn funny, and it really deserves to be watched again. This is one of my favorite comedy movies of all time. It is directed by Ben Stiller, and if people had liked this first film of his, perhaps we would have been blessed with more movies like zoolander. Ben also has a cameo appearance as sam/stan sweet, and has the best line in the movie My twin brother has been shot! Oh my god! I think it was an asian gang or something... they were speaking another language, I dont know what it was but I'm pretty sure it was a-aaaaaaasian! "},{"Title":"I thought the movie was Good","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of people say this movie is really bad and don't like the Jim Carrey character. I think this is Jim Carrey's best movie because all the other Jim Carrey movies are stupid, this is actually funny. Matthew Broderick is also good in this movie. If you haven't seen this movie in a while I suggest you pop-it in because its more funny now than it was before. There is one part where Matthew Broderick asked Jim Carrey for his name and Jim Carrey smiles really big. I was laughing hysterically and I could't breathe. 8/10 "},{"Title":"mighty swell flick.and hilarious too!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  yeah.this was quite hilarious.the medievel knights scene,the party with the kareokee,the disappointing realization over eggs the next morning,the basketball game and especially and definetely my favorite part,the absolutely hilarious bathroom scene where carey(chip douglass)kicks the crap out of owen wilson,who plays the cocky boyfriend of steve's temporarily seperated girlfriend.that scene really takes the cake in pure hilarious rollicking roll on the floor laughter.the way he's got that moustache and sunglasses,he looks like freddie mercury trying to be the equalizer.if that's not hilariously funny i dont know what is. the scene with steven,his girlfriend,the parents and chip in the livingroom playing the possibly offensive to some viewers game,is just there to add even more humor variety to this masterpiece of comedy expertise.ben stiller did his thing with the directing and jim carey put on a performance well worthy of an oscar. my rating is a 9.0/10 only because the ending could've been better,which some of the imdb commenters mentioned about. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's Best Film","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Jim Carrey has been reknowned for his slapstick comedy routines throughout his nearly two decades long career. This 1996 Columbia Pictures release was Carrey's first attempt at a dark comedy with some rather serious overtones. The results work extremely well and Carrey scores his best and funniest film performance ever. He portrays an average looking cable installer with a severe form of loneliness. Growing up with no friends and parents who didn't really care for him very much, he goes from house to house in the hopes of making friends with customers. He attempts to score major points with his latest customer (Matthew Broderick) by luring him into the crime of accepting permanent free cable including the pay per view channels for only $50. Broderick is drawn into the illegal offer but it comes with another price. He has to agree to become Carrey's best friend. Broderick originally figures that Carrey will eventually find somebody else and quickly forget about him so he goes along with it without argument for a little while. However, Carrey becomes increasingly persistent and gradually evolves into more of a stalker than a friend leading both parties to eventually pursue some rather drastic measures. Carrey is at his funniest in what would initially seem like an impossible role for him to portray and Broderick scores his best film in years with his supporting role as a man with too many other priorities in his life to always be with his cable installer but the real challenge comes in convincing that to him since he won't take no for an answer.    "},{"Title":"One of the funniest gags Ive seen","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERSA generally average film. However it contained one of my favourite dark jokes Ive seen. For those of you have seen it it is this-The inocent cable subsciber goes to a party with Mr cable guy. He meets the girl of his dreams. They get close and end up having rumpy pumpy next door. The next morning, over a fry up, he tells of how wonderful she is and was. Cable guy then sais innocently - yes she is great. It was my treat, hence revealing that she was a prostitue arranged as a surprise for Mr subscriber. Obviously he is gutted and disgusted all in one.This was an amzingly dark and hilarious joke and has made me play the whole film for various friends just for that bit "},{"Title":"Made me laugh","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that critics and serious film people hate. Personally I enjoy movies that make me laugh, and this one does an excellent job of that!I read a lot of negative reviews for this film. And all I have to say about that, is that if you can't see the humor in Jim Carey's karaoke scene... or the battle at Medieval Times then you probably have no sense of humor. Or you're just a snob or something. "},{"Title":"what gives?","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  admittedly, its not a perfect film.  certainly, the ending is a disappointment.but the gems shine the basketball game, the medieval restaurant death match, the dinner party, chip doing Somebody To Love with a lisp on a karaoke machine... cable guy has some of the funniest, most memorable scenes of any jim carrey film ever.  no question.so what gives with the critics?  they help propel the eminently forgettable clerks to the top of the rankings and nary a kind word for some of carrey's best work?  some people have no sense of humour.8/10  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey....Not so lovable!","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang! Bang!........CABLE GUYYY!!!!..Jim Carrey brings this film to life like no other actor could do. From the moment Chip Douglas (Carrey) appears you are in for an uncomfortable gem of a film. It's been said before that this is NOT the usual Carrey movie, his usual comical, lovable characters are blown away by this lonely, creepy and unlikable psychopath. You will feel uneasy throughout the film, always on edge but totally entertained. Carrey gives his all to bring about a quite believable madman, hell-bent on taking over someone's life. The film has some hilarious moments and some quite surreal scenes which add to it's 'feel' which will be not to everyone's taste. The karaoke party is like a bad trip! A clever film which will one day become a classic "},{"Title":"My views on cable guy","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The cable guy is so bad it's brilliant.Jim Carrey's best film easily,it has some classy dialogue and him shouting cable guy and charging at a door is reason enough to watch this.A strange choice of movie for Ben Stiller but still a mad laugh. "}{"Title":"Truly a work of genius in disguise!!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, yes I am a Jim Carrey fan, but to show no bias I still think this movie would have been just as good starring Chris Farley.This entire movie is a movie made up of SO many different movies and tv shows and some people don't even see it. Yet the plot on its own is magnificent. I can totally see why people are immediately turned off to it though.. my advice to them, watch it again! When I first saw this movie I was not impressed and familiar with Ace Ventura antics so I thought it was a bad move for Carrey. However I watched it again because my friend wanted to see it and started noticing new things and new references. I've no joke seen this movie around 70 times and each time gotten something new from it. It's very very hard to understand this movie I know, but the key to understanding it is.. EMPATHIZE (and if that doesn't work just smoke up ok?). Imagine if you were the cable subscriber role and some cable guy was pulling these antics on you. It really shows a tough position to be in on both parts. I give incredible recognition not only to Ben Stiller, but the guy that wrote such an in depth script as well. Not to mention Jim Carrey who just makes you laugh with his lines. I can explain this movie even further but I think I made my point. "},{"Title":"How great it is to be a Jim Carrey fan","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  First off i have to thank all the Jim fans that reviewed this movie on IMDB and that most of you loved this movie because dude the lisp thing has to make you laugh and so many more of the scenes that really shows just how masterful Jim can be. This movie is so funny i still cant believe that critics gave so many poor reviews, i think they were just afraid that Jim Carrey actually made a movie that was so fun to watch and Dark to laugh at they didnt want to break their snobby thoughts of  Jim as an actor but we fans know that Jim is just one funny guy and one of the best actors there is.I agree, at the end of the movie Ben Stiller should have been in the medic copter leaving the movie to sequel options which i think would have been a major hit and everybody would have to rent the first one to see what they missed. 10/10 ...i didnt give it 10/10 just because I'm a huge Jim fan but also because so many didnt realize how good this movie really is. RENT it then BUY it worthy. "},{"Title":"One of Jim Carrey's Best....","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this movie again and have decided that it is truly one of Carrey's best performances. What made this movie so entertaining and worthwhile is the fact that Carrey actually appears to be acting and not just mugging his way through a gross-out script.  He demonstrates some depth and actually makes the viewer switch from curiosity about Chip to horror at what he is capable of to a sense of sympathy for his station in life.My only real complaint with this movie is the ending. Stiller could have ended it with Chip being loaded onto the Medevac helicopter. "},{"Title":"Cable Know-how Worth Gold","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is one hi larry us movie. How about the Password scene? How about that lisp? How about the bouncing off the door? "},{"Title":"Entertaining every second","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with the last few comments this movie is indeed Underrated and it is a gem. It doesn't have the best story in the world really but all the scenes are shot so well and it's all very original. Jim plays an insane cable guy who tries to become really good friends with Matthew and ends up blowing it. Like I said not the best story but the scenes were done really well, the acting is terrific, Jim is truly one of the greatest actors ever and there's some good music in it. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Apparently, nobody got The Cable Guy","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  It amazes me that this film is so ignored, and the reviews so inane and weak.  This is a DARK COMEDY, and, whether you like it or not, this might just be what Jim Carrey is best at.(Possible Spoilers) I've read countless reviews of The Cable Guy and I just shake my head and wonder why nobody GETS THIS!  Matthew Broderick is amazing as the Straight Guy in the film.  And, what an impressive minor performance by Owen Wilson. Granted, the bathroom scene could have done much more realistically, but I got my first glance at this extremely peculiar actor who just steals the camera from everyone.I hated Wilson's character, but was mesmerized by his unique dialogue ... was that his original contribution.Oh well, I can only ask that you reexamine this soon-to-be cult classic.Edward "},{"Title":"This amusing tale of a tv psycho will hopefully never go unwatched!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The Cable Guy is the best one-liner film ever. These type of films should be treasured in comedic history. I not only use the hysterical quotes on a daily basis with my Canadian friend, but am ever reminded of Carey's quirky looks and his lisp. I recommend anyone who is a comedy fanatic should not disregard this hilarious movie off your list. "},{"Title":"Give it a break!!","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie yesterday for the fifth time and I decided to go to imdb and see the votes for this movie. 5.4!! I think that is way too little... the movie is funny and Jim Carrey is great as a lunatic CAAABLE GUY!! that's what I think anyway  "},{"Title":"Too weird","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, but this film is just too weird. Jim Carrey plays a seriously disturbed former cable installer who stalks his customers. And that is what's wrong with this movie. Disturbed stalkers simply aren't funny. Trying to make one so is like trying to make a comedy about child molesters. It just doesn't work. I'll give Carrey & Co credit for sticking their necks out on this effort, no doubt they had to overcome much opposition to get this film made. But that's like crediting the captain of the Titanic for trying to cross the Atlantic in record time. The problem here, quite simply, is this it is almost impossible to make a comedy based on a genuinely unlikeable character. Jim Carrey has made a career out of playing oddballs, but they were always harmless, likeable oddballs. His Cable Guy character is exactly the opposite. He's a frightening oddball, a guy who, if he can't be your best friend, will instead be your worst enemy. And that's why this movie fails. Unlike with his other films, we never grow to like Carrey's character, in fact, by the end of the movie, as he finds yet another sucker to befriend, we end up positively loathing him. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Cool Jim Carrey movie!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"    Cable Guy is about a hideously possessive cable installer who attaches himself to Matthew Broderick's hapless character, and his girlfriend (Leslie Mann), and is extremely obsessed with television.   This flick marked the first of many great Jim Carrey movies since Batman Forever.  Jim Carrey just knows how to make the characters he plays believable, which is probably why so many people have been captivated by his movies.  Cable Guy is a very fun, and hilarious comedy, even if you're not a Jim Carrey fan.  I liked his catchphrase, The Information Super Highway, and the way he kept saying his name was George Jetson and other names as well.  The funniest scenes were the party where Jim was singing Somebody to Love by Jefferson Airplane, and that nightmare Matthew Broderick has.  So, if you like Jim Carrey, and dark humored stories then Cable Guy is the right movie to see.  I would also recommend this comedy to friends, and families with kids older than 12.  I give Cable Guy 3 1/2 stars!  I hope to see more of Jim Carrey's work in the future!   "}{"Title":"8 out of 10! Nothing less...","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't sure at first if I should watch this movie or not since the average rating on IMDB when i wrote this was a 5.4/10 and most of the ratings on this website is accurate but I watched it anyways and I think it should be at least a 7 or an 8. What I liked about this movie was not only was it just full of laugh-out-loud comedy but it also had some dramatic moments which made the movie intense and makes you more focused in the movie. In my opinion this has to be one of Jim Carrey's best movie. His worst is Man on the Moon even though he did a great job impersonating that annoying Andy Kaufman guy, that movie was horrible. The Cable Guy was entertaining yet dramatic which made it even better.I knew Ben Stiller was a great actor but I didn't know he was also good at directing, This was a really funny movie yet brilliant.If you haven't seen this movie yet and you have a sense of humor and also like dramatic movies you should check this movie out.Overall Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Hugely underrated Jim Carrey comedy.....(inconsequential spoilers)","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I can see why people have problems with this movie. It gets VERY dark, even for a black comedy. This, however, does not change the fact that Ben Stiller and Jim Carrey are comic geniuses. This was once my favorite movie, long before I entered the world of greater, more serious films. I ordered this movie so many times on pay-per-view I broke my old record, that of Cool Runnings when it was on PPV around 1994. Jim Carrey is an excellent comedian, but as this, Truman and Man on the Moon have proven, an extremely underrated actor. I mean, Tom Hanks started out as a comedian, but two Oscars later and now he's a great dramatic actor? I mean he is, of course, but let's let Mr. Carrey follow in the same footsteps. Matthew Broderick is also very good as the guy who's life is suddenly turned upside down by this obsessive cable guy with a lisp. The Medieval Times scene is beyond brilliant, as it has made me cry from laughing so hard everytime I watch it. Ben Stiller was still relatively unknown when he made this movie, blowing up after There's Something About Mary, but he has proven that he is not only a great comic actor, but a great comedy director as well. The porno password scene is another gem. In terms of comedic value, a strong 10 out of 10. Although it may get a little black for some people, it's overall a hilarious and underrated gem. No Liar, Liar, Ace Ventura Pet Detective here! "},{"Title":"Under-rated and wrongly over-looked gem.","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  THE CABLE GUY (1996) Rating 8/10No matter what people say, this is definitively one of Jim Carrey's best films. He stars as, you guessed it, a cable installer. He really takes his job seriously, TV being the quintessential thing in his life deprived of friends. That is until he meets Steven (Matthew Broderick), a successful young man who moved into a bachelor pad after his girlfriend refuses his marriage proposal. He meets Carrey when he hooks him up for free HBO and stuff, and they soon start hanging together. At first, all's peachy, and Carrey might even help Steven get his girl back. But then the guy gets more and more intrusive, and soon Steven has no choice but to break their friendship. Bad idea. Carrey won't let go, even if he has to stalk Steven and ruin his life to force him to be his bud. THE CABLE GUY was directed by actor Ben Stiller, whose debut REALITY BITES was interesting but ultimately so-so. His second flick is hysterical, but it's also a stylish, clever black comedy. The screenplay walks a dangerous balance between goofiness and suspense and excels at both. I enjoyed a lot how Stiller directs the movie not like a Jim Carrey movie, but like a De Niro thriller. It's rather somber and moody, and that gives the comedy an interesting quirkiness. There are lots of great scenes with original twists on thriller clichés, and Stiller also fills his film with witty satire, in-jokes and colorful details. For instance, Ben plays a bit part in the film as one of a set of twins accused of murder whose Court TV trial goes on through the film. The film's cast is very interesting. Broderick, who's best know for portraying the ultra cool high schooler Ferris Bueller, proves a skilled grown-up actor (he's even better in 1999s ELECTION). His girlfriend is played by Leslie Mann, who also puts playful sexiness in comedies such as BIG DADDY, and his dad is played by the enjoyable George Segal. But the film's biggest surprise is Jim Carrey, who I had never seen like that. Of course, since then he showed acting talent in THE TRUMAN SHOW, but you gotta remember that back in 96, Carrey was mostly known for slapstick and funny faces. THE CABLE GUY proves he can act. He's hilarious but also creepy by moments. He's the anchor of this wrongly overlooked gem, which is great from the opening to the closing credits. Trust me. It was one of the best movies of 1996 despite the very low user-rating. "},{"Title":"An excellent dark comedy, universally underappreciated. See this film.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Why did people watch The Cable Guy and almost universally condemn it? Because people, as a whole, are ignorant.  In my many conversations with people I have met across this continent, maybe nine of them have said, `Yes, I loved The Cable Guy too.'  This movie is Carrey's breakout performance, topped, in this reviewer's opinion, only by his Truman Burbank, in The Truman Show.What The Cable Guy did was opine anew that the society in which we live is controlled by the luxuries created by the very same society.  Sure, this is not an original idea to Ben Stiller or writer Lou Holtz, Jr., or the filmmaking world in general. Writers and filmmakers have commented on the uncontrollable nature of our society, and in far darker visions of the future than this. But Stiller and company add a dark element to the familiar social commentary that removes the dystopian vision from a future setting, as so many movies have done before it, and points the commentary-finger directly at contemporary culture (note the thinly veiled reference to the Menendez trial sprinkled throughout the film).At once reminiscent of Bill Murray's Frank X. Cross in Scrooged, and as psychologically needy as Murray's performance in What About Bob, Carrey combines the best of both those characters, and adds his own over-the-top black humor to the mix, creating `Chip Douglas', the multi-monikered cable guy. The vast landscape of Carrey's thespian creativity is on display, as he turns in a performance unexpected by fans of his anemically thin character, the ass-talking Ace Ventura.  Carrey proves not only that he has a dark sense of humor, but also that he can create a character with an array of television experience upon which to draw. Carrey's cable guy gives us an absurd anti-hero as the product of T.V. culture.  His every thought and word, controlled by the sights and sounds of television, a.k.a. `the babysitter,' we find the cable guy as he yearns desperately a friend. As a societal outcast, he is relegated to learning about culture from the television shows he watches, a surreal Desmond Morris-like experiment. Oddly, while Carrey's advice to Matthew Broderick on winning back his estranged love is so accurate, the cable guy is unable to replicate relationship-building skills in his own life.While on the subject, Broderick turns in a fine, if somewhat uninspired performance as the object of Carrey's obsession. As usual, it is a pleasure to see Broderick in familiar territory, placed in a situation over which he has no control, a role for which it seems his acting abilities are uniquely attuned.  Watching him in this film, however, one wonders if he has become unsatisfied with the everyman character he has brought to life so many times before.   Nevertheless, his contribution to this film adds to the overall experience the film provides the audience, and brings a welcome levity to the anarchy into which his character is thrust.The Cable Guy may not be `the best film ever made,' but it hardly deserves the vilification heaped on it by an unappreciative public.  This reviewer for one, has enjoyed each viewing of this film, and recommends it to all people who appreciate a good, dark comedy.  "},{"Title":"People are wrong","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  People are wrong. They say that THE CABLE GUY is Jim Carrey's worst film. When really it is very well done and brilliantly dark in its own way. I realized people were upset because they were hoping for a Jim Carrey like in ACE VENTURA. They didnt want this psychotic stalker Carrey. I think Carrey's worst was possibly ACE VENTURA 2 WHEN NATURE CALLS. Honestly, and I quite a movie critic I think this is one of his best movies and PERFORMANCES. It was well made and I thought was quite original. Not exactly movie of the year, but it seemed very true to people who get lonely.     Matthew Broderick stars along side of Carrey as Steven Kovacks, a man who has recently been having trouble with his girlfriend whom he asks to marry, and she asks him to move out. The Cable Guy (Carrey) comes in to install cable and comes into Steven's life. Desperate for a friend he will do anything and everything for him...and eventually it gets a little psychotic and not psychotically funny. Very original and not typical Jim Carrey, in the line that the Cable Guy delivers himself I can be your best friend or your worst enemy. I loved it. Directed by Ben Stiller of ZOOLANDER. "},{"Title":"Great Dark Comedy...Extremely Underrated","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why most people hate this film, maybe because it's too dark.  I think that Ben Stiller did an incredible job with this film and Jim Carrey had a great performance as Chip Douglas, perhaps the most difficult and definately the most interesting character he's ever played. You have to understand that the concept of a film about a guy who was basically being raised by TV is going to be very off-normal. I think people were expecting a typical Ace Ventura type Carrey film when they came to see this, which is why everyone hated it...if anyone reading this has only seen it once, I strongly recommend you give it another chance. "},{"Title":"The film was very sad... yet brilliant","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This film was so moving. I don't care what the real so called film critics said about this, saying it was Carrey's worst performence, and the film was terrible, and it almost killed his career etc..The film is absolutely brilliant. And Jim Carrey was outstanding as the lonley Cable Guy, Chip Douglas/Larry Tate/Ricky Ricardo etc.I found myself with a lump in my throat at the end. And it makes me glad that I am, and never will be, alone through this life. I felt so sorry for Chip Douglas, when he was giving his speech at the end on top of the International skyways. Another piece of brilliance about this film, I found, was the trial of Jabob Sweet (Ben Stiller, the director, in a cameo role). At the end of the film, The Jury come to a decision whether or not he is guilty of murdering his twin brother. But you don't get to hear it, because by then, you get what the film is all about, and don't really care of the outcome of the trial. Well I didn't anyway.Carrey / Broderick / Stiller - Absoulute class.   "},{"Title":"The highlight of Carrey's career, never to be topped!","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Odd thing perceptions! The general concensus is that this film was not popular - critically or at the box office. Many contributors here make mention of the film's perceived unpopularity  but read the majority and it is obvious that this is NOT the case. So many evidently hold the film dear to their emotions. And why not?  it is by SO FAR, Carrey's greatest performance and indeed one of the most satisfying films ever made. I have seen way more movies than most of you for four reasons.(1) I am older than 95% of you. (2) I have watched films regularly since I was 4. (3) I was a film critic for many years   and (4) We have our own library of over 4000 films at home which we watch in five yearly rotations.So when I tell you this is one of the best films ever made - believe me! (even if you don't happen to like it) THE CABLE GUY, though screamingly funny in places was never a comedy, it is one of the saddest films I have ever seen and an absolute tour-de-force from Jim Carrey. His is a study in psychotic loneliness..is he not just a hop, skip and a screwdriver away from Norman Bates? The lisp was genius, so few could have carried that off in such brilliant fashion. At times, when Anthony Perkins takes over, Carrey's not there any more. Forget MAN IN THE MOON, THE TRUMAN SHOW, they can't hold a candle to this performance.As cable guy Chip Douglas, Carrey simply smothers Broderick's character who is just about acted off the screen for the film's entire running time. Equally good acting perhaps, but Broderick appears to be totally bemused the entire time he is on screen with Carrey, seemingly unable to come to grips with either Chip Douglas or his co-star!So many little vignettes stay with you long after the film has concluded. The party scene where Carrey cuts loose, belting out Do you need somebody to love. How many understood the significance of that particular song? The incredible take on SILENCE OF THE LAMBS during the cack-fest that was Medieval Times! The classic basketball sequence where Carrey limbers up! The porno-password game which must rank as one of the most difficult to watch segments ever thrown up in a movie and then the absolutely unforgettable climax atop the communications tower. No speech in the history of cinema has moved me as much as Chip's final recognition of his predicament.You were NEVER there for me, were you mother?You expected Mike and Carol Brady to raise me! I'm the b**tard son of Clare Huxtable I'm the long lost Cunningham!I learned the facts of life from watching THE FACTS OF LIFE...Oh God!Tears were streaming down my face the day I first saw this I'm not ashamed to admit and take it from me...I'm no wuss!Either this flick strikes a chord with you or it doesn't (or perhaps CANNOT) I f you remain undecided, watch it again and think about what you're seeing....because you'll never see it again! "},{"Title":"This was GOOOOOD!!!!","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  All I hear is how this is Jim Carrey's worst movie... but it's my favorite of his! The dark comedy is his best ever. Still silly Jim, but hits home playing a pathetic, sad leech (we've all met). Very dark. Loved it. "},{"Title":"Creepy, Awkward, Uproariously Funny","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The tone of the movie, its awkwardness, and its unique comedic flavor reflect some of the greatest aspects of Ben Stiller's on-screen persona. It's shifty and ungraceful, but in a lovable, embarrassing way. It is an acquired taste. It takes a few viewings to truly appreciate the humor (and possible message) of this film. Ben Stiller was definitely in his element when he helmed The Cable Guy.Jim Carrey's performance is so good, I get chills sometimes just looking at him. He really creeps the bejesus out of me, which is a good thing. There are some movies that are great simply because they are creepy, because they make you squirm, because they make you a little uncomfortable. This movie (Quills is another one) has endeared itself to me by embracing its creepiness. It has the power to be both serious and ridiculous at the same time, which is a feat quite astonishing.If there is one thing people should take from this movie, it is that television is damaging to the brain. But we all know that. Which is why the crux of the movie is not the idea of television as a poor babysitter, but on the idea that dark humor and ridiculous behavior can be enjoyable, though not for all.It takes a certain kind of person to love this movie. You have to be greatly amused by the absurd. One of the greatest scenes takes place in Medieval Times, when Chip reenacts a classic encounter from Star Trek (complete with musical score) as a flabbergasted Steven looks on in horror. Great cameos from Stiller's pals Janeane Garafolo and Andy Dick help to make the Medieval Times segment uproariously funny.Broderick plays the duped and dumped Steven to perfection, but the real treat is in viewing a pre-stardom Jack Black in his supporting role as Steven's best friend. I  knew from the first time I saw him that he was going to go places (although his best performance is in High Fidelity, his Rick still holds a special place in my heart).Some of the funniest parts in the movie are also the hardest to find. I actually laughed the most I ever had when I watched the movie with Closed Captioning while experiencing two very painful ear infections. There's something very special about a movie when it has the power to overcome the agony of an ear infection.I know a movie has something special when it directly affects the way I live my life. For weeks after my second viewing, I couldn't help but talk in a thuthpithous lithsp. While exercising, I would do a few warm-up sprints to prevent the pulling of a hammy. Any opponent was then referred to as The Red Knight and would subsequently be going down! Down! Down! Red Knight's going down! This movie is special to me. It may not be an American classic, or even a Cult Classic, but for my friends, family, and me it will forever be remembered as such.My viewing enjoyment increases each time I sit down to watch this film. I've even converted a few people who were disappointed in their first viewing when Jim Carrey's Chip barely resembled Ace Ventura when I sat them down to a second viewing and carefully pointed out to them the beauty that is The Cable Guy.It takes getting used to, but its definitely worth the effort. "}{"Title":"THE dark comedy of the 90's!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Stiller is a GENIUS...and Jim Carrey's performance is so good its scary!There are 2 types of people in this world. Those who get the dark comedy and genius of this movie...and those we look DOWN ON who DONT....NUFF SAID. "},{"Title":"Loved it ~!!","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is excellent. It is classic Jim Carrey, If you don't like Jim Carrey DO NOT watch this movie. On the other hand, if you even remotely like Jim Carrey, this is the movie for you.  It stars Carrey in a classic role that can only be described as JIM CARREY, personally I think the most funny parts of this movie are the more suddle things that happen.  Things in the background and quick lines that spew out of his mouth.  I would rate this one of my favorite comedies of all times.  "},{"Title":"I'll Juice Ya Up!","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS             Steven Kovacs has just moved into a new apartment. He's called the cable guy to come and hook up his cable, but he hasn't shown up yet. He eventually comes and does the job in his own odd personality way. He seems to really take a friendly view of Steven, so heinvites him to go up to the satellite where cable is broadcast.         The next day they go. They get to know one another and Steven asks the cable guy what his name was. He said it's Chip Douglas.         Two nights later, Steve and Chip go to Medieval Times for dinner. That night, Medieval Times does something they don't normally do they have two noblemen from their audience battle to the death.And those people are Steve and Chip. Chip get's obsessed with battling like a knight and really goes nuts with the weapons. They have a hilarious joust that night and when they return to Steven's apartment, Chip shows him the present he got Steven a big screen TV, deluxekareoke machine and THX quality sound that would make George Lucas cream in his pants. Steven doesn't accept it so Chip suggests they break the cherry on the kareoke machine, so they have a kareoke jam.Steven takes a liking to a girl there, despite he already has agirlfriend. Chip says the next day that the girl was a prostitute.Steven was very mad, so Chip goes to beat up the guy Steve's girlfriend, Robin, was having lunch with.           When Steven said he didn't want to be Chip's friend, he took a sour attitude to it. He had Steven thrown in jail because apparently the big screen TV and hi-fi system was stolen. When Chip visits Steven in prison, he says his real name is Larry Tate. Steven get's out on bail and he and Robin go to have dinner at his parents'. Chip is there and they hit it off. Chip has everyone play a game of Porno Password.           Next day, Chip broadcasts the video he made of Steven saying he hated his boss all over the work's computers.           Steven also learns that Chip doesn't even work for the cable company, and that his name was not Chip Douglas or Larry Tate. he got the names from My Three Sons and Bewitched.         Cable Guy takes Robin to the satellite and he and Steven battle it out. Cable Guy takes Robin to the very high top of thesatellite and says he must jump on it, to save all the little cable boys and girls who still have a chance. He makes every TV in America go out just as they were to learn the verdict of murderer Sam Sweet.          Cable Guy was being taken away, but before so, he told Steven his real name was Ricky Ricardo.          This is a good Jim Carrey film. It's different from Ace Ventura and The Mask and Dumb and Dumber. This is more of a dark comedy. Jim plays a real creepy guy in this movie who can be your best friend or your worst enemy. Carrey fans should see this movie. "},{"Title":"Best Jim Carrey film ever!","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The Cable Guy When a lonely Cable Guy (Jim Carrey) sets up Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) cable, so Steven decides to slip the cable guy $50 for free cable. Then the cable guy then forces Steven to be friends with him. He tries the hardest to make Steven his best friend. But then he no longer wants to be friends with his cable guy. That's when the stalking starts...Ok, maybe this isn't a horror film. But it's a comedy/thriller/drama. I think it just needs a review for those who haven't seen this, and needs to see it. I bought it Acouple of days ago, and I have seen if more then five times. It literally gets better each time I see it! I don't get why a lot of people hate this film, it's awesome!The Cable Guy is one of Jim Carrey's best movies to date. I don't get why most people hated this. When I first saw it in the theater I didn't like it... Mainly because I saw it just to see Jim Carrey be off the wall slapstick hilarious. But this is different, so I didn't like it when I first saw it... But each time I saw it after that, it just kept getting better, and better. This film just gets funnier each time you see it. The dark humor is excellent. Every one should give this a second chance if they hated it the first time you see it. It's not really HAHA funny, it's more... He's weird funny. Jim Carrey gives a great performance. We see he is truly insane. The acting is great. I'm not a big fan of Matthew Broderick, but this is still great. Lot's of clever scenes. Jim Carry facial expressions are awesome.This film has a lot of memorable scenes, and quotes... Some memorable scenes is the part where Jim Carrey sings Somebody to Love. Another scene is at the medieval times restaurant, let's not forget the basketball part. Let's not forget the whole ending, everything is great! I love it when he is on top of the satellite and he gives his little The Future is Now speech. Another great quote is when he says Dry land is not a myth. I've seen it. Kevin Costner. Waterworld. I don't know what the big fuss is about. I saw that movie nine times. It rules!Another thing I love is how the Cable Guy's whole world is like a movie. He thinks just about everything is a movie in his life. He some times gets stuck in the movie world, and he doesn't know what's real or not. This is one of the millions of reasons why this movie is brilliant, and thrilling.The musical score rocks! I love the song that is playing when he's playing basket ball, and the song that plays when he and Steven fight in Medieval times. Great musical score! This film reminds me about a lot of Hitchcock's films. Excellent thriller.Lot's of cool cameo's by famous actors. Andy Dick plays as the medieval guy. The director Ben Stiller has a reprising cameo. Great directing by Ben Stiller! Great acting by Jim Carrey. Everything is great!Ok... The dvd isn't that great. You get a flip sided, for wide screen or full screen. You also get screen selection, and 5.1 Dolby digital. Nothing to special on this dvd. It's to bare bones. They should make a special edition for this great film... It disserves better.All in all this is a great film. If you haven't seen it, see it. If you have seen it, see it again. If you have seen it and like it, buy it...10/10 stars. Jim Carrey's best film.  "},{"Title":"ben stiller & jim carrey = hilarious","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  for anyone who has not seen this movie in a while or didn't like it the first time they saw it, i suggest you refresh yourself with this one. This hilarious movie was directed by ben stiller,stars jim carrey, and has small roles by andy dick,owen wilson,janeane garofolo,david cross (mr.show),kyle gass & jack black (both members of the now cult classic band Tenacious D)   so,the next time your renting some movies grab this one & give it another chance, it is triple hilarious!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Brilliant, Deep and meaningful","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  No doubt Carrey's best work of his career. I loved this movie from start to finish; the plot, the characters, and acting were all top quality. Brilliantly written, you'll watch it over and over understanding more each time. Don't see this because it's a Jim Carrey movie, its no Dumb and Dumber, its a serious film. I urge you to see this movie if you haven't, and see it again if you have. "},{"Title":"Quite Good Comedy Directed By The Brilliant Ben Stiller.","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Jim Carrey stars in, The Cable Guy and even though he does a good job, I would of enjoyed the movie so much more, if his role was played by the brilliant Ben Stiller who also directs this movie. Ben Stiller does have a small role here though and does a great job as usual. The Cable Guy is quite funny though and has it's moments and is definitely one for Ben Stiller/Jim Carrey/Comedy Lovers. I give, The Cable Guy a 7/10 for the movie itself and a 10/10 for the brilliant performance and directing by Ben Stiller. "},{"Title":"I am not a big Jim Carrey fan,but I kind of liked this one.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe one of Jim Carreys best movies. Great performances by Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick.There's No Such Thing as Free Cable,and Jim Carrey really shows us that in this movie. Because after having installed a free cable at your home,the cable guy wants to be friends with you.The only problem is that the cable guy is a little strange.This movie have tons of really funny and clever thought out scenes. The one I liked the most is when Jim Carrey is playing Basket Ball with Matthew Brodericks friends,I will not tell you anything about it,you just have to wait and see.All in all a good comedy. "},{"Title":"Laugh-out-loud, on-the-floor hilarious film!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  In my opinion, THE CABLE GUY is a laugh-out-loud, on-the-floor hilarious film! When the cable guy (Jim Carrey) sang Somebody To Love, I laughed REALLY hard. One thing I couldn't stand about him was his lisp. Also, he just couldn't seem to leave Steven (Matthew Broderick) alone. If my cable guy was like that, I'd get a restraining order. When the cable guy whispered a part of a woman's body when he and Steven's family played Password, I was REALLY grossed out! In addition, Robin (Leslie Mann) was a VERY beautiful woman -- Especially in the clothing she wore when she went out on dates. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, Be careful who you trust. Also, find out if your cable guy is really a cable guy. Now, in conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this laugh-out-loud, on-the-floor hilarious film to all you Jim Carrey fans who have not seen it.   "},{"Title":"The undisputed God of all movies.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Without a shadow of a doubt, this is my favorite movie of all time. Honestly, I've seen it time and time again, over and over, and yet, I still love it.  I'm not sick of it at all.  One time I recited the entire movie word for word on a long car trip.  I love this movie.The Cable Guy is brilliant, and unlike most other movies, every event and detail is relevant to the movie.  It doesn't throw in useless junk just to waste time.  From what it appears, people hate this film only because Carrey doesn't use his Dumb and Dumber humor.  Is it a crime to portray a different character for once?  Carrey has been playing the same goofy character over and over on TV and movies, and he takes a change in the Cable Guy, portraying a lonely cable installer, and does it ever so well.  To truly enjoy this film requires intelligence.  There are more user reviews praising this movie than bashing it, and just look at them.  The ones bashing it look like they were written by little kids and I guarantee that they only enjoy movies where the comedy is simple and easy to understand.  Look at the reviews giving praise to this movie, they are professional and neat, apparently written by intelligent people.This movie focuses more on an excellent plot and story rather than goofy, silly comedy like many of Carrey's other films.  If you pay attention to other details in the movie rather than how Jim Carrey is acting, you will understand the greatness.  Medieval Times, the basketball game, the bathroom beating, the stalking, the karaoke, and even the occasional updates on the Sam Sweet trial kept this movie very entertaining and truly this is a masterpiece.  It was brilliant how they executed the ending, just an example of how every bit in the movie is actually relevant to the story (in this case, the Sam Sweet trial).  Truly a masterpiece. "}{"Title":"Dark and Hysterical","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  WHAT?!  It's not simple slapstick Jim Carrey funny - so I hate it!  I wish people who were expecting a sequel to Dumb and Dumber would stop writing in and saying what an awful movie they thought this was.  Some people just cannot appreciate dark comedies.  This is closer to The Truman Show than Jim Carrey's earlier movies.  This is not to say that he is not funny in The Cable Guy; he is a riot.  His acting is memorable with great physical comedy, not to mention more quotable lines than you can remember.  Some of the better scenes were at Medieval Times, the pick-up basketball game, and playing password with Stephen's family.  The cast was great, including Jack Black, Janeane Garofalo, Owen Wilson, Andy Dick, and Ben Stiller himself.  This is a great modern dark comedy, and it turns out in the end that it did have a point (albeit somewhat obvious), unlike three out of four movies today, so watch it if you are interested in a smart, funny movie.  "},{"Title":"Highly underrated!!!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is a classic. Pre Chuck & Buck. Has some great parodies. For instance, the Star Trek duel between Spock & Kirk at Medieval Times. Jim Carrey is great and Matthew Broderick does a fine job at being a wimp. "},{"Title":"unexpectedly horrifying, thought-provoking; an underrated masterpiece","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I remember me and my friend getting hold of the video at a boarding school. I guess we were expecting a comedy, probably due to the name Jim Carrey. What we received at the end was something far from comedy.  I think we were both holding the question to ourselves, but after 30 minutes, I asked him This has to be modern horror.  It is not something gory or is it a standard horror film exploiting our primitive fears such as the fear of darkness.  It's been couple years since then, so my view on the film might be something very personal.  As time passes by, criticisms take more and more of a personal touch.  For me, cable guy was a well-constructed critique about relationship between tv and a resultant psycho, Jim Carrey.  In Carrey's mind, what is presented on tv is something to be taken, in some sense, literally, digested, and be part of his character.  He lives through tv, takes everything it presents and makes part of himself.  Sometimes it really becomes fuzzy, to determine whether Carrey is a character on his own or a single consciousness who has filtered all the villains out of the history of cinema, secretly taking pride.  The way tv presents those characters, it almost forms an attraction, a sympathy for us to be like them.  It's the same trap Scorcese's taxi driver has fallen into. Something to be seen.  Especially Carrey's performance when he is singing Jefferson Airplane's Somebody to Love, oh my God.  The only downfall I can remember is the film taking a bit of a didactic tone at the very end, when the electricity goes down, and some man opens up a book to read.  I hate screaming messages, and admire puzzle-solving, I wish there was some more room for subtlety.  Nevertheless, a masterpiece, with 1 minute of pain at the end. "},{"Title":"Why does everyone knock this movie","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why every critic knocks this movie, although I know tons of people that loved it.  I have always been a huge Jim Carrey fan, even before The Duck Factory and In Living Color. I thought that this dark comedy had so many more quotable lines than all his past movies...  The Karaoke, Medieval Times, and the pickup basketball scenes are great.  I love Jim Carrey and I hated the Ace Ventura movies, loved Dumb and Dumber and all of the rest especially Cable Guy.  I think that its his best movie to date and I guarantee he ad libbed half the dialogue from the many memorable scenes from the movie.  It let him be himself, Jim Carrey the sometimes dark comedian from poor Canadian upbringings that has dealt with some serious losses and failures in his flight to the top.Promise me one thing, don't ever go bungee jumping in Mexico... They just don't have the regulations. "},{"Title":"what the people say is true...","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"   This was the big mainstream departure from slapstick by Carrey and everyone thought it be would be another Ace Ventura. Instead it was a dark satire about our T.V. culture and loneliness. The movie isnt a laugh riot but you'll get a few chuckles. Carrey is a lonely cable installer who forces himself into Matthew Broderick's life. He calls him every minute and shows up uninvited to hang out with Broderick. A lot of people didnt like Carrey in this movie but it's what actually made me have semi respect for him. The scenes at Medeval Times and the kareokee party are pretty good. *** "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey does it again! minor spoiler","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  It seems to me that each of Jim Carrey's movies get funnier and funnier. If you think he was hysterical in ONCE BITTEN, EARTH GIRLS ARE EASY, ACE VENTURA PET DETECTIVE and ACE VENTURA WHEN NATURE CALLS then just wait until you seem him as Chip Douglas in this movie about a cable guy who won't leave a Steven, a new costumer alone. He follows him eveywhere that he goes. The highlight of the movie for me is when Chip takes Steven to a medievil restaurant where he goes wild! "},{"Title":"A single Guy gets kicked out of his apartment and is hassled by his cable guy.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  So, what should a single guy who has just gotten kicked out of the apartment where he was living with his girlfriend do? Move into a new place, and make sure there are plenty of channels on the TV, that's what! At least, that's what Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) does in The Cable Guy. But when the cable TV installer shows up at his door, life begins to take some very strange twists for young Mr. Kovacs. Spoiler Alert When Chip meets Steven, he sees a chance to become good friends. Instead of taking the $50 that Steven bribes him with to illegally install free cable, Chip decides to become inseparable from Steven. Unfortunately, Steven doesn't appreciate this budding relationship. When he tries to get the cable guy out of his life, there is nothing but mayhem. Thanks to Chip, Steven loses his job, nearly loses his girlfriend altogether (they are just separated temporarily as they are contemplating marriage), is pitted against his entire family, and is thrown in jail for possession of stolen property. Truly, Chip can be his best friend, or his worst enemy.In the end, things work out, as they always do in the fantasy land of tinsel town. We find out that Chip never was employed by a cable company, and that he has a past record of stalking cable customers. "},{"Title":"Atypical Jim Carrey, but it's better!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I simply can't understand why so many people didn't like this movie.  I thought it was hilarious!  The plot was quite good, the characters fit the story perfectly, the actors fit their respective characters perfectly, and Jim Carrey assembled the movie into a clever and witty comedy...with appropriate touches of slapstick acting that only Jim Carrey is capable of.  Take, for example, the scene where Chip Douglas (the cable guy) is looking for the 'sweet spot' on Steve's wall.  Or the Midieval Times battle scene (in my opinion, one of the funniest parts of the movie).The story is a good one as well; with each little aspect, from the prostitute to the stolen equipment, coming together in Chip Douglas' plan to control Steve and ensure that he has a friend.  The acting is fantastic, the characteris are fantastic, and the story is just hilarious.  Great movie! "},{"Title":"not so dark","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Just watched this again, and have to amend my original comments!Dark comedy, one of Carrey's better (and least popular) outings, and is truly very funny in parts. However, its never as black as it could be, and is undermined by its soft centre and Carrey's characteristic overplaying. However, the theme of protagonist increasingly threatened by stalker/friend/lover is nicely subverted, and the remaining cast do as best they can against Carrey's constant scene-hogging. It's a pity it cops-out at the end, but it kind of sums the film up as a whole - wants to be dark, but daren't. Fave scene? The bit with Janeane Garofalo in the Medieval Times restaurant. "},{"Title":"Significant stepping stone for both leads...","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Seen in the wider context of both men's careers since, The Cable Guy is an underrated film and significant stepping stone for both Jim Carrey and Matthew Broderick.For Broderick - who has underwhelmed since his classic performance as Ferris Bueller - it marks a return to form that would continue with Election and You Can Count Me In. More importantly though, for Carrey, it marks a departure from his normal manic style to a darker, more accomplished acting style, demonstrating - as would later be seen in The Truman Show - that he can be much more than a clown.The film is by no means perfect - the cop-out 'Hollywood' ending having been highlighted by others - but is still a funny dark(ish) comedy that's well worth a look, especially to see the two leads at an interesting point in their respective careers. "}{"Title":"Not the comedy fans expectations, but a great Carrey film nonetheless.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  To paraphase one Vince McMahon, In the interests of fairness. . .This movie was well done by Jim Carrey. People hated this movie because they we're expecting Jim Carrey's hillbilly humor by saying things like Smokin'!! or All righty then. That isn't what he was trying to portray here. He is trying to portray a lonely, TV-crazed cable guy. He actually had some intelligence, unlike his other characters. The karaoke scene was hillarious. I found myself downloading the song on Napster. Matthew Broderick was OK as Steven Kovacs. It has one simple message. He says it in the final scene.Someone has to kill the babysitter. and in this case, he babysitter is the one who raised him. The TV. He then plummets to the satellite, forcing at least one guy to pick up a book and read. In closing, I sayWant some hardcore Carrey comedy? Go rent Dumb and Dumber. Want a Carrey performance that delves into the mind? See The Cable Guy, Man on the Moon, or The Truman Show.  "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I have always known Jim Carrey was a great actor.  His facial expressions are absolutely amazing and his body movement is quick and nimble.  I knew he would be good in at least a semi-dramatic role such as Man on the Moon or The Truman Show.  This movie struck the spot though. Though funny at times, overall, Cable Guy is a very deep and dark frightening movie.  Of course it has Carrey trademarks and energy, but that is to be expected.  Many people are mistaken though.  Liar, Liar was also a first good sign of great true acting from Mr. Carrey.  A lot of people think that the drama in Liar, Liar ruined the movie but I don't think that is true.  The cable guy is a Carrey best by far and I am baffled at how a movie like this could get such low ratings.  It at LEAST deserves a 7.0 average! Im interested to know how you can rate a movie like The Cable Guy so low and rate a movie like Evil Dead so high.  The Cable Guy is so much funnier and wildly sadistic than Evil Dead.  Evil Dead wasn't even really meant to be a comedy!  It's true! It worked on such a low-budget that it just looked funny.  So in the words of Al Gore himself I deserve a recount! I give this movie a 7/10 and everyone who put it down needs to watch it again and pay attention to every great element of a movie which makes it a fine movie.    "},{"Title":"It Just Was'nt Dark Enough","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"   For a long time I have noticed that the major Hollywood studios have no idea how to make a good dark comedy and this film is a perfect example of that.The film teeters unevenly between the usual silliness of Carrey's performance and near dark comic moments which I found unsatifying.And the happy ending was a real cop-out(typical Hollywood mentality at work once again).Lovers of this film who accuse those of us who did'nt of being disappointed because it was not another Ace Ventura or Dumb and Dumber seem to miss the point.The point is that when you make a dark comedy you should go all the way with the dark humor and not hold back for the sake of a happy ending or  trying to please everyone.    "},{"Title":"One of Jim Carrey's Best!","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  When one looks at the top comic actors of the 80's and 90's, Jim Carrey should definitely rank in the top 10. However, it is not just his normal rubber-body comedy that makes him truly special, but his wide talents as an actor in general. This was one of Jim's first style changing roles and I think it was wonderful. Critics first stated that they thought all he could do was act like a moron and talk out of his ass. Then when he tried another role they criticized him for that too. That is why you can never trust critics. This was a great movie and ranks as my favorite Jim Carrey movie. Now, I know that everyone might not be a die-hard Jim Carrey fan but if you just give it a chance than it will be well worth it. Every time I watch it it is like I am watching it for the first time and it grows funnier and funnier. It is a movie I can truly laugh out loud at. "},{"Title":"Freaky movie but good (SPOILER ALERT!!!)","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler Warning, dont read if you dont wanna know anything about it.I liked this movie, I was glued to the telly. Both Matthew Broderick & Jim Carrey were great.  Basically its about Chip Douglas(Carrey) and Steven(Broderick), Chip just wants a friend and being raised by television he has no human interaction skills and is a little violent & forward; Steven is more or less annoyed, ticked off and when he tells Chip to go away hell breaks loose. It has a message in there~ dont let the TV raise yer kids! This cable guy is a sad character, he was raised by the telly when his flakey mom went out every night, very sad. She didnt do anything for him obviously. He grows up and is a walking tv, he doesnt get whats not real and what is real. We never find out what his real name is, he takes on tv personalities' names. I couldn't help but feel sorry for him.It's worth buying! Go for it! "},{"Title":"Difficult to watch, but done well.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This disturbing film made me (and apparently many others) really uncomfortable. That said, it deserves much praise for evoking such strong, difficult, sentiment. It wasn't a bad film, just painful and weirdly depressing. "},{"Title":"Watch this film again!!!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I have no idea why so many people consider this to be Jim Carrey's worst film.  If you've only seen it once, I strongly suggest that you take another look.  Jim Carrey has never been so funny in the dark role of Chip Douglas - an extremely lonely cable guy who becomes obsessed with making friends with a new customer, Steven Kovacs.  The premise is not what we're used to when we watch a Jim Carrey film but get used to the dark quality of the film and Jim Carrey's character and you will discover a hidden gem! Trust me!  Just watch the Medieval Times scene and try not to laugh! I didn't find it that funny the first time I watched it but every time I've watched it since, I've discovered new things about it which make this one of Jim Carrey's best films.  Comparisons can be easily made between The Cable Guy and the critically acclaimed Truman Show.  The endings to both films and essentially the morals are very similar.  The Truman Show has always been labelled a 'drama' and The Cable Guy as a 'comedy' but both of these films do not stay within the boundaries of these genres.   Accept that The Cable Guy is not the same humour as Ace Ventura and it's difficult not to truly like or love this film. "},{"Title":"Carrey Saves the Day","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Jim Carrey did an marvolous job in an otherwise annoying feature film.  Just the way many of the characters behave makes me convince that there is almost no one here that is likable.  Matthew Brodrick does a gallent job in doing a thankless role.  What I hate about The Cable Guy(1996) is that it uses the tired old material of someone being stalked by a would be friend without any fresh developments.  The role of Chip Douglas was originally written for the late Chris Farley(he would have been wrong for the part).  This is just a warm up for Jim Carrey's better films of The Truman Show(1998), and The Man on the Moon(1999). "},{"Title":"Stiller comes so close...","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the better dark comedies out there. Carrey's cableguy is intriguing and creepy in a very Hitchcockian way -- he's just enough like someone you know to be very unsettling.The movie comes to a point where it must decide what it's going to be, and unfortunately director Ben Stiller tries to go both directions, leaving both not adequately explored. The movie begins as the story of two lonely people - the cableguy, who tries to cure his loneliness by being your best friend 24-7, and the average lonely guy played by Broderick who deals with life and relationships in the average American way. The movie then rapidly becomes a satire/warning of TV culture in general and its isolating effect on people like the cableguy and others less extreme. This culminates in the (rather overstated) shot of a man picking up a book when his TV has gone on the fritz.What could have been an engrossing - and at times even scary - film tries to do too much in the end and instead becomes an example of what happens when you don't stick to the point. "},{"Title":"Unlike most people, I really enjoyed The Cable Guy","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  It's probably because I'm not much of a Jim Carrey fan.  I hated Ace Ventura, and Liar, Liar (I liked Dumb and Dumber, though).I felt this move was the first to show Jim Carrey as more than a rubber-faced loon; he actually ACTED in this early movie, and showed us the range of ability that he would later display in such great movies as The Truman Show, and Man on the Moon.Jim plays a lonely, slightly mentally maladjusted cable installer who latches onto poor Matthew Broderick (playing the unlucky loser he plays in so many of his movies.)  Jim hooks recently-broken up Matthew up with free cable, and feels that justifies him wedging himself into every facet of his shmuck customers life, and acting like they are best friends.  When Matthew finally gets up enough gumption to tell him to buzz off, Jim begins stalking Matthew and wins over most of his family and friends, making Matt look like a paranoid for despising him so much.This movie has many memorable and enjoyable moments  Dining at a medieval buffet, with a duel between Jim and Matthew; Jim getting Matthew arrested, and his jail-house visit (You're gonna get me killed!), and of course, the hilarious karaoke party with Jim doing a great Jefferson Airplane impression on Want Somebody To Love.I enjoyed this movie thoroughly, and would recommend it to anyone looking for a dark comedy that delivers not only laughs, but a really dark edge. Jim Carrey is SO convincing in his psycho-stalker role.  He's still more crazy and over-the-top than is really called for by the role, but he tones it down more than in other movies, and he was still hamstrung by audience and studio expectations of a Jim Carrey movie.  If he did this movie now, it would be more creepy than funny.  "}{"Title":"It should be better","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  When Cable Guy (1996) appeared it was shouted down because nobody realized the satirestic side of the comedy and they sponsored the movie with wrong imagines.                                    Jim Carrey plays cable guy who takes his customer (Matthew Broderick, boring performance) to be his new best friend no matter how. This isn't Carrey's normal hahahaha-movie, this is pretty dark movie and the laugh comes through the tears.       But though viewer who wanted to understand Cable Guy right, it is pretty hard, 'cause satire doens't hit well enough to the target &#150; to TV. Sad, 'cause from this idea they could had very funny black/dark comedy.4 out of 10. Ben Stiller directed. Jim Carrey again very good.  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey just going NUTS!( whats wrong with that)","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This film got so much bad mouthing when it came out I didn't know how to react as I was one of the few that thought it was hilarious. True the plot was not much of a brain teaser and the acting was a little overly enthusiastic but , hey it's Jim Carrey. The problem people had with this film was they'd just came out from seeing Ace Ventura which had a very well written plot and Jim's crazy goings on. But the Cable Guy was just full on nuts. It was just Jim Carrey going out and going CRAZY! He was just put in the situations that would allow him to break more boundaries and be even crazier. Cable Guy wasn't a bad film. It was just not what the public wanted from Jim Carrey at that particuliar time. And even the people that try to argue with this saying it actually is complete crap should think back to the film. Think about how you were in stitches when Jim practically kills his co-actor in the medieval ring. Think about when Jim gets up to do karaoke and sings that hilariously weird tune. If you actually think back to scenes of that film one by one it comes off as being another one of Jim Carreys masterpeices which I believe it is. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's best work","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Cable Guy is a film that requires at least 10 viewings to even begin to appreciate its greatness. Jim Carrey's persona in this film outdoes anything he had previously done.  His first break from the usual comedic over the top performances was more than a welcome (I realize The Mask wasn't over the top, but I choose to believe that movie never existed).  Definitely one of the best comedy movies ever, without hyperbole. "},{"Title":"Did he break out of a mental institution or what?","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone who has ever seen a movie starring Jim Carrey knows what I'm saying. He may act like he's totally out of his mind, it made me laugh so much that I almost trew up. Matthew Broderick had to play to victim - poor Matt. My must-see-scene of the whole movie is the fight in the Medieval Times. Real though, men! The Cable Guy Who Ruined My Life would be another suggestion if the current title wasn't clear enough. Did any one cry when he or she saw how Chippy McNuts ruined Steve's life? Frienship is OK, but he's going TOO FAR. Laugh with it and don't take it too serious. You won't learn from this movie. No matter how hard you try.  "},{"Title":"What's wrong with it?","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Other than The Truman Show, this is my favorite Jim Carrey movie. I guess I like it for the same reason everyone else hates it; because it is a departure from old-school Jim Carrey (retreads of his persona on In Living Color and his stand-up act) and an attempt at real character. (Possible spoiler here.) I thought that the movie had a great message about our obsession with TV (even though it was done slightly better on Truman Show) and how TV is used as an electronic babysitter when parents don't spend enough time with their kids. I really thought the movie was well done and enjoyed it completely.  "},{"Title":"On par with The Mask","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  And I did not think too much of that one, either.  Carrey and Broderick are very good together, but the script's dark comedy never works.  I thought a little slapstick here or there might have helped, but Stiller's direction is so dim, there was no chance to have fun with the fact that the cable guy is a stalker.  Light comedy could have done wonders with this one.  I give it a 6.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This movie is one of the best I have seen...and not because Jim Carrey is a comic genius, but the story and the way the characters work is brilliant. To all the people who think Jim Carrey is only funny when he talks out of his rear end...get over it and see this movie for what it is...hilarious. "},{"Title":"Nice message","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Well, the movie is not a master piece, certainly not the greatest comedy of all times, but it at least gives us a simple message Get rid of your television, it makes you stupid, unsocial and it enslaves your mind.A little bit of black humour, a nice performance of Jefferson Airplane's Somebody to love by Jim carrey and a tragic depiction of a lonely man's life prepare the crowd for the last five minutes of the film, in which it gives you the aforementioned message in a tragic/black-humour way.In the last five minutes you will discover what this weird film was all about. My advice See this, if only for the last 5mins of it.  "},{"Title":"Underappreciated, often brilliant dark comedy","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The Cable Guy may not be a masterpiece, but it did not deserve the bad press.  I think most critics were put off by the dark humor (which, in my view, worked as well here as in the much more acclaimed Throw Momma from the Train) and by the fact that Jim Carrey wasn't doing his Ace Ventura, talking-butt-cheeks, toilet-humor shtick.In fact, I think Chip Douglas was Carrey's best role, better than in The Truman Show (in my view, he's better as a maniac than he is as just an ordinary nice guy).  The casting of Matthew Broderick as Steven, the beleaguered straight man to Carrey's Chip, was right on.I thought the script was pretty good too.  Granted, the social commentary about the dominance of the mass media in modern life wasn't quite as sharp or nuanced here as it was in the truly brilliant To Die For (one of the best films of the 1990s), but it was still fairly well done.  The way Chip kept referencing everything in his life to TV shows (from Star Trek to Jerry Springer) and movies was hilarious, and never felt overdone.The Cable Guy had its share of weak moments.  (The scene where Chip beats up Steven's girlfriend's date in the men's room was gratuitously nasty and unconnected to the rest of the plot, and the nightmare sequence where Steven dreams about being attacked by Carrey felt like an intrusion from a horror movie; I also thought the karaoke scene went on a bit too long.)  However, it also had more than its share of scenes that were pure gold the whole Medieval Times sequence; the Porno Password game with Steven's parents; the basketball game; Carrey's little Midnight Express act during the jail visit; the TV clips of the Menendez-like trial of the child TV star who had killed his twin brother (excellently played by Ben Stiller); and the ending, which I am not going to reveal, for the sake of those who have not yet had the pleasure of seeing this movie.I would give The Cable Guy about 7 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"too much","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I am a rabid Carrey fan. I think he is one of the funniest, brilliant actors around, but man! This movie is funny to a certain extent and then you get worn out on how far it goes. It becomes boring half way into it. I saw this in theaters and my friend and I were dumbfounded as we left. It's a good movie for laughs, but don't expect much. Keep an open mind, too or else you'll be screaming for it to stop. Not Carrey's worst role, which is that of The Truman Show, but I'd say it falls right behind it. "}{"Title":"How many Jim Carrey movies can one take in a lifetime?","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone else get the feeling that when you've seen one Jim Carrey movie, you've seen them all?  Here, you start out with a rather weak premise that loses credibility as it proceeds.  Then, as is the practice of so many other would-be Hollywood storytellers, instead of a well thought out ending, throw a bunch of excesses at the viewer, and maybe something will impress.  Ha!  Bah! "},{"Title":"Ultimately, Not Really Involving","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  The Cable Guy to a certain extent tries to satirize the various effects that watching television brings.  And while the movie on certain occasions, is fairly creative with the way it brings up various television programs from the past, it also tends to be give off a really uneasy feeling.  As The Cable Guy goes on, the tone seems to become darker and darker to a point in which there's a pretty uneven balance surrounding the comedy.  Its several attempts at mixing in slapstick (i.e. scenes set inside of a bathroom and a restaurant with a medieval theme) seem heavy-handed.  They either hammer the point of a particular joke in protracted sequences, or feel too odd and juvenile at the same time.  Some insight can possibly be found in the script with its numerous references to popular-culture, but the story falls into a fairly predictable approach which places its characters into going threw a slow process of going insane.  There are many directions that The Cable Guy takes with its story.  It tries to satirize the media, it tries to bring up the potential dangers of watching television (the movie even throws in a small message about reading in the process of this) and alterate things to do, it throws in a story about obsession, etc. "},{"Title":"Outrageous comedy","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie!! A psycho cable guy, Great plot for a comedy.  If your a Jim Carey fan this is a must see!! This might be his best movie. Matthew Broderick does a good job, as the cable guy`s victim. Very funny stuff!! I hope they come out with a sequel. rating (best of 5 stars) .....3.> "},{"Title":"Incredibly Underrated","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Nobody realizes just how cool The Cable Guy is. I really believe it is one of the most underrated films ever. It is definately a multiple viewer. You have to watch it at least 4 times to get the full effect. I've seen it a little over 30 times. It is almost flawless. Every scene, every line, every inflection in the voice is perfectly delivered. Directed by the king of cool, Ben Stiller, this is a very dark comedy. The humor is kind of hard to find, but once you get it, there is so much to appreciate here. It is for sure a different kind of role for Jim Carrey. Not really serious, but not like his earlier crazy roles either. Best part of the movie The footage from the TV movie Brother, Sweet Brother. What makes it so great is that TV style over obvious symbolism. (The happy and sad masks in the background). Funniest Line I think it was an asian gang! You'll know it when you see it. "},{"Title":"Jim Carey is an emormous star","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Jim Carrey is an enormous star, and is slowly gaining respect as a serious talent.  But the mistake in his career will always be The Cable Guy, even though it is possible his best performance to date, and one of the funniest movies ever made.  It need not be said that I stand alone in this opinion, for most people thought it was bad.  But if people sat down to watch it again, I think they may see something they missed.  People expected it to be a wacky Ace Ventura-esque comedy, with plenty of poop and sex jokes.  But instead they got a smart dark comedy, which threw their minds for a loop.  First at the core is the bravura performance by Carrey.  For the first time (pre- Truman Show)  he created a character.  His acting had evolved and he was more than just a big screen version of his In Living Colour  persona.  Don't get me wrong, the first Ace Ventura is still very funny, but The Cable Guy  has such a sharp edge to it that it is a thousand times more hilarious.  A common blame is the script, but even if it was a little weak, which really it isn't, Carrey certainly saves it, as does director Ben Stiller.  He throws many of his social jabs in the film, ala his television show.  Mainly the tv movie in the film based on the twin brothers who had a falling out.  One killed the other, and Eric Roberts stars as both characters.   That is just a small portion of all the pop culture mocking that takes place.  Carrey's character Chip  is loaded with television and movie references, a true product of the American babysitter  television.  Back to Carrey, his Chip  has so many layers that the viewer can never understand who he truly is, which is the key to the film.  He is an amalgam of characters throughout media history, and Carrey takes little bits from so many and creates such a complex man that one can't help but be horrified and heart-broken.  He seems truly crazy, but also he's just a lonely guy who needs a little compassion. Most importantly, he's hilarious.  Who knows, there probably won't be many people who will watch it again, but they are truly missing something great. It's dark and zany at the same time, and certainly not stupid.  Maybe being a product of television I can relate more, or maybe I'm just insane. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's Masterpiece","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Sadly, this film seemed to be very under-appreciated at the time of release back in '96. Perhaps this is because people wanted to see a likeable performance by the rubber faced one, and this was just too dark for most viewers. But this is an incredible black comedy which probes the dark side of pop culture, and my prediction is that it will become a cult classic in the years to come and will be recognized for its genius in terms of direction, acting, and style.  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's greatest creation to date","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  If you don't like Jim Carrey already, you won't like Cable Guy.If  you do like Jim Carrey you still may not like Cable Guy.  I would say, if you are one of those that can truly appreciate that all Carrey's roles rely to a remarkable degree upon the venting of anger - and can truly appreciate the possible subtext of that - well, now you're moving into the type of territory where it may be possible for you to enjoy this movie.Let me state my position up front I love this movie.  When it came out I saw it five times in the theater, once even staying through two showings. To this day, I still do lines and bits from it with my friends. I truly think it is Jim Carrey's greatest creation to date (and I'm a guy who thinks almost all his creations are pretty special). And yet I'm perfectly aware that, at the script level at least the movie has some fairly major problems, and that it was not designed to appeal to everybody.  In fact, I'd say it may well have been meant to bite the hand that feeds it, to snarl its contemtpt to anyone who got close.But snarling contempt has made Jim Carrey what he is today - esp. in the Ace Ventura movies; and so really how different is it?  In fact, for anyone who is a fan of Carrey and says the cable guy character is too violent, too angry, too downright hostile - well, they better go back and scrupulously examine just what drew them to Carrey in the first place.Make no mistake about it, the Cable Guy as played by Carrey is truly a psychotic creation.  And when comedy veers into the psychotic it is not always on firm ground.  Here, though, I'd say Carrey himself goes through his stages of madness with absolute precision - first pest, then mild irritant, to major hanger-on and finally all out nut job - and does it absolutely brilliantly, being both hilarious and truly scary at the same time. Even as you're afraid of what he is going to do, you can't stop laughing at the sheer lunatic invention that he brings to the role. Being simultaneously amusing and terrifying is a hard trick to bring off, and few would even attempt it (as a comparison, I think Jack Nicholson in The Shining was really funny - but his funniness only served to undercut, not complement, his scariness).Also here, for the first time, Carrey is working with a director who is just as inventive as he is. Ben Stiller brings a great cutting-edge visual style to the film, playing up the darkness while also accentuating well Carrey's over the top cartoonishness. Again, that is a tough double line to have to tow, and he does it well. I really hope he gets a chance to direct more in the future, because I think he's really good (and he's a better director than he is an actor. He had a certain low key charm in Flirting With Disaster and There's Something About Mary but I'm getting really tired of seeing him in films - he's just not interesting enough. He belongs BEHIND the camera, where he's great).To sum up, if I were a teacher grading The Cable Guy as a final project, I'd give both its star and its director an A+ but its screenwriter only a B-. It's just not as well thought out as it might have been, but what's good about the movie is truly out of this world good.  If you have a taste for dark comedy and like Jim Carrey even a little, this one's for you.  "},{"Title":"well i liked it","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This film seems to have got a bad name purely because it isn't the same as all the other Jim Carrey movies. However this is still a Carrey movie and is in fact one of his best. I loved the dark comedy especially the bit in the themed restaurant. Many people didn't like it first time round but go on watch it again, you might like it. "},{"Title":"Truly brilliant; Carrey's best by a slight margin","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I won't bother to explain how underrated this movie is...I see that many comments before me have already outlined that.  I can only say that I echo their sentiments....this movie may be the most underappreciated movie of all time in my view.Jim Carrey's performance was absolutely outstanding.  Nobody could've come close to the incredible performance he put in as the Cable Guy.Unlike many others, I believe Matthew Broderick did a very good job as well in this movie and was extremely well-cast for the victim character of Stephen.I disagree with those who don't see it as much of a comedy...the basketball scene, the medieval times scene, and the karaoke scene still stick out in my mind as absolutely classic comedy scenes...I still laugh when I watch them.  When you watch this, don't expect the same silly humor brought to you by Ace Ventura and Dumb & Dumber...the Cable Guy will make you look between the lines at deeper and darker comedy.  I give this movie a 9 out of 10, and call it Carrey's best movie, by a slight margin over Liar Liar and Dumb & Dumber. "},{"Title":"Now before you read this, keep in mind I think Carrey was brilliant.","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I don't actually dislike the movie THE CABLE GUY, but it does make me so uncomfortable that I'll never watch it again. Now, please allow me to explain why. First of all, I admire Jim Carrey very, very much for attempting to do something different. I think that's fantastic. And here, he gives an absolutely fantastic performance. He's doing precisely what the script wants him to do and be, and he pulls it off magnificently. I don't find any fault with Carrey's performance in the least, he was (and still is) a genius, and everyone else was really top notch as well. Now, with that said, I should note that this movie did not come across to me as being a comedy at all. I admired it and thought it superbly done, but I didn't laugh once. It made me uncomfortable and terrified me, but that's actually because of a personal reason--I have been stalked by my OWN Chip Douglas. He never had me thrown in jail, but pulled equally vicious stunts much like you see here. Whether I could have enjoyed the film as a comedy had I not had such a horrific event haunt me, I will never know. So I would like to say this as my recommendation watch this film so you can at least witness Carrey's wonderful and creepily effective performance as a wacked-out nut. You may even find it amusing, even hilarious. But if you're either easily spooked, or ==especially== if you are like me and have had such a true-to-life experience, this film is guaranteed to disturb you at the very least or frighten you at the very worst, far more than any horror flick can. "}{"Title":"Cable Guy is Awesome!!","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Cable guy is the dude!! It rocks!!  Why!? Go to this link and you'll find out http//us.imdb.com/Title?0115798!!!  Um, Ben Stiller!! Um, Jim Carrey!! Um, Janeane Garofalo!! Um, Andy Dick!! I'm sorry if Mathew Broderick is kinda off as a straight man (I know, I hated Godzilla too) but that dosen't take anything away from the genius of this movie!!  If this movie is disliked it's only because the jokes flew completely over your head.  Oh, I didn't get it or It's too mean!! Basketball scene! Karaoke scene! Bathroom fight scene! Probably Jim Carrey's best slapstick role outside Liar Liar, as well as the best satire of American culture since the Simpsons!! "},{"Title":"carrey's 3rd funniest movie","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  this movie isn't as funny as liar liar,and dumb and dumb. but it's a tad more entertaining than dumb and dumber. the cable guy has laughs,and is fairly well paced. but the movie has a little far-fetched ending. i give the cable guy **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey People","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" THIS FILM IS AWESOME!People dislike this movie but I can't see why not. It's just as funny if not more funny than most other movies with Jim Carrey in them.Jim Carrey is awesome! Jim Carrey is funny! Jim Carrey is crazy! Jim Carrey is great with characters Jim Carrey is all round one of the best actors of all time.Plus this film has Jack Black, Kyle Gass, Ben Stiller, Matthew Broderick and Owen Wilson also, all these people kick ass!People need to see this movie! If you haven't by now then you better get to it! "},{"Title":"Too Over The Top","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" After watching this movie, my first thought was that this was a story with real potential. Firstly, it pokes good fun at service providers. Who hasn't been irritated by the cable company or the phone company saying we'll be there anywhere between 8 and 5. Secondly, I liked the darkness of the fun, as the cable guy turns out to be a lonely psychopath who ends up stalking his customers in an effort to be their best friend, and who, when the overtures of friendship are rejected, sets out to destroy their lives. All that had great potential - and then, in stepped Jim Carrey.Some people love him. I know that. I find that he's usually too over the top and ends up taking the focus off the story and making the whole movie about himself. Here's a case in point. Sure, he was playing a psychopathic service provider obsessed with TV and movies, and yes it was supposed to be a dark comedy - but a dark comedy doesn't need (and really shouldn't have) the outrageous sort of comedy Carrey is famous for. A lower key approach could have been equally funny (unless the sort of stuff Carrey does is the only thing that can make you laugh) and would have given the story a much darker and creepier feel. As it was, the only scene that I thought was truly creepy was near the end, where Chip (Carrey) has Robin (Leslie Mann) at his mercy.None of the performances blew me away. Again, as a dark creepy comedy I thought the movie was rather poorly cast. Matthew Broderick I thought was OK as Chip's victim, Steve, whereas something about Mann's performance bugged me all the way through. The whole Sam Sweet murder trial backdrop struck me as unnecessary. I suppose it was trying to make a point - both child stars who act in TV and children raised by watching TV can have serious problems - but I thought it was just a way for director Ben Stiller to get some screen time. Basically, the story was good and had a lot of problems, but it could have had a far more effective cast. 5/10 "},{"Title":"It's a great movie in all terms, no mater what those haters says","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Some people who dear to call themselves a film critics actually hate movies, many great movies were victims of these haters, just like this film. If you really like Jim Carrey and understand his humor than you'll find this film being really funny. Maybe not that funny as Ace Ventura, but it has a much better plot and also has some horror thriller elements. The whole Medieval Times scene was very funny (especialy Star Trek parody), the porno password and the prison scenes were hilarious and many other scenes were funny too. Ben Stiller did a great job as a director. Jim Carrey was brilliant this time, some times he looked like a totally different person, because his performance was so realistic. I can't find the right words to describe what a wonderful movie this is, so watch it and see it for yourselves. "},{"Title":"The best dark/comedy of the mid 90's","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" In this 1996 comedy, Steve (Matthew Broderick) is one ordinary guy who has just moved into a new apartment but when he makes an appointment with a cable guy to setup his cable, that is when hell breaks lose.. very immediately, his cable guy Chip (Jim Carrey) is deeply involved in Steve's life and his relationship with Robin (Leslie Mann).. with Chip's fixation with his customer Steve, it causes a dispute and it provokes Steve to push Chip out of his life but then Chip strikes back with those most menacing tactics, with everything from stealing his girlfriend, screwing with his cable and blackmailing Steve...For this 1996 comedy/thriller it really unleashes the dark, menacing, quirky side of Jim Carrey and it's a side to keep you laughing or on the edge of your seat, this movie has the characteristics of the 1991 comedy, What About Bob? but this is to me one of Jim Carrey's memorable roles.. some others may think Ace Ventura, Lloyd Christmas or The Mask but when I think of Jim Carrey, I think of The Cable Guy and thats why this is probably the best dark/comedy of the mid 90's... "},{"Title":"Excellent understated humor, underrated because its not Ace Ventura ?","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Im actually a bit biased towards this movie, because of the fact that it is my favorite movie of all time. But anyway I thought i would share with you why i find it so good.The Cable Guy aka. Chip Douglas aka. Ricky Ricardo is a brilliant character played to perfection by Jim Carrey. The story about him is that he has seen way too much TV in his childhood, which comes to show whenever he speaks, its almost only quotes from TV shows or movies. Pay close attention to whatever he says, I personally recognized most of his dialog from things I've seen... so maybe i can relate to him in some weird way.The reason this film has gotten semi bad reviews is that maybe people expect to see rubber-face slapstick funny man Jim Carrey like in the Ace Venture movies, this is a huge misunderstanding of this masterpiece. The humor is at a whole other level than you're average Jim Carrey character, with vegetables stuffed in his teeth and all, so try to look for a another kind of funny here.Anyways i thought i had to write a review of this movie, hence it is the greatest movie Jim has ever made, not the funniest though, that would be Dumb and Dumber.Dry land is not a myth! I have seeeeeeeeen it "},{"Title":"Misunderstood Classic","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I remember this as being a financial and critical flop when it came out, but I think it was a victim of circumstance and is actually a pretty brilliant film. When it came out, Jim Carrey was on the first wave of his success. You had Ace Ventura, Dumb and Dumber and then this. People were definitely not ready for a bizarre character like Chip Douglas. If you watch it today, though, its beautiful. I definitely think this film was several years ahead of its time. It is a dark, twisted film that is somehow hilarious at the same time. Carrey, Black, and Broderick are all amazing. I remember not being to into it when I saw it originally, then seeing it hungover one day in college and being amazed at how good it is. A must see! "},{"Title":"Brilliantly Funny, Makes a Difference","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Jim Carrey's villains are typically completely out of their mind. Whatever Carrie does is almost always hilarious, even if it is something evil (kinda like with Skeletor). In The Cable Guy Carrie does good as the outrageous lisping Cable Guy who forces his way into the life of a regular guy and turns it into a nightmare.Some of my favorite scenes from this film in order...1.) Showdown at the TV-Dish Just like GoldenEye and with Carrie's over-the-top line delivery Somebody has to kill the babysitter. 2.) Medieval Times.3.) Basket Ball game (with Prison Rules) Jack Black also gives a mildly impressive side-character performance, though doesn't get to shine obviously. The film is kinda dark but I guess that's why I like it. For some reason there was a feeling of contentment by the end, except that we get the classic horror-film-style cliffhanger-nod. Other than that the film is just brilliant. "},{"Title":"Why I Keep On Enjoying The Cable Guy","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I am not sure if I agree that Cable Guy was his last great film, or his greatest, but I have to say that it is my favorite among his movies, all of which are very enjoyable to me. Yes he over-acts, but he does it in a fun way that doesn't take me out of my suspension of disbelief, but it does perfectly sell the moment. You know how when a friend is retelling a funny story, and you want them to retell it perfectly, but it never quite lives up to expectations? With Jim Carrey he totally delivers every time because he is either that talented, and/or he works it until it is perfect and then lets the director count it on film.The Cable guy is better every time you watch it. Almost all of my friends and family didn't like it the first time they saw it, yet almost without exception they all love it now. I had to push them at first, and kind of hand-fed them some of the jokes, and the subtle nuances in the scenes, but eventually they all started to appreciate it throughout the movie. We were all impressed with the writer, Lou Holtz Jr, whom we are all enthusiastically waiting for another script leading to another movie. He really gave the film Team a wonderful foundation with which to perform.I think the reason it is my favorite is because of its disguise. At first it was supposed to be a mega commercial hit, and had all the trappings of one. And then it was a big commercial and critic-review letdown because they let Jim go too nuts, and because it was too dark. But the few of us that could see that it was not a superficial commercial hit, and saw the tremendous work that went into the script, into every scene, and the characters, and then to be totally irreverent and paradoxical to the extreme. It is a dark comedy, not a disturbing comedy, that if taken too seriously shows a troubled guy ruining many peoples lives. It's just a comedy that doesn't hold back anything, and actually goes after everything that is, or could be, taboo. And it is my favorite Carrey movie simply because it is kind of a hidden jewel that keeps being funny over and over again, and often reveals more reasons to laugh with each new viewing.Some of my favorite scenes, that I don't hear many people talking about are the following 1.) At the beginning, when Chip just met Steven and as the cable guy is looking for the location of the old cable connection behind Steven's apartment wall. He treats the pursuit for the old cable like a pursuit of a female conquest and talks like a guy with a lisp who thinks he's a ladies man romancing a wanting woman. Tell me how you like it... and Here's the sweet spot as he circles the wall with his fore finger and with the camera head on, lays is face on its side flat against the wall. And then, as usual in this movie, the scene climax comes with full power as he quickly pulls out his drill and deftly puts his big drill bit in the drill and quickly and powerfully powers up the drill and thrusts it into the wall, while at the same time moans his words to Steven as he thrusts the drill. And the words to Steven are creepy because he knows that Steven had a recent breakup with his girlfriend and as he is thrusting he is saying Steven's ex-girlfriend's name. It's almost like Chip is thrusting into Steven's girlfriend as he is drilling the wall for the new cable. It was perfectly synchronized and delivered.But it's not over, the scene still could be better (not because I needed it to be better, but because these guys who wrote and made the movie really knew how to make it better and took the time to do it right). The climax hit when Steven took offense to Chip's unwelcome intrusion into his personal life, and declined when Chip backed off which was the anti-climax moment, and as the tension started to release and the camera pulled away, you could see Steven (Mathew Broderick) discretely pull his robe to cover up a bit more, if as to say that he was a little worried about this guy's advances, again playing off Chip using the cable installation as an allegory of an aggressive romantic conquest and Steven being somewhat as an unsure potential sexual victim having witnessed the unwelcome yet totally masterful advances of Chip.2.) The morning after the Karaoke party, breakfast with scramby eggs 3.) Living Bert Reynolds character in Sharky's Machine at the restaurant when Steven's ex-girlfriend is on a first date with Owen Wilson, and Chip is trying (and succeeding of course) to mess things up for Owen.Sorry, I want to explain why I liked the second and third example, but no time left! Maybe later and thanks to all of you for taking the time to share your thoughts on The Cable Guy! Pat Wilson "}{"Title":"Different doesn't mean worse","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" 'The Cable Guy' marks Jim Carey's first real attempt to do something not entirely juvenile, long before he got real recognition in 'The Truman Show', 'Man on the Moon' and 'Eternal Sunshine of a Spotless Mind'. Unfortunately most people were so used to seeing Carey acting like an ass on screen that the idea of him playing someone legitimately dark was too confronting and the film slumped. However, Carey's sweet but scary Cable Guy, with Broderick's awkward and eternally patient fall-guy balances perfectly between typical Carey buffoonery and real intensity. Stiller's direction and Lou Holtz Jnr's script push the film (originally pitched as your average Carey slapstick) into a region that yes, can be very confronting, but isn't bad; consider it the 'Apocalypse Now' of comedy. This film is hugely underrated by audiences but despite occasional slips into sheer stupidity (let's face it, we have to expect it of Jim Carey) it's earned a spot with the likes of 'Reservoir Dogs' 'Fight Club' and 'Natural Born Killers' in the 80s-90s new wave of neo-noir cinema that has and still is defining the new Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Absolute comic genius!","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This is the most hilarious movie I have ever seen. Usually, a character like Carrey's in a movie makes me so uncomfortable that I can't enjoy the film. Not so in this case. The combination of Carrey's insanity, Broderick's everyman, and Stiller's (who I'm not normally a fan of) direction and script combine to make this the perfect comedy. I completely feel for Broderick's character, but at the same time I can't get enough of the will go to any extreme friendship of Carrey. Brilliant and under-appreciated. I learned the facts of life from The Facts of Life! Also, the back-story of the twin brother murder is great satire in and of itself. Lots of great cameos to boot! Hey, are we really buddies? "},{"Title":"Great Performance by Jim Carrey, in a Solid and Entertaining Movie.","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film when it first came out and I thought that it was woefully unfunny. However, I have since watched it a couple of times and I've enjoyed it more and more with each viewing.This is one of Jim Carrey's best performances. He nails the comedy and the tragedy in his characterization of the socially inept cable guy who offers free cable to Steven Matthew Brodericks character.This movie is just a solid piece of work. The great direction from Ben Stiller is commandingly inventive and he gets a great performance from Jim Carrey. I'd say the editing was a bitch, but they've done a fantastic job. The script is also deceptively good and well structured.Basically, this movie will entertain you if you give it a chance. "},{"Title":"This was Comedy that fans of Jim Carrey were not ready for.","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" An oddball cable installer (Jim Carrey) is been raised on television sitcom. He has the life as one of his favorite characters on t.v. on his heart and soul. He also takes the fictional name of his favorite t.v. show and calls himself by the name of Chip Douglas (FromMy Three Sons). Chip meets Steven Kovacs (Matthew Broderick) on his routine day job. Chip has a new friend but Chip thinks the idea of friendship is really based, what he seen on t.v. playing wild games of physical assault, a wild game of porno password or a medieval joust (Tribute to T.V.'s Star Trek). But once Steven's sees the dark side of Chip. Chip could be very dangerous disturbing person to be with, including Steven's life.This underrated familiar dark comedy was not what Columbia Pictures were expecting to be a Box Office disappointment. The movie did OK enough at the Box Office. A little more than half of its budget was Carrey's paycheck. Jim Carrey gives a delicious darkly underrated comic performance. Critics give the film a mixed blessing and the reviews were not as bad as they said.This film is directed by actorBen Stiller (Reality Bites, Zoolander) made an extremely dark comedy with some big laughs. Carrey and Broderick are well cast in the film. Leslie Mann, Jack Black and George Segal appears in supporting roles. The movie has a great soundtrack. The film become a Cult Favorite and This is one of Carrey's best roles. David Cross, Kathy Griffin, Janeane Garofalo, Andy Dick, Charles Napier, Owen Wilson, Eric Roberts and Unbilled-Ben Stiller appears in Cameos. Yes, the movie has a few flaws including the unsatisfying conclusion. Originally the late Chris Farley was cast in the lead. The movie is crossed from Clint Eastwood's Play Misty for Me, John Belushi's misguided comedyNeighbors and Bill Murray/Richard Dreyfuss' excellent comedyWhat About Bob ? If you are a Carrey fan, you will love this. Do not miss this misunderstood genuinely well made comedy. Written by Lou Holtz, Jr. Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Too early.","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Being a fairly die-hard Jim Carrey fan, I hesitate to condemn this movie as much as many people have. I've even seen the movie ridiculed on The Simpsons (in one episode, I think Homer and Bart find some kind of secret vault, which contains The Cable Guy script, the GOOD version, which apparently never saw the light of day). Where the movie goes wrong is when it tries to turn from a comedy and into a thriller. Coming fresh out of such hilarious appearances as the first Ace Ventura sequel, Dumb & Dumber, Batman Forever and the somewhat less impressive The Mask, it was just too early for Carrey to move from such over the top performances and into the realm of playing a threatening stalker. Maybe not even too early, just too sudden of a change. Later in his career, Carrey would prove his impressive ability to play dramatic characters, in movies like The Majestic, The Truman Show, Man on the Moon, and by far the best so far, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. Even now I don't think Carrey could pull off a threatening character, but not through any fault of his own. For the same reason that Denzel Washington simply can't be killed Godfather style, Carrey can't be frightening or scary. The man's loved.Matthew Broderick turns in a sufficiently self-pitying performance as Steven Kovacs, recently dumped by his girlfriend and moving into an apartment by himself. The cable guy picks up on the heartbreak in the air immediately, and then proceeds to begin a relationship with Steven by hooking him up with free cable. I'm almost sad to see how completely Broderick has lost the slick confidence that he enjoyed as Ferris Bueller, but such is life. Much like many child stars, he grew up to be something completely different. At least in the movies.The movie succeeds in showing the gradual deterioration of the friendship between the unnamed cable guy and Steven, which gradually changes from a casual friendship to genuine stalking, with Steven's own friends and family thinking that he's overreacting to the cable guy who has charmed his way into all of their hearts. But it doesn't know when to stop. The cable guy didn't have to go crazy in order for his stalking of Steven to be effective. Indeed, a good comedy would have avoided that like the plague, but The Cable Guy runs for it.Not only does he become a dangerous stalker far beyond the criminal border, he turns into a movie villain, like in a trashy mystery/thriller. It fails where a movie like Shaun of the Dead succeeded spectacularly, in blending two genres that don't fit together very well. As I find myself saying all too often, it tries to do too much and ends up not doing much at all. At the very least, however, I have to admit that I was still impressed with Carrey's performance, at least in the first half of the movie. That basketball game was absolutely priceless, it's just too bad that the rest of the movie didn't go in a similar direction. "},{"Title":"Not a particularly good movie, but watchable for Carrey fans, and does have a good message","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" Since I was a fan of Jim Carrey(almost a borderline psychotic fan) a few years ago, I saw just about any Jim Carrey film I could get my hands on(even the somewhat doubtful Batman Forever). Therefore, I saw this one many, many times, even memorizing every single funny line and facial expression(I told you I was a borderline psychotic fan). Not long ago, after having my fandom reach a somewhat more healthy level, I realized that I haven't seen this film for several years, and I had never written a review(which may be a good thing, since I would have praised it just a few years back). The plot is somewhat good. It's about a cable guy who just wants a friend. The acting is pretty good, by pretty much everyone. The characters are well-written and credible, though I thought that the character of Robin came off too simple-minded and easy, and Owen Wilson's character was just too one-dimensional. I know that we were supposed to hate him, but jeez, can't you give the guy a little personality? When he hate him for no particular reason, it's harder to enjoy what happens to him(then again, maybe we weren't supposed to enjoy it, and it's just me who thinks I'm supposed to enjoy it, while we're actually supposed to feel bad for him. Who knows). The humor wasn't really that good, the crude parts were almost embarrassing. The typical Carrey humor is somewhat present, but only the biggest of his fans will enjoy it. There is some pretty good satire present, mostly dealing with people's TV watching habits(as The Truman Show also had). The film has a pretty good message/moral, which is something to the extent of everybody needs other people, and don't sit too much in front of the TV. Unfortunately, this message isn't very well-presented or executed, and therefore, it ends up being a slightly tragic comedy-thriller, instead of the great film it could have been. Some final thoughts; is there a particular reason for the many comedians that are in this film? Janeane Garofalo, David Cross, Jack Black, Owen Wilson, Andy Dick, even the director himself, Ben Stiller, has a minor role. I don't know if this was some sort of comedians unite or something. Also, I wasn't entirely sure if I was supposed to feel sorry for or hate The Cable Guy(Jim Carrey's character, not the film). He does some truly despicable things, but then again, he just really wants a friend, right? What more can I say... I enjoyed the various references to popular movies and TV shows, and the film as a whole is enjoyable, I guess, and not overlong(it's just about 90 minutes) so I guess if you want to see it, go for it. You can't be that disappointed. I only recommend this to big Jim Carrey fans, and possibly fans of Ben Stiller's directorial style(if he has one, I'm not sure). 6/10 "},{"Title":"This Is Supposed to Be Funny?","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Is this supposed to be a comedy? That appears to be the intention of director, Ben Stiller, and Jim Carrey the principle actor. But the movie is not funny. Not because the jokes fall flat, Jim Carrey does some insanely funny schticks, but because the subject matter is not laughable. In the movie, Carrey plays Chip, a cable installer with a very unstable psychology, who becomes fixated on one of his customers, Steve, a yuppie played by Mathew Broderick. For free cable, Steve agrees to become the cable guys new friend and buddy. But as Steve soon realizes, the cable guy is a stalker, injecting himself, not just into Steve's life, but into that of Steve's girlfriend and his family. But these guys all love the adorable Chip. Steve's the only one that realizes a dangerous psychosis lurks in Chip's head. And this situation is played for laughs! Stiller could have used the same material and made a thriller to much better effect. As it is, it's a misfire, and a waste of talent.  "},{"Title":"Watching Cable Late at Night Beats This.","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  A man (Matthew Broderick) gets an illegal cable hookup from the titled character (Jim Carrey) and immediately starts to regret the decision. Carrey becomes a psychotic nut-job who obsesses about being Broderick's new best friend while Broderick just cannot shake him. Soon Carrey has turned all of those in Broderick's life (girlfriend Leslie Mann, friend Jack Black and parents Diane Baker/George Segal) against him as they feel that Broderick is beginning to lose it himself. As all this goes on there is constantly a trial on television that everyone is watching (ala O.J.) about a former child star (director Ben Stiller) who murdered his identical twin brother. Sick little comedy that tries to be a thriller, but never does make much sense going that route. Carrey is never scary and this is no exception. Broderick shakes like a little girl and everyone else gets lost in the dumb shuffle. Stiller's shortcomings as a film-maker do nothing to help as it is not even clear that the movie has a director or screenwriter. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Low-rated for a reason.","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This movie was painful to watch, plain and simple. A ludicrous plot further harmed by the wasting of the talents of the actors.It reminds me of The Crossing Guard with Jack Nicholson, not in premise but in disappointment. Seen that one?The redemption, if any, of this movie is in that it is not a black comedy nor any type of comedy; if anything it is a thought-provoker for the audience, as in what in the world were they thinking, or what do they want us to think?The direction and editing are sloppy and hard to follow, and the undeniably talented Carrey appears to be trying too hard while Matthew Broderick is irritatingly listless.Had they all abandoned the pretense of comedy and gone for a true dark drama, then the potential is there, but the result we have in the movie as it was done is in-between everything, and thus it achieves nothing but a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Absolutely shocking","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This would have to be the worse movie i have ever seen. There was no plot whatsoever! how can people enjoy this movie! I am absolutely saddened by the fact that such a talented man like Ben stiller could produce such rubbish as this! The only plus for this movie was the cast, which featured some of the best actors around, but this only added to my disappointment to the film,. It really is an insult to some of these actors who in other movies were absolutely excellent! I don;t recommend people to see this movie unless they really have to, it annoyed me and i hope that no more people have to suffer through the couple of hours that the movie goes for. Basically, if you're a Carey fan, then you should definitely avoid this movie, it may make you change your mind about him, In fact, if you are a fan of any of the actors in this film i suggest you avoid it! once again I'm very disappointed with this film, its an absolute disgrace! "}{"Title":"I didn't like this movie. Here's why","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  (MILD SPOILERS read at your own risk if you don't like spoiler material.)Sorry to all you fans of Cable Guy, but I just didn't like this movie. And I'd like to tell you why. It was so over-the-top in every scene that JC was in (that's Jim Carrey, by the way, NOT Jesus Christ) that I was blinded by science &#150; no, wait a minute, I was numbed by that 400-pound comedy club that JC likes to wield on his viewers. Sometimes it works (the first Ace Ventura movie, for example, and The Mask, as well as Liar Liar were truly inspired and funny movies) but other times JC just smacks you upside the head with his big old 400-pound laugh schtick til you want to puke. (Me Myself and Irene and Man on the Moon fall into this category, and cannot be removed no matter what you tell me.)Case in point in the film they go to the Medieval Times restaurant, where serving wench Janeane Garofalo appears to wait on them. She's a not-too-bad comic in her own right &#150; a veritable treasure trove of comedic potential. Instead the scene totally wastes Ms. Garofalo, and proceeds into this totally STOOPID sketch which depicts Matthew Broderick and JC jousting at each other with all sorts of deadly medieval weaponry. Totally dumb, unbelievable, and not funny at all. This scene could have been much funnier if they had just stuck with the serving wench and milked her for a few more laughs (Janeane Garofalo is good for many more laughs than she got in this film, I can tell you that for certain...)Another case in point is when they gathered to play Porno Password. It was totally sicko and uninspired, and what with JC really laying on the lisping, quasi-gay persona at that point, well, I just wanted to wretch. And really, by this point in the film, Jim Carrey's not-too-believable twisted, lisping character was just starting to wear a bit thin.And how about that fall onto the dish antenna? Really unbelievable. I thought his fall onto that TV dish was certainly dramatic, but judging by the height of the drop, and the weight of Chip Douglas/Larry Stevens, that fall certainly would have snapped either his back or his neck. Or both. Which would have cured his lisp permanently, if you get my drift.Finally, the ending statement. What point were they trying to make? That exposure to TV creates anti-social psychos? That we as a culture don't read enough, and that we waste too much time on mindless television and movies? (Pot calling the kettle black here...) Well, I have watched TV since the early 60's, and I truly believe my life has been broadened and enriched by what TV has to offer. Sure, there's junk out there, but also there is an abundance of wonderful programming on TV. (Just consider what the History Channel and the Discovery Channel have to offer, not to mention various PBS specials and the like.) I'm also an avid reader and writer, and TV has inspired and enhanced my reading and writing endeavors immensely. I can say the same for the Internet. You just have to be selective and vigilant. I don't believe that exposure to lots of TV, in and of itself, could lead to a psychologically damaged anti-social whacko such as portrayed by Jim Carrey in the film. Just take me as an example. I have watched TV since early childhood, yet I turned out quite normal and literate (even if I do say so myself).BTW, I noticed the other day that I am deriving immense amounts of laughs from a variety of sit-coms like Seinfeld, the Drew Carey Show, and Becker, just to name a few. These shows do more in a half hour, what with their clever writing and comedic timing, than Cable Guy does in more than 3 times that amount of time. Now I know what Led Zeppelin meant when they posed the question, Does anybody remember laughter?Therefore, if you have a copy of this movie, put it in your fireplace and burn it. Then poke it a few times with your fireplace poker to ensure complete combustion. Following that, take an enema and a hot bath. You will be cured. That is all. You may go now. "},{"Title":"Only the second Jim Carrey movie I've liked","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I rarely haved liked Carrey's movies but this one had me howling .  It is easily Carrey's best work and I have never understood why it did so poorly at the box office.  I just people just want actors to stay in their tight little niches and not do anything 'different'.  Carrey, I have realized, is not just another goofy  comedian with a set 'shtick' that he rides into the ground in movie after movie.  The Cable Guy is brilliant! "},{"Title":"kill me","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I am not exaggerating when I say that this is the worst movie I have seen in my entire life. This is not an off the cuff comment, I'm serious. I now become agitated at the idea of having to watch this movie again.  Watching it was true torture.  There is not enough money in the world to pay me to sit through this movie again.  It was SO ANNOYING!!! "},{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies I Have Ever Seen","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This movie stunk, plain and simple. Me and my family, I remember when we went to see it, wanted to walk out so bad. This movie was the start of a streak of bad movies by Jim Carey. This streak included this movie, The Truman Show, Man on the Moon. Don't waste your time on any of these movies. There's more exciting and worthwhile things to do in life than watch any of the listed movies. This movie wasn't funny, and it just drug on and on. It did have a somewhat good message at the end. That being that we are watching too much TV in this day in age. Other than that, I would have rather smashed my hand with a hammer than watched this movie. "},{"Title":"Drab and Depressing Tripe!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"    Oh God! I thought this movie would never end! This has to be the worst, dumbest and drabbest comedy ever made! The other reviewers say that this is Carrey's best. THIS IS JIM CARREY'S WORST MOVIE! He is just irritating throughout and Matthew Broderick is just a prat in this movie. The 2 actors (!) just don't gel together and the film is very repetetive. It may be different from the norm, but it's a load of tripe all the same! Awful. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Tragically Scary","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  This movie isn't funny.  The stupid humor that worked in Dumb and Dumber was not the least bit hilarious in this film.  His character frightened me with each scene more, and not once did I laugh.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Without redeeming social value and therefore obscene","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Carey, Broderick and Stiller collaborating on a comedy. What could be bad about that? The results!Seldom has so much talent been put to such a mediocre end. As Ben Stiller's bubba might have said, Drech!The only thing that annoys me more than this movie is my cable provider, who shall remain nameless.My cable guy, however, is a great guy and actually saved my life, but that's a story for another screenplay.However, if you liked the bulk of Steve Martin's (especially early) movies, you'll love this.  "},{"Title":"Imagine a movie that can ruin 2 stars reputations","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Forget a review, this movie is worth seeing for how bad it is. This movie does nothing, but provide boredom, and try and make you dislike two very talented stars in Jim Carrey and Ben Stiller. For those who watch the Simpsons..... Worst Movie Ever   "},{"Title":"Every Actor has a Bad Movie..","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  Normally every good actor always has a bad movie. For Jim Carrey, this movie is his WORST.  I bet this movie will be known as Jim's Worst movie.. I wouldn't be surprised would you? "},{"Title":"Awful Awful Film","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" This is probably one of the worst, if not the worst movie Jim Care has ever made. It had hardly any funny moments in it, and it is a movie I will not see again.Jim Carrey has done better films, i.e. Bruce Almighty to mention one. Even both Ace Ventura movies had funnier moments in them than this film. I think that we can all think of this film as a mistake and forget about it, and concentrate on Jim Carreys good films, which actually did well at the box office.There is not much else to say about this film, it may appeal to some people out there. In my opinion this was not an entertaining and enjoyable film. "}{"Title":"I did not like this movie at all.","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":"  I did not like this movie at all. The only reason I even watched it was because Matthew Broderick is in it. I do like Jim Carrey, just not in this movie. If you are in the mood to see Jim Carrey act as an annoying, physco cable man, then this is the movie for you. Jim Carrey's character's motive for all of his actions was quite unbelievable and stupid in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey ruins yet another movie.","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Thriller","Review":" There's two reasons I watched this movie, or rather suffered through it. One was was because I'm a fan of Matthew Broderick. And two is because it was on TV and I didn't have to pay to see it. And even though I've always been repulsed by anything Jim Carrey has done, I thought maybe I'd be able to bear it.This movie made me realize that Jim Carrey is so pathetically untalented and annoying that he could ruin any movie. And like all of his other movies, he manages to ruin this one as well. He's like a retarded version of Jerry Lewis. Don't get me wrong, I'm a huge fan of Lewis, who was an original, but a bad fake imitation of Lewis with brain damage with a lame accent that can't act... not so much.Truth is, if one could assemble the greatest director, the best actors, the best screen writers, and the best special effects technicians that ever lived to make a movie with an unlimited budget, if you were to add Jim Carrey in the mix, he would spoil it all and insure the film would be capable of inducing vomiting. After all, that's his only talent. "}]