[{"Title":"Perhaps the Strongest Argument Against Child Abuse Ever Filmed","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film gnawed at me. And gnawed, and gnawed. It's a difficult film to really like, considering the subject matter, but the acting and directing were so outstanding that the film must be seen. The casting was so dead on; Ron Eldard, an actor I knew only from his role on ER, was chillingly effective as the handsome-yet-monstrous Daddy Glen, young Jena Malone came across as an old pro as little Bone, and I was overjoyed to see Michael Rooker, a talented and often overlooked actor, take a rare turn as good guy Earle. Also good to see Diana Scarwid get a rare role into which she could really sink her teeth. I must confess, the scene in which Earle, Wade, and Travis beat the stuffing out of Glen at the funeral had me cheering and swinging my own fists. If anyone out there - particularly women whose husbands or boyfriends have tempers - can watch this film and still not see the light, nothing will ever make them see. A triumph for Anjelica Huston, as well as for her cast. Is Bastard Out of Carolina a disturbing film? Absolutely. Is it at times graphic, even horrifying? No question. But it is also a fine piece of filmmaking, and something any true film lover should see. "},{"Title":"Stunning!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie again for the third time in the last two days. Each time I watch it I discover something I missed in the previous viewing. There are no wasted lines or scenes. It is a powerful 1996 movie with excellent performances, dealing with the touchy subject of child abuse.Anjelica Huston is the director and this is her first attempt at directing a feature length movie. The results are stunning. It is altogether a flawless movie, with an excellent script based on the Dorothy Allison novel, and stars Jena Malone as the young protagonist. Jennifer Jason Leigh is in the tough role of the mother torn between the choices she faces in loving both her daughter and the abusive stepfather. Many times throughout the movie I sat on the edge of my seat stunned by the action happening onscreen. It is not a movie with pat answers and predictable solutions, but manages to show the complexities involved in each situation. There are no cardboard characters either, as in real life not everyone is totally good or evil, though their actions may dip into either category from time to time.The most compelling performance, in a film loaded with excellent acting, comes from young Malone, who commands a role that many adult actresses would no doubt have trouble handling. Her face tells a thousand stories with each shot giving a multi-leveled meaning to the deeper motivations that lie within her character.After the credits Glenne Headly provides further information about the subject and a child abuse hotline number, which is a great addition to a film of this sort. It is not entertainment per se, but more along the lines of an informational public service. The symptoms of child abuse are highlighted throughout the movie and the effect of everyone's participation documented as fair warning to the viewer.I can't praise this movie enough. A film like this raises my awareness and compassion level and makes me want to reach out to help in any way I can. It exceeds expectations in just about every way imaginable. "},{"Title":"Jena Malone's superb performance near perfection","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Knowing that the movie deals with the multiple abuse of a young girl, I first read a long interview with Jena Malone, who plays 10 year old Bones, about her role in the movie and the relationship with both her mother and the film crew. I was assured that she is a strong girl and understood the role she played.When she was little Bones' own daddy swings her around and around in a beautiful scene by a lake. There are sparkles on the water and in her eyes. But tragedy takes her daddy away, and for, what must have been a few years, she sits in the back of her car cuddling her little sister and waiting for her mother to get off shift at the cafe she worked at. Her mom gets married to a man who is pathetic, and at the same time angry, violent and ultimately a monster of cruelty to little Bones. Early on, he sexually abuses her in the car as they wait outside the hospital for her mother to give birth. Jena Malone played her part to perfection. Her pain, crooked smile, perfect cracker accent, defiance and fear drilled itself into my heart. I could feel her hopelessness and at the same time the flashes of joy when she was free to sing, as well as the love and protection she felt for her little sister.The relationships between the characters were fully developed. While I cheered when Bones' stepfather was beat up, I still had a hard time hating him as much as I should. Bones' mother, although a sympathetic character who loved her babies, I may not forgive, at least from the time she carried Bones out of the hospital.Altogether a ten star movie. "},{"Title":"Deeply disturbing with highly intense performances.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bastard Out of Carolina is by far the most disturbing film I have ever seen.  At the same time, it is one of the finest films to be made in history.  Words cannot explain how deeply this film affected me, I couldn't move when the credits rolled up, I could do nothing but think about what I had just seen.  The performances here are nothing but astonishing.  Jennifer Jason Leigh gives a wonderful, heart-felt performance, and at times you just want to slap her and say wake up!.  The greatest performance in this film though is by Jena Malone.  Wow, I've never seen such an intense performance by any actress let alone a child actress.All in all, a great film.  *****/out of 5 "},{"Title":"Disturbing but worthwhile","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an often shocking but necessary film about a young girl called Bone and the abuse she suffers at the hands of her stepfather, Daddy Glen. The film is hard to watch at times but there are lighter moments when Bone's extended family are on screen. The book contains a much wider scope and naturally many of these subplots didn't make it into the screenplay. Ultimately, the film feels a little rushed and could have benefited from another half hour or so.The quality of the acting is patchy. Lyle Lovett's delivery of his few lines of dialogue is very wooden compared to Michael Rooker's excellent portrayal of gentle giant Earl. Jena Malone does a brilliant job in obviously difficult circumstances as young Bone. The look in her eyes breaks your heart whenever things are about to turn violent, making you want to rescue her yourself. Jennifer Jason Leigh is fine as Bone's mother but you feel like you never really get to see beneath the surface of her determined expression to understand her motives for standing by her man in the face of Glen's obvious resentment of her daughter.Ron Eldard is excellent in his depiction Glen, expertly capturing the character's pathetic childishness behind those icy blue eyes. Eldard often seems to play characters with a dark side and this role plays to his strengths, even if his southern accent slips from time to time. His scenes of violence with Bone are harrowing to watch and you can't help but feel uncomfortable, given the age of Jena Malone at the time. I know it's 'only acting' but the scenes are very realistic and graphic for a young actress to endure.The film is one that ought to be shown to any single mother tempted to jump into a relationship with a hot-headed young man with questionable intentions. "},{"Title":"Deep, Dark Film!","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not for the Squeamish! It deals with sexual abuse of children. I saw an interview with Jenna Malone and she was emphatic to re-assure people that she was not herself abused during this film, she got along very well with Ron Eldard, and that she understood that it was acting, etc. I'll bet that some actors turned down the role, given the subject matter. From a standpoint of dealing with the subject matter honestly the director Angelica Huston pulled no punches. There's a haunting scene where Eldard was sitting in a car with Jena on his lap and he abuses her - I'm sure it was a very difficult scene to film! But it's a must see for the realistic portrayal of a true story. "},{"Title":"A daring, brilliant masterpiece","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just watched this movie in my Advanced Developmental Psychology class, and I was blown away by it.  Naturally, the professor warned us that the film contained some very graphic scenes, as it certainly did.  There were moments where I absolutely could not look up at the screen.  The film is wonderfully directed (by Anjelica Huston) and acted.  Jennifer Jason Leigh gives one of the best performances of her career.  She's one of those actresses who has talent and I have nothing against her, but rarely do I find myself raving about her performances.  Here, she's given a genuinely challenging role, as she has to be both disturbed by her new husband's abuse towards her daughter, yet at the same time deeply in love with him.  My class is predominantly female, so most of the girls were groaning and yelling out things like You're stupid! when she kept deciding to get back with the creep.  But it's easy to say that while you're sitting on your butt looking at a TV screen.  Tons of women get into relationships with abusive husbands, and guys who treat them like crap, and how many of them actually get out of those relationships?  Love is a strange, strange thing.  There's no way to explain it.  But I didn't feel it was in any way inaccurate for Leigh's character to keep wanting to get back with Ron Eldard.I know Eldard from his role on the cancelled sitcom Men Behaving Badly and his supporting roles in films like Sleepers and The Last Supper. Prior to this movie, I would've never envisioned him in this sort of role, as I didn't really think of him as a daring, intense actor.  I would envision an actor like Ray Liotta or James Woods in this sort of role.  But I think Eldard's apparent naivete really gives dimension to this role.  He doesn't in any way appear like someone who would act abusive towards anyone, as it usually turns out in real life.  He also plays the character with a certain charm, which gives us some insight into why Leigh decided to stay with him. Of course, he never gets a handle on the Carolina accent (at times even sounding like an Englishman, as he struggles so hard), but as I got more and more into the film, I barely paid attention to the flaws in his accent. After watching this film, I will definitely look at Eldard much differently, as much more than the fun-loving buddy of Rob Schneider on Men Behaving Badly (a show I used to watch pretty frequently).The cast is also composed of fine character actors, like Glenne Headley and Michael Rooker--who's absolutely terrific as Leigh's short-fused brother. Of course, that isn't an unusual role for him, but he plays it very well and packs a great dramatic punch in this performance especially.  Jena Malone shows why she grew up to star in big films like Stepmom and For Love of the Game.  Even at this age, she is fully convincing as a tortured young girl.  I just kept on wondering what the director gave her as motivation for her different emotions, since I'm guessing they couldn't outwardly address the issues or rape and abuse to a girl of her age.The film contains some of the most disturbing scenes in American cinema (I stress the word American, because I've seen more graphic rape scenes in foreign films like The Bandit Queen and Pixote), so even those with stomachs of steel should beware.  But how many films you watch really get you talking and thinking, and send you an emotional journey--without using cheap shots?  I don't have A.D.D. or anything, but rarely do I get so lost in a film that my attention never drifts and I never take time to look at my watch.  This is one of those rare powerful, touching films that I will never forget!My score  9 (out of 10)    "},{"Title":"A classic","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sure, it's imperfect, but then so are most classics. It's a Wonderful Life is loaded with stereotypes, banalities, and over-acting. Casablanca features trite dialog, and the characters of Paul Henreid and Ingrid Bergman seem pretty wishy-washy for supposed heroes. Bastard is a biographical tale. Biographies often are episodic and lack continuity just as real life is episodic and lacks continuity. Biographical dialog is sometimes unimaginative because it reflects real life speech; none of us has a professional writer feeding us our lines. However, what Bastard does have are unforgettable scenes and images of profound emotional impact, a gritty set of down-home characters presented with gutsy reality by a superlative cast, and Jena Malone. Actually, Miss Malone has relatively few lines in this movie, but her expressive face, and especially her fantastic eyes speak clearly and powerfully from the depths of her heart in every scene. And the lines she does speak stab into our hearts with deadly accuracy. A memorable performance in a memorable movie. "},{"Title":"Messy Southern Gothic with too many characters and a lumpy narrative...","Date":"13 May 2008","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Anjelica Huston, an unequivocally wise and intuitive actress, takes on a dark, rambling Southern tale for her first directorial effort, an adaptation of Dorothy Allison's book with so many peaks and valleys it plays like a chopped up TV mini-series, the CliffsNotes version. Story centers on an illegitimate young girl (Jena Malone) in the South during the 1950s and her woebegone waitress-mother (Jennifer Jason Leigh), who has had terrible luck with men. Seems her third husband (Ron Eldard) has a violent streak when provoked, and when he begins lashing out at the child in both violent and sexual ways, relatives step in to help her. Rare to find a cast so full of solid acting talent, yet this script takes great pains to introduce characters without giving them anything to do (some of the relatives, like the uptown cousin played by Christina Ricci or Dermot Mulroney's doomed Husband #2, appear and disappear in record time). The central performances are fine, with pre-teen Malone doing some very nice work; a child actress with a solemn reserve and faraway eyes, Malone is perhaps too studied in her approach (she isn't an untrained natural), yet Huston handles her gently and some of the strongest moments are the ones where Malone is allowed to take a breath and emote. However, this film, a failed theatrical effort which was sold instead to cable television, is packed (or padded, as it were) with short-hand tragedy, and the editing is so poor and the narrative so confusing you might need a scorecard to keep up with all the melodrama. Despite her sensitivity in staging some shattering scenes, Huston doesn't allow the picture to flow, to absorb the audience. It's jagged and piqued, and one recoils from it instead of being drawn into the plot. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A Favourite","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a terrific film that explored painful subject matter and did it well. The creeping malice and cowardice of Glenn (a brave role for Ron Eldard) was terrifying and will be recognized as realistic by any survivor of child abuse, as will Bone's sense of isolation and responsibility for keeping the peace. The women in the film acted their roles with real strength and tenderness - particularly, I thought, Glenne Headly as Aunt Ruth. Jena Malone was a natural. I also loved Grace Zabriskie as Grandma. Displaying the lives of people commonly labeled poor white trash could have gone horribly wrong, but Bastard doesn't patronize or demean.One wishes that those who made hay about the brutal child-rape scene in this film would devote this energy to protesting the actual occurrence of such things. The graphic nature of this scene was disturbing, to be sure, but not gratuitous or exploitative.A worthwhile rendering of Dorothy Allison's semi-autobiographical novel. "}{"Title":"Unnecessarily praised.","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film delves deeply into the subject of child abuse. Jena Malone's character, Bone, is a young girl who suffers through horrific acts of violence perpetrated by her mother's husband who is not her paternal father. The depravity of the film spans beyond the child abuse it features. Despite the remarkable cast and their outstanding performances, the film raises issues which it never confronts or resolves. The film is nothing more than a portrait of a despicable life, without any hope or resolution to be found within the context. Simply put, a daughter suffers immense cruelty at the hands of her mother's husband, and rather than fight for the maternal bond between mother and daughter, the mother decides to abandon her daughter for the love she finds from her husband who has abused her daughter. This film hardly even rises to the level of a documentary, in which case you might expect the depiction of depravity to be senseless and obscene. Instead the film raises a litany of questions for which it offers no answers. Why does the mother continually disregard the abuse she is fully aware her daughter is suffering at the hands of her husband? Does the mother have any concern for the chances of her younger daughter being subjected to the same abuse from her husband? Is severing the relationship between both daughters to be considered healthy? Is abandoning her abused daughter the mother's misconceived idea as to how to make amends? What is accomplished or signified by the abused daughter's refusal to name her abuser, purely out of inescapable love for her mother who doesn't protect her? How does the abused and then abandoned daughter relate to the world around her and how will she in the future? With utmost respect to the acting talents of the cast, the few undeveloped phrases that are stated, which one hopes will provide insight into the questions raised by the film, fail to suffice in properly addressing the base topics depicted. One could easily glean from a department of children and families case file the same pain, revulsion, and sorrow this film presents. Quite disappointing, but highly recommended to those film viewers who enjoy or are satisfied with dismal portrayals of tragedy which offer nothing in the way of redemption or adequate depiction of the subject matter at hand. "},{"Title":"Not as good as you've been made to believe.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An excellent cast who do their best with an awful script, inept direction, and  some of the worst score that I have ever heard. More TV movie of the week than  serious drama. Which is sad when one considers that the source material is very serious and very real. The film makers decided that instead of building drama and character, it was better to just show the most graphic and violent bits  and hope that the audience would be shocked into sympathy and caring. In my opinion, one the most blatant forms of cut and paste film adapting. "},{"Title":"Horrified!!!","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just finished watching this movie five minutes ago and I am disgusted! At the beginning, you feel sorry for Annie, especially the part when she's at her husband's funeral with her two daughter, but all that sympathy disappears in a flash! I think that Annie is as much as a monster as her husband! At first she does try to provide and protect both of her daughters but than, she becomes a fool in love; A REALLY BIG ONE! I don't believe how could she allow a monster to abuse her own flesh and blood like that! When I was watching this, I kept thinking what if he's doing it to her other daughter!? I was disturbed while I watched every scene that Bone endured every type of abuse. The part that made me choke up was when Annie found Bone being rape by her crazy husband. I was appalled at the fact that after she saw it with her own two eyes, Annie choose that low-life over her daughter.Angelica Huston did a wonderful job as director by keeping the scenes realistic (I know I was yelling at the T.V. in Spanish and English). The actress who portrayed Boone (sorry I forgot her name) did an amazing job at bringing life into that character. She evoked sympathy from the audience and made you want to just save her from her misery. The actor who played her abusive step-father did an excellent job at portraying a monster. My favorite part was when all of Bone's uncles beat up the step-father at her aunt's funeral!Overall, I gave this movie an 8/10.If your gonna watch this be prepared to go through a cycle of emotions, pretty much all of them-don't forget the box of tissues! "},{"Title":"Disturbing, Realistic and Heartbreaking","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bastard Out Of Carolina is one of those movies that make you want to turn it off because what your seeing on screen is just so disturbing and horrible but you can't turn it off because your hoping that the movie will have a happy ending. Anyways, the story is about a young girl named Bone(Jena Malone) being constantly molested and beaten up by her horrifying stepfather. It is just so heartbreaking to see, what this little girl had to go through each day. Like many people here said, you just want to reach into your television and take the child away. I really hated her mother(Jennifer Jason Leigh) who didn't care what happened to Bone because she loved her new husband too much. I would give Bastard Out Of Carolina 8/10. "},{"Title":"What a phenomenal performer!!","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have watched the Lifetime TV movie Bastard out of Carolina several times and have been amazed at the depth that this character Bone is portrayed and the talent needed to carry off such a role. Her depth as an actress is remarkable not only for her talent for her talent at such a tender age. I have often thought that the actress must have been very strong to do such a 'dark' role like she does. Ms. Malone's portrayal of a young girl that perserveres through the loss of a loving father and multiform abuse of a stepfather while still being able to love and have a hope that shines through. Too many movies lack depth of storyline or character but I really do enjoy watching this movie over and over again. My very best to Jena Malone on her career. "},{"Title":"Every Person Should See This Movie At Least Once!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If there was ever a movie that could raise people's awareness about child abuse it's this one. This is a very powerful movie and no-one could fail to be changed by watching it.The performance's by the whole cast is excellent and I congratulate Angelica Houston for bringing this 'swept under the carpet subject out into the open where it belongs. "},{"Title":"Outstanding!!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have wanted to see this film for a long time due to the controversy and critical acclaim and I was not disappointed. The acting is superb especially from Jena Malone who did an amazing job. Jennifer Jason Leigh, Michael Rooker and Ron Eldard were also very good. Even though the subject matter is disturbing the story should be told because this is what happens in the world we live in. I strongly recommend this film although as many people have said it is very disturbing, nonetheless this important film should be seen. The book is supposed to be better and although I can't compare the film should be seen. Well done Angelica Huston!!8/10  "},{"Title":"The Daughter's Revenge","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Angelica Huston is the rare child of the film business who really does have talent. That talent, a cinematic poise and a grand frame destined her to be somebody important. But her work has been infrequent and often quirky.One imagines that life is difficult for people whose future is thrust upon them by their father, not by his will but by his unintended, marginally controlled passion.So what we end up with is straight ahead hard stuff developed in a straight ahead hard stuff manner, without art in the narrative, the blocking, the cinematography -- just as if it were done by the characters.All is invested in the three leads, their passion and emotions. They do well enough, but since there is no environmental support, each is a solo. Malone is the noticable one because of her age, but I think the real star here is Ms Leigh because she is the only one with an inner drama. The others can relax into single dimensions. "},{"Title":"The child rape scenes are GRATUITOUS","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  They could have told this story so much more effectively without the graphic incest/rape scenes. It was a very powerful film, but why, oh WHY did they have to show the graphic rape scene??? It completely RUINED a very important film. Would someone PLEASE explain? "},{"Title":" Extremely Down to Earth Film about Child Abuse!","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film clearly showed that Child Abuse must be stopped as soon as possible when the slightest indication appears in a family, NO MATTER WHO IT IS!! The director pulled no punches in showing the horrible effects it has on the young and throughout their entire life time. A grandmother asked Jena Malone(Ruth Ann Bone Boatwright if her step-father Ron Eldard (Glen Waddell)  Ghost Ship,'02 touched her in anyway improperly and the poor child froze from fear.  Jennifer Jason Leigh (Anney Boatwright)In the Cut '03 allowed the beatings and finally realized what was happening to her child, a bit too late. Even Lyle Lovett (Wade)had a chance to give Glen Waddell what he rightly deserved.   This was a rather painful film to watch and not really enjoyable, but it had a very CLEAR MESSAGE!! "}{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was hoping for a more light-hearted film with themes of child abuse but instead, it just wallows in sentimentalism. The girl and her curious sister both undergo adversities. But I also didn't like the violence this film depicts.Also, I think that the actress that played Bones is a little too young to play a 12-year-old as she was about 10 at the time. But I do think she did good in the role.There's not much memorable characters here, the father keeps remanding his daughters to call him daddy. Though, I can relate to him and his desire to beat little girls. The mother is doting of her husband. Bone is a clichéd and not very compelling character, letting her father hit her instead of running away in the bathroom!!! Not even anybody else does much to help.There were some rushed scenes and the characters, I don't think were very convincing. It was just too unnecessarily violent and sick. I know that it was trying to send out a message that children are getting treated like this, but still, for the director to show these type of scenes and have the film be so sick that it makes me go What the frack? several times, I couldn't get into it. "},{"Title":"Incredibly disturbing","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Story takes place in (I'm guessing) the 1930s in the deep south. Anney (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is an unwed mother with two girls the oldest being Ruthann (Jena Malone). She meets handsome lively Glen (Ron Eldard) and marries him. But Glen has a bad temper and beats Ruthann regularly. Her mother doesn't know it and Glen keeps getting angrier and angrier.VERY disturbing but well-done movie. The actors all fake authentic Southern accents and it captures the era perfectly. The acting is just incredible. Leigh was just letter perfect as the mother. She does love her girls and her husband and is horrified when she realizes what's going on. Eldard was a little one-note in his performance but that was mostly cause the script didn't really explore his character. He was downright terrifying when he loses control a few times. Malone was only 10 when she did this and she was incredible! VERY talented for such a young child and holds her own especially in downright horrific sequence at the end. Even the supporting roles were well-acted with Michael Rooker and Glenne Headly being standouts. Also it's all narrated by Laura Dern. As for the beatings--they're never really shown until the very end. You HEAR them though and that's bad enough. The acting is so good by Malone and Eldard you believe every second of them.One complaint--the movie feels unfinished. It looks like either a lot was cut out of the script or out of the movie. Some scenes come and go quickly and have characters you've never met. Still this is well worth watching...but it is disturbing (as it should be) and powerful. "},{"Title":"Strong Performances and Direction","Date":"1 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bastard Out of Carolina (1996) *** (out of 4) Graphic adaptation of the Dorothy Allison novel takes place in the South Carolina as a young girl (Jena Malone) begins to be physically and sexually abused by her stepfather (Ron Eldard) while her mother (Jennifer Jason Leigh) keeps overlooking what's going on. BASTARD OUT OF CAROLINA was the directorial debut from Anjelica Huston and while I'd question some of the flow in the story there's no question that she dives head first into the abuse and doesn't pull any punches. This here is a pretty hard film to watch because of how graphic it is towards the abuse in the film. I was really shocked at how much detail was shown when it came to the abuse because most of the time the camera pulls away with a child involved but that wasn't the case here. It's clear that Huston wanted to show how horrid the abuse of a child was and this here was shown and it certainly wasn't easy to watch. The film really benefits from some incredibly strong performances with Malone leading the way as the abused girl. She's completely believable in the part and it was certainly needed because the actress really makes you feel that she's this smart little girl being forced to grow up quickly because of her situation. Jennfier Jason Leigh also turns in a powerful performance as the mother who can't leave her husband even though he's hurting her daughter. Eldard is a complete slime here and perfectly captures the spirit of the character. We also get strong supporting performances by Michael Rooker, Lyle Lovett, Glenn Headly, Grace Zabriske, Diane Scarwid and Pat Hingle. Christina Ricci appears in one scene. I think there were times when the film didn't flow as good as it could have but there's no question that Huston gets her message across. The film is hard to recommend to most people due to how depressing and graphic it is but those who do sit through the film will be rewarded with a strong picture. "},{"Title":"This story is so southern.","Date":"8 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just watched this movie on Lifetime, and was reminded of my time living in the south. When I was living in the south, time after time, I would see a husband who was a total scumbag, and his wife would never leave him. In other parts of the United States there would be a separation instantly. But in the South Women are afraid to stand up to their man. This movie was tough to watch. This little girl was severely abused, and molested by her step- father, and her mother refused to do anything about it. When she told her daughter at the end of the movie that she still Love's Glen, I was sick to my stomach. "},{"Title":"Bastard out of Carolina","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is a masterpiece.It deals with a touchy subject. The actors and actresses play there parts so well. You can actually see the sadness in Malone and the hate in Eldard's face. Its sad because things like this happen all the time. This movie is not some fake movie that someone made up in there head. Its truth this does happen to people. And its sad because Leigh's character as the lonely mother is real there are mothers out there that are stuck between loving there child or there lover. Its a sad situation and this movie shows you life. This movie is for sure excellent 10 stars from me.I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes serious movies that just have you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Powerful, disturbing, heinous is the human stain.","Date":"18 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Anjelica Huston's directorial debut is based on a novel by Dorothy Allison. A potent, emotional driven drama deep in the ways of poor South Carolina. It is post-WWII and a young Anney Boatwright(Jennifer Jason Leigh)gives birth to an illegitimate child. She names her baby Ruth Anne(Jena Malone), but she will be known as 'Bone'. Life is difficult for the struggling waitress, who has another daughter and is forced to bury a husband(Dermot Mulroney)killed in an auto accident. Anney's brother Earle(Michael Rooker)introduces her to her future...Glen Waddell(Ron Eldard). The two marry, but soon Glen starts taking his anger out on 'Bone'. The bonds between mother and daughter will become dangerously strained when Anney finds her husband raping 'Bone'. This following the constant violent physical abuse of the child behind her mother's back. There is a strong ensemble cast, but the young Malone is brilliant beyond her age. Other players Glenn Headly, Grace Zabriske, Diana Scarwid, Lyle Lovett, Christina Ricci, Pat Hingle and narrated by Laura Dern. Rated R for the strong depiction of sexual and violent abuse including two rape scenes of a child. "},{"Title":"The movie was good. Although, disturbing (Spoiler*)","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have read this book, Bastard Out Of Carolina by Dorthy Allison, and it was a great book.It was so good, I was interested in watching the movie. It came on Lifetime, and the movie basically covered the book.It's about this girl Anne Boatwright (Jennifer Jason Leigh), who meets this guy Glen Waddell (Ron Eldard). At first, he is this good looking guy who is really nice and wants to be the father of Bone (Jena Malone) and Reese.He asks Reese to call him Daddy and she has no problem calling him that. Bone, can't say it for the simple fact that he's not really her dad.He gets angry. This was a man who was all about control. He gets Ruth Anne pregnant, and while she was giving birth, Glen , the two kids, Reese & Bone were in the car. The kids were asleep. Glen wakes Bone up and rapes her in the car. -VERY DISTURBING SCENEIt was too horrible to watch, I had to change the channel. I didn't have the stomach for it.It all about physical abuse, he beats her because Bone was direspecting him, and Ruth Anne believes Glen over her own daughter Bone.Ruth Anne sends Bone to go and live with Aunt Alma. When no one was in the house with her, Glen rides along, and goes over there. Unfortunately, he rapes her again. Again, I had to change the channel. It was absolutely horrific what he was doing to Bone.The movie is VERY graphic, you see almost everything. I didn't have the stomach to watch all those gruesome parts.I remember watching Sleepers, with Ron Eldard, now, I don't think I can look at him the same. He's good at playing bad guys.It was a good movie. (Although, very disturbing. I' not sure I can watch it again) "},{"Title":"Excellent portrayal of one of life's tragedies","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an excellent movie with 5 star acting for all actors involved. I've heard many comments that this movie should be pulled from the shelves, or that it's too sensitive of subject matter. Frankly, if you do not know the difference between watching a movie and acting, then do not watch this movie. For those who can appreciate the drama and lessons shown in film, this is a superb tale. Bastard Out Of Carolina is exactly that, a story about a bastard who commits one of life's most horrific tragedies; sexual child abuse. It will have you cringing and crying, but despite all the emotions it pulls out of you, it's no different then many other films depicting tragedy in some humans lives, be that death, divorce, illness, or child abuse. It does the job of showing us the reality of child rape extremely well. "},{"Title":"Bastard Out Of Carolina is a good movie, but there were some scenes that made me physically sick.","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time on 9/27/06. The young actress who played 'Bone' did a great job. The scenes of child abuse, though, made me physically sick to my stomach.When I saw that band of men begin 'beating the crap' out of her bastard of a stepfather (I'm not calling the actor that, of course. He did a great job in his role. But the character he played was a sadistic piece of crap.), I began cheering aloud. There was a line from Gilbert and Sullivan's 'Mikado,' I think it was 'Let the punishment fit the crime.' (I'd also like to have a copy of the book this movie's based on; usually I watch the movies first, then find the books.) I was glad at the end. 'Bone' got a legal name and a good family. "},{"Title":"Unnerving","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this on Movie Central one cold, Greg day and I have never been able to forget it. Ron Eldard is completely believable in his performance, and will both captivate and horrify you. All the characters in this movie have such a subtlety to them. Houston's directorial debut enhances the performances of these talented actors. You know there is love, of a kind, between the family members. Yet one of the most compelling aspects to this movie is the flat and joyless undertone to the characters. Anney (Jennifer Jason Leigh) stands out in her family because she is an emotional firecracker - her emotions are almost a separate character from that of Anney Boatwright. Special mention must go to Jena Malone for her sophisticated, passionate portrayal of Anney's young daughter, 'Bone'. Bone carries the weight of her mother's world on her shoulders. This is her first major role to speak of and she carries the movie effortlessly. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite most disturbing films of all time","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this as a kid and i was disturbed and worried for the then young Jenna Malone. I watched the behind the scenes when it aired. The character that plays the father was talking about that car scene and how scared he was to do it because Jenna was so young. The whole movie was an honest gritty portrayal of what it is like to be abused and the shame that goes along with it. It was honestly acted from all parts including the guilt complex of the aggressor. and the attempts at remorse but tortured past that allows no leeway without counseling to find a way out. I highly recommend this movie to any child social psychologist or caring person because its an important issue where 1 in 10 kids will be abused by someone in there life and a high percentage of those children will be abused by a family member or someone close. I make it a point to see almost every film by Jenna Malone because if a child at that age can have that large of a range of acting and outshine all cast members than she deserves my support. "},{"Title":"Good Film, But Unrealized Potential","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" IMDd's average rating at the time of this post (7.5/10) is about right.This is a good movie, but it suffers from.- Exaggerated/unbelievable southern accents.- Insufficient development of Anney's character before Glenn's arrival.- Bone is treated more as a supporting character for Anney and Glenn than the protagonist in her own rite (she receives no exclusive scenes of her own -- a major weakness given Jena Malone's acting ability).- Raylene's character is pivotal at the end but she almost appears out of nowhere.- Bone's illegitimate birth has limited impact on characters' actions (Anney wants a man to take care of us girls, not make you legitimate), yet the last scene portrays it as a major subtext throughout the movie.Had I been Anjelica Huston I would have.- Portrayed more of Anney, Bone, and Reese's life before Glenn.- Given Bone at least 50% more screen time, especially not as a pretext for scenes that ultimately center on other characters.- Made Glenn less of the stereotypical child abuser (a true type of abuser to be sure, but one that is over-represented by Hollywood). In fact, much greater depth could have been brought to his character.- Chosen someone other than Laura Dern to narrate (her languid narration actually dampens otherwise powerful scenes).As stated, this is a good film, but it has even more potential not realized.On the plus side.- Jena Malone's acting ability, especially facial expressions.- Atmospheric, though not 100% accurate, representation of the period South.- Except for two scenes, mercifully free of gratuitous representations (the beatings were much more powerful portrayed from Anney's side of the door). "},{"Title":"OK movie.  Book must be better.","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoiler alert Found this on a cable station, not knowing what to expect.  It was worth it mainly for the acting talents of Jena Malone.  Her portrayal of Bone brings the viewer completely inside her painful 1950s world.I found the picture a bit disjointed in its narrative, and believe that storyline continuity was sacrificed for the sake of picturesque humor at the beginning.  Plenty of footage is used to show tobacco-spitting Granny in her rocking chair, but virtually no time is spent explaining who Bone's first stepfather was.  In the cut I saw of the film, Anney tells her daughter she's about to go out with a nice man; she marries him; he treats Bone well, and then he's dead, with his previously unseen family blaming Anney for his death.As for Glen, yes, he's despicable, but aside from being childish and unrealistic about his desire for sons, his early characterization doesn't mesh with Bone's wary response to him.  Perhaps the viewer is meant to understand that the instincts of a child are always on-target, even when an adult is on his best behavior.  Since we already have plenty of voice-over narrative from Bone, could we not have gotten a little clarity on this point as well?  Without some guidance, all we end up with is some clumsy foreshadowing  Uh-oh, Bone doesn't trust him, watch out, he's gonna turn mean.The scenes at the end were also ambiguous.  Bone tells her uncle and aunt how much she hates her mother for taking Glen back after he hurt her. Then Anney comes out of nowhere, hands Bone her amended birth certificate, tells Bone she never thought Glen would hurt her, then leaves.  If she's come to this realization about Glen, surely she isn't still with him?  It would be nice to get some clarification here, too.  The last few lines of v/o were jarring, though most likely, they're taken from the book.  Bone says she wants to grow up to be as strong as her mother.  Huh??Therefore, I can only assume (hope) that Dorothy Allison's novel is written with more coherent detail.  Dolores Claiborne, another Jennifer Jason-Leigh vehicle, tells a very similar story in a much, much more satisfying way. "},{"Title":"unfortunate","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  huston's adaptation of allison's novel is certainly another example of astounding literature+shoddy hollywood direction=crap. so go out and pick up the book which actually has the power to move one as opposed to the in-your-face melodrama of the film. "},{"Title":"It almost happened to me","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm a big Jena Malone fan,so i decided to watch this movie, and yeah, this horrible thing must be stop, children don't deserve to be treated that horrible way. This story broke my heart caused it reminded me my own story, when i was 8 years old, i was sexual harrased by my uncle (remember car scene? It happened to me)then he tried to rape me once, i lived in shame because of his bad touches, but when you are a kid you live afraid, and by that time i was visiting my aunt, so i just spent a couple of months there, my parents were abroad and so was my older sister, i thank god she didn't go through what i went through, i never told anyone till a couple of months ago, i'm 18 years old now and i thank god that he didn't rape me, and believe me he tried more than once, and he had many chances but lucky me something always came up to stop him. Now i can say i got over that, but it's difficult for me to rely on someone else, especially men, and i can say i'm always watching and asking questions to my cousins if anyone is touching them in a bad way, so this story and my story have helped me to be more careful towards children, cause they are always afraid to speak about these things, so my advice is that this is something real, it happened to me and happens to other children, so my advice is watch out cause these things happen more often than people think, and specially inside the own families "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT FILMS OF OUR TIME","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Anjelica Huston's directorial debut shows great courage and skill --  the courage to take on a project such as this, knowing that it would most likely not be a 'box office smash';  and the skill to tell the story so effectively.  This subject (child abuse/incest) is one of the most uncomfortable for our society to acknowledge, and it has too often been treated luridly on screen -- the sensitivity displayed here by all involved is welcome and refreshing, and it should give us hope.  I wish this incredible film had seen a theatrical release, so that more people could experience it. The screenplay, carefully rendered by Anne Meredith from Dorothy Allison's moving novel, is one of the best adaptations I've ever witnessed.  Some parts of the book were necessarily omitted -- the film could only be so long -- but Meredith shows intelligence and respect for her base material by not tinkering with it.  The story is a hard one,  told well in the book -- and the translation to the screen has retained that impact, with all of the horror and pain of Bone's childhood there for us to see and feel.   The cast is simply amazing, especially Jena Malone as Bone.  It' very rare to see an actor so young turn in such a performance -- it must have been extremely difficult for her -- her courage, as well, should be applauded.  If she can show us work like this at such a young age, what does her career hold in store...? To those who feel there was too much brutality in this film -- this is real.  This is something that occurs far more often in our 'civilized' society than most people would be comfortable admitting.  The horror and disgust we feel at witnessing such actions, even in a film, are as nothing compared to the pain and scars (both physical and psychological) that such crimes leave on innocent children -- pain and scars that can last a lifetime.  Shame on you if you cluck your tongue and decry such an important film because it 'makes you uncomfortable'.  That's exactly what it should do.  I would also recommend Tim Roth's stunning film THE WAR ZONE. Kudos to Anjelica Huston and everyone involved in bringing this moving work to the screen.  "},{"Title":"Remarkable","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Huston's direction and the sensitive performances by all involved make this one of the best films I've seen for quite some time. Jena Malone is one of the finest young  performers to come along for some time. Perhaps better known for her work in Step Mom and For Love of the Game she brings a maturity and depth to her character in this earlier work that is simply tremendous. "},{"Title":"A Poignant, Disturbing Film","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is powerful. It packs a wallop to anyone sensitive to the issue of child abuse. I found myself clenching my fists and teeth, furrowing my brow, and shouting at the TV at certain points during the film. Any movie that has such a palpable, visceral impact must be a well-executed film. "},{"Title":"Very unsettling","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie really got to me.  I couldn't get those horrible molestation and rape scenes out of my mind.  All I could think of afterwards was What was Jena Malone's mother thinking when she agreed to this?  Yes, I know they were acting, but no young  pre-teen should be subjected to that kind of material. "},{"Title":"Lacking","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The underlying message in this movie was well-done, about child abuse.  It only made me want to kill Bone's father more and more, and to put real-life child abusers on Death Row.But the movie itself is horrible.  I rarely hate movies, but I really hate this one.  Graphic, disturbing ... I nearly puked, and I had a hard time watching the whole thing.  It took me a few hours afterwards until I started to feel better.  While it shows a clear message, it definitely doesn't have your triumphant moralistic feel from Amistad or Schindler's List.  No happy endings, no happy anything!  There ISN'T an ending.  You're left hanging.I wouldn't watch this movie ever again, because it's neither entertaining nor pleasing to the mind.  The dialogue and plot are thin and doesn't really get resolved.  And when I mean graphic, I mean GRAPHIC.  There's blood, bruises, and a lot of other extremely unpleasant scenes.Child abuse is a terrible thing, but the movie itself doesn't work.  It's ranked up on my Worst Movies of All Time List. "}{"Title":"I couldn't stop watching even though I wanted not to watch...","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I couldn't stop watching even though I wanted not to watch.  I started watching because of the excellent cast - then I realized what the movie was about - child abuse.  This is an engrossing film.  Ms. Huston's depiction of the little girl and her relationship with her mother and abusive stepfather is haunting.  You want to reach into the tv and take that girl away.  I cheered when the uncle's beat the crap out of him, and cried when Bone was hurting.   Absolutely a captivating film.  "},{"Title":"Amazingly powerful and enraging!","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Never before can I recall a film making me as angry as I was while watching this tragic movie.  If you don't already believe that all child abusers should have to suffer through horrible pain and/or death, then watch this film! "},{"Title":"Excellent movie ... very sad topic","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was very impressed with the acting of the movie. However, at the same time, the content was so hard to watch. I know this kind of thing goes on all the time and in fact, have a few friends and relatives that have gone through it. Having 12 and 9 year old daughters, it is very hard not to place them in the shoes of the girls in the movie. I cannot imagine what I would do to a man like that if I ever found out that was happening. I admit I tend to cry at every movie - even comedies, but this movie had me crying from so much feeling for Bones during and especially at the end when she's sitting by the fire. My oldest is already in bed, but I went in, hugged her very tight and kissed her forehead. She woke up and asked why I was crying. I could only say to her that I loved her very much and would never let anyone do anything to her and would never leave her. I recommend this movie to everyone, especially those who are in the mother's situation. Maybe it will make them see from a different angle that love for a husband should never be more than the love for a child that is being abused. "},{"Title":"What a horribly sad movie. Watching it made me angry and sad.","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The setting of this movie was interesting and the story line was heart wrenching. How can a mother allow such things to happen to her child? It sickened me to watch this movie but it is an eye opener. These sort of sick situations happen to real children in real life so maybe this will shed light on a horrible subject. I really wish the movie had a happy ending. I was so disappointed when the step father didn't die from the beating. He deserved to burned alive....HE is the evil bastard! The mother should have lost custody of her children. She was as evil as the Daddy Glen by allowing those horrible things to go on. I wish the doctor or police would have been more involved in helping to save the poor little girl. I didn't sleep well after watching this movie. It was well acted but the subject was over whelming real. Abuse towards children is real so I hope this movie opens some eyes to this horrific subject. Molestation is an act of pure evil.  "},{"Title":"I love it, and I hate it - Spoilers","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie, and I feel, like I did, when I first watched Requiem for a Dream. I don't know, if I want to cry or kill myself. This was a highly depressing movie, that I'd never watch again. It was so sad, moving, emotional and disturbing, and that little girl's acting was fantastic. I felt really sorry for her. When those men kicked the s**t out of Bone's stepfather, I felt the biggest pleasure of my life. I nearly fell down the  couch. Unfortunately, he didn't die. -( Wait, he deserves worse than dead. And I hated the mother, too! I can really, really recommend this movie, even though I really, really hate it. This was far worse than any horror movie, I've ever seen. But a must-see. "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking, powerful and disturbing","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*Well... I just finished watching this film on IFC a few minutes ago... and I can imagine it will stay with me for awhile.  To sum it up, this film is like a sucker punch to the gut.  It manages to bring to light issues like child abuse and its effects on a family, as well as the hardships of poverty.  Yes, this film is disgusting, but I don't mean that in a bad way.  It's just so real.... you usually don't see these issues being covered upon in movies.  Unfortunately, things like this happen all the time and those of us who haven't experienced such horror will feel lucky.  The things that poor little Bone had to go through would probably make war veterns shudder.  On the other hand, Anney is the kind of character that will anger most viewers... you find yourself thinking, how could she be so stupid, naive and selfish?  Unfortunately, there are many women like that... and as Raylene says to Bone near the end of the film, we'll never understand why some women have to even contemplate choosing between their baby and their lover.  This film touched me in a way no other film had since the first time I viewed Todd Solondz's Happiness.  There are some people out there who will not be able to stomach what is in this movie, but keep in mind this film is NOT exploitative; it is informative.  The most disturbing part of this film is that it's not graphic (not counting the couple of brutal violent scenes among adults)... for example, in one scene, Glen asks Bone to sit up front with him, and eventually he lifts her up to sit on his lap. At first, we aren't quite sure what's going on, but after a few seconds, it's obvious... it's all in their expressions.  There isn't much nudity in this film, and I'm glad; Anjelica Huston realized she could still make a film with a strong impact without having to be sexually explicit.  Of course a film like this needs strong performances to work... and thankfully, the actors were up to the task.  I knew Jena Malone had a promising career, but now that I've seen this, I won't be surprised if she wins an Oscar someday. I've never seen such a heartbreaking, intense and powerful performance by an actress who was so young at the time.  This role must have been extremely difficult for her, but she nailed it.  She made us care about her character; something few child actors are able to do.  Jennifer Jason Leigh is also excellent as Bone's loving, but extremely confused mother.  Anney is the type of character who just needs to have a man and it seems she's cursed in that way; Bone's father ran off on her, and then Lyle (whom Bone loved and seemed to be a great guy) was killed in a fatal accident.  Basically, Glen is the only man she can have, but he hates Bone; she realizes this, which is why she chose him over her own daughter.  Unfortunately, Anney doesn't realize that she doesn't need a man... all she needs is her family. Anyway, all I can say is that I highly reccomend this film.  It will move you, and disturb you... it'll be stuck in your head for days.10/10 - HIGHLY reccomended! "},{"Title":"Truly Amazing movie and lead","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I admit I was initially intrigued to see this movie because of the controversy when the people who greenlighted the film wouldn't air it on a certain cable network it was intended for. A pay cable took up the movie, and was rewarded with a fascinating movie depicting the life and abuse of the young girl Bone played by Jena Malone. I've kept an eye on her since this movie and she always does a magnificent job, but something about this movie and her performance in it just leaves you with your mouth hanging down. A must see movie! "},{"Title":"Arizona","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film has scenes of SEVERE child abuse throughout the film.  Not just one or two.  It is too graphic and you have to wonder what was the real point of this film?  To show the plight of poor abused children?  Somehow I doubt it.  The sickening scenes were included to get people talking so they would run out and see it.  So what if the performances are good?  This movie is TOO graphic.  We are talking about a little girl here.  Do people get their kicks watching this crap?  With all the wierdos out there I wouldn't be surprised.  Violence breeds violence.  We all know this stuff happens. What good does it do to watch it?  Did any of the viewers who saw it run out and enroll in a social work program? Stay away from this one. "},{"Title":"Not impressed...","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was rather weak.  While the performance rendered by Jena Malone (Bone) was heartbreaking and painful, the rest of the film fell short of being anywhere near an 8 (as reflected by the IMDb vote).  I felt the characters were stereotypical and unconvincing.  Furthermore, the subject matter was approached with a very narrow viewpoint, and I found the violence to be rather gratuitous.  Overall, the film left me unsatisfied; not because of the uncomfortable theme, but because the acting was inadequate, the characters were flat, and the film appealed to it's audience on a purely emotional level through excessive and disturbing images. "},{"Title":"It will rip your heart out!","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is shocking and disturbing...but mostly because it is realistic. You will watch in horror and disgust, but won't be able to pull your eyes away. Child abuse is a hideous crime and this shows us all too well that. Jena Malone is stunning and will most likely rip your heart out. A must see! Rating 10 "}{"Title":"A thought provoking story.","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We see a lot of nice, beautiful, adrenalin rush, horror, on the screen, these days, but not a lot of thought provoking pseudo docudrama. This story parallels social attitudes, during a period in which our parents lived, when a kid wasn't bottle-fed information, about everything, via movies, TV, & the Internet.This movie isn't just about abuse of a child, but the struggles of the unlearned adult poor, just making it, in every quarter, of the United States, during the '40s. I've enjoyed J. Leigh for a good many years, & found her up to par, in this movie. I'm gaining a tremendous respect, for the abilities of Miss Malone. I just watched, last night, another of her efforts, The Ballad of Lucy ???? last night. I recommend this film, even for a minor (with parent present for questions).Ted Luster "},{"Title":"An upsetting story that was well told","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this on Lifetime a few nights ago. It tells the story of a young girl born to an unwed mother into a family that society would classify as white trash who becomes the target of her stepfather's wrath and inappropriate attentions.The story itself is, of course, extremely upsetting. Tales of child abuse always are, and the abuse was pretty violent. It was, however, very well acted. Jena Malone did an awesome job as Bone, the young victim. Ron Eldard managed to really make you hate him. One minute he is vicious and violent toward Bone, the next he is whining and sobbing pathetically to his wife (her mother) that he can't live without her. Most of the rest of the cast did an pretty good job as well.In spite of being well told and acted, it was in many ways infuriating. Anney, Bone's mother, was willing to let her child be abused or ship her off to relatives rather than kick out the scumbag. And Bone's large extended family was very loving toward her and DID try to provide her with a safe haven when things got bad but one aunt sent her back knowing she was being molested and one refused to tell the sheriff what had happened after the child ended up in the hospital after a beating and rape attempt. Given a choice between an innocent child and their sister (Bone's mother) who was too stupid to dump her loser and abuser husband, they picked their sister. Sad and pathetic. One wonders how many kids in the real world find themselves in Bone's position...at the mercy of adults who don't have the guts to do what is right. "},{"Title":"Moving. Powerful. Tragic. A Must See Film.","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Angelica Huston's film Bastard out of Carolina seems stooped in perpetual darkness, as characters commit random acts of cruelty and violence and muse about leaving their dead-end lives behind. Amongst this profoundly unsettling and haunting setting, Bastard out of Carolina is based on a true story about a poverty-stricken widowed woman and an innocent little girl.  Bone, the little girl, is being abused both physically and sexually by her stepfather, Glen in South Carolina in the 1950s.  It's so horrifying to see what this little girl has to go through every day of her life, I could not bear to watch some scenes.  Some of the scenes were so gruesome and graphic  it left my head pondering with horrible images that stayed there for a long time.   I'm glad one film was not made with lots of special effects and A-List actors and actresses, it was made because it wanted to get a message across.  Be warned it's very graphic, not for the people who get teary-eyed over Bambi.   The characters here are developed and have lots of depth; the cast is amazing.  Jena Malone as Bone, she deserved an Oscar for this film.  Her courage, her facial expressions sum it all up. ..you can really feel the pain, the torture and the horror of her childhood. Malone is amazing as young Bone,  This dazzling little girl, a natural actress, uses her both her face and her body to convey Bone's roller-coaster emotions. Hardly any actresses her age would be able to pull that off.  I hated the mother, she was so foolish and naive.  She wouldn't do anything about her husband beating her poor, innocent little girl because she loves her little girl so much.  I hardly ever feel for movies the way I did. . . the only movie I can really think of I had felt this way is Boys Don't Cry and Requiem for a Dream.  I couldn't help but cry during Bastard out of Carolina,it's so incredibly sad and hard to watch, if that happened to my little girl I'd take her half-way across the world.  Most scenes were incredibly hard to watch, the car scene when Glen sexually abuses poor Bone while wait outside the hospital for her mother to give birth.  Jena Malone and Jennifer Jason Leigh were so believable as mother and daughter.  Few movies actually feel so real as this one - the setting, the characters, the action. The actor that played Glen did a really good job. His character was both scary and realistic. The music also played its part in creating the great emotions this movie brings to us. I found myself, crying, yelling, clenching my fist and wishing at the TV.  It has some unforgettable scenes, the whole movie is unforgettable.  The rape scene was so disturbing and powerful I could almost not bear to look.  Though Jena Malone has few lines in this movie, her facial expressions say a million words.  It rips my heart out to see what happened to this girl and it's so gripping and brutally honest, the worst part is that it really did happen. The film appealed to it's audience on a purely emotional level through excessive and disturbing images.  It's jawdropping and very emotional, with lots of blood, bruises and a lot more unpleasant things.  I was cheering when the three men beat up Glen.  There isn't an ending. It's like a soap opera. Once I started to watch it I couldn't turn it off. I tried but my hand would slowly wander back to the remote.  It has lots of graphic scenes yet I really couldn't turn it off because I just knew it had to have a happy ending.  I have been a fan of Jena Malone since the day I saw this film.  She has been getting better ever since.  "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't imagine how Jena Malone could have done a movie like this at such a young age.  I can't help but wounder if she knew what she was acting about during the rape scene, I mean she was 12 when this movie came out so she had to have been even younger then that while filming this movie, and when I was 12 this may sound naive but I did not know what rape was.  I just have to applaud Jena on she outstanding performance on this film.  This would be one that I would recommend to others.  Good job Jena.P.S. That stepfather Glen sucks. "},{"Title":"Not for the softhearted","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is incredibly painful, sickening and infuriating to watch. It's bad enough that the stepfather was treating Bone like dirt, but when you look at that and also how her mother doesn't even seem to acknowledge any of it, it's a total disgrace. The only good thing she did was when she creamed that scumbag with, I think a pot or a milk bottle or whatever that was, but it wasn't half as good as watching all those guys beat him within an inch of his worthless life. I only wish I was one of those guys because that would've felt better than sex. Also, if that was my little girl he did that to, there's no doubt in my mind that I'd be doing hard time for taking the law into my own hands. The way that little girl was treated made me absolutely furious. No child deserves to be beaten or molested or anything like that. I'm just glad she's put it all behind her now and can go on with her life. "},{"Title":"This film is Anjelica Huston's directorial debut but young Jena Malone steals the film in her sophmore work.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This disturbing but important film about child abuse -- and even more disgustingly -- incest, has its flaws but marks the most amazing performance by a thespian under the age of 21 that I have ever seen.  No matter whether a fan of the film or not, you can bet actors from grizzled veterans to the current it girls (Mena Suvari, Christina Ricci, Anna Paquin, Natalie Portman, Amy Smart, etceteras)are working on their acting chops and have their dialect coaches on speed dial.  "},{"Title":"Unfocused film on a focused topic!","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bastard out of Carolina is more than just a movie, it is more like a swift kick to the gut. It tells the story of a poverty level family and their constant struggle to stay on top. It is the story of a mother, a daughter, and her daughters who grow up in a world of constantly changing fathers. The main daughter that we follow through this film is Anney Boatwright (played by Jennifer Jason Leigh). After a horrible accident where Anney was thrown through the windshield of the car she was sleeping in, she goes into labor. Sleeping through all of the birth and through the next couple of days she learns that she has just given birth to her first daughter named Ruth Anne Bone Boatwright (played amazing well by Jena Malone) by a man that is no longer in her life. At the hospital she is ashamed when the stamp of illegitimate is placed on Bone's birth certificate. Anney does not want Bone, her first daughter, to have the same burden that she has had all of her life. So, she tries to find a suitor to clear her children's less-gratifying mark. Her men are not the best chosen, as one dies and the other begins a violent path of indiscretion and abuse that will rock all the way down to the roots of this simple family. What a powerful film this was and wasn't. I think that this is one of those films that will last the test of time, that the message that it carries will always be relevant in our society of sexual and physical abusers. Every day that we turn on the news, I see that there is at least one report of physical or sexual assault every day. While this is a major battle being fought in our country, this film tries to cover too many issues during one viewing. I have read several reviews that praise this film to no end. Speaking how it will touch us all and force us to open our eyes to the cruelties to the world. I did see this, and it was very emotional, AND I do applaud the direction of Anjelica Houston, but there were too many factions happening in this film to fully appreciate or take in the brunt force of this film. We realize what hardships are befalling Bone, wondering what she will turn out like in the future, and how her extended family will handle the facts of the issue, but we loose sight out of all of the other surroundings. This should have been a much longer film. There were some ideas that were not formulated, but yet introduced (i.e. Glen's family). I never would have though that he came from a high society family, but what I think that Houston was trying to show here was that anyone anywhere can do these deeds of violence. I knew that there was the topic of abuse in this film, but I didn't understand enough about the family or secondary characters to truly immerse myself in this film. I also felt that Anney's family was too stereotypical for South Carolina residents. The old mother sitting on her rocker, cranky and wrinkly, shouting words of advise to her family ... advise that everyone should have listened to ... but nobody does. How many times have we seen this in a movie? Overused and overplayed. This needed to have crisp writing to create a story that will not only last the test of time, but not loose the message. Finally, if you are going to make a film about abuse, I would always suggest never using Lyle Lovett to have a part in the storytelling. He played a man named Wade. He had this line that made me laugh because you can image this line coming from Lyle Lovett. I like that man, and I don't ... I feel like he could turn wrong like a batch of whiskey in a bad barrel.Overall, definitely a film that will last the test of time, a message about the evils of our society, but not a film to be viewed again and again.Grade ** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Child abuse spiced with a stupid mother","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is just a usual tale how a deeply stupid, dumb, senseless mother spoils the entire life of her daughter. The same story could be told in any part of the world. Oh yes, and be prepared to have your heart and soul tormented throughout the film. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"14 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read the book before I watched the movie, and I was thoroughly impressed with both. The story is amazing. I love to see how Bone's family supports and protects her. I love seeing the love her mother has for both of her children and even though Daddy Glen is a sick man, you can see that he has love in his heart. It's a great movie and book to analyze and be touched by. I really recommend it. Please, though, read the book. The book takes you into the characters and introduces you to so many people and situations that shape Bone's life from the time she is born. Dorothy Allison portrays the poor class in the South so accurately (probably because she lived it) and the movie does the same. I'm no movie critic, but this is one that I definitely loved. "},{"Title":"Very hideous and disturbing.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was Anjelica Huston's directorial debut, and not to mention Jena Malone's acting debut.  Bastard out of Carolina is based on a true story about a dirt poor widowed mother and her daughter Bone who is being constantly abused by her stepfather in the most vile and gruesome ways imaginable.  This takes place in the 1950's in South Carolina.  The abuse and rape scenes are very graphic that I found myself changing the channel back and forth because I couldn't bear to see it.  I was glad to see Bone's father get beat up by his family.  The abuse she endured was so horrible that Bone had to go move in with aunts and uncles.Bastard out of Carolina is a terrible movie, but it does have a good message in it about the horrid realities of child abuse involving a jealous husband who only wants his wife to pay attention to him and no one else.  I was also expecting some conclusion to this, I was hoping the father would go to prison, his wife would divorce him, Or simply Bone and her family move out of the state.  But it wasn't like that at all.  This movie had no ending, it's just like one of those soap opera cliffhangers.  While watching this, I even felt sorry for Bone and all what she had to go through.  It made me want to cry.In real life, Bone had survived to write a book about her trials and turbulations of her cruel and abusive childhood.  This is one movie I will never watch again.  Jena Malone and Anjelica Huston could've been in a better movie.  If you want to see a good movie with Jena Malone, then go see Hope or For Love of the Game.  Whatever possessed Jena's parents to agree to have her be in this movie is beyond my comprehension.Horrible movie from beginning to end.  A pure catastophe in every way, shape, and form.   "}]