[{"Title":"This movie rocks!!","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have no idea why this flick is getting such a bad rap by so many IMDb users (Some are saying it's his 'worst movie ever.' What?? Haven't any of you seen Cradle 2 The Grave?) My favorite criticism is that the plot is totally stupid, and just an excuse to hang all of the action sequences on. Duh! What the crap were you expecting from a Jet Li movie? Did you honestly believe that someone thought up the story, then just loaded it up with action? Of course not! Black Mask is awesome, wall-to-wall action throughout nearly it's entire running time. It's also deliciously gruesome, and we get plenty of severed limbs, decapitations, and creative ways of watching the bad guys (and quite a few innocent people, too!) get slaughtered. Most of Li's other martial arts films are nursery-school when compared to Black Mask; there is no holding back on the gratuitous violence, bloodshed, or action sequences whatsoever! And that made me a happy camper. Again if you go into a Jet Li movie expecting magnificent dialog and an intriguing plot, you are going for the wrong reasons. Black Mask is probably my favorite of his movies (though, beware of the horrendous dubbing). "},{"Title":"Jet Li rocks!!!","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In Stand By Me, Vern and Teddy discuss who was tougher, Superman or Mighty Mouse.  My friends and I often discuss who would win a fight too. Sometimes we get absurd and compare guys like MacGyver and The Terminator or Rambo and Matrix.  But now it seems that we discuss guys like Jackie Chan, Bruce Lee and Jet Li.  It is a pointless comparison seeing that Lee is dead, but it is a fun one.  And if you go by what we have seen from Jet Li in Lethal 4 and Black Mask, you have to at least say that he would match up well against Chan.  In this film he comes across as a martial arts God.Black Mask is about a man that was created along with many other men, to be supreme fighting machines.  Their only purpose is to win wars that other people lose.  They are invincible in some ways.  Now that is the premise for the film, but what that does is sets up all the amazingly choreographed fight scenes.Jet Li is a marvel.  He can do things with and to his body that no human being should be able to do.  And that is what makes watching him so fun.Besides the martial arts in the film, Black Mask is strong with humour and that is due to the chemistry that Jet has with his co-star, the police officer.  They are great together.  But to be honest. if anyone is reading this review, they want to know if the film is kick ass in the action department.  And the answer to that is a resounding YES!!!  Lots and lots of gory mindless action.  You will love this film. "},{"Title":"Wham, bam, thank you, Jet Li!!","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Anyone who had never seen anything like the fight scenes in The Matrix has never seen this movie.  The fight scenes were choreographed by action scene psychopath Yuen Woo Ping, who also did the fights in The Matrix.  And the fight scenes are somethin.Li plays a supersoldier who feels no pain, who now lives a life as a pacifist librarian (ya got me).  When other evil supersoldiers begin killing off local drug lords to take over the drug trade, Li teams up with his cop buddy to help stop them.There are some absolutely crazy things going on in this movie (one badguy gets his arm lopped off with a pane of glass and hardly notices).  The fights scenes are filled with flying kicks and punches; the body count is way up there. Li has seldom been better, and he has surrounded himself with a bevy of beautiful female costars (Yip kicks some serious ass as a fellow supersoldier).  Anthony Wong even makes a cameo as a drug lord (no suprises there; he makes a cameo in every HK movie).  It's unfortunate they don't make action movies like this in the US; I wouldn't have to sit through all of these horrible dubbing jobs to see that action that I crave so much. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Love or hate","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film appears to draw a borderline - on one side, those who love it, on the other, those who find it unbearable.To begin with, there is an awful lot of comedy in this film that many viewers are not getting. Of course jet Li's Mask looks like Bruce Lee's Kato - he's supposed to, it's a joke. The guy who has a time-bomb sewn to his heart - outrageous? of course, it's a joke! Some readers will probably ask, if this film is supposed to be so funny, why all the excessive and gory violence? well, for one thing the tolerance for this level of violence is actually different, from culture to culture; and while Hong Kong audiences would recognize this violence is extreme, it's certainly only slightly more than average for a HK action film.Also, Black Mask is really the kind of film that takes a genre's conventions and pushes them to extremes, simply because the conventions themselves are wholly unrealistic. After decades of watching people get shot without any noticeable open wounds, many people were horrified to see Bonnie and Clyde and the outlaws of the Wild Bunch spurting blood all over the place. But the fact is, when you're shot with rapid metal projectile, it's almost certain that blood will spurt, especially from an artery.This film is a Chinese comic book movie. It is true that the Spiderman films never get this gory - but if they were faithful to reality, they would be! Well, despite its comic-book origins, this film is faithful to reality.The only complaint I have is the flashy, over-stylized filming and editing. If the makers of this film had shot it with an eye to Hollywood-style nostalgia (as, e.g., The Rocketeer, or the recent Sky captain film), I doubt anyone would have found it offensive.But as it stands, I still had a lotta fun watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Seriously awesome fight sequences!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The story would never win awards, but that's not what it's about... the script was just entertaining and suspenseful enough to make room for the incredibly choreographed fight scenes. Who needs a story with fighting like that? Really, it's worth watching for that reason alone. IF you can handle the gore, of which there is a LOT... none of it done realistically enough to be tough to look at. I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"Great HK action film","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie and it was a little difficult do that when your brother is making stupid comments in it ever 30 seconds.  But this movie I enjoyed, mostly because I'm used to the usual HK action films.  Most of the films like this are don't watch it for the story line, watch it for the mindless action.  And mindless action is right.  You get to see Jet Li Jump, spin, kick, punch, shoot, make impossible jumps and dodge countless bullets.  It's true that this movie was released to a broader audience after Li was in Lethal Weapon 4.  That is one of the reasons the ratings on this movie dropped.  Most people were probably expecting to see a movie that was as polished as a North American film.  But you need to remember most HK film budgets aren't nearly as high as a North American film, and the style in a HK action film is usually very different usually requiring in wire work in a lot of them.  If you want to see a good action film you should see this just try to ignore the dubbing.My rating was an 8.  "},{"Title":"Thy name be mindless action.  YESSSSS!!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Horrible dubbing.  Cheesy overworked plot.  Story that's been done and done and done.  Implausabilities abound.  Plot holes large enough to drive a cliche through.  But MAN those fight scenes were incredible!  If you go in looking for a serious piece of cinema, you'll leave unhappy.  If you can't laugh at how horribly some of the humor flops, you'll be disappointed.  If you go in to see Jet Li kicking butt -- something he is incredible at -- you WILL be happy.  Scale 1 to 10.  I give it a 7, simply because I said, WOW! so many times.  "},{"Title":"Superhero","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jet Li behind a black mask? Does that work? I think it does. It's not the greatest movie ever made, but it's a fun little action b-movie that you get here.The emphasis is clearly on the word b-movie! You can't watch this movie expecting a Hollywood Blockbuster. Or anything that would resemble a logical story. It is quite literally a no-brainer. I have criticized movies for being no-brainers before. Why did I rate this one higher? Because I see it in the context. For example, Black Mask 2 is a no-brainer ... but there is nothing there that is entertaining. Here you have some jokes that work, but more importantly you have good choreographed action scenes. All of that is missing in the sequel (if you can call it that ...) "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Jet Li films, a true action classic","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Black Mask is one of my personal favorites in Jet Li's filmography. This is easily , in my opinion his best gun fu film. Black Mask is very much in a sci fi /comic book style , but not in a PG13 Spider Man style . Black Mask is a brutal , ultraviolent wall to wall action classic that should please both fans of shoot em' up, detonation maximum bullet ballets as well as kung fu / martial arts fans. With Yuen Woo Ping choreographing the action and Jet Li as the lead , the fights /action are as good as it gets. There is enough blood and gore to satisfy the most bloodthirsty of action fans as well as some of the finest choreographed wire fu insanity of the period . Black Mask is for me a perfect blend of both styles of HK action . Also, a good job from the cast which has Lau Ching Wan and a cameo from Anthony Wong. The subtitled HK version don't look as good as the US version , but plays much better as a film without lousy English overdubbing and record scratching. "},{"Title":"Dumb, but fun.","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Once a part of 701 squad, an elite group of super-soldiers/assassins surgically altered to feel no pain, Tsui Chik (Jet Li) now works as a librarian; but when the remaining members of 701 squad (whose number include the rather gorgeous Francoise Yip) turn to crime, bumping off drug lords to corner the narcotics market and stealing police files to sell to other criminals, Tsui Chik takes on the guise of superhero 'Black Mask' to fight his former comrades.Black Mask is a frenetic comic-book martial-arts actioner from director Tsui Hark, a rather chaotic film with a plot that makes very little sense but which still succeeds in being highly entertaining thanks to a huge helping of silliness, loads of insane wire-enhanced fighting (choreographed by Yuen Woo Ping), and a fair amount of gore.Amongst the craziness on offer characters are blown to pieces, crushed under vehicles, killed by razor edged CDs, and hack off their own limbs to escape capture; Jet Li has a brief but very impressive battle in a graveyard and also performs an jaw-dropping kung fu routine using a high voltage cable as a weapon; and crime-lord King Kau (the brilliant Anthony Wong) is sent his daughter's severed legs in the post!!!One more thing... if possible, try to find a subtitled version of the film&#x97;the dubbing is atrocious. "}{"Title":"One of Jet Li's best","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rated R for strong violence including martial arts combat, some sexual content and language. Quebec Rating16+(should be 13+) Canadian Home Video Rating18AI used to have Black Mask on VHS but I gave it to my cousin a long time ago.It was on TV a few days ago however and I decided to watch it.Black Mask is in my opinion Jet Li's best film.The storyline is pretty good and the fight/action scenes are amazing.Seriously if you like martial-arts film then you will love this movie! The film is about a quiet and nice librarian who before was a test subject for this project to create supersoldiers.While he leads a humble life, all the other people who were test subjects have turned to a life of crime.The cops cant do anything about it so he puts on a black mask and basically becomes a superhero who stops these criminals.Black Mask is an entertaining martial-arts/sci-fi film. "},{"Title":"How can you not love this?!!!","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Man, it just doesn't get any better than this! Martial arts stunts, a plot that would make a Jackie Chan movie look intelligent and terribly drawn characters - fantastic! Bless Channel 5 for showing this or I'd never have seen it. Jet Li is amazingly great (soooo wasted in Lethal Weapon 4 when you compare that to this), especially when he jumps up and supports himself between two walls, legs akimbo. Of course all the characters are awful, the plot involving some convoluted crap about a special soldier squad. Don't expect high-brow. Just kick back, relax and let your mind go. Join us, join us...  "},{"Title":"Certainly not Jet Li's best","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't understand why they decided to release this film to introduce the American audience to the dynamo that is Jet Li. Fist of Legend would have been a much better choice. Anyway, Black Mask isn't terrible, but it certainly isn't great either. The final fight sequence is well staged by Yuen Woo Ping who went on to coordinate The Matrix. But the English release suffers from rough editing and dubbing. (I'm begging the Hollywood studios to release these films uncut with subtitles.)Jet Li shows his characteristic charisma in the title role and Francoise Yip has a cool but brief role as the female 701.Black Mask has a strange goth style that adds some interest but it is overloaded with gun battles and explosions. More focus on Li's fantastic physical skills were in order. Black Mask is a decent film but do yourself a favor and pick up Fist of Legend if you want to see a tremendous film that really shows Li's skills.   "},{"Title":"A mess of a movie","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jet Li, is one of the best hand to hand combat fighters in the world.  He has been for over 20 years and he puts others in the genre to shame. While he is big in Asia, he is almost unknown here in the US.Black Mask is supposed to be a breakout movie for him, but it fails horribly.  First of all, it is dubbed.  While it may have camp value (the dubbing isn't even close and it is flat in tone), it seems inappropriate for the ordinary movie viewer.  Secondly, the director in this movie, Daniel Lee, does a horrible job.  He cuts scenes so fast, at times, you don't know what's going on.  Other times, the camera shakes and wobbles.  Fans see Jet Li's movies for the fantastic martial arts.  However, the director edits the scenes so fast that you don't even know who's who half the time!  Other times, a scene is left hanging (ie Li is beginning to cut a hole in the floor of a jeep, while the badguys arm their guns, two seconds later, both Li and the love interest are already under the car!) Other scenes are so improbable, that they cross over the point of being completely ridiculous (killer CD roms?  Just give him Throwing Stars!!!!).  Li, needs a director who is less prone to machine gun cutting and more to creating a cinematic mise-a-scene.   The added rap/techno music goes from being okay to intrusive.  The plot has possibilities but are all squandered by cartoonish characters that take away from any credibility that this movie strives for. And are we really to believe that the love interest would not recognize Simon, because he has a half mask on?  Wouldn't the hair, lower jaw, or voice give it away?If you want to see a Jet Li movie, try Iron Monkey or his classic Shaolin Temple.  This disjointed mess is a complete waste of time.....2/10 "},{"Title":"A Good Intro to Jet Li and Hong Kong Nastiness","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Martial Arts, Hong Kong, and Superhero Fans are going to Like this Ripe and Rippling Action Movie that brought Jet Li into the American Cineplexes with a Re-Release of a Movie that was Made in Asia for Asians.But there is No Denying that US Audiences were Primed for this Type of Thing. There is a Different Aesthetic with these Foreign Films and they Capture an Ambiance that has become Fan Favorites ever since Bruce Lee Imports made there way to America. Cultists have Never Looked Back.Yes, it is Dubbed and has an Americanized Music Soundtrack but it also has All of that Super Nuttiness Only Found in these Hybrids. Over the Top in Every Respect from the Silly Comedy Stuff to the Wire Work to the Bloodletting and Gore. There is One Scene for Example You would Never Find in a Hollywood Movie of Any Repute. To Scare a Character into Submission He is Mailed His Daughters Legs in a Flower Box (She was only 6 years old) and there they are for Everyone to See. It is this Type of Exploitation that Transfers the Asian Acceptance for Something Like That Without a Blink that is Unacceptable in the American Psyche and makes these Movies Stand Out.It is that and Other Things from these Imports that are so Remarkable and Against the Grain. It is the Unimpeded Audaciousness that makes these Types of Movies have such a Huge Cult Following. There is an Other Worldly Wackiness that is there for those that Crave Their Action with an Adult Comic Book Feel.Overall, this is a Jet Li Movie with Superhero, Sci-Fi, and Hard-R Action that Introduced Him and because it was Made in His Home Country it is Uncensored and Raw. His American Movies may be Better Produced and Slicker but this Type of Thing was Grittier and a Whole Lot More Nasty Fun. "},{"Title":"Good mixture of ideas, and talent","Date":"18 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is probably the movie that made Jet Li well known in the States. The mask obviously reminds you of Kato in Green Hornet, and that homage alone was enough to secure this as one of the classics of Hong Kong martial arts movies.A genetic experiment to create super soldiers is deemed a failure. All are ordered to be destroyed. One of them survives, and finds a peaceful life as a librarian until the old acquaintances shows up to finish their job.The production of this movie is not its good part. It reminds you of the dingy atmosphere of '70s Hong Kong movies. But the idea is brilliant, and casting little known Jet Li at the time for the lead was a spectacular success. He really is believable as genetically enhanced super soldier. Very young Karen Mok plays an unwitting hostage to Li, and adds sideline to the story.This genetically enhanced soldier scheme continued with other movies such as Huk Mau (Black Cat), which is in the same vain as this movie, with also Black as part of its title.With fantastic moves like this, who wouldn't be a star ! Jet Li became the premier super star from this point on, which still is on going. "},{"Title":"Watch the HongKong original cut instead of the U.S. release cut.","Date":"25 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What more could I say? The Americans totally hated it because the U.S. cut was so bad, although you could detect the underlying goodwill in it.Talking about the U.S. theatrical release(along with the newly released Blu-ray Disc version), it's faster and tighter than HK cut, the background musics were all changed from the dark, grim HK musics to Hip-hop musics; and there were a lot of gruesome scenes cut out. Though, the dubbing was a notable job given that they tried to capture the original actor's voice and tone. But, the problem is Hak Hap(Black Mask) the movie was designed and meant to be dark, grim, super-disturbing and totally gruesome. Very unfortunately the U.S. release just skimmed the cream they wanted, which in return completely changed the movie's undertone(HK release was rated 18+) to be even more comical and amateurish.Now let's talk about the original HK release. This movie is like a hidden gem, a prototype for the whole matrix tide and era. The fighting scenes are totally awesome even the camera works were a bit old-school among HK movies. However the style the movie created was a unique blend of Kungfu and pop culture. With all the leather, black costumes and decorations, this movie features a batman-like superhero in a black mask against a run-of-the-mill gang of multinational super-soldiers lead by a punk heavy metal rock star boss. Yes it sounds like imaginations of a retarded child, but it works. It's so impressive that the whole movie's gonna give you nightmares featuring foreigners fighting a bloodbath battle in leather coats. In year 2002 they made a sequel which had a PG-13 rating, but without Jet Li and Liu Qing Yun. And you know how bad that was because Li and Liu were the core characters in the movie and had strong personalities and an interesting friendship. And, did I happen to mention Francois Yip? Her roundhouse kick was totally cool, even cooler than the villain boss because she didn't use a stuntman for all the fighting. Did I mention she was also smoking hot? Anyway, there are a lot of things to like about the movie.However, the movie also suffered from a lot of problems. First off, it's a mediocre script made at its best potential, which means this production team deserved a better screen-writer. There are a lot climaxes in the entire 100 minutes but they often felt like far-fetched and don't totally make senses to the audiences(US version was even worse because all the character developments were cut). Anyway, you can't ask too much out of a comic-inspired action movie. Also, this movie is entirely improper for children. I won't recommend it to you if you are less than 20 years old. It's saturated with disturbing contents including blood, gore, sado-maso costumes, extreme brutal violence and so on. Along with the style of the movie, it can be called a wet dream for heavy-metal rock music fans and action fans. (the U.S. cut was milder, but if you want to see it, see the HK release for what it is.) 7/10. Status inspiring, hidden, undervalued, adult. "},{"Title":"The fun of Hong Kong film-making","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, it's not a perfect movie by any means but I disagree with the overall IMDb opinion that it's really really bad. I watched a lot of Hong Kong flix in the 1990's and loved the era dearly. I never saw 'Black Mask' at the time and only saw it last week for the first time. Apart from the embarrassingly poor dubbing which my DVD copy didn't give me the option to turn off, the movie contains the raw energy and bravado that permeated Hong Kong movies during this time. I still stick to my guns in the opinion that, when it comes to action, these guys, no matter what their budget, add an element of magic to the screen no Bourne Supremacy, Casino Royale or Mission Impossible (I'm not knocking these movies - I just reckon they lack the spontaneity of this one and feel too regulated) will ever achieve. What is it? It's the feeling that the film-makers were experimenting as they shot and edited, not afraid to leave in some blemishes so as to learn lessons for the next time. For me, this makes watching movies, all the more fun and dangerous. "},{"Title":"Good Stuff !","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Very good martial arts film and Jet Li is the best since the master himself Bruce Lee .Li is excellent as the low key librarian/cop who saves all time and time again . He has a presence and a look that is riveting and believable as the kung fu king that you don't mess with .Francoise Yip is simply beautiful in that mixed race original way that is unique because of her mixed heritage , she has an innocence and an allure all at the same time that I found unforgettable .The villain , the man with the sunglasses and long hair was very good as well but I can't find his name in the credits , can some one help me out with that ? Thanks ! Enjoy Hak hap or Black Mask , in any language its good entertainment ! "},{"Title":"A mixed bag","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jet Li stars in this wire-fu actioner effort as a super trained commando type unable to feel pain or emotion who escapes from an evil master to live a normal life. Drawn into using his skills once more to defeat his old squad he must also protect his new found friends.I liked this movie it's not the best Jet Li has done but it's good entertainment and has some good if slightly outrageous fight scenes. The bad guy is good value for money and seems to have stepped right out of a comic book, Francoise Yip is also very effective is Li's one time comrade. However Li's friends sometimes get in the way of the action and the Tracy character is fairly irritating (how often did i wish she'd get shot so we could move on with the movie!). The tough guy cop is quite funny in places but overall its about a 7/10 movie.7/10 - Good action solid plot and overall a fun film for any martial arts fans. "}{"Title":"Stylish,exquisite,visually beautiful,and one of my favorite Jet Li/Tsui Hark flicks","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are so many things that make this flick worth watching(1)an exciting script,with large doses of humor and extravagant irony,and also some violence (Tsui Hark is one of the co-authors of this script);(2)the excellent directing and the visual beauty;the photography is exquisite and unusually beautiful;the movie is thrilling and suspenseful,and the pace is very ably kept;the attack of the 701 Squad assassins on the hospital where the inspector Rock was guarding the last Hong Kong drug boss (King Kau) is especially amazing;a quite unconventional treatment of some standard plot;(3)a first-class cast (Jet Li,Ching Wan Lau,Françoise Yip,Karen Mok,Kong Lung);Jet Li ,who has the opportunity to kick some jaws and show his agility and test his Agonistical aptitudes,does indeed give a touch of charming humanity and candor and honesty to many of his significant roles,and this is part of what makes them so endearing (a few days ago,I was telling somebody that I like every movie that Jet Li is in;Hak hap (1996) is no exception);(4)it has Tsui Hark as producer.The visual tastiness of this spectacular and glorious movie is delightful.Hak hap (1996) has a pleasing comic-strips quality,and fun in plenty.The film is fanciful,tonic,intelligent and masterfully done.It is smart stuff.No combat is aimless.The government patronizes a medical experiment that turns soldiers into killing machinesthe 701 Squad.The Neurotomy makes them loose their human feelings,by destroying their nervous centers;so takes birth an elite Squad,elite assassins,designed not to feel the pain and die fighting,headed by an abhorrent,cynical,abominable, smirking villain.A man of this 701 Squad,the Teacher, proves to be not as inhuman as his pals;he does not agree with a life of killings,and leaves the military,refusing to follow the Squad on such paths.Although he lost his feelings by that Neurotomy,he tries to get as human as possible and have a new-life,as a cute,peaceful and tolerant librarian,Tsui;it matches his pacifist convictions.He is considered a helpless man by those who meet him in this new existence of his;they couldn't think that Tsui has the abilities of a killing machine.In his new,non-violent life, he is friends with an inspector,Rock,that protects him,as Tsui hides his powers and refuses to resort to violence.The Hong Kong's drug lords get killed one after another.The police gets involved;Tsui's pugnacious friend,Rock,fights the band of killers (i.e.,the 701 Squad,who tries to take over the Asian drug market).Tsui teams up with Tracy,a girl who works at the library and which he rescues from the Squad murderers' hands.The show is a super-hero story with a rather SF premise (the Neurotomy).The Teacher meets a former comrade of histhe comely but cold-hearted Françoise Yip.While each scene is well-crafted,some are exquisitely done.Daniel Lee made a few flicks,one with Sammo Hung Kam-Bo,but Jet Li and Françoise Yip are the best artists he worked with. "},{"Title":"Plot, is there one. Action well what can i say BRILL!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jets voice will never sound the same again.  The dubbing was awful how did they get away with it. But, dont let me put you of, if you are a Li fan well you cant miss this one. The story there isn't one, after an hour I forgot the whole plot completely but if its action your looking for well its non stop and thrilling.  Its not one of Jets best but it sure has its fare share of action if not more.  You must see this film if only for the action, the story was to be desired along with the bad dubbing. I give this film a 3/10 for story but 7/10 for action and plenty of it. "},{"Title":"Its a pretty good mindless action movie","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although critics say that they dont get the plot(even though I do), this action packed movie provides alot of martial arts that will get you out of your seats!. If you just want action, this is the movie for you "},{"Title":"Surprisingly fun","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  To begin, I have to say that I hate foreign flicks.  Call me prejudiced, but I like the finish on American films.  The only foreign films I will usually go to see involve Jackie Chan.  I am not concerned with the theatrical depth of the movie.  I go to have fun.  So when I saw the first REAL trailer for the American theatrical opening of Black Mask, I cringed a bit mentally. It had all the earmarks of a cheesy HK martial arts flick.  But I loved Jet Li in Lethal Weapon 4, and I love martial arts action flicks, so I went to see this movie.  And it was well worth it.It had great action explosions and awesome hand-to-hand fighting.  It didn't take itself too seriously either.  Tsui's librarian admirer provided just the touches of humor that I like.  I will concede that there were quite a few points where you had to be willing to suspend your disbelief.  I mean, really, LED on an X-ray?  But I was having so much fun watching the movie that things like that really didn't matter.And I was really impressed with the dubbing.  I hate dubbed movies almost as much as I hate subtitled movies.  99.9% of the time, whoever did the translating seems to have no idea how people really talk.  It's like they come out of a cave for the first time just to do dubbing.  I hate dubbed movies.  But whoever did the translations for this movie was great.  The lines were actually things people would say!  And the inflections were in the appropriate spots!  I was very impressed.  They used the word pontificating correctly and fluidly in a sentence.  It actually fit.If you're more interested in the technical side of filmmaking or  are a stickler for realism in effects, you probably won't go for this film.  But if you go to the movies to have fun or to see some cool fight scenes, I recommend this one.  It may be fluff, but it's fun fluff.  "},{"Title":"Non-stop action movie","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is rich with action and gore.  The story line is strong enough to support the action sequences.  The English version needs a tad bit of help in the dubbing department but it was still enjoyable.  This movie ranks among my personal favorites next to Hard Boiled ... "},{"Title":"Atrocious","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Lame, cliched superhero action movie drivel.  I had high hopes for this movie, and the genre of HK buddy cop actioneers is one that i don't despise, but very rarely do i see a storyline as trite and ludicrous as this one was. This would have been forgivable, as it always is in these kinds of movies, when the action compensates, unfortunately, it did not.  The action does carry the trademark surreality and over the top nature of HK action, but it's not very involving, obscenely gory, and in fact often completely incoherent (perhaps this is due to re-editing for american release, it does show signs in many places of patchwork).  I was very disappointed. "},{"Title":"Loved it! Loved It! Loved It!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw the new redubbed and edited version yesterday and loved it. Then I went home and watched it with subtitles and I loved it. I am ready to watch it again.I am a sucker for the mild mannered secret identity and what could be more mild mannered than a pacifist librarian? The scenes where he reveals his super powers to his friends or absent mindedly forgets to be meek are my favortites.Of course the martial arts are stunning. There is really not much I can say about them if you are familiar with the HK style. However, if you are not... we paused playback briefly and Walker, Texas Ranger was on. We noticed that after every strike there was a cut. Not in Black Mask. "},{"Title":"Kick butt movie!","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a massive fan of Jet Li! He is THE best HK action film star alive... and consequently - This film rocked! I saw it in the video store and, as it was in the mainstream section of this mainstream video store, I didnt register its presence at first, and had to look twice. I immediately knew what I would be renting out. My only qualm (I suppose I expected it) is that it was dubbed (AAARGh) and not subtitled. Elsewise, the movie's original/strange/cool plot, and full on action made it one of Jet Li's better movies... even though they all fall under that category.... "},{"Title":"Black Mask combines Wire-fu and Dark Sci-Fi","Date":"29 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Once again Jet Li brings his charismatic presence to the movie screen in the film Black Mask.  In this film Li plays Tsui, an escapee from a super soldier program who seeks to regain the humanity that the program had taken away from him.  To do this Tsui decides to become a librarian in order to live a normal and peaceful life, but fate demands that he clean up problems from his past before he can continue to seek peace.  Other members of the super soldier program had escaped at the same time as Tsui, but they want to get even with the world rather than find inner peace.  Thus Tsui becomes the only thing that can prevent his former team mates from releasing information that could cost many innocent people their lives.  This film screams across the screen at a frantic pace and never lets its audience go.  The martial arts is amazing, but because it uses wires it may not be appreciated as much as it deserves by American audiences. If you like action movies that have an interesting story and demand good acting performances because they deal with psychological as well as physical conflicts, then Black Mask is for you.  I am glad to see that some of Jet Li's movies are finally getting main stream release in the United States and look forward to seeing how the changes that that release will require (things like dubbing and soundtrack) will affect the film.  This is one of Li's best films, go out and see it on May 14 when it is released in America. "},{"Title":"A HK Action Movie you WILL enjoy.","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm no big fan of Martial Arts movies, but the video shop was nearly empty and Jet Li was in Lethal Weapon 4 and I got it free when the other films I'd rented, either way I rented it. I absolutely loved it, my flatmate and myself (22 year old Biochemistry and Accountancy students) spent the half hour after the film making strange Kung Fu noises and throwing beermat shurikens at each other. I can't explain it (well maybe a little tequila). I never enjoyed Bruce Lee, skinny bloke kicking big bloke, beating him, kicking bigger bloke etc film ends. Think Jackie Chan with a little less comedy and more action.  "}{"Title":"One of the greatest HK-Action Movies","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The story deals about Jet Li who has to fight against his oldfriends.But there is one problem, the friends are superfighters. The film is filled with blood, super action and the best stunts forever. And Lau Ching-Wan is a great Co-actor. Of course the movie has the typical HK-Fun.But I love it! In Germany Black Mask is uncut. "},{"Title":"Furious action and good characters","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw Black Mask when it was released on video in the U.S., after it's run in the theaters.  At the time I was not very impressed.  This probably had to do with the fact that I had seen very few, if any, Hong Kong movies prior to this.  However, after recently viewing it for a second time my opinion has changed and I would now say that it is an excellent movie.Black Mask is an action movie with a vengeance.  I was surprised that I didn't remember how brutally violent it was.  There is enough blood spewing, bullet wound gushing and severed parts in this film to fill up a few movies.  Characters are shot, struck, exploded, impaled and burned just to name a few of the killing methods employed in the movie.  This is not to say that the film is an incessant barrage of violence; there are also quiet character driven moments. I believe that these moments are particularly successful because they are a stark contrast to the furious action sequences. These contrasts exist also in the main character, Simon.  As Simon he is pacific but as the Black Mask he is aggressive.  As the movie progresses, so does his personal journey to find balance between his two sides.  I believe this journey is a theme that runs through the movie consistently, at times in a more subtle way, which lends to my opinion that the movie is a well made and strives to develop characters more than the standard action movie.  This is apparent in the character of Rock, who comes to question his convictions and methods.  In the end, his beliefs would seem to be confirmed rather than denied, but the character has made the journey to this discovery, and that is an important factor in giving the film depth.The Black Mask character has more than a passing resemblance to Bruce Lee's character Kato from The Green Hornet.  I don't know if the Hong Kong version of the film gives a nod to this, but the english dub finds female characters commenting on his retro Kato look.  I don't know anything about the development of the film in Hong Kong, but I think it's a safe assumption that the character is inspired by Kato.  It's something I'll be looking in to.  Speaking of the dub, I actually find that it is excellent.  It's not rushed or over the top as many dubs are.  The characters speak at normal rates are appropriately low key when they need to be.  Naturally, this lends greatly to the end product of the english version of the film.Black Mask is an excellent action movie that features great fight scenes with the amazing Jet Li.  The supporting cast is also excellent.  The lead villain walks the fine line between credible bad guy and B-Movie megalomaniac with marvelous results.  He's just a little too weird to be real, but he's not over the top at all. All things considered, it's a great movie and I'd encourage you to check it out!  "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Save yourself and your money.  This film is an insult to the mylar it's printed on.  If this is a showcase piece for Jet Li he can end his career now.The cinematography is terrible, the story is under-played, and the action scenes take place in environments that make them difficult to follow.If you're expecting a Jackie Chan style film, you will be sorely disappointed.  Jet Li is an outstanding martial artist, but his skills can't draw this howler up from the depths it plays at. "},{"Title":"In Black Mask, Jet Li plays a super-killer turned pacifist, who has to fight against other super-killers. Jet Li kicks!","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In Black Mask, Jet Li plays a bio-engineered super-killer turned pacifist, who has to fight against other super-killers. Bad plot, bad sfx(60 million dollar budget), but the fighting scenes were excellent! Jet Li is the greatest martial-arts star alive! "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie was awful.  The theater was dead with silence 'cause everyone was embarrassed to be in there watching such trash.  I think someone gave Jet Li a lobotomy and made him perform a script with dialogue written by a five year old.  The martial arts are 'ok', but when put next to the Jackie Chan movies and The Matrix you're better off seeing one of those.  "},{"Title":"Among Jet Li's worst films","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Mild SPOILERS contained herein.  I'm spoiling this film to save you the trouble of having to watch it.  Jet Li's movies fall into one of two categories  Shaolin period movies and movies set in modern-day Hong Kong revolving around Triads or Triad like organizations.  Each genre has its best and worst films.  `Twin Warriors' is Jet Li's best Shaolin era flick while `The Evil Cult' is his worst.  `Fist of Legend' while in the recent past is the best `modern era' Jet Li movie.  `Black Mask' without a doubt is the worst.Jet Li plays a self-exiled mercenary who received an injection that gives him superhuman ability, but shortens his life span.  In his `new life' in exile he plays a pacifist librarian.  When his old mercenary squad goes on a rampage, Jet Li becomes a vigilante determined to stop them.  He dons a very silly corrugated cardboard mask so as to conceal his identity from the police (and public) as a librarian, as well as to conceal his true identity to his ex-comrades in arms.The version I saw was dubbed, and horribly at that.  Why does Jet Li capture and hold hostage his library co-worker if he's a pacifist?  Is there a love story between them?  Why does the police chief not care when he learns of the Black Mask's true identity?  The plot is just plain BAD.  Bad by way of the superhero cheesiness, bad in the sense that characters are never properly developed, bad in its character interactions, all topped off by a half-explained story I quickly lost interest in. The action and martial arts sequences are way over the top.  Lots of blood, gore (severed body parts aplenty), explosions, and Matrix style superhuman martial arts fiascos are present in the film.  Unfortunately this is the films best and only selling point.  If you want to see Jet Li playing a vigilante superhero in a Mission Impossible style movie `Black Mask' delivers.  For the rest of us Jet Li fans it is a true disappointment.  This is one of those movies where Jet Li never gets to be Jet Li he gets neither the chance to charm us with his charisma, nor a chance to impress us with his impressive yet realistic martial arts ability.  Normally a Chinese knockoff of Ozzy Osbourne would be enough to engross me in a film, sadly `Black Mask' proved to be an exception to that rule.  Indeed the antagonist of this movie, by the way he dresses, his long straight hair, and trademark round sunglasses looks like the modern and aged Ozzy Osbourne.   However the villain isn't on-screen long enough to make the gimmick worthwhile.   I am assuming the likeness to Ozzy was intentional; in addition to the villain's look, he also ran a satanic looking hideout.  So much more could have been made from the Ozzy Osbourne villain gimmick!   If only the writer, director, or ANYONE had bothered to give a background to and develop the character of the film's arch villain!`Black Mask' was the first Jet Li film released on video in the USA after Lethal Weapon 4, and I'm glad I stayed away from it until now.   It may well have ruined my whole perception of Jet Li as a martial artist and actor.  If you want to see Jet Li at his worst, rent `Black Mask' and `The Evil Cult' and make it a double feature or horror, both intentional and unintentional.  Otherwise stick to moves that utilize the talents of Jet Li, and have plots that are semi-well thought out and plausible.  3/9 stars.  "},{"Title":"Kato","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Tsui Chik/Simon, a quiet librarian, is actually an ex-Special Forces super soldier. He is friends with Inspector Shek Wai-ho/Rock, a detective with Hong Kong Police, with whom Tsui Chik frequently shares conversation over chess. Tsui Chik learns his old commando unit, called 701, is still active, murdering gangsters and police in a grasp for power. Tsui Chik dons a black domino mask and bowler hat like Bruce Lee's Kato from The Green Hornet, becoming a masked vigilante to stop his old unit, inadvertently coming into conflict Shek Wai-ho/Rock and the police.Black Mask isn't something you watch for the story, there's a minimum of it. There's just enough to let you know who the good guys and the bad guys are. There's also a tiny amount of romantic subplot thrown with a co-worker and a former squad member of Tsui Chik's introduced to give him a more personal reason to fight the good fight. Jet Li is at his best, his jaw-dropping on screen fights are like no one else, including the legendary Bruce Lee and contemporary peer Jackie Chan. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I didn't like it this movie at all..Very strange film based in a Chinese comic, in which Jet Li plays some kind of superhero who dresses as Kato from The green hornet... Shot in dark colors, the film looks like an experimental project, , the cinematography is simply awful, the plot is dumb, the characters are plain and simple(specially the annoying character played by Karen Mok) the action sequences are so bad (although that Yuen Woo Ping was behind them) the action of this movie reminds to the kind of action that modern Hollywood movies make nowadays, shaky camera movements that don't allow to see the action... There is a sequel made years later without Jet Li and co starred by a WWE dude who looked like Van Damme and a porn actress, that I have no intentions to watch...AWFUL MOVIE "},{"Title":"Choppy superhero outing with insane action","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having not been particularly knowledgeable when it comes to this particular genre, this film came as a complete surprise to me. Not in a particularly good way either. Coming off like some insane take on UNIVERSAL SOLDIER, BLACK MASK sees a librarian don the mask of the title - which incidentally looks like a piece of corrugated cardboard - and fight off a large number of enemies. Extremely cartoonish, this plays like a comic strip which is useful as it's impossible to take anything that happens seriously.The moment Jet Li's character opens his mouth, it all goes downhill. For here we have an incredibly awful piece of dubbing work which just about ruins any credibility the movie may have had. And as the film shifts haphazardly from scene to scene, barely bothering with cohesion and sometimes cutting scenes off when they are only halfway through, you think all hope is lost. Then come along some bizarre fight scenes which almost make the whole enterprise worthwhile.Forget Hollywood action - this is something different. Jet Li (a hissable villain in LETHAL WEAPON 4) convinces as a superhuman mainly due to his ability to do lightning moves and stunts that, for a normal person, would be impossible. People jump all over the place, kick each other, shoot and explode things in rapid succession. A love interest appears only for her to be in mortal danger from the baddies (yawn). The final battle is a real show-stopper. It's just a shame about what happens when the fighting stops. I don't quite know what I watched, but I'm not in any hurry to see it again. "},{"Title":"One of the most broken films of the 90's","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" (17%) Yes the action is frenzied, and yes there is some enjoyment to be taken from the silly - and quite violent - ideas. but this quite honestly is a pretty awful movie. The plot is totally nonsensical, the direction/editing is uneven and choppy, the script in general is dire, and all the characters may as well be from Saturn or another dimension because they sure aren't human. If you can make it until the end then the final fight with evil Asian John Lennon and Li is one of the films very few highlights, but overall this feels too much like the product of an adolescent boy written between his homework, video games and some you know what. "}{"Title":"Great action but awful dubbing","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" While not Jet Li's best effort, Black Mask is a decent, fast paced action flick which has its merits.The incredible martial arts sequences are definitely the best part of the film. Lots of punches, kicks and spectacular aerial displays take up the bulk of the film and are a treat to look at. Combined this with the expected explosions, gunfire, non-stop bad guys and smashing glass, there is plenty of chaos for the action fans.Judging from the dubbed version, Jet Li gives a fairly decent performance. While not as memorable as some of his other films such as Once Upon A Time In China, he gives a decent performance. The supporting cast isn't spectacular but are adequate enough.Unfortunately, the dubbing is rather appalling. While you can get the gist of the storyline, it's pretty obvious that large chunks of crucial dialog related to the storyline are left out. While there's not too much storyline to follow in this action fare, it's still disappointing all the same.I was however, laughing non-stop at the dubbing of Commander Hung, played by Kong Lung. It is definitely the most (unintentionally) hilarious dubbed voice i have ever heard. It's worth renting this just to hear how funny it is.Overall, I recommend this to Jet-Li fans and most action fans. If you're not one or both of these then you would probably be best advised to steer clear. It sells for dirt cheap here in Australia ($5-$8 depending where you shop around) but it's probably worth getting the authentic version if you want the best experience.Be warned though, it is rather violent (expect to see limbs being taken off and crushed and a fair amount of blood) so beware if you're faint hearted.I give it 6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Yuen Wo Ping!!!!","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Stop hating...this series is the BOMB and Yuen did a great job as AC. Jet Li is also great, and with Hark's money, they made a classic...only someone who knows NOTHING about HK action would diss this flick! That would be like saying Heroic Trio was crap...blasphemy! IS WO PING! Can't wait for the US DVD release of part 2 on Dec. 31st!!!  "},{"Title":"Dump the English/American dubbing!!","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me just say that if you watched the American/English version you will definitely miss more than half the movie! Whoever decided to cut this movie actually did it with a blindfold and chainsaw!!I recommend if you did watch that version you quickly try to get hold of the subtitled Chinese version you will get a longer, funnier, and more action packed version. "},{"Title":"The ultimate drive-in movie (spoilers?)","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jet Li is the most exciting martial arts star to hit the screen since Bruce Lee.  Although he's been making movies for over 20 years, this is the first film of his that has had wide distribution in the U.S.  Younger and more talented than Jackie Chan, we can only hope he finds a Hollywood breakout vehicle soon. We do not see enough of his brilliant moves in this movie, but we certainly enjoy what there is.  Fine supporting cast too.This is the kind of movie that would put Joe Bob Briggs in schlock reviewers heaven.  No mess 'o plot to get in the way.  In many ways, Black Mask is a homage to Bruce Lee.  The mask that Jet Li wears (for no apparent reason) resembles the one worn by Kato, and just in case you didn't get the connection, Jet also wears the hat of the Green Hornet.  The final scene is a recreation of the climax of Enter the Dragon.  The young champion verses the old master.  Who wins?  Ah, you'll have to see the movie.Body count off the scale, five severed heads, three pints of blood, zero breasts.  Strat says check it out. "},{"Title":"Simply a thrilling movie","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now let me tell you about this movie, this movie is MY FAVORITE MOVIE!!! This movie has excellent combat fighting.  This movie does sound like a silly story line about how Jet Li plays a super hero, like Spider-Man, or etc.  But once you've seen this movie, you would probably want to see it again and again.  I rate this movie 10/10.   "},{"Title":"Confusing and disjointed to say the least. SPOILERS","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THE BLACK MASK was a confusing film. I enjoy Hong kong movies, however this film could not decide what it wanted to be. Was it a homage to a GREEN HORNET character, was it a sci-fi film, was it a police film, or was it a kung fu superhero movie????? I like JET LI however, ROMEO MUST DIE was much better than this film. The action was good but the gore was a little excessive. It was also like parts of the movie had been edited out making things even more confusing. It was as if certain plot points were removed. I walked away from this film dazed and confused. It was almost like watching the action equivelent to THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW. "},{"Title":"Jet Li beats Jackie Chan any day.","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I was really didn't want to.  I saw Jet Li in Lethal Weapon 4 and he was good in that, but my loyality was to Jackie Chan (no one can beat Drunken Master).  But after seeing Black Mask, my opinion has changed.  This movie is non stop action.  Yeah the plot isn't all that good, but hey seeing Jet Li whooping on people is cool! "},{"Title":"not a bad HK film if you throw on the closed captioning and hit mute","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm commenting on the american release of hak hap/black mask rather than any of the others, partially because this is the only i have seen and the fact that they couldnt have made the movie worse for an american audience.Hak Hap is your standard HK film (although a bit colorful one), which generally people watch for the action only and dont expect any epic storyline or intense character development. My problem of the film is that the dubbing was absolutely terrible, and the fact that the americanized rap soundtrack felt completely irrelevant to the atmosphere and scenes. Once watching this film you will realize how such a simple thing as the soundtrack can enhance a movie or completely break it. Due to the terrible dubbing and soundtrack i give this film a 4/10, if a subtitled import were availible,7/10 would be more appropriate.In closing, just throw on a bay city rollers or airsupply CD, put the video on mute while making your own soundeffects and it will be -much- more entertaining than the english dubbed version. not a bad film otherwise for HK fans. "},{"Title":"A ballet with fists and explosions.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hak hap(Black Mask)is what I'd like to call a ballet with fists and explosions.  Sure the plot has been tried and heard before, (A biologically engineered soldier that is part of a elite fighting force of supermen that decides he feels that killing and brute force aren't the ways to settle every thing and becomes a pacifist, and a librarian. But when he learns that the rest of his group is trying to get an antidote that will keep them alive by taking on the police -his best friend is a cop- he becomes the black mask.)  the style that the movie goes for, very visual, works and at least for me is entertaining.  I love martial arts movies that are a spectical. People flying around lighter than air and recovering a split second after impact keeps the pace and action non stop.  But that is what this movie is about anyway right, a showcase of Jet Li doing what he does best, and that is spectacular showmanship of his skills, which to say the least are top notch.  As with most of the fast action martial arts movies ala. Jackie Chan and Sammo Hung that are just now showing themselves here in the states for the first time, these movies are low on plot and high on amazing physical feats.  But I must say, even with the large holes left in the plot (like how do we see him safe in his apartment when just one scene before he had 20 men that are no more than 15 feet from him with sign of escape? Who knows the scene just cuts to him in the apartment.......ohh well suspension of belief I guess) , the movie to me stays interesting.  It is only until the last 20 minutes that the film seems to feel like it could have been a little shorter. But still all around a great high paced action movie. "},{"Title":"Not as good as most people think...","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hak Hap, or Black Mask (in english) was a disappointment.  I was told that it was a sort of Japanese version of the Matrix.  Imagine my disappointment.  The film was either badly dubbed or the soundtrack didn't time well with the film.  Another thing is that the dialogue was pretty much bad.  There was very little thought put into the English version of this film and it appeals only to the senseless action genre.  Not a film I would want to see again. "}{"Title":"Jet Li is better than Bruce lee","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was incredible! The fight scenes were fantastic. The plot was also not to bad. The movie is about a group of soldiers in Hong Kong whose genes were altered. The project is terminated and the soldiers escape. Jet Li is one who escaped he decides to try to live a normal life, However everyone does not. The soldiers are trying to force the government into curing the effects on their bodies through crimes. The hurt one of Jet Li's friends so he puts on a mask and seeks revenge. This movie was much better than any other kung fu movie give it a try. You wont be sorry. "},{"Title":"this is horrible","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ok...everyone says that the one redeeming quality of this movie was the great fight scenes. Unfortunately I never saw them. I did not stick around the theater long enough for them. I walked out of this movie after a half hour. I have never walked out of a movie before, and I saw soldier. As far as I am concerned, this movie is the worst piece of crap ever.  "},{"Title":"We've Seen Better Jet Li WITHOUT The Mask","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In this 1996 HK sci-fi/action repackage job with hip-hop soundtrack, surgically altered ex-killer Jet Li is a mild-mannered librarian by day and crime-fighting superhero by night.  Lots of martial arts and wire sequences choreographed by the famous Yuen Woo-Ping and a silly storyline about downloading top secret police files fall short of HK action standards. Lau Ching-Wan is typically suave, Karen Mok plays beneath herself,  and sleazy Anthony Wong makes an appearance.  Executive producer and co-written by Tsui Hark. "},{"Title":"Great Martial Arts action, lousy movie.","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Way too gory, sad acting, and cheesy lines contribute to a poor overall movie. The only thing of value in this movie is the superb martial arts action--Jet Li is incredibly fast and obviously talented in this regard.  "},{"Title":"This is one BAD movie!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Never mind the awful, monotoned dubbing -- this movie would be a stinker in any language. The fight scenes were very well done, but the plot was very predictable, and the performances as wooden as a lumber yard.  "},{"Title":"Great for martial-arts action, but...","Date":"22 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Great for martial-arts action, but it had the typical B-Movie curse of the voice not in sync with the lips, understandable if this was released in multiple languages. Additionally, there was a scene that, apparently, was slowed down just a little, maybe a couple of seconds, but still noticeable, towards the end. One last thing- the end came a little too soon (with all that end of movie action) for my tastes. "},{"Title":"Three words Wait for video.","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Poorly dubbed, relentlessly violent, and utterly stupid are words that describe Black Mask. Jet Li stars as a Bruce Lee (think Kato in Green Hornet) knockoff who takes on a superhuman underground cult that he was once a part of, all with the help of his renegade cop buddy. Black Mask uses every action movie cliche in the book, with a script that is full of the usual unfunny one-liners and perverted sex jokes. But the dubbing is the real joke, the lowest point of which comes with a Chinese gangster fitted with a nice British accent. Everything, even whatever little serious dialogue there is, comes across as a bad joke. This would have worked better as a Jackie Chan farce, or mabey a visual resume for Jet Li, who real overworks himself here.People who are expecting a brilliant Hong Kong action movie along the lines of John Woo's Hard Boiled or The Killer will be sadly disappointed. But those who are into blood, guts, and mayhem with the absence of all else will be promptly serviced. "},{"Title":"It would be kind to call the US version utter crap","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If the film had been subtitled, perhaps it would have been watchable. In its dubbed condition the film is hardly worth mentioning. The stunts are of excellent quality, but lack the creativity and spark one expects from Hong Kong action fare. As for the art direction Jet Li's costume was a little too close to Kato of the Green Hornet (Bruce Lee he is not). I suggest that if you plan on renting a little Hong Kong action you may want to stick with The Killer.  "},{"Title":"One of Jet Li's Gems Finally Hits (Kicks) American Shores","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely one of Jet's best efforts.  Few actors are able to play the stoic as Jet Li can.  The action is rapid-fire, and special-effects boosted for intensity purposes.  As a result, it may take Americans a little off-guard.  A little suspension of disbelief goes a long way in a Jet Li film.   I feel that it is an excellent introduction to Jet's work and look forward to further masterpieces (especially Fist of Legend) making it into the US market.  A nice mixture of gunplay and physical conflict will satisfy most action flick enthusiasts.  "},{"Title":"A fun martial arts frolic","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love this movie, simply put. The problem with martial arts and action movies is they're usually quite formulaic, they kinda need to be I suppose, but they're not always interesting. Black Mask is on times a little bit silly (the usual suspension of disbelief is required when the hero dons a strip of ribbed plastic that covers only his eyes, and suddenly nobody recognises him), but it is in my opinion a bold attempt.Jet Li plays a member of the 701 squad, a group of people with their nervous systems removed so they don't feel pain. He gets separated from the rest of his squad and assumes them dead, so goes about his own life trying to make himself feel human again. But when he hears from a policeman friend about big drug dealers being killed he suspects the 701 squad is behind it and goes against his former allies.It sounds standard but the fact none of them can feel pain makes it feel quite different, and the fight scenes involving full power crotch shots, falls from height, electric shocks, punches to the throat, and many other things that would end a fight immediately don't even faze our pain-free heroes and villains and makes the fights more bonecrunching and wince-inspiring than a lot of other martial arts movies. It helps that the two leading ladies are the cutesy girl-next-door Karen Mok and the mouthwateringly gorgeous Francoise Yip (of Rumble in the Bronx fame).The fights are excellently coordinated, the dubbing is sometimes laughable but adds to the campy feel of the film which I personally find highly enjoyable, the story is reasonably engaging, and the score has a cheesy spy-thriller classic sound to it.If you like your action movies to be a little bit silly and just a touch camp, while occasionally delving into dark subject matter, with brutal action scenes and top notch eye candy of both genders (there are some FINE looking people in this movie lol) then this film can't come more highly recommended by me. "}{"Title":"Nothing Compared with The Bodyguard From Beijing But Still A Good Action Thriller!","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" American audiences saw Asian martial arts superstar Jet Li kick around Mel Gibson and Danny Glover in director Richard Donner's Lethal Weapon IV. The success of the third Lethal Weapon sequel and Jet Li's performance as a resilient Oriental villain prompted Artisan Entertainment t dust off a 1996 cliffhanger that Li had made for executive producer Tsui Hark. Happily, Artisan has provided a new, surprisingly well-synchronized English language dub of the original Chinese dialogue. Of course, most of the voices still sound dubbed, but the words match the lips for the most part. Further, Artisan has saturated the high-octane action with a funky line-up of gangsta/techno rap rhymes that accentuate the rhythm of the movie. Connoisseurs of hyperkinetic Hong Kong actioneers should get a kick out of Jet Li's first starring role in the U.S. Altogether, Black Mask qualifies as a must-see melodrama that showcases Jet Li's skills and personality.Basically, Black Mask depicts the life and death struggle between a mysterious superhero and the forces of evil in a by-the-numbers, formulaic action thriller. As a member of an elite commando unit, Michael (Jet Li) is a top-secret, super-soldier from Project 701, a scheme designed to turn out biologically enhanced assassins virtually immune to pain. According to the introductory voice-over narration, the Red Chinese have injected these people with serum that triggers some unhappy side effects, such as psychotic rages and an abruptly abbreviated life span. Washing their hands of the ill-fated experiment, the government then tries to kill the warriors. Michael and many of his cohorts escape captivity on mainland China and flee to Hong Kong. At first, Michael believes that nobody, including his old girlfriend, Yuek-lan (Francoise Yip of Rumble in the Bronx), had survived the ordeal. Masquerading as Simon, a mousy Clark Kent type librarian, Michael resolves to re-educate himself about all things normal and hides out in the book stalls. Along the way, he befriends a stubborn police detective (Lau Ching Wan) with whom he plays chess.Unfortunately, Michael learns to his chagrin that several 701 survivors have embarked on a murderous killing spree, knocking off high profile Hong Kong drug lords and corrupt government officials. These project 701 ruffians are fortune cookies not easily cracked. They take a licking and keep on ticking. Bullets don't faze them. Their methods appear as unsavory as they are resourceful. One defiant drug dealer shows the authorities a box containing the severed legs of his daughter. Evidently, the hoodlums mailed the box to him to ensure his support. Another crime lord discovers that the villains have implanted a bomb in his chest near his heart. When surgeons try to defuse it, they cannot distinguish between the wires and the arteries. When they do cut the wires, half of the hospital vanishes in an explosion. These fiends plan to blackmail the government into supplying them with the antidote for their illness.Donning a cardboard mask, a fedora, and a chauffeur's suit, Michael retaliates in classic vigilante Death Wish style. He relies on his wits, his athletic grace, and his mini-discs which he spins through the air with the same effect as throwing stars. (Anybody remember the 1990 movie I Come in Peace where Dolph Lungren faced off with aliens who used compact discs as lethal killing devices?) The bad guys often refer to Michael as 'the compassionate one.' Along the way, Tracy (Karen Mok) finds herself drawn into a vortex of action when she survives a deadly massacre in the library. Michael takes her hostage, but the bizarre relationship takes a turn, and she becomes his girl Friday. Meantime, audiences get to sneer at the devilish Commander Hung, a long-haired psycho villain played to perfection by Patrick Lung Kang.A quartet of scribes has assembled an entertaining but formulaic script that bristles with more action than most Hollywood action franchises. Based on their work here, Tsui Hark, Koan Hui, Teddy Chen, and Joe Ma could have written a better Batman epic that the idiots that churned out Batman Forever and Batman and Robin. Admittedly, Black Mask looks like a hodgepodge of B-movie protagonists. You can spot the plots of Batman, Universal Soldier, Solo, Bullitt, and The Terminator in the wildly fluctuating storyline. Ostensibly, this rapid-fire yarn look like an Asian version of any Alexander Dumas costume tale about mistaken identities. The scenarists refuse to restrict themselves to one genre. Instead, they shift gears, alternating between a horror chiller, an apocalyptic sci-fi thriller, a comic book superhuman escapade, a screwball romance, and a 1940's neo film noir crime story. Sure, all of this is silly, shallow, and superficial when it isn't drenched in blood and gore. Nevertheless, Black Mask delivers these elements with such style and artistry that you cannot help but enjoy it.Martial arts champion Jet Li brings his boyish charm along with a dancer's fluid locomotion to create quite a hero. He combines Jackie Chan's agile athleticism with Chow Yun-Fat's dramatic talent. When he goes into action against the villains, look out! As Michael's pal, Lau Ching Wan turns in a solid performance as a stubborn HK cop named Rock who initially thinks that Michael has nothing to do with Simon. Sophomore HK helmer Daniel (What Price Survival) Lee slackens the pace occasionally to accommodate a screwball romantic subplot between Karen Mok's ditzy librarian Tracy and Michael. Wisely, Lee never takes these supercharged, adrenaline-laced antics too seriously. The library scenes have a sitcom quality, which differ from other scenes. Several critics have observed the resemblance between Jet Li's Michael and the late Bruce Lee's Kato from the ABC-TV series The Green Hornet. The filmmakers bring up the same point when Tracy admires Michael.Make no mistake, Black Mask is pretty gory stuff. Daniel Lee directs in much the same twister fashion as Michael Bay of The Rock and Armageddon. Lee rarely lets his camera linger on shot. Black Mask is outrageously plotted, often campy, but exciting, ultra-violent pulp nonsense. "},{"Title":"Another good jet Li outing.","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film looks like a mix between both Batman, X-MEN and The Matrix all combined and I'm proud to say that if you like either film series and/or are a fan of that genre, then you'll probably dig this one!Jet Li plays a super human soldier created by the HK government and escapes after an opening gun battle and explosive opening ( which in the U.S. version has this and every other fight scene be accompanied by rap music! ). He then becomes a librarian and lives a quiet life with a police officer friend ( played by the under-rated Ching Wan Lau ). But when mysterious happenings occur, our main protagonist becomes a super-hero by night and ends up fighting a team of other super-human experiments, who have formed a clan that is devoted to black-mailing the HK government into giving them a cure by stealing the main information files. It's non-stop and an entertaining adrenaline rush! See now, but don't watch if you get way too annoyed by dubbing. "},{"Title":"Awesome martial arts action, shame about the dubbing","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jet Li puts in a good performance as the genetically altered superhero who is just trying to be a normal guy, until his old unit become his enemy. This film has some of the worst, fasttrack dubbing I've ever heard, but if you can see past it, there is a semi-decent martial arts film underneath. The fight scenes have been superbly choreographed and the script is none too bad, as far as Chinese action thrillers go anyway. At times it is disturbingly gruesome, at others it can be quite serious, and then again there are a few parts where you will definitely just laugh! A well rounded martial arts flick, that provides you with everything you want, need and expect from Jet Li. Fast kicks, hard punches and dirty combinations as well as an impressive final showdown fight with the unit Commander. Highly entertaining and good visual ride. "},{"Title":"Awesome Jet Li Film, And A Great Asian Version Of Batman!","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is an awesome Jet Li film,That's a great Asian version of Batman. A lot of the people found the plot silly, however, i found it to be very cool, and the fight scenes are fantastic!. I really dug the chemistry between Jet Li and Ching Wan Lau!, and the main fight is jaw dropping plus it had great use of wires. I had a couple problems with this though, 1. The Dubbing is just horrible and a couple of the characters were annoying, however the cool plot, and awesome fight scenes make up for that. It's also visually spectacular and very stylish,plus Jet Li gives a great performance in this!. This is an awesome Jet Li film, it has awesome fight scenes, very cool plot, and of the course the gorgeous Francoise Yip!,it's a must see. The Direction is great. Dainel lee does a great job here,with great visuals,cool POV shots, great use of colors, awesome camera angles, it's also very stylish, plus he kept the film at a great pace!. There is tons of blood and violence!. We get tons of extremely bloody gunshot wounds,very gory surgery scene,lots of blood,gory impaling's,cut off hand, cut off arm,gouged out eyes and a bloody slit throat. The Acting is excellent. Jet Li is fantastic here, he is very good in the acting department, kicks that ass, was very likable, had awesome chemistry with Ching Wan Lau, and was tons of fun to watch, however i suspect he was dubbed. (Jet rules!). Ching Wan Lau is awesome here, and very intense, he had awesome chemistry with Jet kicked that ass, was quite a presence, but also had some bad dubbing, he still rocked though!.Karen Mok is okay here, but sort of annoying, however she had a certain charm, that made her bearable, she was also kind of cute. Françoise Yip is GORGEOUS, and is awesome in her scenes, sadly she does not have that much screen time. The main villain was pretty good. Overall this is a must see for Jet and action fans!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Jet Li Library Cop","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Version Magna Pacific's R4 DVD - English dubSomehow 'Black Mask' earned a spot on Civic Video's Best buy stand, with big stickers on the DVD case announcing it was a hot hit and only $10. I get the feeling that they were actually trying get rid of the copies they had in stock. I would have been a sucker for this ruse, had I not enjoyed this awesome tale of super-librarians and crazy super-human bad guys.Jet Li plays Michael, a test-subject used a secret government project to create a group of super-soldiers known as the 701 Squad. When the project is canceled, the 701 Squad escape, but Michael is separated from the others and goes into hiding. He ends up working in a library, as a SUPER LIBRARIAN OF DEATH! Not really. Michael convinces everyone that he is a geeky, helpless librarian. One of his best friends is a detective, Inspector 'Rock' Shek (Ching Wan Lau), who finds himself working on a case involving a gang systematically eliminating Hong Kong's drug-lords. Michael realizes that this gang is the 701 Sqaud, who have seemingly turned to the dark side. Donning a black mask, Michael becomes the super-hero Black Mask (he is so creative) and vows to stop the 701 Squad. For Super-heroic reference, his black mask is a better disguise than Clark Kent's glasses, but covers less than Batman's mask. I guess some super-heroes don't take the whole secret-identity thing too seriously.So what we have is a comic-style plot that has been used many, many times. There is nothing new or innovative about it. It is interesting enough, but who would actually watch this for a plot? It does seem like a futile exercise. The dubbing isn't all that bad - it isn't all that good either. It just kinda sits in between being a bad dub that you can laugh at, and a good dub that you can actually appreciate.What 'Black Mask' does possess, is action awesomeness. All movies about super-heroes reaping vengeance and what not need action awesomeness. 'Black Mask' sees Jet Li and Ching Wan Lau wandering around and generally kicking arse, having their arses kicked, and then kicking arse again. Awesome. The movie features some cool action sequences, with the debut of the Black Mask towards the start being the one that stands out against the rest.'Black Mask' is a good action movie, and a better action movie than Michelle Yeoh's 'Silver Hawk', but 'Silver Hawk' is just more entertaining than Black Mask. Check out 'Black Mask' is you're a fan of Jet Li, or Hong Kong action films in general - 7/10 "},{"Title":"It is too hard to hate this movie. Give In.","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've never been a fan of dubbing, stemming all the way back to the horrid Hercules in New York. However, i believe that if you look past the voice (and subsequently the plot) then at the heart of it all you've got yourself a pretty friggin awesome movie.Never have i seen fight scenes that even compare to this. I've loved Jet Li ever since I saw Romeo Must Die, and this is definitely his best action sequences. Besides its not like ALL of the dialogue is bad; Even black Mask has its one linersIn fact despite all its faults this movie has become my second favorite of all time, w/out reservation.So, in conclusion, i give this effort a 9.5/10. That's right. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the Jackie Chan shows but better effects.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sort of a cross between Jackie Chan kung-fu and Arnold Schwartsensager (somebody look that one up for me) effects. Absolutely no story line but who cares who excellent fight scenes and nasty villians. A few Bond-like techno toys (acid spray booby traps and pacemaker bombs) separate it from Jackie Chan shows. The fighting is excellent fast and creative. More as events warrant. "},{"Title":"Black Mask All I can say is Wow!","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was very surprised that this movie was very good! The action alone speaks for itself! Jet Li is a action star here to stay! The plot was very simple but you forget that when he puts on the Black Mask and kicks some BUTT. This is one of the best fighting scenes I have seen in a movie period! Jet Li is a great karate guy and he looks so much like Bruce Lee(Kato(Green Hornet) in this movie. He is fast, witty and very fun to watch. Out of 4 stars I give this movie 3 stars. P.S. Give it a chance. "},{"Title":"One of the most stupid movies of the decade!!!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  From the the very first 'til the very last scene it was unbelievably cheesy! Hello, is it some sort of Asian version of Batman & Robin? This movie is so packed with goofs that I lost count of them after only 15 minutes. All characters are flat, acting is on the elementary school level, costumes are out-dated. They also seem to have a problem with continuity of action. Basically, what these people did was that they took the plot from Batman, costumes and fights from Matrix, and bloody scenes from Blade, mixed them up, and spiced them with stupid one-liners from the worst American cop movies (do they really think it is cool?). The best part of that movie is when Black Mask, Simon, is fighting the Commander. I'm not going to discuss every stupid mistake, you really have to watch it for yourself. Just pay attention to those glasses the Commander is wearing through the entire fight, even under the gas mask!!!!! My advice is to save your hard-earned cash and wait 'til this movie is out on VHS. And don't watch it alone or with your girlfriend! Good luck to you on this one and have fun. P.S. To those who run IMDB I love your site, guys!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Typical HK, lousy, but with parts you absolutely must see!","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Typical HK, really lousy, but with parts you absolutely must see. I loved it! As my wife said, If you liked 'The Matrix', see this movie and you can see what Yuen Wo Ping can do with actors who are used to performing on wires. Really, you should see the 1999 re-mix in a theater on a big screen; it knocked my eyes out. And please leave your 8-year-olds at home. Please. You know who you are.  "}{"Title":"COMPLETE WASTE OF MONEY TO SEE THIS MOVIE!!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It was TORTURING 25mins OF WATCHING this movie.  Unlike some of the good Hong Kong Movies I had seen, this movie lacks camera techniques.  It begins with A LOT OF FLASHES OF CAMERA HERE AND THERE.  Screen is complete placid. NO special effects to talk of.  One doesn't understand what the director is trying to say for the first 15mins, then one gives up.  I had seen some of the excellent martial arts movies before.  I had a lot of expectation from this to at least rank near those movies.  THE MOVIE FAILS MISERABLY. Better to be forgotten. "},{"Title":"It hurts!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a horrid stupid movie.  It was actually painful to sit in that theatre. I tried really hard to like this movie but it was simply impossible.  I don't know why I didn't walk out.  Pas bon! "},{"Title":"The first HK actioner where I like the characters more than the action.","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very strange HK film in many ways.  First, many of the action sequences really aren't that much fun.  The very first gun battle the occurs in the film was just silly.  Not cool silly, or even funny silly, but just silly.  That's not to say there aren't some great action scenes, but most simply don't come up to the level of some of the other films I have seen. The opposite side is that this film actually has CHARACTERS, not just people.  All of the main characters are interesting (except for the head bad guy, who is flat as a billiard table) and most are fairly well acted.  All the protagonists in this film are just fun to watch.  The dialogue is quite witty, and doesn't seem to lose much in translation.  This film is worth seeing, but I hope that uninitiated American audiences don't think this is the best HK has to offer.   "},{"Title":"Relentless action from start to finish.","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film contains more action before the opening credits than are in entire Hollywood films of this sort.  This film is produced by Tsui Hark and stars Jet Li.  This team has brought you many worthy Hong Kong cinema productions, including the Once Upon A Time in China series.  The action was fast and furious with amazing wire work.  I only saw the wires in two shots.  Aside from the action, the story itself was strong and not just used as filler. To find any other action films to rival this you must look for a Hong Kong cinema outlet in your area.  They are really worth checking out and usually never disappoint.  "},{"Title":"The Magic Behind The Mask","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Black Mask Having been burned numerous times by the stanky Jackie Chan imports, one can only imagine just how apprehensive I was for this Jet Li 1996 action film. Artisan Entertainment is new to this Asian teat squeezing, so I can admit without shame that I seriously enjoyed this homogenized kung-fu fest. Martial arts master choreographer Woo-Ping Yuen (who recently shot to superstardom with his work on The Matrix ) works the fights in this film, and it is that now well known choreography that makes Black Mask snap and pop so well. The action is fast and furious, unlike the Jackie Chan films, and is mostly played seriously. Now that's really nice.  The smarmy attitude of American action flicks, and need I mention the anti-christ Mr. Chan again?, is long gone.  The dubbing of the English release is not really respectable, the film often reaches for the bottom of the phrase barrel to get points across.  The audio actors fill their roles nicely, some probably doing a better job than the real thing.  A couple of amazing things to point out are this  the predictable rap soundtrack added by Artisan to the film shockingly improves the picture. The booming bass and LP scratching makes the evil characters more menacing and enhances character introductions immensely. I also like how the film doesn't try to set up the Black Mask character.  We are just dropped into the action and the film takes off there.  But that might be due to the usual editing these films are subjected to when they come to America. Jet Li portrays the masked one,  a government agent turned librarian - you gotta love that.  The flick even tries to incorporate a very subtle pro-reading message - you gotta love that too.  In Jackie Chan films, the moral of the stories always seem to be So remember folks, don't step in poo.,  so it comes as a pleasant surprise to see a fight movie aim a little higher.  This picture came as a total shock, and I stress that it isn't a work of art.  It's simply a well executed kung fun ride.  As trashy action films go, it's one of the best to make the leap to the states.---------------- 9 "},{"Title":"Asian ripoff of Batman","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only purpose to release this three-year-old action flick from Hong Kong to America is to capitalize on Jet Li's success after Lethal Weapon 4. Unfortunately, it did not work.  Li plays a librarian who tries to escape his past as the so-called hero.  There's plenty of action, but it's just so predictable.  Why is this film poorly dubbed?  Check out Fist of Legend instead.  My evaluation ** out of ****.   "},{"Title":"Seemed cheap and badly made! 1/10","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Review This movie looked cheap and the acting was pretty terrible. The Kato looking caped crusader was awful and the storyline was also not that well put together. Basically, someone is going around taking out all of the drug lords so to protect his identity, Jet Li puts of a black mask to help them. He then finds out that the murders have something to do with his old squad, who he escaped from at the beginning of the film, so he ends up on a one man crusade for justice. Sounds interesting, but it's not! The annoying music and bad action scenes really made this film hard to watch. The fact that no one knows who the caped crusader is, made me laugh because it's obvious right from the beginning. Personally, I think that Jet Li should just put this down as a bad day at the office. Terrible!Round-Up I couldn't help but laugh at the sound effects through this movie. They made it seem really cheap and it was hard to take the storyline seriously. Anyway, the big showdown at the end was weak even though there is a big build up throughout the movie and it seemed to go on forever. On the plus side, the movie is pretty short so you don't have to put up with it for that long. Now that I've only got a couple of Jet Li movies left to watch, he has definitely made more bad movies than good, which is a shame because it's not due to his acting or martial arts skills. Its basically down to bad choices which will hopefully be rectified in the latter part of his career.Budget N/A Worldwide Gross $12.5millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their Jet Li movies about a caped crusader who protects his identity whilst fighting against drug lord murderers. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Good mixture of ideas, and talent","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is probably the movie that made Jet Li well known in the States. The mask obviously reminds you of Kato in Green Hornet, and that homage alone was enough to secure this as one of the classics of Hong Kong martial arts movies.A genetic experiment to create super soldiers is deemed a failure. All are ordered to be destroyed. One of them survives, and finds a peaceful life as a librarian until the old acquaintances shows up to finish their job.The production of this movie is not its good part. It reminds you of the dingy atmosphere of '70s Hong Kong movies. But the idea is brilliant, and casting little known Jet Li at the time for the lead was a spectacular success. He really is believable as genetically enhanced super soldier. Very young Karen Mok plays an unwitting hostage to Li, and adds sideline to the story.This genetically enhanced soldier scheme continued with other movies such as Huk Mau (Black Cat), which is in the same vain as this movie, with also Black as part of its title.With fantastic moves like this, who wouldn't be a star ! Jet Li became the premier super star from this point on, which still is on going. "},{"Title":"Delivers what it should","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Entertainment is what it delivers. If you've seen the dubbed version, you probably know what I'm talking about. But since I like the uncut versions of flicks the most, I checked it out for a hefty price of thirty dollars. To my disappointment, there wasn't really anything that made this cut better, but I still was glad to have it on my shelf. It's truly one of those throwaway action films that can be watched every once in a while to still give you enough fun for the night. Jet Li kicks a bunch of ass while still looking stupid donned in a, get this, BLACK MASK. The action outweighs the beat-to-death plot, with some great scenes of pure carnage and a pretty damn good fight at the end.It's hard to insult a film like this, but I'll try. First the story was crap, Karen Mok was horribly annoying and the acting sucks. Forget all that, concentrate on what this film was invented for. TO ENTERTAIN YOU, WITH CHEESY, BUT FULLY AWESOME FIGHT SEQUENCES. I'm always reminded of Bruce Lee's presence on screen with Jet. Maybe not as much, but Jet does command the attention when he is doing more serious roles (check out Fist of Legend and watch my point in action). Jet is pretty good in this role, and is a great action star among the crap from the other actors.I must say that this film is truly one of those that is rewatchable. This trait of a film is most important to me, sure a film like Lord of the Rings is good, but how many times could you watch it in a year? I could barely watch it once. Black Mask has a quality of being able to watch it one day and then two days later, you are watching it again.This film is one of those that you probably will forget after you see it, but when it's on TV or you find it in the discount bin, you'll pick it up, just to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great action, poor plot and dubbing","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I gave this film a 4 out of 10 rating. Had the dubbing and plot been up to the standard of the martial arts displayed, this could quite easily have scored a 9, but as it stands, it is a terrible movie. It's like watching a tragedy unfold; you know Li deserves a much better movie. In fact, the action scenes deserve a whole better movie to themselves.I get the feeling that the acting was probably terrible too, but it's frankly impossible to tell when the film is dubbed. Especially when it has possibly the worst dubbing ever seen. "}{"Title":"Bad dubbing, silly plot, great action","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Michael escapes the genetically engineered 701 Squad to seek a normal life.  He takes up a quiet job in a library and befriends a policeman, Rock.  Rock is in charge of an investigation into the murder of drug cartels in the area, crimes which Michael suspect by being carried out by the 701 squad.  Michael dons a mask to hide his identity and tries to stop 701's move into crime.The plot here will be semi-familiar to most as a variant on Universal Soldier.  However in terms of plot US is stronger (how often do you hear that sentence!!?), mainly because Black mask has so many unlikely goings-on to have us ever accept the film.  But really that doesn't matter because you're never more than 5 or so minutes away from a fight scene.  The action is very good and the wire work is never too OTT to be accepted.  The only problem with the action is that it is too bloody and violent &#150; the martial arts stuff is all slick but the blood and severed limbs takes away a bit of the sense of fun that Jet-Li movies usually have.The cast are good in terms of names, but all of them suffer due to the dubbing on the version I saw &#150; why do they always get daytime TV soap actors to do the dramatic dubbing!?  Jet Li is good when fighting but his character is not very good, better is Lau's Rock &#150; he has better lines and more attitude.  Mok is annoying but the support cast contains some well known faces who give creepy performances (Chau-Sang's King Kau is the best).Fans of Jet Li will enjoy it but many will dislike the blood flowing as freely as it does here.  However the wire work is good and the fight scenes are simple mindless action.  I watched this late on a Saturday night &#150; that seems about the best time to watch it.Overall, no where near Li's best and lacking in plot, characters and humour (apart from Rock), but it's a good fight flick if that's what you want. "},{"Title":"5 out of 10","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  im cool with mindless violence, and Jet Li is the man, but something about this film didnt set right with me. maybe my stomach is getting weaker with age. this movie is VI-o-LENT folks, and i think all that blood and gore has finally gotten to me. I really thought Jet Li was awesome here though. he kicked major ass as the Black Mask. check this out if ur cool with a ton of bloody violence and loooove Jet Li. "},{"Title":"...the best film...","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...ever. It's easy to explain, because if film should be interesting, funny, have good love and action scenes, unexpected plot and mean villians, then Black mask is the best film of all times.Bigger then Ben Hur, and funnier then Dumb and Dumber. "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A movie with less story line than action!  It's about drug dealers going after a guy who quit dealing drugs and is now working in a library , trying to change his life.  This has great action sequences here and there, and is sure to please die hard action/martial arts fans. Rated R  for Violence "},{"Title":"Hard to believe it could have been so pointless","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's hard to believe an action packed Jet Li movie could be so boring, but this was transcendant trash. The plot is an amalgam of other Hong Kong chopsocky flicks. The martial arts action is all special effects and no human talent. It's a comic book story about a group of super-human soldiers who are to be killed because they're mentally unstable, one of their number (Li) who holds off an incompetent army to save them and rebuilds a life as a pacifist librarian. The saved killers resurface with an Austin Powers quality plot to take over the world, and Li sheds his new life to save the world.The version I saw was dubbed, and that may have accentuated the cheesiness of the wafer-thin plot and comic-book 25 cent special effects. But I suspect even Ninja-Turtle-watching 8-year olds would have found this juvenile and hollow.  "},{"Title":"Dubbing and plot killed it for me","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rated this a 3. The dubbing was as bad as I have seen. The plot - yuck. I'm not sure which ruined the movie more. Jet Li is definitely a great martial artist, but I'll stick to Jackie Chan movies until somebody tells me Jet's English is up to par. "},{"Title":"When violence is the most important element...","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Black Mask was released in Canada and USA because Jet Li became popular in Lethal Weapon 4 and they were hoping to make money with his old Hong Kong movies. It worked....but I think Jet Li was talking about feelings and sensibility and 30 seconds later, he was killing 50 people. Friends even fight (almost) for fun. You saw The Replacement Killers, Supercop and Blade? You've seen Black Mask...The most ridiculous scene of the whole film was when Jet Li has no gun, faces a military tank and about a LITTLE hundred of marines...guess what...he kills everyone in the room and dodges missiles, lasers and bullets....awful! But when you want entertainment, watch this one. It looks like a comic book on a screen! I give it 63%. "},{"Title":"A good ending can't make up for a film full of irritating clap-drap","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My Age 13Tsui, played by Jet Li, escaped from the 701 squad, an elite force of warriors, hoping to lead a peaceful, happy life as a librarian.  But the 701 squad are killing off all the drug leaders, and Tsui is the only one with the power and training to stop them.  Helping him is Inspector Shek, played by Ching Wan Lau.I quite enjoy the martial arts genre and Jet Li's quick movements, especially after Lethal Weapon 4, but this film is so irritating.  The only enjoyable parts in it are the ocassional good action scenes, most of which are too fast to see what is happening anyway.  It has a fair plot which deserved a better movie, and I will say that one part was actually good, and that is the ending.  But the ending cannot save this film from the dismal doom it has already set for itself.  Another horrible aspect of this film was the dubbing.  It was terrible.  Instead of aiding us in helping to understand, it just makes the film even more irritating.  And the 701 squad's warriors were just so unrealistic, what they could do and what they could withstand.  Give this film a miss.Australian Classification MA 15+ Medium Level ViolenceRating 31 out of 100 (for the ending) "},{"Title":"That's 2 hours of my life I'll never get back...","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting your typical chop-socky flick with the usual nonsensical excuse for a plot, but they couldn't even get that right. The camera never stayed still long enough to allow a reasonable look at the sped-up stunt work, and the continuity was so bad that even the simplest of plot elements didn't work. Black Mask did not have a single redeeming quality aside from the fact that it ended.I have never actually walked out of a movie, but this time I came darn close.------------------------0.5/10 "},{"Title":"har har","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  well this is certainly a weird experience. kind of like bad taste vs. the phantom of the opera goes kung-fuwhat it's about there's this local ozzy osbourne with his dumb friends who'd run into a brick wall if ozzy says so. the thing is they obviously didn't pay the rent for the police station cellar where they live, so the local macho cop gets mad and goes to wup some bad guy butt, and a guy with a piece of corrugated cardboard on his face fits in there somewhere as well.what can i say? the editing is moronic, the music is horrible, no-one in the crew i guess payed attention to the settings that plain stinked and the acting is really funny, especially ozzy there.jet li and his macho buddy are ok actors, but otherwise it's just a bad movie that doesn't even make me laugh. "}{"Title":"Stink Stank Stunk","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a long time fan of Jet and his films, and of the whole body  of films in this genre that are truly great, I was looking forward to seeing this released on the big screens.After seeing the film I wished I had gone and rented the Suk series or Ninja Scroll...anything but what I had seen.The plot is paper thin, the action is lackluster at best. the supposed gore and mayhem is pale in comparison to many other films from HK. The stunts were weak, and i mean weak weak weak. There was more wire to be seen than in a communications closet at Cisco. Not only that but the few good fight scenes where speed up in such a way as to not appear an effect but an obvious editing gaff.I wont even get into the acting, or the amateur camera work (look for the headcutoff frames and the oh no im too close to a flying kick pull away).All in all this was a major turd that landed in the theaters. It makes me look forward to the next Jackie Chan rererelease. "},{"Title":"I've seen better.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I guess this will be the first negative review. I've been watching Jet Li do movies since the beginning of his acting career in China and I have to say, this is not one of his better films. Of course, this is not due to his inability to act. His performance was alright but the biggest fault of this movie was the fact that the film studio decided to dub it...which was the biggest mistake they could have made. The audience actually laughed in parts of the movie that were not actually meant to be funny and I can only attribute it to the poor translation of dialogue. I know this because I laughed as well. The movie would have been much better if it was subtitled.Here's a brief synopses of the story. Li is a genetically enhanced soldier created solely for the purpose of fighting. He discovers his humanity and decides that he no longer wants to be a soldier and decides to leave the core. Having successfuly emerged himself into the real world working as a librian he settles into his new life until he discovers that a group of his old comrades have decided to take their superhuman fighting skills and use it for terrorist purposes. Li comes out of hiding and single handedly takes out the terrorist group.The movie has an almost cartoon like feel to it which I assume was done on purpose but some of the props used could have been better. The mask that Li wore looked like something you buy at Home Depot for your garden. Wouldn't a cloth mask have been better and given Li's character a little bit more class? I think so. If you plan to watch this movie for the fight scenes, they were ok but in some places, the camera was too tight and you end up losing the effect of the fight. Li's martial arts abilities are probably one of the best in the world and people come to watch his movies because of that. Segal, Van Damme et al. have nothing on this man in the martial arts department. Jackie Chan comes close but his is more of an entertainment (tongue in cheek) perspective and he plays it beautifully. Li is more of an in-awe type style and directors should show that more. If you want to see some incredibly impressive martial arts from Li, try and find some of his early works from China. Some of them are subtitled, but many are not. In any case, you will see some fight scenes that will leave you an utter fan of Li as well as see some much better acting. Dubbing over his voice, and everyone else's voice makes the movie look silly takes away from Li's performance.I am sure that Li will be back in better movies and as soon as Hollywood figures out that filming fight scenes with Li cannot be done in the traditional, up close, completely coreographed slow manner that they have been doing for years with Segal and others. They will undoubtedly capture a brand new audience as well as convert many of the old.For those readers who I have offended by suggesting that Li is better than Segal and Van Damme, here's a little background info. Li has been taught by at least 10 of the world's best martial arts grand masters (including Bruce Lee's). He has also won the World Martial Arts Championship at least 10 times, if not more. (Rumor has it that he's won it 20 times, don't know).Overall, 5/10. See it only if you want to see some ok fight scenes or you're a die hard Li fan. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, before I write this comment, I just want to make it clear that I do like jet lee. Onward. I think the black mask should go down in the hall of fame of all time horrible movies. It's been about 5 years since I have seen the movie, and I still remember the horror as if it were just a week ago. It's like trying to forget something as traumatic as walking in on your parents. The acting was terrible. From what I remember the special effects were not that good ( at best) and the movie was originally shot in another language, so you know what that means. Words and voices that don't match the lips and people. I think having to sit through one of those two hour times share sales pitch's would be less painful than having to sit through this movie again. So please remember kids, when it comes to the black mask, just say no. "},{"Title":"for the love of god!","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is awful, and has quite possibly the worst dub in the history of cinema. Seriously, Jet Li, you do NOT work well with guns, and especially NOT with pseudo-techno-rap music.The only thing that redeems this terrible tripe of a plot and acting would be Francoise Yip... damn she is a hottie... even though her character sucked like the rest. "},{"Title":"well-choreographed karate scenes but without that it's not much of a movie","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  1st watched 3/3/2001 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Daniel Lee II) The best parts of this movie are the well-choreographed karate scenes, but without that it's not much of a movie.  The storyline has no originality and we care very little about the characters.  Sure Jet Li can kickbox but if that's all it takes to entertain us we're in trouble.  "},{"Title":"I'd have liked it better with real stunts...","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Went to see this movie hoping to see some flashes of the Jet Li we were amazed by in Lethal Weapon 4.  Unfortunately too many of his fight stunts are so clearly fake that it took even that enjoyment out of it. The flying kicks would be a lot more impressive if you couldn't see the wires holding him up as he flies through the air for 4 seconds and 9 kicks.Too cartoonish and very disappointing. "},{"Title":"In my opinion, this is the worst movie of all time.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jet Li is someone whom I am most familiar with from his small role in Lethal Weapon 4.  I disliked LW4, but felt that Jet Li seemed interesting, and I promised myself that I would go and see his next movie released in America. Sure enough, I went with my friend a week or so ago, and words can not describe how repulsive I found this to be.  I've always known Oriental films too often have a completely different feel and often manage to be campy, but I felt this film would have the fun and entertaining, yet overall cheesy feel that Jackie Chan had always managed.  My guess as to how this film would be could not be more wrong.  It was dubbed, which doesn't make a film bad, but it was hard to follow what they were saying as the mouths didn't follow in unison, which I always disfavor, although the quality of the film usually isn't taken away.  But the content of this movie was horrible. The wanton violence and overly elaborated amount of blood and killings was just there to bother me.  I've been known to love violent movies like Aliens and Halloween, but the violence here was just totally unnecessary.  Also, all this film was about was the combat sequences.  I have no clue what the story was even about, if there was one.  And this film was about ninety minutes long, which usually means that the film is short and sweet.  Even in the ninety minutes it played, it managed to feel like an agonizing five hour fight scene that wouldn't end.  All this film was about was the fighting, and that wasn't even achieved well.If you're Oriental and/or cultured in Jet Li films, you might like this one. But from the standpoint of being an American and just looking for a good action film, seek more.  This is in my opinion THE WORST MOVIE OF ALL TIME! I'm sorry to say it, but it's the truth.  It's just overall boring and the fight scenes (which is all there is) lead you nowhere except the exit sign. "}]