[{"Title":"severe plot line problem","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"43 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" While not a terrible movie it has a few serious problems. The problems start with the casting. Edward Furlong is cast to play the 16 year old son of parents played by Meryl Streep and Liam Neeson, but at age 16 he appears to be roughly five inches shorter than Streep and is utterly dwarfed by Neeson. Furlong looks more like he was their 12 year old son than their 16 year old son.Next problem is that certain points you need to catch at the beginning of the film simply slip by far to fast to catch. In a murder mystery or something with major plot twists that might be tolerable, but not in your ordinary family drama.But to me the most troubling problem (and if you are determined to see the movie regardless you might not want to read on, because this will give away most of the movie) is that it simply does not make sense.The story is Furlong has pulled off the road with his girlfriend and parked in the snow, gets stuck, they argue and tussle with each other, with him pushing her and accidentally causing her to fall face-first on the car jack. He then flees. She's found, rushed to the hospital and dies. The movie then deals with the family struggle of how to deal with this in court. Getting the kids' story out takes at least half the movie and by the time it gets out things are moving fast and little things, like making sense, get lost in the wake. If Furlong and the girlfriend TOGETHER had been absolutely unable to get the car out of the snow, and the deep rut he had made in it, it makes no sense that after she is spread out on the ground and unable to help he then gets the the car out by himself -- that is the kind of inconsistency any prosecuting attorney would have latched onto, and which any defense attorney would have seen as a major problem in court (I make these comments as a criminal defense attorney).But that's not the only problem with the kid's story. It was supposedly an accident. He cared about her. He never wanted to hurt her. And yet after she is hurt he cleans up the scene, gets that stuck car out of there, leaves, she is found and is STILL ALIVE long enough for an ambulance to reach her, get her to an emergency room and have a serious effort to save her life before she dies on the table in the ER. The entire issue of her having BEEN ALIVE and left to die is ignored. Not mentioned once by him, his family, the girl's grieving mother, his defense attorney, the prosecution or the judge who heard the case. It is as if the director forgot that in the second scene in the movie we see Meryly Streep, a doctor in the film, called to the ER to help with efforts to save the girl, long before we know her son was involved in the girl's death. The scene leaves no doubt (I went back and watched it a second time to be sure because the inconsistency seemed so glaring) that the girl was still alive when she reached the ER.But she was left to die by the kid for whom we are supposed to feel sympathy.Not only are there problems with the issue not having been properly addressed by any of the characters who would have addressed it, the fact that we need to feel sympathy for the kid is a problem. Easy to feel sympathy for him in having his life thrown into chaos as a result of an accident.... hard to feel sympathy when he would have had to have left his girlfriend there to die, and when in cleaning up the scene he would have had to have had enough contact with her (she fell on the car jack, and he removed the jack and put it back in the trunk of the car) that he certainly should have noticed she was still alive.Despite strong performances from the actors and good cinematography, the movie was a bit disappointing because of direction, casting and the script. "},{"Title":"There but for the grace of God....","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Reading the majority of comments about Before and After, I wanted to guess the commentators'ages (mostly in their twenties - thirties?) and to assume that they were either childless or had never raised teenagers. As announced by the young voice when the movie opens, this is a story of daily life that was changed in an instant, and that afterwards, the family was never the same again. It sounds like a tautology, but most of our lives are not interesting enough as material for the movies, and it is a rare script and director that can show daily life and have anyone praise its results. Ordinary dialogue, too, is a challenge, because people as a rule don't speak in great cadences. Moreover, if one is looking at the movies today, anything that is not family drama contains a volley of expletives that passes for dialogue. So it is understandable that this movie did not rate high in the minds of the x-generation. As a parent of teens, however, I found the film quite true to life. It's basically about how parents respond to a dire family crisis and how they must adjust to each other as a unit. We see how the son, as played by young Ed Furlong, is affected by the shock of this event. As an actor, his fine portrayal as the sensitive young writer in Grass Harp is a parallel role and should be mentioned. As for the parents, Streep was drawing on her experience as a mother of three and was not acting in the way one saw her in her obviously great roles, such as Sophie's Choice or Out of Africa. This was a subtler challenge for her. With Neeson, also a father in real life, he chose to portray the father as impulsive, strong and the embodiment of unconditional parental love. I felt that the parents were meant to be somewhat opposites and complementary-- she contemplative, more intellectual and sympathetic, he aggressive, protective and reactive.Some viewers were disturbed by the unbalanced and unsympathetic portrayal of the dead girl's mother and the dead girl herself. How could it be otherwise and not be told from Jacob or Jude's point of view? This is not Rashomon -- we were not meant to have different points of view defended. However, the very casting of the mother and of the girl friend as being less well educated and of a different class, was obvious, and another true thing that often happens in families. Here, however,it is not the parents' disapproval that is important, but how they respond to their son's guilt.Some viewers might say that my comments betray my being manipulated. Well, all viewers are being manipulated in any movie, and a measure of whether we like the movie or not, is whether we resent or do not mind being manipulated as the writer and director wished us to be. If someone watched this movie hoping for the suspense of a crime drama, they won't like it. If someone watched this hoping for dramatic acting as in the Oscar-winning roles of Streep or Neeson (I would have cited Lamb as his earliest and strongest), then they also would be disappointed. And if someone were watching this expecting something other than a presentation of daily life, then they would also be disappointed, because they would have found it flat, bland, even trite- until something dramatic, like the accident on Jacob's fateful date-- happens to jolt its members out of their routine and their complacency.  That is what this movie is about. I found myself agreeing with the entire gamut of the parents' reactions (which some viewers found stupid), but that is how parents (and even children) often behave in a crisis. I also found myself understanding both Jacob's and his sister's emotions. Jude didn't have many lines, but those she spoke were true and thought-provoking coming from a youngster of that age and maturity. One other crucial point is how the actors responded to each other as members of a family, and I found that they were not only well cast, but were all up to the challenge, delivering themselves quite honorably. This incident could have happened to any ordinary family, and there but for the grace of God, go I.Of four ****, I rate three and a half. "},{"Title":"Huge potential-bad script","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"24 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Before and After' is the kind of movie that you expect to be really fantastic. Great actors, good plot. It has huge potential. Unfortunately, the actual script seriously flaws this movie. There stand brilliant actors such as Liam Neeson, Meryl Streep, and Edward Furlong. But the actual words coming out of their mouths were often so silly, it makes you wonder how the same person who wrote 'The Silence of the Lambs' also wrote this screenplay. Overall, despite the script flaws, it has quite a good mystery, and besides the young daughter, a brilliant cast. It is worth a watch, if just for the main casts' beautiful performances. "},{"Title":"'Truth' vs. 'Justice' in OK drama","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" BEFORE AND AFTER Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby DigitalA middle-class New England family is forced to confront a range of difficult issues when the eldest child (Edward Furlong) is accused of murdering his girlfriend (Alison Folland).Barbet Schroeder's earnest drama looks and feels like a big-screen TV movie, toplined by A-list stars and filmed with professional elegance on wintry New England locations. Schroeder struggles to avoid melodrama and mawkishness, resulting in a lack of tension, as parents Meryl Streep and Liam Neeson become torn between protecting their son and telling the truth about his possible involvement in Folland's death. Frustrated lawyer Alfred Molina makes the point that 'truth' has little or no bearing on the criminal justice system, where defence and prosecution teams become engaged in brinkmanship designed to sway the jury one way or another. Ted Tally's screenplay makes a number of similar points, but the narrative begins to drift around the halfway mark and never really recovers. Some will be won over by the cast and production values, others won't be so forgiving. "},{"Title":"A Moderately interesting character study of a family in crisis.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Before and After has a fine premise - the girlfriend of their 16-yr-old son is found apparently murdered in the snow and the parents struggle with what to do. Eventually, when the son goes A.W.O.L., they suspect he commited a murder, and the whole family struggles with what to do. The father finds bloody items in the trunk of the car and is able to dispose of them before the sheriff returns with a search warrant. Eventually the son shows up, the father and mother disagree on what to do, the younger sister gets upset.Before and After also has some of the finest actors of our day - Liam Neeson as the father, Meryl Streep as the mother, Daniel Von Bargen as the sheriff.But, somehow the movie only works moderately well.  Some of the dialog is a bit dubious, some of the scenes are over-dramatic. I suppose it is a function of so-so writing and directing. Still, it is a film that kept my interest very well. The story got me to thinking what I would have done if any of my teenage children had gotten into a similar bind. With a great writer and director this could have been a 10 movie. I rate it 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"should have been a Lifetime original movie","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an all too common problem someone somewhere convinces bona fide movie stars, in this case Meryl Streep and Liam Neeson, no less, to appear in a feature film that, without movie star names attached, would have ended up as made for TV.  This is a weak script with bad, predictable dialogue - very disappointing with such a cast. With some reworking, it might have been a very powerful family story, perhaps never as compelling as Ordinary People, for instance, but better than it was. "},{"Title":"Compelling theme is weakened with low production standards","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The shortcomings of the United States' justice system are explored in Before and After. A youth (Jacob) is fighting with his girlfriend and she accidentally falls on a jack which kills her. The family grapples with whether or not to tell the truth not only the courts but to their own lawyer and police officer who is a family friend. Is it morally right to tell the truth that the girl's death was nothing more than a mere accident and hope that it will be believed or should a story be made up in the hopes that Jacob will be let off since the police have no evidence. (The father, in the interests of protecting his son, wiped the jack clean of the blood).We learn of course, that everyone is against the mother and son who want to just tell the truth, especially the lawyer who is interested more in getting Jacob off the hook, no matter how much of a story he has to invent, how many lies he has to tell, how many people's characters he has to besmirch. The moral structure behind the criminal justice system in the U.S. is uncovered as not one that seeks what is right or true but what kind of entertaining bi-polar battles between the defense and the prosecution can be unleashed in a furious game of words.While the theme of the film is compelling, the production standards are low. This seems more like a made-for-TV movie. With big guns like Liam Neeson and Meryl Streep you'd expect better acting. While Streep's performance is okay, Neeson seems like not the best choice for this role. Also, the actor playing the second dark-haired lawyer seems too clownish for his role. Surprisingly, I found that the young actors were the strongest. The actors playing the two children, especially Jacob were extremely skilled.  "},{"Title":"If you like unbelievable melodrama, you may like this","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ** Spoilers ** In this movie about a young boy who does not show up at home one cold evening and the ensuing mystery of why, there are plot holes galore how did the kid get the car out of being stuck, why did he drive home, why did he leave the bloody evidence in the trunk, where did he go on that cold night after returning the car to his home, what kind of clothes did he take with him, what did he do for money, why was the father so immediately defensive about his son, what was the motivation for the kid's remaining totally silent and sullen upon his first meeting with his parents, were they willing to let some other kid take the rap, why did the people who threw a rock through the widow wait around long enough to get caught up with? I could go on.The movie does hold your interest until you start asking yourself questions about what is going on.This is the weakest performance I have ever seen Meryl Streep turn in, she just does not seem engaged. Liam Neeson gives it a go, but is defeated by the poor script. Julia Weldon is O.K. as the daughter, but she speaks with a philosophical maturity well beyond her twelve-something years. I thought Edward Furlong was effective in playing the sensitive and moody teen and Alfred Molina brought some spark to his portrayal of a bulldog attorney. But overall pretty much a waste of acting talent.The unfortunate thing is that there was enough talent here to make this so much better if the script had just been tightened up. "},{"Title":"Overall well done","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. I had put off watching it for a long time because I thought it would fall on standard clichés in the telling of its murder mystery. But there's a lot to like here. For starters, the performances by the lead actors are first rate. Streep and Neeson come across as real people tackling a real problem. I should also add that Alfred Molina also gives a solid performance as the defense attorney. (Though the fact he looks like idiot movie critic Michael Medved gave me a few chuckles at times.) The script gives most of its characters a fair shake. The parents are sympathetic at times, but sometimes they make decisions we disapprove of. The townspeople and police are not one-note characters, showing off more than one side.The movie unfolds at a pace that keeps us interested and informed. It's directed with an appropriate bleak look that suits the subject matter.There is one flaw with the movie, however. I thought that Edward Furlong's character was repulsive, stupid, and hateful. I don't blame Furlong for this, but his direction and his parts of the screenplay. I think a better way the movie could have gone would be to give him a mixed view, neither overly sympathetic or hateful. This would make the viewer think long and hard about him, and wonder if his fate at the end of the movie is correct or not. "},{"Title":"Before (high hopes) and After (what happened!?)","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" .Spoilers.There was a lot of good things about this movie.  It was a compelling and interesting story right from the beginning.  The acting was seemingly well played...... until the third act.  What on earth happened to the direction of this film?  I have not read the book, so I don't know if it has the same direction as this movie played out... but the third act did not even seem like the same movie.  The acting took a nose-dive, and the melodrama began flowing freely like ipecac down the throat.From the beginning, I thought  Hey, sure, it's plausible that the Father wanted to save his son, and that these goofy things with the cover-up, and the family binding together to uphold the lie, were certainly no stretch of reason.  Then we get to mom's, and Eddie's character's confession, and the whole thing is a puke-fest of gotchas and ridiculous moral claims about right and wrong which are, at best, pointless opposing claims about whether right or wrong and the law are the same thing.Don't misread me, though.  I really enjoyed the beginning of this movie.  I just hated the end.6/10 "}{"Title":"Real Life versus You Life","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If there ever was a movie where you could discuss the pro and con of what was said and done and by whom, this be the one to the textbook. What would you have done is the question and then choose a side and here we go. The arguments for or against what these characters did or didn't do are meaningful and full of depth and remain even closer to real life than one would admit. The opposing points of view and the beliefs behind them remain fascinating. Mother, daughter, father and son each had their own take on what should be done and why. If you don't care to join in and play the different roles, then sit back and let this movie have its way with your emotions. It will push and pull on you, love and hate will surface as well as right or wrong and good and bad. College classrooms would find this good for debate purposes bar none. Popcorn or sunflower seeds recommended to keep the fingers busy plus a refreshing drink. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Family drama with an ethics theme","Date":"8 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If you've read to this point in the reviews then I suppose you will not be distressed by spoilers, but be on the alert. I discuss the ending. Spoilers coming.This movie is about a family in crisis and I found it quite involving overall. It also raises ponder-worthy questions about personal and legal ethics. I was afraid it would end in typical Hollywood style with the kid getting off scotfree. But telling the truth doesn't give him a pass; he must suffer the consequences of his actions. Of course the aggressive gotta-win attorney thinks his clients have acted in their own worst interests. But have they? Father and son do some prison time and then, the film suggests, the family heals and each member of it can move forward with a clear conscience. I agree with some of the complaints aired here by others but not all. I thought the production values were fine. It's a cold movie, a twilight and night movie, and the murky snow-filled landscapes and shadowy interiors seemed perfect. I don't see how anyone can complain about Meryl Streep's performance, which is understated and nuanced. Neeson's character is fierce; it's gotta be played fiercely and Neeson comports himself well. The son and daughter were not as effective; these young actors lack vocal power and fail to put across any subtext. "},{"Title":"Average.","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The locations are pleasing to the eye, and Meryl Streep is effortlessly convincing as the mother. But Liam Neeson's performance doesn't ring true for a moment, Edward Furlong appears to be less shocked by the gruesome events than simply stoned, and the outcome of the plot is awkward and unconvincing. Before and After is basically a small-scale family melodrama that belongs on the TV screen; without these high-profile actors, I wonder if it would ever have gotten theatrical distribution. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Good Movie - Moral Dilemma","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I recently saw this movie again after first seeing it in the movies when it first came out.The premise of the story was good - what would you do if you suspected a family member of creating a terrible crime. Would you try and cover it up or would you turn the person in and tell the truth. These are some of the questions Liam Neeson and Meryl Streep as the parents have to contend with. I enjoy both of their acting and felt that Liam Neeson as the father was more realistic, while I felt that Meryl Streep seemed a little wishy washy. I didn't care for the son, played by Edward Furlong at all. I thought he was too blah and mopey and I didn't have much sympathy for him at all. There were also good performances by Alfred Molina as the defense attorney and Julia Wheldon, who played Liam and Meryl's daughter. The movie moved along well and I felt that the ending was satisfactory. I was glad that the movie showed that people must take responsibility for their actions. All in all a good movie. "},{"Title":"Streep and Neeson make this worth watching","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I first watched this film several years ago on cable, and then watched it again tonight. I walked away from it this time being even more impressed -- overall -- with it as a drama, and with the much of the acting. And that's saying a lot because I very much dislike Liam Neeson, and usually ignore films in which he stars.The story itself is rather depressing because it tells of the virtual disintegration of a family as a teenaged son is accused of murdering his girlfriend. The mother (Meryl Streep) is probably the parent acting most responsibly, although she cannot conceive that her son might actually murder someone (the That's just not him scenario that is all too common among modern parents -- and I say that as a long time teacher and school principal). The father is taking more the attitude that he's guilty, but we'll protect him no matter what -- literally destroying crucial evidence.Streep and Neeson are superb here (although that doesn't mean you'll like or respect Neeson's character). We've come to expect perfection from every Streep role, and here she does not disappoint. Julia Weldon, as the young teen daughter, is also excellent; very believable.As good as those performances are, there are two disappointments. Edward Furlong, as the son, well...as his later career has demonstrated, just doesn't have it to be a successful actor. His only real talent in this film seemed to be his ability to look mournful. He was almost painful to watch. And Alfred Molina...I've seen some performances of his that have been quite good...but not this one. I feel he totally misplayed the role of defense attorney.I thought the movie was quite good, and the acting both good and poor, depending on the actor. But, twice is enough. "},{"Title":"before and after - both times interesting","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I read half of the reviews and boy, is there a difference of opinion. Some people feel the actors and plot suck, others are impressed with both.Put me in the latter category. Julia Weldon as the daughter who is wise beyond her years (hard to believe she's now in her 40s) is both appealing and convincing. As for Furlong, he was as tense and intense as the part demanded. One critic griped about him being so short compared to Neeson. Remember Michael Gross and Michael J. Fox? Those were really mixed genes.I could not put down Streep, one of today's strongest actresses. I felt she was as good as usual - meaning better than most; I always enjoy Neeson and am usually convinced that he is who he says he is.Some folks complained about plot holes. There were some loose ends, but they didn't bother me. That is the way this particular scenario played out.All in all, it kept me engrossed and, yes, I would recommend it - both 'Before' and 'After.' "},{"Title":"It's Just Too Hard to Swallow","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm probably repeating some of the issues already put forward concerning this film. The father in this movie is an utter ass. He acts only in his own self interest. If such a creep exists, we can see why the kid is a bit messed up. The plot follows the discovery of a young girl's body and a link to a young man (the son) who is connected to her. Once the father, played by Liam Neeson, goes bananas and starts destroying evidence, the die is cast. Meryl Streep's doctor/mother tries to look at things in a sane way, but she is constantly overpowered by her brutish husband. She is a realist and knows what needs to be done. The father makes it so much worse than it could have been that options are really limited. Also, Alfred Molina's lawyer role is so full of it. He chomps on a sandwich while talking about the most serious issue in the world. This is supposed to fill us with confidence (he may be eccentric but I'll bet he's really good). The script and the formulation of the events in this film, not to mention much of the acting just doesn't cut it very well. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" From the beginning I had my doubts about this film. During the opening scene, I braced myself for an onslaught of Sundance clichés, but as the film progressed, I was pleasantly surprised. Before and After is a gem of a character study with believable performances by Meryl Streep and Edward Furlong. Liam Neeson's performance as a father with a reserved psychotic sense of protection toward his son is one of the film's highlights. There were some weak spots in the dialogue, but otherwise the script was well-written and engaging.Be prepared to be sucked into this movie; it's slow-paced, but the subtle suspense will make it nearly impossible to stop watching. Just when you think the film has told its story and can't develop any further, you discover that you've seen the beginning of Act II instead of the film's climax. "},{"Title":"Well-Acted Drama","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very good movie.  A family gets rocked by tragedy and must get to the heart of their son's secret.  This isn't a typical crime drama because the real issue is the reaction of the parents.  The acting is so superb that that is enough.  This movie stands out for not trying to do too much, What is successful about it is how real everything comes across. I complement the producers of this film for taking the chance they did with this great screenplay.   "},{"Title":"Very Plausible and Feasible!","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is very plausible as it revolves around teenagers from families rich and average, how the average people see the rich one as money buying everything and the average ones disapprove of it; when in fact there are some rich families which don't think that way as seen in this film. This film is very feasible as it looks on behalf of one's personal development and how one focuses on how they suffered in a tragic process, the price we pay, focusing on life's lessons and every person and family has problems. It also shows how one deals with a problem in such a difficult situation and we see what happened then, and what has happened to us now. Watch the common plausible and feasible ways of life between the rich and average communities and people. "}{"Title":"A tragic death in a small town","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ****Spoilers**** Sitting at the dinner table with his parents and little sister Jacob,Edward Furlong, finally opens up and tells the story of what happened between him and Martha Traverner, Alison Folland, since Martha was found dead in the snow outside of town. Jacob was on the run as a fugitive from justice for the a week until he was found and arrested at a friends house. Last seen with Martha as he picked her up where she worked at Jacey's Ice Cream Parlor in town Jacob was the prime suspect in her death. Now after being apprehended and let out on bail he had to get what happened to Martha off his chest and the story wasn't a pretty one, but it wasn't as bad as it could have been either. Jacob did indeed kill Martha but it was a tragic accident. Gripping story about a father and mothers love for their troubled son and how they went about to save him from being put behind bars for killing his girlfriend and how it destroyed their lives as well as, of course, the lives of the parents of the girl who was killed. Jacob's mother Carolyn Ryan, Meryl Streep, wanted only the truth about her son actions in regard to Martha's death to come out in court and felt that it would exonerate him. His father Ben Ryan, Liam Neeson, on he other hand wanted to do everything possible and even went as far as destroying evidence in order to protect him. Jacob in the end sided with his mother and wrote out a full confession which his father could not bring himself to sign. Jacob was 16 years old and needed his parents signature to make the confession legal, and in effect threw himself on the mercy of the court. Jacob didn't bother to defend his actions which his father and lawyer Penos Demeris, Alfred Molina, begged him to do. Before and After is a story that has no happy ending no matter how you look at it, for both the victim and the accused. Its realism makes the film more effective and believable then most movies about courtroom dramas which usually have cop-out and feel-good or surprise endings. The story is told in retrospect from Jacob's little sisters Judith's, Julia Weldon, point of view. You already see from the start of the movie that things were never the same for Julia and her family when the film started. Meryl Streep as the mother is both protective and at the same time confident of the court and jury that her son Jacob was to face in his trial. Liam Neeson as the father was just the opposite not trusting the jury to acquit his son no matter how strong the evidence was in Jacob's favor that Martha's death was an accident. Jacob went with his mothers feeling in telling the truth and leaving it up to the judge instead of going to trail. In the end Jacob and his family were left to see if he was right or wrong in that decision. Strong performances all around with a really powerful scene in the movie towards the end when Carolyn is confronted by Martha's mother Terry, Ann Magnuson, at the hospital where Carolyn works as a doctor. No matter how much Carolyn tries to tell Terry how sorry she is about what happened to her daughter Terry is totally unmoved to the point where Carolyn is overcome with tears. You couldn't blame Terry for feeling like she did, her daughter was dead and Carolyn's son, no matter what the outcome of the court will be, is alive. Those in the movie acted as if they really believed in what the story was trying to tell us That a parent burying their child is the worse kind of tragedy imaginable, no matter what the circumstances of their child's death was. The film also brought out that those who have a son or daughter who was responsible for that death will have to, as well as their son or daughter, carry that guilt with them for the rest of their lives as well. "},{"Title":"Great Film!! Read the book!!!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie for one reason, and one reason only-Edward Furlong. But when I rented this movie (or rather my parents, for my birthday)I didn't expect the movie to be so great. I was watching, and I thought, wow, this would make a great book. After the 2nd time I watched it, i noticed that it was a book, and it was twice as good as the movie.The movie is about a teen(Edward Furlong) who runs away after murdering his girlfriend. His parents are doctor (Meryl Streep) and artist (Liam Neeson. After their son is reported missing, they spend at least 1/2 of the movie waiting for him and bearing nasty and sometimes brutal words from the rest of the townspeople. When he gets back, we hear what really happens, and from then on, the movie sort of sags, and eventually dies. The cast was great, though, and the script was so close to the book, which made me pretty happy to see.If you are into crime drama, this is a definite 10!!! A must see. (Plus Edward Furlong is EXTREMELY hot) "},{"Title":"So so movie, good points","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  (Minor spoilers)Well, it has Hallmark written all over it, but the actors made it interesting. Neeson's character was quite stupid (not dumb, but rash), but to his credit he was willing to do anything in order to protect his son. And he has a great line (about the Abraham-Isaac story) Everybody agrees that Abraham had great faith in God when asked to execute his only son, and went to do so. But they seem to miss a vital point... who would want him for a father? I sure wouldn't.And Alfred Molina as a cynnic lawyer was awesome! Sure he sounds and acts like a lowlife, someone who has defended (and gotten off) every posible type of criminal. But think about this. Who would you rather have handle your defense, him or Merryl Streep's character (who will burn anyone in order to purge her guilt)? Once again, it's just my opinion, I could be wrong, maybe every defendant is innocent (sort of) and is better off telling ALL the truth. "},{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The plot of Before And After is a good idea, but is ruined by the trite treatment given here. Liam Neeson (Ben) and Meryl Streep (Carolyn) turn in surprisingly weak acting jobs here. It gets boring real fast. Personally, I was annoyed by the obvious attempts to manipulate viewers into sympathizing with the Ryan family, for instance when Martha (Jacob's girlfriend) was portrayed as selfish and promiscuous, and when Martha's mother was shown as ugly, bitter and snipy in contrast with saintly Carolyn. The postcard device was also confusing and contrived, and the lawyer was too much of a stereotyped caricature. The only character I cared about was Judith (Jacob's sister), as an innocent victim of the rest of the family's panicked stupidity. Too much oversimplified moralizing, not enough character development. A timewaster. "},{"Title":"Once again, split opinions aplenty","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's amazing to read the reviews on these pages, how everyone has an opinion about films and especially a film that tries to be as close to real life as possible. Some find it a relevant character study, others are hung up on the plot holes. To be more precise, a gaping plot hole as the mystery of this plot is finally unfolded.To get in my point, this is a movie. It's not the best movie ever made, to me it doesn't really represent reality and there are plot holes, but I simply don't care. I am more interested if a movie can involve me or even change me in some way. Sad to say, this does not fall under that category.I am a great fan of both Liam Neeson and Meryl Streep. I will go as far as to say that Meryl Streep can play just about everything. But in playing a part that you perhaps invest a little too much of yourself in, you fall victim to either trying too hard not to show that you're acting or trying to overact. For this film, I wish the actors were a little more willing to overact. That would have made this a lot more enjoyable. Everything, from the characters reactions to the machinations of the plot seem overly calculated. There is not a big moment of release, as is normally usual in these types of film. Liam Neeson seems at first to be a buffoon in what he does to protect his son, but then we get reasoning, that what he did, is exactly what you should do in cases like these. A little too much of a coincidence, don't you think? As for Edward Furlong, he looks so tiny. It is actually brilliant casting because never in a million years, would you consider him a threat to anything. Liam Neeson looks like he could squash him with his thumb. Meryl Streep could probably kill him with one slap.There should not be made some significance about a movie like this. Don't dare call it reality. It is at least a distorted reality. Character study? They do a better job on something like any drama series you can think of. "},{"Title":"Such a bad story. Can't believe all these great actors agreed to this movie.","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's hard to understand why some movies ever got made. Who ever green-lighted this unconvincing and formulaic story to be filmed? And even bigger question, why did all of these great and established names committed themselves to this project? Thing with this movie its story is that it never reaches a level above average. No shocking surprises or twists, no real convincing emotions, no tension. It feels just like a very empty and distant movie. The story unfolds itself as a very unconvincing one, since some very unlikely things start to happen in the movie. I just never understood the fact why the parents weren't desperate to get the truth from their son. They just eat together as an happy family, when the son is being nothing but death silent about the whole situation. This would had ticked me off as a parent and would had driven me insane. Just imaging your son being the main suspect in a murder case but he doesn't say anything to you about what happened. I would feel so mad at him and terribly unsure but not Liam Neeson and Meryl Streep. Also the way how the entire suddenly seemed to be against the family seemed so incredibly forced and silly that it all became incredibly unconvincing. The movie doesn't make you sympathize enough for any of its characters or with its drama. It would had perhaps also helped if the boy was really innocent and had nothing to do with the death of the young girl at all.Yes, there definitely are far worse movies out there but that doesn't make this movie a good one. Even though the movie never gets above the level of average it also never goes below the level of horrible. It's just a very average movie, by the numbers.Meryl Streep, Liam Neeson, Alfred Molina, Edward Furlong and John Heard are all actors that appear in this movie and it really makes you wonder why. I just can't imaging after reading the script that they seriously thought this would make a great, powerful and effective movie, that would leave a lasting impression on people and could even sweep some awards. All actors make some mistake in their careers and this movie seems to be one for all of them. Also some actors just get terrible underused in this movie. What was the point of the John Heard character? And why is Alfred Molina role so small in this. His role seemed like it could had played a far more important one for the movie. It could at least had given the story some more depth with its entire court proceedings.Not an horrible movie but I just can't think of any reasons why you should ever watch it.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Gobble, Gobble","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" How you could take Meryl Streep, Liam Nelson and Alfred Molina and only produce a half baked turkey like this is beyond me. But they did. The plot, as serpentine as it was, could have made sense. But it plays against human nature a good part of the time. Or maybe it was just the dialogue that wasn't human. I plugged along with this tired play only to see how it ended. It did. The idea that a 16 year old could get himself into so much trouble is not unbelievable. And after killing someone, even accidentally, one would probably become panic stricken. But I think it's human nature to try and hide the crime, not just leave all the clues and drive your family car home with blood in the trunk, including the mysterious bloody glove (where did that come from?) As for the father, he should stick with art. By trying to hide what he assumes is his son's crime, he only makes it worse. Meryl is a mother and she plays that part well. In fact she is the only believable character. Julia Weldon must be well connected because she can't act and that was a major drawback. The dichotomy of whether one should support family at all costs or seek the truth for all involved ( for the sake of society) is not new. As an artist, if he were from Bulgaria or some such country, Nelson's character might seem more believable. Everything is corrupt there. But here, we still assume that the innocent may get a fair shake, in spite of 6 years of the current regime's attempts to take away all rights of anyone they don't like. Never been a big fan of Furlong and his whining seems to be nearly continual in anything he does. Is there a casting call for whiners? There was a kernel of an idea in this movie, but without the proper care, it just became nutty. "},{"Title":"frustrating","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  you know those mystery movies where everyone seems to do one dumb thing after another? this is one of those the acting was good, the basic plot premise was good, the family dynamics felt real, but there were enough screw-ups thrown in that it was frustrating to watchhome sick & nothing better is on? watch it otherwise, give it a miss "},{"Title":"The innocents are not so innocents","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In several films dealing with murders and courts I have seen too many plots going directly to their end and leaving little of reality, i.e. somewhat artificially done. The present one is, in my opinion, different. Although the son of Ryan's family (Jacob) proved to be a normal guy and not guilty of what the whole community thought about it, the court finally sentenced him for a short period in prison. This was because He did not inform immediately to the justice of what happened to him with his girl-friend, and the way she accidentally killed herself. Another interesting aspect of the film is the good acting of Liam Neeson. He did it in such a real way that I thought he was really Jacob's father, a man loving his son but with too much impulses and low level of thinking. Meryl Streep was excellent as usual while Edward Furlong as Jacob did it also very well.    "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a lame movie. Still not sure why I sat through it, apart from the hope that it would get better.First off, the acting is bad, very bad. Meryl Streep is above average and Alfred Molina is decent, but that's about it. I felt like whacking Liam Neeson several times throughout. I suppose he did the best with his character, but his character was too stupid and annoying to appreciate. Edward Furlong, who, in my opinion, is overrated, was also horrible in his typical role as a troubled teen (See American History X, Terminator II, and Pet Sematary II, etc.). In every movie he's been in, he always looks like he's about to start crying, no matter what the scene may call for, and that got on my nerves tremendously. Okay, in American History X he was above average (still shadowed tremendously by the wonderful Edward Norton), but in this movie he's just... well... bad. And the girl who plays the daughter--Julia Weldon, whoever she is--was the worst of all.The plot and screenplay also suffer. This could've been an interesting--if not entirely original--suspense film. I was expecting something similar to Primal Fear (1996), with interesting twists and plot developments. However, we get nothing in that department. Instead we get a simple, boring storyline that is somewhat predictable. The anticlimax is horribly disappointing.Avoid this movie if you're looking for something suspenseful. This is basically just a simple drama. If you want a good movie about a convicted kid who may or may not be innocent, see Primal Fear with Richard Gere and Edward Norton. "}{"Title":"annoying family","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ben (Liam Neeson) and Dr. Carolyn Ryan (Meryl Streep) are a regular couple until Martha Taverner is killed. Sheriff Fran Conklin (Daniel von Bargen) tells them that their son Jacob (Edward Furlong) was dating Martha and the last one to see her. Ben refuses to let Conklin search the car without a warrant. Ben finds bloody clothes in the trunk of the car and decides to burn it. Family friend Wendell Bye (John Heard) is their lawyer. Jacob goes on the run while the town turns against the family. Inquisitive daughter Judith Ryan (Julia Weldon) struggles with the family turmoil. Jacob is arrested and they hire criminal defense lawyer Panos Demeris (Alfred Molina).Carolyn's relentless naivety is kind of annoying. I understand that's the character but it is annoying nevertheless. While she's clueless, he's completely unstable. He's doing stuff that makes no sense. I find these parents annoying when they're trying desperately to be the Cleavers. It's horribly melodramatic like a bad TV movie. This family keeps making stupid mistakes and I can't root for them. Edward Furlong is fully into his angry teenage years. It doesn't even allow for a mystery. The kid tells his parents the truth but tells his lawyer a fabrication. That makes no sense. It's like they don't understand legal privilege which is annoying because they seem to be educated people. "},{"Title":"Good drama. Liam is as always brilliant!","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The most striking aspect of this film, besides the usual wonderful performance by Liam Neeson (one of my favorite actors), is the incredible resemblance of the actress Julia Weldon, who plays Judith, the sister of Edward Furlong's character, to Zachary Hanson, the youngest brother of the boy bad HANSON. The resemblance is so distracting that I couldn't believe that this person WASN'T Zachary. I couldn't understand why a boy wanted to play a girl, but I was still impressed with his/her approach to the role. If you haven't seen it, please do just for the novelty of it. Its a good story, well acted and directed, but the real star of the movie is that cute kid Zach Hanson who plays the younger sister  (or so you'll think). "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think the movie was very intense and such a great character study. Meryl Streep is amazing in every role she plays and I think she should have gotten way more Oscars. The actors transform this great script into a great movie! Everybody who likes dramas should give it a try. "},{"Title":"Low-key playing of a moral dilemma...courtroom justice...","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" At least MERYL STREEP is not required to don an accent for her role as a New England housewife whose son accidentally kills his girl friend during an argument--and the father, who deeply loves the boy, tries to cover up the crime by hiding the evidence.That's about the thrust of the plot--and the rest of the film has these three coping with the moral problems involved in not telling the whole truth to the lawyer assigned to defend the boy.Streep gives one of her more natural performances, as does LIAM NEESON as the upset father who needs some anger management. ED FURLONG is excellent as their sensitive, brooding son who realizes he can't go on lying about the whole matter, regardless of consequences.Well done and steers away from becoming the overwrought, overwhelmingly melodramatic film this would have been if it were made into a Joan Crawford film in the 1940s, with Joan protecting her child at all costs.The pace is too slow, but it's worth viewing if only to see Streep, Neeson and Furlong in excellent performances. "},{"Title":"Believable and touching","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  By the end of this movie I was in love with Jacob Ryan (Furlong) a 16-year-old who is accused of murdering his thankless girlfriend. The movie is obviously geared in favor of Jacob who causes the death of Martha Taverner, a two-timing teen (Alison Folland) then suffers the consequenses. Jacob's concerned parents (Liam Neeson and Meryl Streep) are wonderful and convince you to love Jacob as much as they do despite his flat-out don't-care attitude. Even so, Edward manages to pull off a few heart wrenching scenes. Jacob's sister Jude (Julia Weldon) is indeed a loving young girl who cares about the truth as well as the welfare of her brother. Despite what critics say, I found the Ryan family most believable and even touching at times. The way they talk to each other and relate to one another is not unlike real life.  However,there are holes in this story, almost leaving it open for a TV series or somesuch to fill in the gaps. "},{"Title":"Balky murder yarn with the emphasis on an unconvincing family...","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Director Barbet Schroeder's curiously artificial drama, adapted from Rosellen Brown's book, concerns teenager Edward Furlong, a boy from a stable home, standing accused of killing his girlfriend in a snowy New England town. The family dynamics (with Meryl Streep and Liam Neeson as Furlong's parents) seem strangely off-kilter in a picture that depends on a realistic familial unit (it just doesn't come off, despite the talent involved). The film's editing is tight, while the cinematography and vividly-drawn flashbacks lend a much-needed sinister air to the proceedings. Unfortunately, Schroeder's direction overall is pitched far too high, as is Neeson's unsuccessful performance. A mildly intriguing near-miss. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Why did they do it?","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Weak story.  Appalling script.  Poor actor performances. Neeson's character was an idiot who wasted no opportunity to demonstrate this.  Streep's character would want to make up her mind who she is. As for the title - this misleads the viewer.  There didn't seem to be much of a 'before'.  We are given few insights into the 'before'; arguments with raised fists and dismissal with comments such as When you grow up.....etc. Surprised to see great actors like Streep and Neeson here.  Can't understand what they saw in Furlong and I hope they reconsider casting him in T3. "},{"Title":"after all, we're still here","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Before and After isn't any kind of great movie, but an interesting look at situations going out of control. Meryl Streep and Liam Neeson turn in their usual good performances, as does Edward Furlong. It's just that this story of parents having to deal with their son getting accused of murder is sort of routine (although some scenes are pretty intense). It seems like Streep and Neeson deserve something a little more than this. The people behind the movie probably could have developed things a little further.All in all, this movie's worth seeing, if only once. Also starring Alfred Molina, Daniel Von Bargen (Commandant Spengler on Malcolm in the Middle) and John Heard. "},{"Title":"too much message, whatever it might be, almost in spite of its good points","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Bits and pieces of this film by director Barbet Schroeder Before and After are all I had seen before I watched the film from start to finish tonight, maybe because it never seemed like something that was very much worthy to stick to for long on TV. Now after, it's never quite as successful as it aspires to almost in spite of what the cast is up to deliver. But what makes the film fall apart even when it reaches for grounded, dark family drama, is that there is an inherent 'message' being pushed with the material, and there is more potential for the dynamics of these characters than is mined. In fact, this could have been a very good film, bordering on excellent, if all the expectations that could come with a 'movie' version of such a realistic story had been subverted. As it is, Liam Neeson, Meryl Streep, and Edward Furlong do what they can with characters that border between two and two and a half dimensional characters (if that makes sense). They're all extremely competent and put power where it's needed in scenes. But the whole lot of it almost seems to a kind of 'meh' point, like an episode of Law and Order that goes more for the upper-middle class decay than the interest in the case itself of the murder committed by the teenage Furlong. No one is necessarily a 'bad' character, which ironically places some of what ends up occurring on screen after the first hour being bland and predictable. There are maybe two or three really well-done scenes in the whole film (i.e. when Neeson and Streep first visit Furlong in jail, with an impeccable silence from the child to the emotional parents), floating amid what could just as well be a TV movie trumped for Hollywood. It's also sad to report that a supporting actor like Alfred Molina is almost misused, which rarely every happens with his character-actor parts; compared to his best roles in other indie and blockbuster films the quality of 'ah, Molina's in this' lasts for maybe three minutes. Worth watching maybe once, though if you don't stick through it to the end it's not the end of the world- probably one of Shroeder's lesser films. "},{"Title":"a boy, a mistake, a great movie!","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  this movie is very good. the plot line is well written and well directed. if you like dramas and crime, then watch this movie. furlong plays jacob ryan, a 16 yr old boy like many others, except he is suspected for murder. after being a fugitive for 5 weeks jake comes home to a family who expects him to be the same he was, and are surprised when he isnt. his younger sister jude, shows worry and is the first to talk to him. i couldnt turn away from this movie, it was intense and the feelings revoked were intense. i recommend this movie. "}{"Title":"I hate this movie!!!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This goes down in my book as the worst movie that I did not walk out of. The entire movie was unrealistic.  Meryl Streep completely overacted and by the end of the movie, I completely lost respect for all the actors involved that they would appear in such garbage. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have this film. Edward Furlong does a lovley job the younger sister was getting on my nerves. Liam Neesons character I wanted to shoot. but I brought this because of Eddie Furlong without him the movie would suck!! "},{"Title":"Only Liam Neeson is worthy of mention in this film","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Before and After had some good potential for the first 30-50 minutes but after the introduction of Edward Furlong as Jacob Ryan it started to fall downhill, almost like the snowball effect; it started diminishing slowly but picked up speed as it progressed.  I've always been a fan of Liam Neeson ever since Michael Collins and Schindler's List.  He is a very powerful actor with amazing credibility.  He is in this case the only reason to watch this movie.  I know many people like Meryl Streep, and I think she is a good actress too, but she did absolutely nothing in this movie.  I think this can be attributed in part to the poor script.  The writers for this movie must have been half asleep when working on this one.  The lines are somewhat corny and some are incredibly at inoportune times in the movie.  A mother would not be smiling and laughing when her son has been gone for a week.  Things like that make this less than average.Edward Furlong wasn't bad in American History X, but I didn't think he did too much in T2. In Before and After, he was really, really bad.  I honestly think it wasnt the makeup that made him look drugged.  The daughter's role in the movie was really bad as well.  Again, this was partly due to the writers but also I have seen many many better child actors.Cinematography was vastly under used in this movie.  There were some scenes where a creative camera angle could have made it so much more, but nothing was done to make this very memorable.  This is a movie that has your usual kind of sentimentaly stupid plot.  I guess you've gathered that I didn't like this one that much.  I have written other reviews if you care to take a look at them.  I'm a pretty objective person when it comes to movies. Overall, I think its safe to pass on this one. "},{"Title":"Pretty good....","Date":"21 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Before I talk about this movie, i need to state that it has one of the top ten actresses in it.  Of course, I mean Meryl Streep.  Anyways, the movie ahd a good storyline, but had some bad casting.  Liam NEeson, who plays Streeps husband, plays his part great, but you want to shoot his character. Edward Furlong just annoys me overrall (T2 could have been so much better without him in it).  The girl wh oplays the litle sister can't act for crap. There were scenes, I thought, that were not dramatic enough because of the script and some of the characters.  But both Streep and Neeson are great. "},{"Title":"Edward's Performance incredible!","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie goes as evidence of Edward Furlong's incredible potential. He himself led a captivating performance, definitely outdoing Meryl Streep and Liam Neeson, who were terrible. The plot was suspenseful, and Edward's character, Jacob Ryan, played out the suspense and thrill. Definitely a 10! ~Sakinah "},{"Title":"Problem Child","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Edward Furlong, somehow always manages to star in some good films and that probably is due to the fact that he chooses scripts in which he is something of a problem child or a social outcast. Anyway he always is a child that is far from normal and mostly a child out of luck. In T2 his mum is in the loony bin, in American History X he plays a full blown neo nazi, in this one he is wanted for murder. I could go on like this, but I do not want to bore you. Anyway the cast kind of speaks for itself, Liam Neeson, Meryl Streep plus Furlong, who is always good as the &#145;problem child' or the outcast or the &#145;strange one'. The names imply what this film is and fortunately not only they deliver a good performance, but so do all other actors and the director and on top of that the script is good too. No fast paced thriller this is though it is more or less of a simple crime movie that is somehow touchy (no not a drama). I enjoyed it and you might want to check it out too if you like these kind of movies, or as I maybe only because I like almost all of Furlong's movie I have seen.7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Before and After is about a young boy who has a bad temper, he ends up in jail after when he is guilty for hitting his girlfriend after an argument about something. The parents of the youngster have to keep everything together and help the young boy. i give this movie 10 out of 10. "}]