[{"Title":"Breathtaking scenery...","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie is visually stunning. In a nutshell this movie is about a father who is a pilot and delivers toilet paper around the Alaskan wilderness. His plane crashes and his kids go out to search for him after being angry at the authorities for not doing enough to find their father. They free a cute little polar bear cub who has been caught by a poacher and the polar bear helps them find their lost father. The storyline isn't anything special and basically we have all seen a movie like this many many times. You know the..'kids go out to rescue mother/father/uncle/grandpa and get into lots of life threatening situations with cute animal in toe, but everything is a just fine and dandy in the end'.Was good to see Dirk Benedict who played Jake Barnes in Alaska, in something as I loved him in The A Team all those years ago. Thora Birch plays the part of Jessie Barnes his daughter and does the kind of acting job that we have come to expect from her... excellent. Vincent Kartheiser plays Sean Barnes the typical anx ridden/angry teenager who comes good and to the aid of his father.If you like visually beautiful movies and don't need them to be intellectual masterpieces, then watch Alaska "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Family Film That the Whole Family Can Enjoy (SPOILERS)","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a wonderful family movie for everyone to enjoy.  But I guess I'm kinda biased because I love almost everything Thora Birch is in, and if not I love every single scene of the movie that's terrible she's in. I had seen Thora Birch playing Harrison Ford's daughter in Patriot Games and enjoyed her work, so I wanted to check her out in this movie and was rather impressed.Alaska was a great movie I took my cousins to see.I thought Alaska was awesome! Much better than all that mindless wholesome movies starring actresses like Hilary Duff and the Olsen twins anyway. I do believe people under the age of 40 would like it better than others because I was one of the youngest ones in the theater when I watched it. Now that's really saying something. But besides that, it's a really good movie and I may be wrong and everyone may enjoy it! Take the whole family to see it! It's a really great movie! When this film was released I knew it would get criticism, either by the premise of stealing money, or by it's similarities between Gold DiggersThe Secret of Bear Mountain. I do not agree that it is like Gold Diggers, Alaska is a lot better. It even made me tear up a bit as Jessie and the bear cub's friendship was shown.The movie is about Jessica (Thora Birch-Monkey Trouble, Now and Then) and Sean Barnes (Vincent Kartheiser) who are two kids living in Alaska with their dad Jake (Dirk Benidict) who flies supplies to small towns in the wilderness. On one of his flights, Jake encounters bad weather and his plane ends up crashing into a mountain side. Frustrated by unsuccessful rescue attempts, Jessie and Sean set out on their own to find their dad whose wrecked plane hangs from the edge of a mountain peak. Along the way the kids encounter Collin Perry (Charlton Heston) and Mr. Koontz (Buck Fraiser), two poachers who've just killed a mother polar bear and taken its cub to sell overseas. The kids free the bear, which they nickname `Cubby, and it follows them for the rest of their journey. Of course the poachers want their bear cub back so they follow the kids hoping to get Cubby. From then on, the kids must deal with the poachers, as well as the dangerous Alaskan landscape, as they make their way to rescue their dad. This movie had some really neat climbing sequences, good action, spectacular scenery but it lacked a few laughs. Fraser Clarke Heston manages the climbing scenes well, and the film has some pretty odd moments.Thora Birch is great and gorgeous, she gives a good performance, and her dad and brother are also good.The poachers are a bit one dimensional, but it doesn't really matter to the kids, which is the audience most likely to be attracted to this movie. When seeing this with your kids and that it's just a movie. Don't let them take it too seriously, but hey, they're kids. With so many children's movies about kid's bank heists and a whole lot of action, wholesome family movies starring teen queens traveling to some foreign place, this movie is, not to sound cliche, a complete breath of fresh air, educational, good acting.  7/10.  "},{"Title":"Nonsense, but worth watching for Birch and Heston.","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Watched this on TV because I really wanted to see Thora Birch acting at 14. SPOILERS follow (but nothing you won't work out for yourself five minutes into the movie).There's lots of nice scenery, and some decent animal training, but it's poor for lots of reasons &#150; it views like silly cutesy kids schmaltz, maybe because that's what it is. Birch is good &#150; not as dazzling as she is today, but you can see it coming. Charlton Heston has always been a fine actor and a great star and, in a feeble role as a comedy heavy, gives an acting masterclass to everyone around him.There's one ghastly vomit-inducing moment which shows how lightly some of these hack movie-makers regard the characters they've created. OK, setup Dad's a pilot who's just taken a job in Alaska, daughter Birch loves the outdoor life up there, slightly older son hates it, wants back to Chicago and never stops moaning. As soon as Dad's plane goes down, we know the rescue services are going to fail, the kids will have to get the job done, and the whole point of all this will be to get son reconciled with Dad. Setting off, all is sensible enough. The girl knows how to kayak, the boy doesn't, so he screws up, complains about aches and pains etc. And we carry on more or less like this (trying to ignore the comedy poachers and the cutesy baby polar bear). The girl's strong, resolute, sensible and resourceful, the boy's initially hopeless, but toughens up fast into a worthwhile companion. And then comes this moment. I wondered what was going on when, after they've both carried big rucksacks all the way, suddenly, for no reason, hers is gone. Just a continuity error? &#150; I wish. They're climbing this mountain, the kind of thing they've been doing for days, when out of nowhere (and right out of character) girl suddenly whines 'I can't climb any more. I'm tired,' setting up boy's macho return 'Come on, I'll carry you if I have to.' The boy has to be transformed from incompetent wimp to tough-guy hero, the tough-guy needs a feeble girl to look after, and if we have to sacrifice the brave strong character we created earlier &#150; hey, she's only a girl, after all, right?Don't pay to rent this, but if you see it on TV &#150; did I mention it's got Thora Birch? "},{"Title":"A Stunning and Breathtaking Journey of Visual Delight.","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  If it were only for the splendid and breathtaking scenery i would still recommend this movie. However this film also delivers on the emotional level and follows a journey of transformation as beautiful as the visual aspects.A single father apts for a change after losing his wife by moving to Alaska with his two children to become a bush pilot. His son is resentful at best, ungrateful, and unappreciative of the vast and stunning riches Alaska has to offer. When their father's plane goes down and rescue efforts fail, they begin a spiritual journey that will forever change their lives. The son, Shawn, played by Vincent Karthieser, soon comes to terms with the death of his mother, the love for his father, and the respect and appreciation for Alaska. Thora Birch, an actress with a promising future, provides the level-headed and sensible approach to the journey in contrast to her brother's cockiness and arrogance which provides for great chemistry between the two.Along with the natural beauty and landscapes just about every other aspect associated with Alaska is present from poaching, bushpilots, kayaking, rustic cabins, rock climbing,, moutaineering, camping, and the northern lights along with Cubby, a baby polar bear who tags along and even provides for some tear jerking moments and light hearted humor.Overall this is a great movie for the entire family or for one with a fascination with the wonders and beauty of the last frontier. It truly evokes a sense of appreciation delivered in a manner without the concept of strong language, violence, and nudity, the three marketing schemes of the industry. It is a fantastic adventure, with great camera angles, stunning visuals and a powerful message. Very well done IMHO. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Effort","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  A family movie that is worth your time.  The scenery alone is worth viewing. The shear beauty of the mountains and Lakes is deftly filmed.  Also interesting to see Charlton Heston in one of his few heavy roles during a long career.  The cast did a very creditable job on this movie.  I rated this movie 7. "},{"Title":"More Suited For Kids But Enjoyable Enough","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  I think it is safe to say that this film will appeal far more to a young child as opposed to an adult but if you're in a good mood and feel like sitting down and not taxing your brain, then this is the film for you.Dirk Benedict of The A-Team plays the father of two young children who go out to rescue him after his plane crashes in the icy wilderness of Alaska. As is inevitable, they encounter the usual adventures kids have when wandering alone in the wild.Charlton Heston is the token bad guy who is out to poach a cuddly little polar bear. Polar bears are the last animal you would expect to be so cuddly and if you cuddled one in real life, you probably wouldn't get up again but it's hard not to find the bear adorable.All in all, a great film with the lovely Alaskan scenery and a cuddly polar bear. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Alaska? Really?","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Though I enjoyed certain components of this movie, being a former resident of Alaska, having lived in Skagway, Ketchican, Palmer, Wasilla, Anchorage, Soldotna, Kenai, Homer, Kodiak, and even Nome, and I think people should know that this movie wasn'nt filmed in Alaska, but British Columbia, which also rivals Alaska in beauty and wildlife. Also Polar bears do not venture   much further south then Nome and never, I mean never make it to the panhandle. There is a disputed photograph, on record, of a dead polar bear on an ice floe, that drifted south, but it is argued that the bear wandered onto an ice floe, died, and then drifted south. Any way the movie Alaska does have enough authentic visuals, in the background to give a viewer some idea of the majesty of Alaska. The story does have many loopholes, of a technical nature, example is the father's plane, precariously lodged at such an elevation, would have caused hypothermia and an inevitable death. Alaskan's have a saying, it goes like this, Alaska does not forgive mistakes. Alaska is very beautiful, however it is very dangerous and the movie Alaska does not convey that reality. If you would like to see a movie that convey's what kinds of people go to and populate Alaska see the movie Leaving Normal. However there is yet to be movie filmed in Alaska that captures the real Alaska. Why? I don't know. "},{"Title":"What part of This is a Children's Film don't you understand?","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Hard to figure the negative comments about this film. It is geared to an elementary school audience who will find it very entertaining. But it is also good family viewing because the scenery is terrific and the polar bear cub is very cute. Since there was never a conspiracy to keep the demographic identity of the target audience a national secret, those complaining about its lack of sophistication were just too lazy to check it out before actually viewing it. The film delivers exactly what it promises so there is no real basis for that kind of criticism.The editing is first class; especially on the canoe down the rapids sequence where the second unit stuff is perfectly cut into tight shots of the two stars. Thora Birch turns in another excellent performance and Vincent Kartheiser shows that even before Angel he modeled his acting on William Shatner (this is not a complement).There are a number of plot holes but nothing that really matters. One interesting thing is the scene where the bear cub helps in the rescue effort by pulling the rope with his teeth. Seldom can you point to a single stupid detail that drastically dumbs down a film but that is the case here. Lose that one moronic shot and the film gains about 20 IQ points and could add a couple years to its target audience. "},{"Title":"Hats off to the makers of a refreshing family oriented movie with a wonderful underlying message. Hollywood needs more films like this!","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Loved the cinematography. Good character development... believable acting, good casting... overall a pleasant film the whole family watch. It's refreshing to see a well made film that doesn't use un-necessary violence, sex or profanity. Hats off to the whole team! Definitely recommend this film for family viewing. And to top it off there is a wonderful underlying message of hope and core family values... a message we all could stand to see and hear. Entertaining, exciting storyline. "},{"Title":"Hestons' Call of the Wild","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Average family fare has the face man (Benedict) a pilot and widowed father to two teenage kids, one of whom is struggling with the transition to manhood, manifest in his strained relationship with his father and general disaffection for his adopted home of Alaska. Benedict sets out on a late-evening flight as wild weather approaches, and predictably, his plane crashes leaving his kids potential orphans. Not content to accept the presumed verdict, his kids mount a life or death mission through the Alaskan wilderness to locate their father, with a curious polar bear cub leading their way, and a pair of poachers on their trail.Heston's son directs this formulaic adventure tale with glorious scenery and cinematography and a few reasonable stunts involving wild river rapids, and precarious mountain climbs. Heston is uncharacteristically low-key, mainly a background character, although he does command the more grandiose dialogue and manages to snare most of the one-liners. Like him or loathe him, he's understated and his presence has little overall impact on the quality of the film, other than to give his son's film a marquee headline.The hallmarks of Call of the Wild and White Fang are present, the polar bear cub is cute-as-a-button, and Tootoosis' sage advice on human interaction with the local ecology, gives the film a conservation quality that is appropriate for the kids. Obviously it's clichéd and predictable with few surprises, but if you're after a sincere family friendly film the kids can comfortably watch under limited supervision, then the Hestons' Alaska should tick the box. "}{"Title":"Great visuals, Entertaining, good actors, but not promoted enough","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" If you put A-team's Face, A future b-movie sex icon, and Ben-hur's...Ben-hur together, what do you have? the one and only Alaska.6 months before, Jake barne's family had a great life in Chicago, until the fateful day that his wife died. then, he and his remaining family, Sean and Jessie Barnes, moved to Alaska to start a new life. while Sean is reluctant to the idea, the family moves anyways, and Sean immediately wants to return to the windy city.so, Jake takes advantage of his pilot's license and becomes a bush pilot, while Jessie and Sean do whatever they feel like. So Jessie goes kayaking, dating a local native boy, and spends her time doing things a person in Alaska might do, while Sean spends his time playing street fighter The movie arcade game at the local store. this is pretty much where the movie begins.This movie, in my opinion, was very good. aside from a family that loved each other, it sported some awesome camera views and great scenery. unlike Grizzly mountain, which had next to no good acting or anything, except for scenery, this movie had decent acting. some parts were as cheesy as a pizza, but it was at least entertaining.Unfortunately, i don't recall this movie being promoted as a classic or anything like that. which is disappointing because this movie is worthy of that, unlike some of the trash we're all fed these days that gets too much promotion.and just like the cover says, it all leads up to a real cliffhanger. while other cliffhangers might make you laugh (Ultraviolet ring any bells?) this one will have you on the edge of your seat.8/10 "},{"Title":"remake?","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film brings back memories from the first movie i watched, Tundra from 1936. It had the same elements A post pilot crashing on the tundra, getting lost, finds a pal, a small bear who had lost track of its parents. It was a very touching story, and exiting. But thanks to Hollywood - it all worked out well in a happy ending!When I now watch ALASKA,it seems to be based on the same TUNDRA.I have not seen any referance to it in the credits, but hoped that someone out there who also have seen TUNDRA could help to solve my mystery. "},{"Title":"Spectacular Scenery, Corny Soundtrack","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The Alaska scenery in this movie is spectacular and varies sea, rivers, mountains, snow, rock, skies, shot with sweeping helicopter and crane shots.But the soundtrack is embarrassing like something out of the Ten Commandments, great blaring trumpets, soaring strings, Tibetan bass horns, South American flutes, tom toms, fanfares, all preposterously overblown like something of a bygone era. It was seriously distracting.The dialog is silly, like something out of 50's cowboy and Indian dramas e.g. Trust the bear and Dad, can we keep him? The movie has no subtlety. Everything is spelled out with the explicitness of a TV sitcom.The plot is utterly improbable, with various anomalies that distress, like packing no more than a sandwich for a four day hike without it turning into a problem. Even the bear finds a adoptive mother, something that never happens in real life. No bad guys were harmed in the making of this movie.Cubby the orphaned polar bear cub is the star of the show, sort of like Wookie in Star Trek, who repeatedly saves the day from the evil poachers. It is a bit like the old Rin Tin Tin adventures, only Cubby is much cuter.However, the movie far from boring. I could not help but fear for the actors creating the film because they do so many dangerous stunts. Kids or adults without problems suspending disbelief will most enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"should be great wilderness adventure","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Pilot Jake Barnes (Dirk Benedict) has moved his two kids Sean (Vincent Kartheiser) and Jessie (Thora Birch) to Alaska from Chicago after his wife's death. Sean is angry. A late delivery goes wrong and Jake is lost in the wilderness. The authority's limited response drives the kids to go searching on their own. Meanwhile, poachers Colin Perry (Charlton Heston) and Mr. Koontz have captured a baby polar bear for sale overseas. The young kids run into the poacher's camp and release the bear.This reminds me of an old high-adventure kiddie movie. There is plenty of grand majestic nature. There are so many wonderful wilderness obstacles that the poachers are not really necessary. Heston keeps them from being cartoon villain but they still feel artificial. This would have been a good adventure into the wilds and there are some great outdoors action scenes. The polar bear is a constant reminder that this is an artificial kids movie. I get that this is a kiddie movie and a cute polar bear is suppose to bring in the audience. I just think the kids would be more excited with a great wilderness adventure. "},{"Title":"Follow the Bear.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Alaska (1996) Dir Fraser C. Heston / Cast Vincent Kartheiser, Thora Birch, Dirk Benedict, Charlton Heston, Gordon Tootoosis Disappointing family film about extraordinary events. It just should be noted that the film itself is not the extraordinary event. It stars Vincent Kartheiser and Thora Birch as two children searching for their father when his plane crashes. They free a baby polar bear from poachers, which bears nothing to the plot and the conclusion is laughable when factoring weight ratios between a bear and a plane. Director Fraser C. Heston does his best and casts his father Charlton as a poacher but the role is pretty standard. Kartheiser plays a rebellious brat who dislikes the fact that he lives in the middle of cold nowhere and now searches for his father out of guilt. Birch plays his smarter sister although her brain power hardly makes up for the amount of stupidity snow stormed into this fiasco. Dirk Benedict basically teeters in a plane and reflects upon times that didn't involve him teetering in a plane. An Indian gives sound advice, follow the bear. Funny that it doesn't know where it's going either. It could have led them under an avalanche for all they knew. Had it been intelligent it would have sued Animal Planet for loaning him. Message uplifts smaller factors over the unlikely despite its implausible contrivances. Now if only those smaller factors wrote the screenplay. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable family flick","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched Alaska several times with my kids when they were younger, and just rewatched it last night. It's a cute film with the central theme - never give up. Dirk Benedict does an OK job as the father who moves his family to the Alaskan wilderness. This role was no stretch - he basically flies a plane and acts hurt, with brief interlude of arguing with his son. Sean, his son, has the typical teenage angst of not being happy in his own skin, while his daughter Jessie adapts seamlessly to her new environment.I love the cinematography of beautiful Alaskan landscapes. Even more amazing is that the kids, Thora Birch and Vincent Kartheiser, do all their outdoors stunts, like sea kayaking thru rapids, rock climbing, and mountaineering. The flight scenes are exquisite. It's been almost 20 years since this 1996 film was made - I wonder how much of the glaciers in this film are left. Charlton Heston is the bad guy, and makes you laugh when he has to pretend he is not into guns. By far, the little bear Cubby, is the star. He plays a key role throughout.Just put reality into the background when you think about two kids doing what these kids did and how they did it, with their background. It's an enjoyable non-reality ride that will leave you happy and content. That should be enough for you and your family. Kids will enjoy this a lot. "},{"Title":"High Adventure and good family entertainment","Date":"28 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" It's the state of Alaska itself plus some beautiful vistas from British Columbia that are the true stars of this film. An incredibly realistic animated bear named Cubby comes in second with all the human players in at a distinct third in Fraser Heston's film Alaska.You will be bowled over by the grand scale cinematography of the northern tundras. The terrain itself is a character in this drama about a brother and sister, Vincent Kartheiser and Thora Birch, who don't think that the authorities are doing enough to rescue their bush pilot father Dirk Benedict who has crashed his small cargo plane and it and he are hanging off a cliff with one of his legs broken.Birch has adapted well enough to Alaska life, the family is transplanted from Chicago and we're constantly reminded of that with Kartheiser's Chicago Cubs road uniform hat. He's missing Chicago real bad and can't understand why dad quit his job as an airline pilot after the death of their mother to go live here.Villain of the film is Charlton Heston who with Duncan Fraser are a pair of poachers. While on their mission the kids liberate a bear cub who adopts them and tags along. Heston and Fraser want that cub back and give chase.Starting in 1982 Charlton Heston who is best known for playing some of the noblest of heroes real and fictional started varying his resume with villains. For his son's version of Treasure Island Heston played a nasty Long John Silver, nothing cute and hammy like Wallace Beery or Robert Newton. Ditto for his portrayal here as a poacher. But I love the way the bear turns the tables on Heston and Fraser.Cubby is also indispensable in the rescue of Benedict. You'll have to see the film for his contribution in that effort.The scenery is as grand and large as our largest and most sparsely populated state. Alaska is a great film of high adventure and good family entertainment. "},{"Title":"Adventure in Alaska","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Captivating scenery of Alaska and a casual but simple story. I am not sure why this movie rating is anything less than 7 as I am freak of Adventure movies with simple plots. This one stands out.Have not seen Alaska being captured in such finesse in any movie or documentary as natural as this one.The Polar bear looks great. Also the poacher problems highlighted in the movie are so real and a fact of life in Alaska. The Kids acting are natural and superb. For the technology available in 19996, the whole movie is incredible in terms of everything. Looking at the movie, I have decided that it's high time that I need to make a travel plan to go to Alaska sometime soon. The real beauty is captivating.A great movie for the kids, family and everyone. "},{"Title":"A Visual & Emotional Journey","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This is an oldie but a goldie! I remembered watching this when it first came out (I must have been 10 years old) and I always liked it. It is always interesting when you re-watch a movie because it is almost like you have never watched it before! It is that new of an experience, I didn't really remember much of it. The brother and sister duo were so fearless, and the visuals were really beautiful, plus the polar bear was so cute! A nice relaxing film I watched the other evening before bed - however I tossed and turned all night for some reason...maybe I was scared of the poachers! All in all a great family film but I would actually caution against showing it to some children as there are a few scary scenes especially dealing with those pesky pachers! Breakaway Daily www.breakawaydaily.com "},{"Title":"Okay, the kids like it...","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I was not disappointed in this film; basically I knew going in what it would be, very formulaic.My only real gripe is the bear helping at the end - that was just too much. Well, the entire movie was a stretch in reality, but pulling on the rope was even too much for my kids to accept.Also, when they got the dad over the cliff, he was barely up there and they started hugging. My wise seven year old said They shouldn't be so close to the edge when they do that. We then imagined a different ending to the movie bear rescues family, family hugs for joy, whoa....AHHHHHHHHH!!!!!! they go tumbling to their deaths, and the final shot is of the bear, looking over the edge...Good cheesy family flick. Not one I'm going to keep, but I don't feel cheated by watching it. I would be surprised if the kids ask to see it again. "}{"Title":"A Scenic Family Adventure","Date":"8 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Ever wonder what it's like to travel through Alaska? If you're curious, now you can experience the magnitude of the scenery that is Alaska by watching this film. The movie Alaska, is a family adventure film that involves two children, Jesse and Sean Barnes on the hunt to find their lost father. How did he get lost? As a pilot, the kids' father, Jake Barnes (Dirk Benedict) flies straight into a storm and crash lands into a mountain where he struggles to survive as his children look to find him. It's amazing because even when the story is not revolving around the adventurous children, the scenery everywhere is so beautiful. This is one of the strong points of this film. Another key part to this movie is a polar bear cub that runs into the Barnes kids and ends up trying to help locate their dad. This bear cub always reminds me of the polar bears from those coke commercials. Besides of what I think it could belong to, he is very cuddly looking. I'm also curious to how director Fraser Heston was able to get this animal to cooperate. I'm sure it's not easy to tame a wild animal. This cub must have been pre-trained some how.To make things even more interesting, poachers are on the move as well. Yes, there are other things on the hunt than the Barnes kids. So what are these guys looking for? If you're thinking the polar bear cub, you're absolutely right! So there are two conflicts here, Jesse and Sean have to find their father AND protect the bear cub from the dangerous poachers. The plot thickens! Many times while watching this movie I was on the edge of my seat because there were many moments of tension. These kinds of situations are brought up when many of the characters are involved with heights. Because a lot of Alaska is made of mountains, many of the scenes in this movie include climbing up steep hills and sailing across cold running rivers. Some scenes can be really gripping due to the slightest movement a character makes on screen. It is that suspenseful.Alaska is a wholesome adventure for both young and old. It's tale of courage and persistence is what keeps the audience watching from the scenic backgrounds to the most intense moments of conflict. "},{"Title":"Alaska","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The cinematography is very good in this movie they did a good job at the scenery. The acting is good and its safe to take a family to see this movie. If you are an action adventure movie fan this isn't a movie for you. The plot was pretty weak. I don't know why the poachers were in the movie in the first place they just didn't tie into the movie very well. I guess the only reason charlston heston was in this movie is because the director is his son. I think children under ten would enjoy this movie it seemed like it was geared more for a child audience. If you are a action adventure fan you wont like it at all.So if you have a family this is a movie for you. "},{"Title":" I can't believe you're stupid enough to forget the matches","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Thora Birch is terrific as Jessica in this fabulous adventure flick. The remaining cast is perfect. The costumes are stocky. One of the good farces in the genre, Alaska will challenge the viewer to rely on trust. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"even kids think this is a bad movie","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I watched this film when I was (where else?) in Alaska. I was eleven at the time. My sister and I couldn't believe how bad this movie was. I saw more holes in the plot of this film than I care to say, although I think one deserves special mention. When the younger sister is forced to hold up the two older males, I had to stop watching. For all those people who justify this film by saying that is for kids, you are wrong. No one should have to suffer through this film. This makes cheaper by the dozen look sophisticated. I admit the the scenery in this film is nice. But scenery should not be the only reason for watching a movie. The plot is thin, the characters are annoying, not to mention stupid. I'm a city person, and even I know that travelling in a boat repaired with duct tape is a bad idea. The bear was cute, but became annoying as the movie wore on. To sum up, even mere children can see the rediculousness of this corny, horrible film. "},{"Title":"A truly poor movie","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I lived in Alaska all my life. I find this a laugh. This is just another Hollywood rendition of Alaska for kids. For a Polar Bear to travel through the forest, to the mountains, near a river, and help a couple kids all throughout. A true laughter. However, I do make the comment that my dog certainly liked this movie, he watched the whole thing. A little Cessna crashing into the mountain tops? The pilot still manages to be alive after that...hearing word of this, the two inexperienced, poorly dressed kids go and save their father. Personally, I wish that this movie was never created at all. By all means, if you have little kids and want them to get wrong ideas about Alaska, then go ahead and let them watch this. "},{"Title":"don't even bother","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  I watched this movie because I'm a big fan of both its teen stars, Thora Birch and Vincent Kartheiser, not to mention anything starring Charlton Heston.  Sorry, but not even they could save this cheesy and ridiculous family action movie and its indescribably bad script.  It's not only completely unrealistic, but also predictable, saccharine, and trite.  I was tempted to turn it off long before the end.  This movie was too dumb even for the Disney Channel. "},{"Title":" Never give up","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Alaska is a nostalgic adventure farce. I presume it's better than The Goonies but The Goonies is nice too. The cast is delightful and well-acted. Charleton Heston shines in his role as the evil villain poacher. I myself enjoy Thora Birch well. The young teen who plays Sean is fair but he should be given more smaller characters. I like this movie alot and agree that it's underrated inevitably. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good clean family fun","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  I suggest you watch this movie with your kids.  It's a family movie.  One big sappy family movie about kids who seek to find their dad who was in a plane crash in Alaska and save a bear cub at the same time.  Yes, your normal family movie.  I was shocked that this Thora Birch was the same young girl who played in American Beauty.  I am glad she can act in all different types of movies.  The only really bad thing about this movie is Vincent Kartheiser can't act.  Poor guy.  Well actually rich guy.  He's been in enough movies. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  I just watched this movie, and happy to have seen it. It was a pleasant surprise to see Dirk Benedict (From the A-Team) acting as troubled father, and also Charlton Heston.View of Araska was stunning and polarbears are lovely.  "},{"Title":"This isn't hunting. This is business.","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Alaska is one of those films that is just there. There is nothing groundbreaking involved in it, but there is nothing offensive about it either. Directed by Fraser Clark Heston, Alaska tells the story of a father, Jake (Dirk Benedict), and his two kids, who lived in the lower 48 states until Jake's wife died and the family moves to Alaska, for the reason of making this movie it looks like. If the director's name looks vaguely familiar, it's because Fraser's daddy is an actor named Charlton, who also plays a polar bear poacher (imagine that, Charlton Heston wielding a gun, what are the odds?). Jake flies airplanes, and of course on one of his trips, the plane goes down, and it is up to his two kids Jessie (Thora Birch) and Sean (Vincent Kartheiser) to find him. With the help of a baby polar bear, the kids go out into the Alaskan wilderness, meet bear poachers, Eskimos, and other fun things. Alaska is an OK movie, nothing that will make you wish you hadn't seen it, just don't expect the Ten Commandments. "}{"Title":"An avalanche of bad family film making","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  At one time, I used to believe that Charlton Heston's career could always do no wrong. This 1996 Columbia Pictures release destroys that theory. Heston, however, is the only bright spot in this atrociously boring snow capped adventure about two siblings (Thora Birch and Vincent Kartheiser) and their father (Dirk Benedict) who brave several perils during their little adventure in the Alaskan wilderness. Heston has a plum role as a ruthless poacher who's the villain here. He made it a family affair by having his son Fraser serve as the director. They should've chose a better film to do together. "},{"Title":"An endearing and educational movie at best.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a typical made for tv feel-good kids drama. Lots of National Geographic style scenery, predictable storyline, wooden acting and over-stated moral values.Although it's a bit too glossy and flat-footed for its own good, it is still a reasonably entertaining view for the kids. This is an endearing and educational movie at best. "},{"Title":"Waste of time - poor kiddie flick","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" True, I've seen worse. It has all the ingredients all the other quadrillion movies of this type have. Kids, growing pains (never understood what that element has to do in these stories), beloved father gone missing, a save-the-day animal, two flatter than flat bad guys, some sidekicks (friend, an old Indian, sigh) and a flimsy excuse for a story. If I am really honest, the only thing that I will remember about this one is Thora Birch's relatively large chest for a girl her age. Acting is all poor. Benedict was better in his worst A-team episode, Birch is or at least was no actress (sorry to say) when she made this. Her brother is ridiculously bad, and whatever made Charlton Heston accept a role in this vehicle, must be they had something on him to blackmail him with. Even the pictures of the Alaskan nature are nothing to write home about. Your kids may like it, for adults it just lacks too much in all areas. "},{"Title":"Trust the bear!","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  The above line, which is actually spoken in Alaska, should be enough for you to decide whether this is your type of film or (hopefully) not, but let me just add a few more details. They say that when a music score calls attention to itself it's either very good or very bad. The score of Alaska falls into the latter category it's an insultingly overemphatic piece of work that is constantly telling you what you're supposed to be feeling (awe, danger, joy, mysticism). Apart from that, the story is dull, since you always know that everything will turn out all right in the end, and the bear cub is way too cute - its assistance in the climax is a real groaner. All this film has going for it are some dangerous and well-performed physical stunts.       (**) "},{"Title":"drinking game","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  hiFirst, let me preface this by saying that I am over twenty-one and basically just a disaffected college student for whom cute sentimental movies can only be enjoyed on an ironic level.  In this movie, the two children enter the Alaskan wilderness, with no real outdoorsman skills or knowledge, in an effort to find their father.  From my perspective, the only way to enjoy this film was to take a big gulp of beer every time the protagonists did something that would have almost certainly killed them had it not been a movie.  If you have a high tolerance, then maybe do shots, but I'm pretty sure that that would kill me.Actually, I was too lazy to go to the fridge to get beer, so mostly we just talked about how we should have a drink each time that one of the kids fell off a mountain or fell out of a boat in the middle of vicious rapids that are barely above freezing with no life vest or helmut.  I guess that laziness reflects badly upon me, as does the fact that I didn't change the channel.  Sigh.Anyway, your kids may enjoy this movie, but I can't imagine sober adults liking it.   "},{"Title":"okay movie, bad acting","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  this movie was an okay movie, but horrible acting. it was a great plot for a movie, dad gets stuck in a mountain from a plane, and 2 kids go to save him. Great plot but also bad casting, they did a bad job filming and doing this movie, i dont think many people would like it, but maybe its just me "},{"Title":"Your basic family film","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  The clean cut stuff. Oh, don't forget the whole family sticks together moteef. Got to love it. The way I say this movie was through my family. You know, if you want to teach a lesson, that's fine. Why through this movie?The movie Alaska is alright. It's not horrible. But if a family member is lost in Alaska, which is one of the biggest states, would you go searching for them? In freezing weather, with polar bears? It's almost impossible to find that person. It was just a little hard to believe, that's all. The acting is alright. It's nothing too special to watch. I'll give it credit for it's moral lesson though.6/10  "},{"Title":"A scenic adventure of two children in Alaska","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This movie has great scenery of Alaska. Otherwise it is a waste of time. The two children, who have recently moved to Alaska from Chicago, somehow manage to survive a long journey through the dangerous terrain to rescue their father who has survived a plane crash. know they are going to make it despite their ignorance. The kids are obviously beginners at acting. Dirk Benedict, who plays their father, opens his eyes wide to show emotion. The best part of the movie is the baby polar bear. I noticed in the credits that many times they used mechanical bears. I never was able to detect when the bears were real or when they were fake. If you want to see Alaska, do a lot of fast forwarding through the action parts because you know the kids will survive.  "}]