[{"Title":"I am not someone to randomly give out a perfect score for a movie...","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"62 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" ...And I also happen to be a very critical person of most films. With that being said, The Crucible completely blows me away with its virtually flawless cinematic achievements!Daniel Day-Lewis is absolutely superb as John Proctor; there is no other way to put it. He is simply perfect, from his bitter, withdrawn opening few lines to when he is accused of witchcraft by his former adulterous--and scorned--lover (Winona Ryder) and begins passionately fighting for his very life and existence--and, of course, his name.Winona Ryder turns in a beautiful performance as the disturbed and tragic Abigail Williams a Puritain orphan raised by her super-strict, brutal, and overall villainous uncle. She becomes infatuated with John Proctor, a married man and a bit of an outcast to their society, and is willing to do anything and everything to 'obtain' him, if you will.Joan Allen's Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actress was not undeserved. Her portrayal of the honest and saintly Elizabeth Proctor (not fake innocence, like Abigail's) was touching and a bit heart-wrenching toward the end (won't give that away here).It wasn't just the awesome acting that won me over, but the authentic Old English dialog, the somewhat grainy cinematography (which provided an uneasy feeling in viewing the town of Salem), and wonderful sets and costumes that really made this a classic for me, and my all-time favorite movie. Highly recommend it! A perfect 10/10! "},{"Title":"Just fantastic","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"49 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Based on possibly the greatest play ever written, The Crucible is a fabulous movie - it's hard to believe that it was actually distributed by 20th Century Fox, and not an independent company. Why it took so long to be adapted for the big screen is just baffling to me. Thank God that the genius behind the original text, Arthur Miller, was permitted to write the screenplay - and get an Oscar nomination for it! The cast are all to die for, with Winona Ryder proving she doesn't always have to play lovable characters like Charlotte Flax in Mermaids (1990), or Jo March in Little Women (1994) - her performance as the malicious Abigail Williams is just as outstanding. In her Oscar nominated portrayal of Elizabeth Proctor, Joan Allen leaves an indelible impression of marvellous acting. I was in tears in the scene where she and John Proctor (Daniel Day-Lewis) fall in love all over again. I sincerely hope that The Crucible will be shown in schools/colleges in years to come, to remind us of the horror that occurred in 17th century Salem. A work of cinematic genius. "},{"Title":"Not just a dynamic character study, but a study of madness.  **** (out of four)","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"49 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  For my eleventh grade English class, I have just finished reading The Crucible and have also finished watching the movie adaptation.  The Crucible which was written by Arthur Miller, is a shocking look into the events of a tragic period early in history that America will not likely forget.  The setting of The Crucible is that it takes place in the Puritan community of Salem, Massachusetts in 1692.  The story revolves around the hysteria caused by the Salem Witch Trials.  John Proctor (Daniel Day-Lewis), the story's protagonist (or should I say antagonist?), is facing a little bit of a moral dilemma.  It turns out that Abigail Williams (Winona Ryder), Proctor's former servant girl and mistress, along with several other young girls, were caught out in the woods dancing.  Apparently, from the evidence, Witchcraft was taking place.  John's wife, Elizabeth (Joan Allen), is suffering because of his lechery, but deep down thinks that she may be partially responsible.  Reverend Parris (Bruce Davison) calls for Reverend Hale (Rob Campbell), a renowned pastor (and self-proclaimed paranormal expert) to come to Salem to investigate the accusations.John Proctor is sort of an innocent in this story.  In the beginning of the play, we see that he is deeply haunted by the affair, but he keeps his head up about it.  He is powerful of body, even-tempered and not easily led or quick to jump to conclusions.  He changes significantly because he begins to lower his self-esteem, especially after he looses control over his current servant girl, Mary Warren.  His change furthers because he later admits his sins, which leads to his inevitable imprisonment.  While in prison, he learns that his wife has become pregnant, and therefore she will not be hanged.  In the end, John is hanged after signing a confession and then ripping it up when he learns that it was to be nailed onto the church door.  However, he did not die in bad spirits because he had accepted the fact that he was not coming out of this situation alive but his name would go untarnished.  Proctor pleas before his execution, Because it is my name!  Because I cannot have another in my life!  Because I lie and sign myself to lies!  Because I am not worth the dust on the feet of them that hang!  How may I live without my name?  I have given you my soul; leave me my name! 	Elizabeth Proctor is sort of an innocent too.  At the very start of the play, we see that she is a rather soft-spoken person, even with her past grievances.  As well, she is an honest person who always tells the truth and never lies.  She changes, however, when Abigail Williams brings charges of Witchcraft up against her.  Her physical change starts when she discovers that she is pregnant.  By the end of the play, she forgives John for his lechery.  She states, He have his goodness now.  God forbid I take it from him!  This simply goes to show that she truly loved him in the end. 	Lastly, there is Reverend Hale.  At the beginning of the play, we see that he is a very confident man.  He seems to consider himself an expert in the field of Witchcraft and goes about promoting that image with the aid of his countless books.  The books, he thinks will solve all of the problems facing Salem.  When Reverend Parris makes a comment about how heavy his books are, Hale simply replies, They must be; they are weighted with authority.  This goes to show that he puts too much faith into his books and not enough into common sense.  His emotional change begins when the good and well-respected people of the Salem community start being accused of Witchcraft, like when Abigail Williams charges Elizabeth Proctor as being a witch.   By the end of the play, he discovers that all of the accusations were in fact a hoax, orchestrated by Abigail Williams who shortly before the end of the trials, mysteriously disappears along with Mercy Lewis.  He feels deep regret and extreme guilt for not trying to stop the madness sooner.  He is also begging John Proctor to save his life, regardless of the possible aftermath in which his name is going to be corrupted.In many ways, the story of The Crucible may not just be a dynamic character study, but it is also a study of the madness that can stem from superstition and fear.  It simply amazes me that one little girl was able to use fear and superstition as a means of getting what she wanted.  The madness that had been created by the Salem Witch Trials was not just the result of people's greed, but jealousy and all-out hatred for one another.  And you must remember that this is coming from a religious community that had come to this country to escape hatred, though it was not the same type as it was the reason for them leaving Europe.  For many bizarre reasons, The Crucible has also been the unfortunate target of misguided criticism.  These criticisms, I feel, are the unfortunate result of the Joseph McCarthy era.  In 1950, McCarthy who was a senator from Wisconsin had engaged on a Red Hunt, which to him, was a hunt for suspected Communist Party members and spies inside the U.S. State Department.  Though this was relatively early in the Cold War, he had played on Americans already stemming fears of the Soviet Union in order to help rally people to flesh out the suspected persons.  Many of the people who were accused, lost their jobs and had extreme difficulty finding employment elsewhere.  McCarthy, like many of the people during the Salem Witch Trials, had engaged on this hunt out of sheer hatred and jealousy of other people.  And like when the Trials finally came to an end when the governor's wife had been accused of Witchcraft, McCarthy met his downfall in 1954, when he began attacking members of the United States Army.  The Army immediately took dislike to the accusations and struck back at McCarthy.  His power finally fell through when then President Dwight Eisenhower launched his own investigation into the accusations and found nothing.  McCarthy later died in 1957 of alcohol-related problems.  Do you see all of the parallels between the Salem Witch Trials of 1692 and the McCarthy era during the 1950s?  These are perfect examples of the horrible things that people are capable of doing to each other out of the pure hatred and the accusers will often succeed in doing this by playing on people's fears and local superstition.  "},{"Title":"excellent adaptation for the screen","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"36 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" There is nothing I like better than a good play for the stage, even when it is on screen. This is the second time I have been able to see this worthy conversion of Arthur Miller's classic play adapted to the screen. Nicholas Hytner certainly earnt his wages; and all the cast should have received a good pay-rise. Convincing scene-setting in Massachussets at the end of the 17th Century with heavy wood-framed farm buildings and typical North European immigrant peasants' clothing, all beautifully filmed. Arthur Miller himself collaborated on the script, allowing certain poetic licence in modernising some of the speech forms, which, in the original play &#150; written around 1952-1953 &#150; reflected speech patterns of the times.I blow the dust off my 1973 Penguin copy of the play, and can follow some of the scenes almost verbatim. Thus the effect is dramaturgical rather than cinematographic, a little like Branaghan doing his versions of Shakespeare. A pleasing result indeed. Highly recommended for conoisseurs of fine acting in the classic sense. Neither of the two leading actors &#150; Daniel Day-Lewis and Winona Ryder &#150; will let you down.The Salem Witches have been the cause of a few forays by writers, historians and so on really the whole affair seems to typicalize people's appetites for forming psychosis-like manias, often on the grounds of nothing very concrete. I mean to say, the devil exists in the minds of those who invent it; the same cause as the `reds under the beds' phobia of the 1960s and 1970s, today transformed into `Islam Terror' around every corner. The clothing is different, but the mentality producing the phobias is not.`The Crucible' in this excellent adaptation make this poignantly clear. My vote is slightly higher than the present IMDb average.  "},{"Title":"Powerful telling which uses the camera well to open the play up","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The day after Rev Parris finds his daughter and niece dancing in a group in the forest, several of the girls in the village are deep in sleep unable to be wakened.  Rev Hale is called in to investigate and Abby Williams speaks up claiming witchcraft and that she and the other girls had been brought into it by the devil himself.  As the investigation continues, Abby leads the claims on a twisted vendetta, eventually ending at the door of John Proctor and his family, the man she had an affair with and still loves.I have never seen this on the stage, although my wife claims we did 2 years ago, and am unable to really compare this to other versions.  However the first time I saw this film it grabbed me by the sheer force behind it.  The plot is emotive and increasingly griping as it spirals out of control and Abby guides the justice of the court.  The script is excellently written &#150; sturdy yet capable of bringing out so much without trivialising or simplifying it.  I defy anyone to not get sucked into this story as it is so well written.Of course this would stutter a little without a suitably strong cast to carry it off.  Happily the film is strong in performances and strong in depth.  Day Lewis is deceptively light at the start, but the way he brings himself on during the film to his final shot is moving.  Allen gives him able, albeit less showy, support.  Ryder gives one of her best performances I've seen.  Although she is required to be hysterical for much of the film she carries it off convincingly and, when needed, she is as menacing as a black hearted woman can be.  Scofield is driven and well pitched but is helped by great support from Campbell and, more surprisingly, Gaynes (better known as Police Academy's Lassard).  A rich cast of males in the chief support roles (Jones, Davison and Vaughan) really help &#150; not only do they deliver the goods but their faces give the constant perception of depth.The direction could easily have treated this as a stage production but Hytner opens it out without ever going over the top.  The themes within the book are easily brought out and Hytner never stands in their way &#150; he lets us take what we can from the material without too much flair in the way.  Overall this is a fantastic version of the play &#150; it is intelligent, well acted and very moving and involving.  It may have the occasional weak link but those are pretty minor.  Anyone with a passing interest in very good films should watch this. "},{"Title":"It is a Masterpiece","Date":"14 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  It's good to see a movie with Arthur Miller like script maker (Based on his novel) and screenplayer of this excellent movie.For me this is a PERFECT creation, that it is incredibly performed by Winona Ryder and Daniel Day-Lewis. An absolute MASTERPIECE based on the Miller's experiences with Senator Joseph MCcarthy and his hunt. TOTALLY recommendable. For me...... A Masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"What is truth?","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Thanks to the director who let Arthur Miller do the screenplay- so the movie is a honest rendition of the great play. Daniel Day Lewis is very good- and the movie is true to the original. Winona Rider also does well- but Joan Allen is excellent. This is a true classic of American Theater and since we can't always get to a live performance the movie is a good substitute... recommend every student of am. lit see it and anyone who wants to delve into the deceit of the human spirit... nothing is new people are still jealous and still vindictive and Miller writes of these two traits so well.  The whole cast does a credible job  "},{"Title":"Impressing and well-done","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The Crucible is slow, but it doesn't make the film bad. It is a very impressing, beautiful, well-acted and well-done film.The story of passion, lies, madness, witchcraft and tragedy kept my attention. The adaptation of Arthur Miller's play is superb.Joan Allen deserved her nomination for the Oscar as best supporting actress and Daniel Day-Lewis should have been nominated.A must see.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Terrific cast","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The Raymond Rouleau French version of the fifties featuring Simone Signoret and Yves Montand as the Proctors seems to have vanished in the air.It's never on French TV and it's not available on tape or DVD either.In the fifties this could not be filmed in the USA ,because it was a highly topical issue,hence the Rouleau version which was first a stage production.Actually,this masterwork is so strong that it can't be connected only with MCCarthyism.Its scope reaches far beyond.It's a plea for tolerance,freedom of thinking and dignity of the human being wherever and whenever they may be endangered.An excellent cast does the play justice.Daniel Day-Lewis gives a powerful performance (I say God is dead!)that few of his peers can equal.Wynona Ryder is efficient in her ambiguous part.Joan Allen gives a subdued but moving interpretation.Paul Scoffield personifies the inhuman law with authority.Bruce Davison (Willard's hero ,1971).All in all, a magnificent show ,thanks to all concerned.  "},{"Title":"Heartwrenching Drama","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Arthur Miller is one of my favorite playwrights.  Being a drama major, I read a lot of Miller.  THE CRUCIBLE is by far my favorite.  It has been for the last six years.  This film version is great, not only the acting by some principles, but the sets, costumes, script, and (maybe I'm weird) music. Winona Ryder is exceptional as Abigail, who starts the whole witchcraft thing.  Daniel Day Lewis is too subtle and quiet as John Proctor.  Judge Danforth is boring in the film.  Joan Allen is wonderful.  She plays the long suffering wife Elizabeth Proctor and she is just as saintly as the character is supposed to be.  The final scene with John and Elizabeth Proctor makes me cry every time when Elizabeth confesses to John that......it was a cold house I kept.  Forgive me John. Forgive me..***1/2 out of 4 "}{"Title":"One of the finest plays in history is turned into a cinematic masterpiece.","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" One of the finest plays in history is remarkably turned into one of the finest masterpieces of the '90s. Arthur Miller's original story is one of power and the terrible nature of society on two fronts. First, it tackles the inner struggle of a morally strong man who's emotions get the better of him and the girl who will do anything to have him be her's forever. Secondly, it displays the flaws of the government and society in general, and how one person's claim can corrupt an entire town. It's a stunning take on the foolishness and utterly unbelievable nature of a topic that dates back to the Salem Witch Trials, McCarthyism and is even poignant today in terms of the War on Terror.The topic that interested me more was the first one I spoke of; a striking study of a moral man who's done a wrong and the pain he has to suffer because of it. John Proctor (Daniel Day-Lewis) is a working man, who gets whatever he earns with his bare hands. His wife, Elizabeth (Joan Allen) is the standard working class wife. While John is in the field, she gets dinner ready and gets the house in order. Lingering over this seemingly perfect marriage is a secret that has isolated them from the rest of the community. John's affair with a former servant, Abigail Williams (Winona Ryder) has created a cold, emotionless relationship between the two but Elizabeth's devoted love for him means that they will stay isolated and no one will ever know of his sin which would surely lead to his hanging. Of course no man can endure this experience without suffering some severe inner pain and this slowly unfolds over Proctor throughout the course of the film.In the end, after turmoil between John and Elizabeth both trying to do the best thing for each other that has turned into the worst case scenario for both, Proctor's pain is unleashed in one of the most heartbreaking scenes in as long as I can remember. He agrees to proclaiming his life in the world of witchcraft in exchange for releasement from prison back to his wife and unborn child. But when they ask for his signature on the statement, and state that they will post it on the church wall, his years of torment and internal frustration explode as he pleads in a scene of gut-wrenching release as he begs for the jurors to leave him his name. This story is all highlighted by an absolutely brilliant and cathartically heartbreaking performance from Daniel Day-Lewis. He even upstages the commanding Queen Joan Allen (who also delivers a superb performance) in several scenes, and delivers one of the finest examples of acting genius I've ever had the privilege of experiencing.This entire relationship and painful release is experienced under the grand scheme of the Salem Witch Trials, an eye-opening display of how easily the government and society can be fooled and won over. Due to her love for John Proctor, Abigail Williams will do anything to take Elizabeth out of the picture. Even if this means bringing down all of Salem in the process. She starts claiming that everyone is a witch, along with her numerous friends who so easily follow her example, in order to avoid getting into trouble. When she realizes how brilliantly this works, and how everyone she claimed practiced witchcraft ended up in the gallows, that she could use it to end Elizabeth and live a happy life alone with John. Of course the folly of youth is there blind belief that everything will work according to plan, and she underestimates Proctor's love and devotion to his wife who he clearly shows he will go to the grave with. Abigail see's that no matter what she does, she won't get John back and flees Salem in the midst of night, never to be seen again (at least as far as the film/play is concerned). Winona's performance is also very strong and ranks high among the best of her career and of 1996.At the center of this entire story is how easy it is to sway society, shown through these Witch Trials. Arthur Miller originally wrote his play to comment on the foolishness of McCarthyism; the children representing McCarthy, the jurors obviously as the government and the false witches as the dozens of people that McCarthy accused of being a communist under no grounds that were put into prison for being completely innocent. These two incidents in American history show that the government lies down to the very core of their jural structure. The phrase 'Innocent until proved guilty' is one of the most abused in history and these historical accounts prove that we are and have always been much more about the reverse; guilty until proved innocent or, in terms of the Witch Trials, hanging unless you admit your guilt. Even now we see the flaws of the governmental structure as numerous people are being claimed to be terrorists and are put in prisons, though there is no concrete evidence of that which they are prosecuted for, just the false claims of a foolish society. "},{"Title":"During Psychotic American Times, You're Given A Crucible To Prove Yourself","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Crucible is adapted from the 1954 play by Arthur Miller. I read The Crucible in high school and I liked it very much. The big screen version did not match up to Arthur Miller play in depth, design, characterizations, and overall screenplay. However this was an articulate and poignant film and I liked it a lot.The movie takes place in Salem Massachusetts in 1692, the Pre- Revolutionary War days. At the time, people of the Colonies are caught up in the belief of devils, witches, and witchcraft.The story begins in the forest, with the teenagers of Salem engaging in a séance, in which they are calling on the spirits to cast love spells over their boyfriends. Abigail Williams is the ringleader.They are discovered by her uncle, Reverend Parris, who is in a rage when Abigail returns home with his young daughter, who is ill due to the guilt of summoning spirits.To avoid castigation by Reverend Parris and the theologically rigid court system, Abigail and the other girls start accusing several of the adults of witchcraft. They do a tremendous acting job in convincing the church and the courts that they are being attacked by the devil.Judge Danforth of Massachusetts is then brought to Salem to investigate these accusations. Not realizing the motives behind the accusations- lust, greed, anger, etc.- he has several people arrested for attacking the children with their spirits. Among the wrongly accused are a beggar woman, a nurse, and the wife of an adulterer.Joining in with the accusations is Thomas Putnam, a vindictive farmer who couldn't care less about witchcraft and is only after other people's land upon their deaths.Elizabeth Proctor, wife of the movie's hero, John Proctor, is accused of witchcraft by Abgail Williams, who has been secretly fornicating with John Proctor. Proctor, to protect his wife from hanging, is forced to reveal before the court that he is an adulterer. The naive Judge Danforth does not believe Proctor, and secretly asks Elizabeth whether her husband is an adulterer. When she says no to try to protect her husband, he throws this accusation out of court and charges John Proctor with witchcraft.Proctor is forced to admit that he lied about the adultery charge, and is in fact an agent of the devil, or face hanging. He has to choose between his integrity, and the integrity of his children, or face the death penalty.The Crucible gives insight into the human psyche, showing that intangibles like devils, witches, Satan, and hell, can be motivated by tangibles such as lust, jealousy, land disputes, and anger. This is what makes The Crucible such a good movie. Powerful performances by Daniel Day Lewis and Winona Ryder make this a must see movie. The Crucible was definitely one of the better films of the 1990's. "},{"Title":"Forceful and Powerful","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Powerful telling of Arthur Miller's revered play about the fearful witch hunt that took place in Salem, Massachussets in the late 17th century. Director Nicholas Hytner ensures the fanaticism and rabid superstition of the day is conveyed with force to the stunned audience, and I'm sure most will scarcely believe that a court of law could allow an accused person who pleads innocent to die, and one who confesses guilt (through threat of death) to live.Miller has painstakingly brought his play to the screen with care, not only to be true to the stage production, but also to fully develop his complex characters.The cast have done their level best to fulfill Miller's work, especially Winona Ryder who attempts to portray Abigail as something more than a vengeful harlot, though it's difficult to see her as anything else. Her performance is a strong one, but stronger still is Daniel Day-Lewis who again delivers the goods as John Proctor, the man who stands accused, along with his unfailing wife (a showing of passion and control from Joan Allen), of the terrible crime of consorting with the devil. The tremendous struggle he has with his very soul is most convincingly conveyed. Solid support comes from the craggy-faced Paul Scofield, a surprising Jeffrey Jones and perhaps even more surprising, George Gaynes (Commandant Lassard of Police Academy fame). Smaller, though quite impressive standouts come from Bruce Davison as the floundering Reverend Parris and Rob Campbell as the rather more enlightened, and much more practical, Reverend Hale. Robust acting makes this film a thoroughly enjoyable one.George Fenton's music is most appropriate, editing is precise and art direction simple yet telling.Wednesday, February 26, 1997 - Village Rivoli "},{"Title":"Because I am not worth the dust on the feet of them that hang! How may I live without my name? I have given you my soul; leave me my name!","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" After being caught dancing naked in the woods, Abigail Williams hatches a plan with the other girls in the village. Abigail claims that she has been fighting to save her own soul, as she is surrounded by people who worship the devil. Instead of dismissing these claims as foolish ramblings of a young girl, the town elders encourage her hysteria. Accusations fuelled by provincial politics, greed, spite, paranoia, and fear become commonplace. Many people are forced to make the ultimate sacrifice rather than tarnish their good name. Arthur Miller was a prodigious American writer and I am sure, when making a movie of one of his plays, there is a certain amount of trepidation on the part of the Director and the actors to do a reputable job. After all, Mr Miller is not going to be blamed if they make a lousy film. Thankfully, Miller was available to write the screenplay. With a cast that included Daniel Day Lewis, Joan Allen, and Wynona Ryder in her heyday, not much can go wrong and it doesn't. The Crucible is a superb film, filled with frightening insights into mob mentality. It also shows how situations can get completely out of control when rational thought is replaced by foolishness and cruel intolerance. You may argue that The Crucible has lost some of its original impact. It was first shown to American audiences in the 1950s, during McCarthy Era. However, the subtext is still very relevant today because, unfortunately, intolerance, injustice, and mass hysteria are still problems that people face the world over. The Crucible is a compelling film with a formidable cast that looks and sounds authentic. You can't get much better than that! "},{"Title":"Powerful Telling of the Salem Witch Trials.","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I had to watch this film as a part of my high school literature class, since we had just finished reading Arthur Miller's classic play. I thought the play was great, definitely one of the best I've read (although I haven't read too many), and was wondering what the film would be like. And I was blown away. The film centers around John Proctor (Daniel Day-Lewis) and his wife, Elizabeth (Joan Allen), who find themselves immersed in the hysteria the grips the colonial town of Salem, Massachussets, when rumors of witchcraft and Devil worshipping break out. This hysteria is set off after a group of girls are found dancing naked in the woods at night, and drinking the blood from a sacrificed animal, obviously dabbling in some sort of black magic. Abigail Williams (Winona Ryder) is a cruel, deceitful young woman who is the main accuser in the witch hunt, although she herself was actually part of the ritual herself, and begins pointing out innocent person by innocent person, soon accusing Elizabeth and John as a revenge tactic for her failed affair with the man.Having read the play, I can easily say that this movie was very loyal to Miller's original work, which is a fictional account of the infamous Salem witch trials. Only a few minor changes were made here and there, but for the most part it was the same as the play. Aside from the wonderful story (that Miller wrote to reflect on the Communist blacklisting event in the 1950's), the acting is the real strong point. Daniel Day-Lewis and Joan Allen are both exceptional - they have great chemistry, and are both great actors. Winona Ryder plays the manipulative Abigail wonderfully, I can't really say anything bad about any of the acting. Aside from that, the sets and costumes display the time period (late 1600s America) beautifully, and the last scene of the film was just flat out depressing, as was the final conversation between John and Elizabeth. It really shows just how harsh and unreasonable the Puritan society was.Overall, The Crucible is an excellent adaptation of a play brought to the big screen. The acting, story, settings, costumes, and everything else made this such a powerful film. Honestly, I'm not sure they really could have done it better, Miller's play was definitely done justice. Elizabeth, your justice would freeze beer. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Wicked movie","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The settling is 17th Century Salem, Massachusetts. A group of spoil teenage girls fearing in getting in trouble for meeting in the woods at midnight for a secret love-conjuring ceremony where the town minister mistook it as witchcraft. Instead of love, psychopath Abigail Williams (Winona Ryder) wishes for the death of her former lover's John Proctor (Daniel Day Lewis) wife. The girls are accused of witchcraft, but to save themselves they accused others. Soon the entire village is consumed by hysteria, and innocent victims are put on trial, leading to a accusations flying, judgments are pronounced, and sentences are quickly and ruthlessly carried out. The only person whom can save them is Mary Warren (Karron Graves). The Crucible isn't a pretty film, but Nicholas Hytner's grim movie version of the classic Arthur Miller concerning the Salem witch hunts is a tragedy and in some what could be also be called a horror/thriller movie. It explodes into a melodramatic but never less than gripping story between both John Proctor Vs Abigail Williams. Ryder is wicked insidious, as the angry, hysterical Abigail, caught up in a conspiracy of lies from which there's no escape looking for revenge against him. Daniel Day-Lewis gives us a stubborn yet vulnerable John Proctor. He gives one of the best lines in the film toward the end. Joan Allen delivers a heart-breaking performance as the anguished Elizabeth, a fervently religious woman unable to disprove the allegations made against her and her husband.it's pretty evident (if you read the book) that Elizabeth did forgive John Proctor. if she hadn't, she wouldn't have blamed herself partly for the affair. their relationship is very complex, but in the end she does forgive him. this draws on one of Miller's main themes of forgiveness. This story really shows how far people will go in their words and actions when they are motivated by blind fear. The Crucible was written as a thinly disguised attack on the McCarthy anti-communist Red Scare witch hunts of the 1950s America.! This is so dramatic and powerful my heart clenches every time I see this, so check it out. "},{"Title":"Over-the-top melodrama","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Salem witch trials that occurred from February 1692 to May 1693 resulted in 19 people hung, another slowly crushed to death and over 150 imprisoned. Historian George Lincoln Burr described it as a notorious case of mass hysteria and vivid cautionary tale about the dangers of isolationism, religious extremism, false accusations and lapses in due process.Since I love history and am a fan of Daniel Day-Lewis you would think that I'd love 1996' The Crucible. But over the years I've seen a couple of clips from it and the film turned me off for some reason. It just struck me as so over-the-top. Yes, I realize that filmmakers always have to amp up the dramatics because they only have two hours to tell their story, but I mean over-the-top melodrama in the sense of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein (1994). If you liked the way that film was done you'll probably love this one.Anyway, I finally decided to actually view The Crucible and give it the chance it deserves. It does have a lot going for it -- quality actors, authentic sets, costumes and locations (shot in Massachusetts and Nova Scotia) and a dialogue-driven approach. Unfortunately, the film's very first scene struck me as inauthentic. It shows several young girls escaping into the forest in the middle of the night to dance under the moonlight (one nude) and cast spells, led by a black woman from the village. This scene was ten times wilder than anything at Woodstock and yet we're to believe all these young Puritan girls felt liberated enough to do this in 1692? Right. I realize that something like this supposedly happened but it's just so amped-up in the movie that it strikes an unbelievable chord.I dismissed it, however, and continued to give the movie a chance, but the story and dialogue just failed to draw me into the dramatics.I think it's worth watching for the reasons cited above and the fact that it does give you a picture of what it was like back then, overdone as it is, and it does inspire you to research the events. Other than these factors, though, the movie fails, particularly with its hyper-melodramatic approach.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Sobering And Chaotic - In Keeping With The Subject Matter","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Arthur Miller wrote the play on which this movie was based in 1953. 1953 in the United States was the height of the Red Scare, with McCarthy and Nixon among others seeking to hunt down and destroy Communists - often with little or conflicting evidence, and often to the ruin of those accused on such flimsy evidence. Miller couldn't write a play depicting the abuses of the Communist witch-hunt, so he did the next best thing - he wrote a play based on the incident in American history that might be the closest thing to the Communist witch-hunts the Salem Witch Trials of 1692, in which rumours led to suspicions, and personal jealousies and ambitions led to accusations and people lied about their neighbours and friends in order to deflect attention away from themselves and innocent people were forced to confess to witchcraft because if they denied it (no matter their innocence) they'd hang and the courts became less interested in discovering the truth than in rooting out the evil. It's actually quite a good parallel.This 1996 movie is based on Miller's play, and the screenplay for it was written by Miller himself. It's a sometimes chaotic movie - quite in keeping with the subject matter (either the official subject matter of the 1690's or the unofficial subject matter of the 1950's) - but in its chaos one picks up the basic point of how easily otherwise good people with normally good intentions can get caught up in evil ways. The devil may well have been on the prowl in Salem in 1692 - not through the accused but rather through their accusers and the system that encouraged and empowered the accusers.Generally speaking the performances here were pretty solid. Both Daniel Day-Lewis (as John Proctor) and Winona Ryder (as Abigail Williams) carried themselves well and the supporting cast was strong. The portrayal of life in a 17th century Puritan community is a little bit difficult to relate to, and even the Puritan manner of referring to virtually all married women as Goody (short for Goodwife) grates for a while and sometimes creates confusion for the viewer in trying to keep the characters straight, because it's so unusual to modern ears - although, on the other hand, it does provide an air of authenticity to the movie. One can only be grateful that the Witch Hunt ended fairly quickly (although a good number of people were executed.) The Communist witch hunt lasted unfortunately longer with a greater number of people being scarred for life by the experience (and, indeed, some losing their lives as a result of it.) One would like to think that we've progressed over the years, although the demonization of Moslems since 9/11 - although is hasn't perhaps reached the depths of 1692 or the 1950's - suggests that the possibilities for such excesses are still present with us. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Excellent screen version of Miller's play","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Nicholas Hytner has a great track record for screen adaptations of plays (The Madness Of King George won the sort of awards for which this film was nominated). In this film about the 17th century Salem witch trials, commonly regarded as a critique of McCarthyism and the HUAC, the past infidelities of a man come back to ruin him and his wife.Paul Scofield is the stony-faced, implacable agent of proto-religious non-logic (a super role in Miller's play as he's frighteningly plausible most of the time). It's the cold-hearted centre of this tough film. The victims of his assumed position of rule are husband and wife John and Elizabeth Proctor given impeccable, nervy performances by Day-Lewis and Joan Allen. Winona Ryder is the truly possessed villager, if only with a deadly, souring, unrequited love for John. Powerful stuff. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Mister Parris! You are a brainless man!","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" (There are Spoilers) When Puritan Reverend Parris, Bruce Davidson, of the little village of Salam Massachusetts saw his niece Abigail Williams, Winona Ryder, and her friends acting weird and dancing naked in the woods outside of town he immediately suspected them of being in league with Lucifer or the Devil.Made to confess their crimes the girls accuse Barbadian slave Tituba, Charlayne Woodard, of orchestrating the whole event. Tituba tortured into confessing that she's in fact a witch has Abigail and the girls follow suite. Admitting their guilt and in order to save their lives, from being executed, the girls make a deal with the village elders to out all their fellow witches. Thus not only saving their lives from the hangman's noose but their souls from eternal damnation.All this hysteria leads to neighbor accusing neighbor of practicing witchcraft in order to get their property as well as settle past scores or grievances with them. Abigail the leader of the girls in accusing anyone whom their at odds with of practicing witchcraft has had the hots for Farmer John Proctor, Daniel-Day Lewis, since she worked as a servant at the Proctor Farm.Having gotten a little too friendly with Farmer John his old lady Elizabeth, Joan Allen, had her dismissed suspecting that Abigail was having an affair with her strong and handsome husband. With Abigail now riding high in Salem in her exposing the evil that dwells there among the townspeople she turns her sights on Elizabeth in order to get even in what she did to her.The film accurately covers the infamous Salem Witch trials of 1692 that lead to 23 of those convicted of those crimes, witchcraft, to be either hanged suffocated to death as well as die in prison. Farmer John himself ended up at the end of a rope for refusing to admit he was a witch in order to save his life. Accepting death instead of dishonor John Proctor would later become the shining light and biggest hero of this dark period in Colonial American history.As for the self-righteous, as well as neurotic and confused, Abigail Williams she took off with the Reverend Parris church money like a thief in the night never, at least in the movie, to be heard from or seen again.The film based on Arthur Miller's 1953 play The Crucible is really about the Communist witch hunts of the late 1940's and early 1950's conducted by the HUAC-The House on Unamerican Activities Committee-of the US entertainment and literary industries. These hearings or witch hunts destroyed thousands of lives of innocent people who were either forced to admit their past Communist affiliations or names names of those who were associated, in their Communist ideas, with them. Thousands of people accused of having Communist sympathies during the 1930's and throughout WWII, when the Communist Soviet Union was our biggest ally against Nazi Germany, ended up not only losing their high paying jobs, in the entertainment as well as the world of academia, but their lives as well. Many of the accused committed suicide or ended up dying from the stress of being hounded by what the HUAC imposed on them in their having to out their friends as well as family members of either being Communists or having Communist sympathies.P.S One of those driven to their death by the constant hounding of the HUAC was actor John Garfield. Garfield died of a massive heart-attack on May 21, 1952 the very day he was to testify against his wife before the HUAC if he didn't want to end up being blacklisted by his bosses in Hollywood. The stress of facing his HURC inquisitors was far greater for tough guy and anti-hero actor John Garfield then anything or any villain he had to face on the silver or small, TV, screen. "}{"Title":"The Crucible is a very good film - a near-perfect translation of Arthur Miller's classic play. As a movie, it is even better.","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Arthur's play, The Crucible, was meant to denote, with some historical inaccuracy, the witch trials of Salem in 1692. However, Miller used the Salem witch trials as an allegory to the McCarthyism which pervaded throughout the United States during the 1950's. I'm sure the majority of the American IMDb users have a vague idea of what happened during that era, so I'll get to the movie. Anyway, the film adaption of the Crucible is indeed a faithful adaption of the play. Given the masterful nature of the play, this is obviously a compliment.The Salem witch hysteria, as documented in the film, first occurs when Reverend Samuel Parris (Bruce Davison) finds a group of girls dancing naked in the Salem forest. Parris is later led to believe that the girls were holding a séance with Tituba, the slave of Parris. This leads to mass hysteria and the resultant witch-hunt. John Proctor (Daniel Day-Lewis), a respected figure, finds that his wife Elizabeth (Joan Allen) has been accused of witchcraft. His involvement in the witch-hunt grows deeper when he finds that Abigail (Winona Ryder, future shoplifter), his former teenage lover, set Elizabeth up. I admit to not seeing the ending of the film, but I read the play, so I expect it will be similar.I don't often speak about the directing, since I don't know much about what makes a good director. However, Nicholas Hynter's direction is smooth, as is the cinematography, leading to the plot being fairly easy to follow. The costumes also appear to be appropriate to the era (1692). The plot is obviously competent, as it is an adaption of Miller's play, which is a well-constructed allegory. However, the transition to the film could've easily resulted in the implementation of some sickeningly saccharine scenes, particularly where Abigail and John interact. Thankfully, this doesn't occur.Adding to the effectiveness of this film is the fact that it arguably demonstrates how the boundaries of guilt and innocence are altered in a culture of fear, guilt and malice (which was prevalent in Salem). It also gives us insight as to how authority figures may act in these times of adversity. The events in Salem (and indeed McCarthyism) were also the result of an ideological conflict between the puritans and non-puritans (Salem was a puritan community), as the film amply demonstrates. This doesn't make the film perfect, however. The acting, while rarely being bad, is decidedly mixed. This is in regards to the correlation between each actor's portrayal of their character and the personality of the character within the play. In this regard, Ryder plays the addled 'whore' that is Abigail quite well. Joan Allen also portrays Elizabeth Proctor appropriately (as a sullen yet kindly woman). Paul Scofield portrays Danforth the way he should - as a cold-hearted human being. Jeffrey Jones also brings out the vindictive side of Thomas Putnam. However, Bruce Davison portrays Parris as too much of a tyrant, rather than the whimsical, petty church leader that Miller constructed him as. Similarly, Rob Campbell turns in a wooden performance as Reverend Hale. In my mind, he does not demonstrate enough of the hysteria that punctuated Hale's personality later on in the play. Peter Vaughan also can't help but make Giles Corey look more irritating than he actually is. Daniel Day-Lewis is, as far as I can remember, a mixed proposition as John Proctor. When he is meant to be hysterical, he pulls it off perfectly. However, in his interaction with Abigail and even Elizabeth to an extent, he occasionally seems wooden and unconvincing.Anyway, as an adaption of the film, The Crucible is near-perfect, with a few sub-par acting performances marring an otherwise spotless picture. As a movie, it is even better, as it also acts as a sociological study with some aplomb. I have no hesitation in rewarding The Crucible4.5/5 stars "},{"Title":"The Elusive Crime Of Witchcraft","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Arthur Miller is gone now, but he lived long enough to see his master work The Crucible finally on the big screen. Back when it was on Broadway it was deemed too controversial in those paranoid days of the Fifties. The Crucible was Miller's answer to the witch hunting House Un-American Activities Committee and the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee of Joe McCarthy. He saw parallels between the Salem Witch Trials where several people were put to death in that sad town for the elusive crime of witchcraft. Miller even got to adapt his work to the screen and did it so well that the stage origins aren't even noticeable.One of the things I marveled when viewing the film was Miller's mastery of the Puritan culture. He must have done some heavy research into it to capture so well the spirit of those times and how they paralleled the McCarthy Fifties.But I would take a different tack in talking about The Crucible. It is a wonderful condemnation of a religious based society as the Puritans were in those days. These people came to the new world to seek freedom of conscience to worship the Creator/Deity in their own way. No sooner do they get here than a society is built by them excluding others who don't buy into their view of things. It would be another century before the novel idea was seriously raised about having NO established religion. It hasn't taken fully hold yet as witness by the Moslem theocratic states like Iran or the newly found influence of the Russian Orthodox Church in some of the former Soviet Union. Not to mention here where after thirty or so years the influence of bible beaters in the body politic seems finally to be receding.Daniel Day-Lewis plays John Proctor the farmer who is by no means an ideal hero is the man forced into martyrdom simply because he won't denounce his neighbors as witches and warlocks. Joan Allen is magnificent as Mrs. Proctor who pays for her husband's indiscretions with teenage flirt Winona Ryder. All of this gets started when Ryder and several of her peers go out to dance in the moonlight, strictly forbidden in the Puritan society. Who led them into this is Charlayne Woodard, an African slave and recently over from Africa where she remembers her customs from her tribe. The girls get spotted and all that follows come from some young girls who rather than face punishment for breaking their strict code say the devil made them do it and start naming friends and neighbors as witches. This whole business gives the girls an opportunity to escape punishment and settle some personal scores. And it spreads to the adults who ought to know better.I've also thought that Arthur Miller might also have been influenced by Lillian Hellman's These Three which is also about tattle tale young girls and the harm they cause. The parallels are too obvious to ignore.Though it took half a century to make it to the screen, The Crucible was worth every second of the wait. "},{"Title":"What would you have me do? WARNING-CONTAINS SPOILERS","Date":"23 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" So you come back for GCSEs and you're told that you will be studying The Crucible for both Enlglish and Theatre Studies, you don't exactly feel thrilled about the whole thing, and after reading the play you're enthusiasm is kindled slightly, but you still aren't looking forward to seeing the film.Despite having read the play prior to watching the film, it still didn't prepare me for the emotional and at times, quite frightening roller-coaster you are then thrown onto when watching the 1996 adaption of Arthur Miller's classic The Crucible. I have to admit that i was crying by the end, (Spoiler) and when Proctor and the other tow women are led out to their death, the lords prayer right at the end, with each of them being killed throughout the prayer, and Proctor never actually finishing the prayer, being cut off at forever and ever-. The abruptness of the ending and the sheer horror of what had actually been done, hit home so suddenly, and i don't think that their was a dry eye in the room.The acting was extremely well done throughout, providing the film with an edge and a fear that was maintained well throughout. I don't feel that their was a weak character portrayal throughout the entire film, and their were some amazingly emotional scenes,(SPOILER) most noteibly, Proctor and Abigial fairly early on in the play, the scene in act three with the girls turning on Mary Warren and finally the scene in act four where Proctor and Elizabeth are reunited briefly before proctor is led to his death.Recently I was in a production of the crucible, and was privileged enough to portray Abby, which was fantastic! Having seen the film, I was able to have a basis to try and establish my version of the character on, and also I was able to get under Abby's skin, which i have to admit, has given me a lot more sympathy for her character. I know that a lot of people say she was a horrible, spiteful, twisted girl, but actually if you look carefully at her character you can actually begin to understand why she acts the way she does.I feel that this was a fantastic interpretation of the play, and it is an incredible tear jerker! Most definitely well worth seeing! "},{"Title":"An excellent historical drama with a clever political allegory","Date":"28 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Based on the 1953 play by Arthur Miller who adapted it for the screen, this is an excellent historical drama with a clever political allegory. I have to say that I have never been a huge fan of Miller's work but I love The Crucible. Admittedly, this may be because I have always been very interested in both the Salem witch trials and the McCarthy era. The parallels between the events of the 1690s, as depicted in the play, and those of the early 1950s are many and obvious. In adapting his play, Miller wisely stuck closely to the source material and the film consequently has a first-rate and powerful script. Although all of the characters involved were based on real people, both the play and the film takes numerous liberties in the manner in which the Salem witch trials and the surrounding events are portrayed. It is extremely well directed by Nicholas Hytner, who shows a great deal of flair in his handling of the often very intense scenes. Rather appropriately, the film was shot in Massachusetts.The film stars the playwright's future son-in-law Daniel Day-Lewis in a brilliant performance as John Proctor, a prosperous farmer who had an affair with his former servant Abigail Williams nine months before the accusations of witchcraft commenced. This is the most notable and effective fabrication on Miller's part as no such relationship ever took place. In reality, Abigail was only 11 or 12 in 1692 but she is depicted as being in her late teens in the play for obvious reasons. While this is not exactly admirable behaviour, John is a good and decent man who regrets his affair and tells Abigail that it cannot happen again for the sake of his marriage. His wife Elizabeth, played by the always wonderful Joan Allen, is understandably resentful. In spite of the fact that she has seemingly forgiven his indiscretions, she feels that she cannot trust him and keeps a close eye on him. John becomes resentful himself as he has promised that it will never happen again and feels that such scrutiny is unwarranted. As a result, their relationship is often tense but it is shown that they love each other completely when Elizabeth becomes the latest in a long line of innocent residents of Salem to be accused of witchcraft. Abigail, played by an uncharacteristically antagonistic Winona Ryder in one of her best performances, levelled this accusation as she wanted Elizabeth dead in the hope that she will be able to continue her relationship with John. Amazingly, it doesn't work. John confesses his adultery but Elizabeth denies it in order to protect his reputation, unknowingly damning them both. John is himself accused of witchcraft on the basis that he bewitched Mary Warren into claiming that she, Abigail and the other girls were only pretending to have seen the accused consorting with the Devil and his familiars. Mary told John the truth in an attack of conscious but she admits to the court and the people of Salem that she was lying in order to save her life.As regards the McCarthyism allegory, there are two characters who are seemingly intended to represent the senator himself. The first is the hateful Abigail, who sees witches everywhere and enjoys tormenting the Salem townsfolk with her accusations, and the second is the chief magistrate and deputy governor Thomas Danforth. In one of his final roles, Paul Scofield is fantastic as the silky smooth Danforth, who is depicted as being a harsh and cruel judge and a cold, callous man. He does not say so openly but he is clearly believes that the accused are guilty until proved innocent and believes that he must cleanse Salem of every trace of the Devil. Danforth presides over the trials with a sort of eerie calm, seldom raising his voice and handing down death sentences without a second thought. There is one moment when it seems that he is open to reason but that hope is quickly dashed as the film draws closer to its inevitable and tragic conclusion. Reverend John Hale, played not terribly well by Rob Campbell, serves as a very effective contrast to Danforth. He was called to Salem by Reverend Samuel Parris in order to investigate the claims of witchcraft and essentially got the ball rolling as far as the trials are concerned. However, the sheer scale of the injustice and brutality on display shocks him and he is shown to be a far more just and reasonable man that he first appeared. George Gaynes, who sadly died last month, has a nice supporting role as Judge Samuel Sewall, who is less vocal in his condemnation of the trials but nevertheless realises their folly.Peter Vaughan is very good as the elderly Giles Corey, who was famously pressed to death and refused to plead either innocent or guilty. His last words were, More weight. It's one of those instances where I would think that something was completely unbelievable if I did not know that it were true. Bruce Davison, who excels at playing extremists, gives a great performance as Reverend Parris, Abigail's uncle and the owner of the slave Tituba who is the first person in Salem to be accused of witchcraft. Although he claims that every defence is an attack on the court, there are several hints towards the end of the film that even he has grown tired of all of the deaths and accusations. Perhaps he has just had enough by that stage. The film also feature strong performances from Mary Pat Gleason as Martha Corey, Karron Graves as Mary Warren and Elizabeth Lawrence as Rebecca Nurse.Overall, this is a marvellous depiction, in terms of drama if not historical accuracy, of an infamous miscarriage of justice. Unlike most works about the Salem witch trials, however, it does not make the mistake of depicting the accused as being burned at the stake. "},{"Title":"A wonderful drama and an excellent adaptation carried to near perfection, only let down (minorly) by a decent musical score.","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Crucible is a drama and a 1997 film adaptation of Arthur Miller's play of the same name. The play (and the movie, by extension) is set during the Salem Witch Trials and is an allegory for the Red Scare. Being a victim of the Red Scare, it's natural that this story was personal to Miller, and it really shows in how polished and well written the play and movie are. And before you misconceive anything, the movie was actually still written by Arther Miller and he basically adapts it very accurately. The only differences tend to be new scenes added in to update the play and improve it.The first thing I have to talk about is the acting. Everyone here does a fantastic job, especially Winona Ryder, who really owns her character. When they are supposed to be deceptive, they feel deceptive. When they are supposed to feel melancholy, they do. When they are supposed to be happy, they are. This cast really runs the gamut of amazing performances, and as I said, I absolutely love Winona Ryder in this.The characters are all incredibly interesting or likable. Daniel Day-Lewis's John Proctor (arguably the main character) isn't some white bread dude. He's made his mistakes, he's failed, but at the end of the day you can still tell he's a good guy and understand his actions, even if you don't always agree with them. Outside of Abigail Williams and maybe John Proctor, I also adored Giles Cory for his personality and stubbornest. The dialogue fits the time period, making it feel authentic. And it's still wittily written and can get a few laughs here and there.As far as the costumes and sets go, they are wonderfully well done. It all fits the time and looks authentic. It still looks great regardless too, and there is no CGI or any bullshit to ruin the look of this film. The atmosphere is incredibly dark and tense, though I wouldn't say on Deathtrap levels of intensity.The plot is incredibly well written and makes sense from beginning to end. The characters never feel like they're changing just because the plot needs them to. Instead, they evolve and develop rather naturally, and it's really believable when you see some guy who was naive at the beginning to understanding exactly what's going on at the end. I also have to give massive props to the romance in the film. It's not often that I ever praise romance in a film, as I inherently tend to dislike the element as it's not often particularly well done, but the Crucible goes the whole nine yards. While couples like the Proctors undeniably have chemistry between one another, they still fight and they still have to deal with other problems with their relationship the whole way through, and the fact that it never feels forced deserves massive kudos.The musical score isn't amazing, but it's definitely fine. It's your standard, sweeping orchestral soundtrack with nothing really new to spice things up. Surely serviceable, but it's also surely worth mentioning.It's not often that I bother to mention cinematography, but this film is beautifully shot.The Crucible is undeniably one of the greatest drama films I've seen-- it's up there with V for Vendetta, it's that good. I truly have no real criticisms to level at the Crucible. It's just an amazing ride and kept me interested the entire two hours. If you see it around sometime and you like some good drama in your films, definitely check it out. The Crucible gets a 10/10. "},{"Title":"The Crucible movie was pretty good!","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I just recently watched the Crucible by Author Miller, and it was actually a lot better than I thought it would be! It turned out to be a really good movie and 100% better then I expected. It was very dramatic, and kept you wanting to keep watching it to find out what happens next. Every time, I tried to look away during the movie, I just couldn't because I was so interested and excited in seeing what happened it was hard to look away. When we first started watching it in class, no one was interested, but by the end of class, everyone was mad that we had to leave, and couldn't finish the movie, considering we were so interested, and it was at the part, when Abigail met John Proctor outside of the church. Anyways, the movie was funny, sad, and very good! "},{"Title":"A pulse pounding period drama","Date":"28 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" If it weren't for me reading the script to Arthur Miller's The Crucible I never would have understood Nicholas Hytner's adaptation of the play quite as well as I did. The movie is historical fiction which talks about the 1692 Salem Witch trials in Salem, Massachusetts. The movie stars Daniel Day- Lewis as John Proctor a farmer and a seemingly kind gentleman in the beginning of the movie but I won't try to spoil anything for those who haven't seen the movie. Miller's play was both interesting and suspenseful but the movie didn't live up to the play as much, to me Daniel Day-Lewis is the essential John Proctor. The movie also other great cast members as well such as Joan Allen (in an Oscar nominated performance) as Porctor's wife Elizabeth, Paul Scofield as Judge Danforth, Winona Ryder as Abigail but to be honest I thought her performance was a little over the top, Bruce Davison as Rev. Samuel Parris, and so many more. Hytner's direction and Miller's Oscar nominated screenplay are well worth watching unfold this is up there with some of the best period films I have ever seen. Though it isn't a great movie it was a near-masterpiece in my view, and Daniel Day-Lewis gave one of the finest performances of his entire career in this movie. This is one of the best movies of 1996. "},{"Title":"Good Finale, Good Aspects, Overall Moderate","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Crucible is hard to adapt to the big screen. It's a long script, and has to be handled in a very particular way or risks being laughable. This production wasn't laughable, but what it was was middle-of-the-road in many aspects. The acting is pitch perfect in some scenes, mainly those representing Act 3 and 4, where the tension is high. However, at lower tensions various actors come across as somewhat bored (such as Joan Allen as Elizabeth Proctor, whos relationship with Proctor initially showed like a school play on screen, with very little chemistry) however this was picked up well by the end. Daniel Day Lewis wasn't perfect as the character. He displayed great care towards Abigail and virtually none for Elizabeth in their first scene together, which makes it look like Proctor wants Abigail more, the exact opposite of the play's intention. Various lines were delivered wrong, and various character interpretations felt contrived (Mary Warren does not start crying hysterically instantly when she sees Proctor, read the play Karron Graves.) but overall, by the end the acting feels balanced enough to be... just below good.The use of lighting, sound, and set was far too naturalistic for my taste. They could have really built up the tension with creative imagery, editing, some good score, a bit more style that would give the representation of Salem more substance. It all feels very normal, which takes away from the theme of hysteria that is supposed to have taken over the whole town. I'm not saying they needed a CGI extravaganza or a Zack Snyder Sucker Punch style movie (although the latter would be really interesting, actually) but a bit more flair was necessary. In my opinion, anyway.Finally, the addition of scenes Again, very mixed in results. The scene in the woods? Well done, well shot, creates a good atmosphere and actually adds to Abigail's character early on. The end scene with the Lord's prayer? Really solid, interesting, poignant, and historically accurate to one person actually hung in Salem. The scene where Proctor confronts Abigail in the woods? No. That showed a complete lack of understanding of the text. Elizabeth being arrested in the play was a result of Proctor being selfish and NOT putting what was right over his desire to keep a good name and not to hurt Abigail despite knowing what she did was wrong, and this scene missed the mark so hard it wasn't even funny, it kind of made me cringe and say No! You were going so well!Like I said, it's moderate. The acting's okay, but not great (apart from Winona Ryder as Abigail. She, in my opinion, was perfect) the technical aspects are accurate, but very uninteresting, and the addition of scenes sometimes misses the mark. Was it as bad as some adaptations of great plays? No. But that doesn't mean it deserves more praise than it gets. The movie was fine, but the play was brilliant, and that's what stings the most about this movie. "},{"Title":"Bullying Is An Ancient Art.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" It's a message movie and it resonates. Willful belief in absurdities plagues the town of Salem, Massachusetts, in 1693. A handful of young girls, caught dancing in the woods, begin to claim they were possessed by the devil and they make accusations of witchcraft. It leads to more than twenty hangings and other deaths by execution.When Arthur Miller wrote the play in the early 50s, it was his way of speaking out against the communist witch hunts of his time. And indeed the trajectories of the movements bear similarities. It starts with someone craving attention, first blaming someone who is not only harmless but marginalized -- insane people, the senile, the very poor. Then it leads to overreach. The dozen hysterical girls of Salem begin to claim that spirits of a higher caliber have haunted them at night -- the spirit of the preacher's wife, for instance, which goes a little too far.Historically, Senator Joseph McCarthy began with real spies and real suspects but his claims grew more and more outrageous until he inspired the John Birch Society to consider President Eisenhower nothing more than a communist dupe. And then McCarthy accused the US Army and General George Marshall of harboring communists. It was all a bit much for the less than insane among our own citizenry.Now, of course, we can all cluck out tongues at such fantasies -- while presidential candidates now running would build an unscalable wall across the Mexican border and hunger for a wall across the Canadian border as well. The president is a gypsy changeling from Africa. Our strongest leaders turn into carnival barkers and we cheer them. That's not to mention worms in McDonalds' hamburgers. I guess -- I hope -- the less insane among us will reintroduce us to reality some day.In any case, that's the end of my spiel. I will now stand down from the speaker's platform if someone will give me a hand. Thank you, but you don't have to be so eager.The acting and the milieu are finely done. Winona Ryder does very well as the lustful young traitor and she handles the stylized speech all right. It's only when she's excited that a bit of Wynona, Ohio, peeps through Abigail Williams.In 1693, these were all Brits, not Americans. So Paul Scofield can enter the movie as a judge who wants to be fair but is himself possessed by his interpretation of the Bible and his loyalty to what he perceives God to be. Those baggy eyes and that pebbled chin are just villainous enough.Joan Allen as an innocent victim is a fine actress but she doesn't have much to do except look made of stone. Make up has turned her face sere and gray. Daniel Day-Lewis is one of the better actors of his generation but he's stuck in the part of the audience proxy -- the man of principle, guilty only of having boned Winona Ryder in the barn, who sees through the fraudulence of the accusations, the trial, and the ensuing executions. He sees the foolishness. We can see it too, even if we can't see our own.There's a much less lavishly budgeted story of the witch trials around too, Three Sovereigns For Sister Sarah, I think. It's well worth catching. "},{"Title":"great writing","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" It's 1692 Salem, Massachusetts. Village girls led by Abigail Williams (Winona Ryder) dance in the woods with Barbadian slave Tituba. Abigail kills a chicken and drinks its blood while the cauldron boiled. Abigail's uncle Reverend Samuel Parris (Bruce Davison) discovers the girls. Betty Parris faints. Reverend Hale (Rob Campbell) is brought in. Abigail accuses Tituba and the group convinces Hale that the devil is loose upon the town. Abigail is obsessed with John Proctor (Daniel Day-Lewis) and aims to get rid of his wife Elizabeth (Joan Allen). Righteous Judge Danforth (Paul Scofield) arrives determined to rid every trace of the devil. Greedy Parris uses the opportunity to accuse his neighbors and steal their lands. Proctor servant Mary Warren recants and Hale sees the truth. However Danforth and the course of judgment will not swerve.Based on the play by Arthur Miller which was inspired by the MacArthur hearings, this is thinly veiled accusation against all witch trials. The writing is sharp. Winona Ryder is a compelling villain. Daniel Day-Lewis is solid. Paul Scofield is perfect. Joan Allen has great Protestant righteousness. Some may accuse the group of overacting but that's the nature of witch trials. The movie does need some darker cinematic visuals to match the subject matter. Nevertheless, this is well-made adaptation of a play. "}{"Title":"Reds under the beds","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Crucible stars Daniel Day-Lewis as John Proctor, a man who lives in 17th century Massachusetts. When a young woman (Winona Ryder) begins maliciously accusing villagers of being possessed by supernatural forces, Proctor finds himself the only man of reason within an increasingly deranged town. Based on an Arthur Miller play of the same name, the film was directed by Nicholas Hytner.In 1952, director Elia Kazan, one of Miller's close friends, appeared before the House Un-American Activities Committee. Fearful of being blacklisted from Hollywood, Kazan revealed the names of eight members of the Group Theatre, who in recent years had been fellow members of the Communist Party. Soon after this testimony, Miller travelled to Massachusetts to research the infamous witch trials of 1692. His intention was to write a play that condemned the denunciatory political hysteria of the 1950s, which he aimed to compare to the tryings and hangings of witches in the 1600s. This quickly written play would open at the Beck Theatre on Broadway in early 1953. Philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, a renowned Marxist, would first adapt the play for the screen in 1957. At its best, Nicholas Hytner's version of The Crucible critiques sexual repression, puritanical hysteria and of course silly witch-hunts. As a film about the realities of both McCarthyism and 20th century class conflicts, though, it's mostly lightweight. As is typical of these films (The Front, Good Night, and Good Luck, Guilty by Suspicion etc), we simply watch as avatars of enlightened liberals are patted on the back for, Christ-like, absorbing persecution by irrational nutcases. Because the US never witnessed government-driven anti-Communist purges on the scale of France, Italy, Germany etc (persecution of communists began over a half century before the formation of the USSR), such films never go beyond the hounding of America's left-leaning intelligentsia. That the United States' actions abroad were resulting in the deaths of millions, the couping of countless governments, and the backing, arming and funding of numerous dictators and/or terrorist groups against nationalists, independence movements and left-wing governments, most of whom had no connections to the Soviet Union, never enters the conversation. The more illegal and/or unsavoury actions of the US government at home (projects like COINTELPRO, MINARET and nowadays ECHELON, MUSCULAR etc), are likewise ignored. This is perhaps because McCarthyism also functioned as a big distraction. It kept paranoid and crushed dissidents at home, whilst providing a convenient ideological framework in which conservatives and reactionaries could define and promote muscular American values at home and abroad. Politics aside, The Crucible is an entertaining film. Daniel Day-Lewis plays well a role that sixty years ago would have gone to a Henry Fonda or Jimmy Stewart - the likable, enlightened everyman - and Winona Ryder is good in a role which would make a fool of most other actresses. Despite its subject matter, Hytner maintains a comedic touch, recognising the absurdity underlying his horrific subject matter. 8/10 &#x96; See The Spy Who Came In From the Cold, The Front and Citizenfour. "},{"Title":"Relevant but inert","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Arthur Miller's play The Crucible is a very important allegory that is as relevant today in the post-9/11 world as it was in the 50's during the height of McCarthyism. Yet despite the relevance of the play, it's hard not to view the movie as a letdown. It has Daniel Day-Lewis (perhaps the greatest active actor) in the lead role and the film's voice of reason John Proctor, but even he can seem to make his character wholly believable. It seems as though nearly every character in the film inhabit roles of symbols, rather than real people. The characters act only to underscore Miller's political commentary rather than to deliver a nuanced study of humanity. Characters so quickly devolve into a state of hysteria that it's nearly impossible to believe. Miller and the film's point with this are to show how mob mentality and the basic human instinct to find a culprit in inexplicable circumstances lead people to behave irrationally. But these scenes are completely inorganic and only serve the film's themes, which badly harms its credibility. Despite the seriousness and intended importance of this film, it's hard to take a film seriously that features a dead-pan Daniel Day- Lewis surrounded by dozens of screaming, hysterical individuals. Unfortunately, this film will likely inspire more unintended giggles than deep conversations about human nature. "},{"Title":"These witches are not for burning","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Crucible is a popular text in British schools. Not only based on the real life incident of the Salem witch trials but also a political allegory to the McCarthy hearings in the US Congress in the early 1950s which inspired Arthur Miller to write the play.The movie has been adapted by Miller himself and the watchword is hysteria how like an ether it can easily be inflamed leading to blind panic with no morality. The film was released in 1996 yet just a few years earlier there was ethnic cleansing in the former Yugoslavia, Rwanda, clan fights in Somalia. Mass hysteria was alive and well and something Miller would had been well aware of. In that sense the film should be more than a historical product of witch trials in the 17th century and communist witch hunts in the 1950s but something that is relevant even today.The film begins with young girls conjuring love potions in the fields and then forced to tell lies that the they had been possessed by the devil when they had been caught by the local minister. They start dragging innocent people into the fold by accusing them of witchcraft, before long petty vendettas are being settled with accusations being hurled with ulterior motives.Once the inquisitors arrive, accusations are made simply to save themselves from hanging no matter other innocent people will hang instead unless they confess or accuse others.Winona Ryder leads the young women but she is also infatuated with a married farmer, John Proctor (Daniel Day-Lewis) with whom she had a short affair and now uses the events to get rid of his wife by accusing her of witchcraft.However the adaptation does not succeed because the mass hysteria by the girls also looks rather silly, more a badly acted play rather than a prestigious film adaptation. The film also loses its parable element as only late on do you get the inkling with the McCarthy hearings which inspired the play in the first place and is such an important part of the play's DNA.Day Lewis is fine, you see his authentic facial hair, some early scenes of working the land but there is the now trademark hamminess here and there which his fans mistake for great acting. Paul Scofield who once made his name in The Man for all Seasons plays the reverse role here as the hanging judge determined to cleanse this small Massachusetts town despite the consequences and in his solemn way gives an acting masterclass. "},{"Title":"A Fitting Adaptation","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Salem witch trials of 1692 have always gripped the American imagination, possibly precisely because they are something so un-American. America prides itself on being the New World, modern, democratic and rational, yet the witch trials, and the superstitious, intolerant and authoritarian attitudes which produced them, seem very much of the Old World. Indeed, in some respects Americans of this period were more old-fashioned than the Mother Country. The last English witch trials had taken place ten years earlier, and by the 1690s belief in witchcraft was in decline. Arthur Miller's play The Crucible takes the witch-trials for its subject, but was also written as a critique of McCarthyism. Miller succeeded in his intention to such an extent that it is today difficult for any historian to write about the proceedings of the House Un- American Activities Committee without using the phrase witch hunt, but whether this has done the play's long-term reputation any good is another matter. McCarthyism may have been a burning issue in the fifties, but today, at least to anyone under the age of eighty, the HUAC seems nearly as remote in time as the witch trials themselves. Moreover, the parallels that Miller draws between Salem and McCarthyism are not, in my opinion, persuasive. And yet I nevertheless regard this as one of the greatest tragedies written in English in the twentieth century. It has taken on a life of its own, independent of the political concerns that prompted it, and become a timeless work which still speaks to us today, not as a satire on a long-dead politician, but as a play about injustice and the struggle against it. Miller's hero, John Proctor, is a classic flawed tragic hero, a man who becomes involved in tragedy because of his human frailties. Proctor, a prosperous farmer, has been unfaithful to his wife Elizabeth with their maidservant, Abigail Williams, but has repented of his adulterous affair and, at his wife's request, dismissed Abigail from his service. These events come back to haunt him. Abigail is the leading figure in a group of girls and young women who begin to accuse their neighbours of witchcraft and who, in the prevailing climate of superstitious Puritanism, are readily believed by the authorities. Abigail, still obsessively in love with Proctor and consumed with hatred for his wife, accuses Elizabeth Proctor, who is arrested. Proctor's attempt to prove his wife's innocence backfires, and he is himself accused and sentenced to death. Told that his life will be spared if he confesses, he faces the dilemma of either saving his life by falsely confessing to a crime, or continuing to maintain his innocence, which means that he will be hanged. A French film, Les Sorcieres de Salem, was based upon Miller's play in the fifties, but he had to wait another four decades before Hollywood plucked up the courage to follow suit. Miller himself wrote the screenplay, and Proctor is played by his son-in-law Daniel Day-Lewis. Day-Lewis is one of the most reliable screen actors in the world today; I have never seen him give a bad performance, and seldom one which is less than compelling. He is also a versatile actor who has created a gallery of memorable characters all quite different from one another, unlike some actors who play essentially the same character in every film they make. Although he is British and Irish by descent, many of his best-known characters, from Hawkeye in The Last of the Mohicans to President Lincoln, have been American, and Proctor is another. Day-Lewis makes him both proud and sensuous, but a man of integrity who will fight to retain that integrity, even at the cost of his life, in a world gone mad.The modern play closest in theme to The Crucible is, in my view, Robert Bolt's A Man for All Seasons, also inspired by real historical events and with a hero who would rather forfeit his life than tell a lie. It is therefore appropriate that Paul Scofield, who famously played Thomas More in the stage and screen versions of A Man for All Seasons, should also star in The Crucible. Here he also plays a lawyer named Thomas, but a villain rather than the hero. Judge Thomas Danforth, Proctor's nemesis and the man tasked with investigating the allegations of witchcraft, is a cold, precise, bloodless figure, the sort of lawyer who is less concerned to see justice done than to see that if injustice is done it is done according to the strict letter of the law. A third fine performance comes from Winona Ryder as the spiteful, hysterical and vindictive Abigail, reminding us of just what a fine young actress she could be at her best, even if in recent years her emotionally troubled private life has received more attention than her acting. There are also good contributions from Elizabeth Lawrence as Rebecca Nurse, an old woman who maintains her dignity despite the absurd charges that are brought against her, and Rob Campbell as John Hale, a clergyman who initially supports the witch-hunt but who has enough integrity to change his mind to when he realises that the campaign has got out of hand and become an opportunity to settle old scores. The film was directed by Nicholas Hytner, also responsible for another successful historical drama of the mid-nineties, The Madness of King George. The Crucible is not, however, made in the lavish heritage cinema style. In keeping with the Puritan aesthetic of the early Salem settlers and with the dark events which constitute its subject-matter, the look of the film is restrained and sombre. Hytner has produced a fitting adaptation of this great play. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Adaption of Arthur Miller's Play","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Crucible**** (out of 4)124 mins/ 12Cast Daniel Day-Lewis, Winona Ryder, Joan Allen, Paul Scofield, Bruce Davison, Rob Campbell, Jeffrey Jones, Peter VaughanDirector Nicholas HytnerPlot Abigail Williams, a puritan teenager in the times of the Salem Witch-Trials, accuses her ex- lover's wife of compacting with the devil.JJ's Verdict Based on a true story, The Crucible is a thrilling and emotional take on the Salem Witch-Hunt and the consequencing trials and hangings. Arthur Miller, adapting the story from his own play, received an Academy Award nomination. The film's hero is John Proctor, a sinful but respected farmer living in Salem, who comes into the story when his ex-lover accuses Proctor's wife of witchcraft. Of course, being set in the 17th century, the film gives a highly realistic look and view of the time. The American-British accents from the whole cast are fully complete as are their performances. Daniel Day-Lewis, who portrays Proctor, once again completely transforms into his character (no doubt he lived in the conditions of the times and wore the clothes for months to prepare for his role.) His character has a certain charm, reluctancy and silent, brooding confidence &#x96; and all these attributes are superbly picked up Day- Lewis. Winona Ryder, playing Abigail, is just incredible in a ruthless and superbly dramatic performance. Her character really only starts with all her accusing to get back at John, and Ryder plays the spitefulness of her character very well. Paul Scofield is also good as Thomas Danforth, a judge, and Joan Allen is suitably dramatic in an Oscar nominated role as Proctor's struggling wife. Although the entire feature is emotionally driven, one scene really sticks out in my mind when looking back on this very underrated classic. This scene in which all the town's girls start to name people they saw with the devil is very dramatic. Forced into 'admitting' by Bruce Davison's Reverend Parris, all of the actresses let themselves go and just let the lines flow through their mouths. Similar scenes like this occur throughout the film and it is times like these when 'The Crucible' moves more towards a black comedy. However, the last half an hour is anything but. Emotionally depressing, it helps give the film an epic status. The beautiful cinematography and a deep score from George Fenton help to make the final few moments a good time to get the box of tissues out.All in all, a brilliant cast (which also includes Peter Vaughn, Rob Campbell and Jeffrey Jones) gives 'The Crucible' a super lift from a good historical drama, to an emotion filled mini-epic. "},{"Title":"Serious, almost plodding story of how the Salem Witch Trails may have evolved","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" In the reading the reviews and comments here, I find it unfortunate that some of our reviewers seem to think that brilliant has to be exciting. It doesn't, and this movie is a key example of that. The writing is top notch, and the story and dialog show how hysteria and revenge may have been major factors in the incidents leading up to the Salem Witch Trails.The primary roles are extremely well acted. Daniel Day-Lewis is superb as the resident who ultimately gives up his life rather than be cowed by the judges. Winona Ryder...well...difficult to like her character, and I felt that sometimes she was overacting...but overall effective. Paul Scofield excellent as the head judge. Joan Allen good as Day-Lewis' wife, but she's been better in other films. Bruce Davison genuinely unlikable as the local reverend who acts simply to save his position. Rob Campbell, an actor with whom I am not familiar, was quite good as another reverend.There's no question that some will not like this film. It moves slowly, but surely through the plot. The cinematography is well done in the spartan settings. I would class this as a niche film -- the niche here being viewers that like a more realistic view of history through film. I enjoyed the film, but to be honest, I doubt that I will watch it a second time. "},{"Title":"Great Performances!","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Written by Arthur Miller & based on his play of the same name, 'The Crucible' offers Great Performances by its terrific cast. While as a film, it engages in parts. 'The Crucible' Synopsis A salem women accuses her ex lover's wife of witchcraft. 'The Crucible' is masterfully shot by Andrew Dunn & honestly Written by Miller. The Writing appeals in parts, although the slow-pace does hamper its overall impact. Nicholas Hytner's Direction is passable. 'The Crucible' is rich when it comes to performances. Joan Allen is fantastic, while Daniel Day-Lewis is persuasive. Winona Ryder is remarkably credible. Paul Scofield is effortless & classy. Bruce Davison is in brilliant form. Jeffrey Jones & Rob Campbell are fabulous. Peter Vaughan is highly competent. On the whole, 'The Crucible' has its share of pluses & minuses. "},{"Title":"Difficult to Watch","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This story is terribly difficult to watch. The blood lust of the people to condemn their neighbors to death is disgusting and infuriating!! I wish I could see those people suffer to their own deaths as they made innocent people die in suffering. It was too awful to watch for me. The level of ignorance in those with power and influence was astounding. I wished someone would shoot that Judge in the head and those who supported his judgment!!! And to think of the division we suffer today amongst the right and left in the US and the language many people use today against one another, it scares me that something like this could occur today, differently but the same. "},{"Title":"Interesting story about what's right and what's wrong","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" At the beginning of the movie I wasn't so sure it would be as good as it turned out to be, because, for me, the opening is quite important, as it sets you on the right track. It let's you feel the atmosphere of the whole movie and prepares you for the rest of it. Now. The reason why I had such doubts, is because the story is set in the 17th century and is about village life. And I never quite fancied 17th century village life where family, field work and the church were important elements in life. But, after a short while, you get into the mood, and the story gets really interesting. Even though stories about witchcraft in the village and the life of the town's folk aren't the most impressive ones, this one is quite original. One of the ideas of the movie is that the majority of people are dull and dumb and have poor judgment. And if then, there stand a decent man in the crowd of idiots, he is powerless against them because one man is not a match against an angry mob. And even though this seems unfair, it is the truth. That is the cruel reality. And that is what the movie is about. So anyone who likes stories by Dostojevsky, Camus or Kafka, will definitely enjoy the movie for it's impressive existential ideas. I actually wanted to see this movie because the main character is played by Daniel Day-Lewis, who is one of my favorite actors. So other that the good story, the performance by this amazing actor is another good reason to watch the movie. Winona Ryder also gives a good performance. Good. Not great. I 'm not saying she isn't a good actress, but Daniel Day-Lewis is the star of the show here. "},{"Title":"A whore's vengeance served well...","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" After just reading the play by Arthur Miller, I felt moved by its gripping story. When seeing the movie, I have to confess that I liked the film more than the play. Comparing the movie with the play in accuracy is quite close, almost exact. Not only did bring the film to life on picture, but also added and grew more in-depth in the thin layer of witch-hunting, but the hardcore of fraud and vengeance.The Crucible is about the Salem witch trials back in the late 1600s of where mass hysteria erupted from a small number of girls who claim they were bewitched by other members in the town, which led to the deaths of twenty people. There is no proof or real evidence as to why the girls acted, and made wide accusations so pervasively and heartlessly. But the play, even more so with the movie reveals the dark side of the brutal truth.Abigail Williams (Winona Rider) and a handful of other girls were caught dancing and supposedly committing sacrifices and other demonic rituals. After each being persistently and mercilessly interrogated, the girls, (with Abigail as the leader), start saying other people's names in order to evade their troubles. Here on, paranoia and disillusion develops as the girls grow bewitched, in which the townsfolk believe in. Basically, they put on a class act, manipulating the court system not only to get out of harsh punishments or gain their fame, but to seek vengeance upon those in the town that harmed and/or despised them.You listen upon a whore! God is dead! shouts a condemned Procter, instantly giving the message of the tale. In the end, the Innocent die, and those who try to speak the truth of the hoax also die. The film shows well of man's ignorance to reason, as well as inhumanity to their fellow neighbor. But even more so, the real moral is when vengeance and greed clouds the minds of those who lived. In the end, the politics and the manipulative girls are the winners. The performances were outstanding. Winona Rider, even though I don't fancy her much, gave a very manipulative and cunning performance that I haven't seen since Meiko Harado as Lady Kaede in Kurosawa's Ran. Abigail does it all to seek the heart of a married man John Procter (Daniel-Day Lewis). Once again, Mr. Lewis gives a compelling and heart-wrenching performance as Procter, who would do anything to find the truth and save the town, as well as his friends, from destruction and madness. There were many other faces that were great, including Eric Schofield, Joan Allen, Bruce Davison, and Rob Campbell.Apart from the great acting and solid story, the film also held good film-making quality, such as the mellow dramatic score, the proper setting (including costume, being filmed on the actual location, and the set-decoration). However, the actual directing was weak. Instead of having up-close shots like Peter Jackson, wide-ranged, distant shots like Kurosawa, or even a hand-held or shaky camera movement like Paul Greengrass, the camera was stiff. It was as if the director only wanted to show the story in an audience perspective, not trying to pull the audience into it. Added to this, the pace for the two hour film dragged a bit.But do not be disheartened by these flaws, for The Crucible is a great film based off of a great and unforgettable/unforgivable story of lies, deceit, paranoia, disillusion, and death. 4/5 You covet what you see-Hannibal Lector "}{"Title":"An Incredible Film. Moving and Powerful","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Salem Witch Trials is something everyone around the world has heard, let alone the United States. The time was the late 16-th century and religion ruled the America's. The film is based of the classic Arthur Miller play, 'The Crucible' the film version does not disappoint.Salem is a quiet New England town along the Atlantic Ocean. It is home to a variety of sailors and farmers, but soon mischief would send the town into madness. After Reverend Parris (Bruce Davison) discovers the slave Tituba (Charlayne Woodard) conducting what is seen as witchcraft, the town begins to fall into panic and soon people are being accused left and right by a group of girls claiming to be able to see evil spirits and the black man enlisting lieutenants from the colony.Caught in the middle is John Proctor (Daniel Day-Lewis), a farmer who has broken off an affair with Abigail Williams (Winona Ryder), one of the girls accusing people. Now John's unfaithfulness to his wife will lead to his own condemnation and his quest to stop the killing through defiance. Soon the city would send itself into history by the hanging of twenty people including a feeble old man and a local drunk. The Saelm Witch Trials was truly a sad time for colonial people and resulted in the death of so many. Daniel Day-Lewis is incredible as John Proctor and continues to be a top actor in Hollywood. Winona Ryder is sinister in her role and goal for nothing but to have John Proctor. I now little of the trials but I think The Crucible shows how sad they were especially the final scene when the crowd isn't cheering but solemn as John is led to his rope. the story is mostly true to Miller's play and is well portrayed in this film version.The Crucible. Starring Daniel Day-Lewis, Winona Ryder, Paul Scofield, Joan Allen, and Jeffrey Jones.4 1/2 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, rich and interesting","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" A beautiful adaptation from Arthur Miller's Play, The Crucible is not only a tragic story narrating the witch hunt that happened in Salem, but it is also a great story that develops around the human nature and human relationships.In fact this movie has so much to say to it, that any good Psycanalist would write at least 100 pages about it. The movie focuses on fear in us, human beings, as it being the only emotion responsible for creating chaos. Around it the relationship love and hate is also explored. Eventually Abigail (Winona Ryder)unchains a cycle of vengeance, hate, fear and lies which will lead a whole town to begin a ridiculous killing and hanging. She unchains a collective hysteria so to say, which will make even the most innocent soul collaborate in those crimes. On court the scenes become enormously interesting, the suspense keeps you tied to your sofa for the entire film. In the End it all resumes to our human nature and how far can we go with our emotions and actions. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  A very good film version of the Arthur Miller play. I was impressed with the scenery and costumes, and the acting was very good. I had to read the play in high school, and from what I read, I couldn't picture Winona Ryder as Abby, the femme fatale. But she turns in a very good performance, as do Daniel Day-Lewis and the always reliable Joan Allen. A very strong movie adaption of the play, and I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"Once Considered Great Literature, Now Almost Unwatchable","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" A feverish performance by Wynona Ryder as Puritan temptress Abigail, plus a broodingly sexy turn by Daniel Day-Lewis as the wandering husband John Proctor, plus a dozen standout performances from a perfectly chosen supporting cast of all ages, all fall just short of bringing Arthur Miller's insistently simplistic anti-Black List anti-McCarthyite fable to life.Arthur Miller has no feeling for language, and no gift for characterization. What he does well is to create a story that makes audiences feel empowered because they can see through the characters. In the case of The Crucible, it's clear from the beginning that Abigail is just a slut, Elizabeth Proctor is a cold, humorless nag, and poor put-upon John Proctor is a decent man unjustly hated by women who expect him to value them for something other than the pleasures of the bed! Ironically, what comes across most strongly in Miller's version of the Salem witch trials is not the fanaticism of the Puritans but his own loathing for women and girls. He's actually a much better Puritan than the Puritans he denounces. His hero seduces a teenage girl, ruins her virtue, then acts a martyr's part when she turns against him! John Proctor wants to have complete authority over the women in his life, wife, mistress and servant girl alike. Yet never once does he show the slightest regard for their feelings or the slightest respect for their intelligence.In particular, note how John Proctor systematically uses bullying and the threat of violence to force timid, weak-willed Mary Warren (a sensational turn by the sadly unappreciated Karron Graves) into testifying against Abigail in court. Not for one minute do you believe that John Proctor has any real concern about what happens to Mary. Once his wife is off the hook he's going to go right back to kicking, beating, and screwing his servant girls whenever the spirit moves him. But this is Arthur Miller's hero. Oh, and check out his neo-Existentialist rambling when the chips are down. I f***ed a sixteen year old girl. Therefore, THERE IS NO GOD! You wish.And they wonder why kids in high school won't read. "},{"Title":"yep","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" yep.... this movie accurately portrays sheeple(humans)back then(17th century) as stupid like most are to this very day! lol.Moral? It's easier to judge and condemn in fear of the unknown. Typical humans!Good performances by Winona Ryder and Lewis. Winona is great in any movie though. What the hell. Will give this a 10 for performances and accuracy of human beings. As for the movie itself well it's OK if you don't think about the movie and simply enjoy the acting.................. ....................... ...................... .................... ................... ................. ............... "},{"Title":"The Crucible","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" If an equivalent of the Salem witch trials were being held today in some community, the charges of the executed would be laughed at. But at the time, the Puritan community felt so threatened by the devil (which, invariably can come in any form at any time and force people to falsely testify about a previous testimony that could have or could not have been true, thus making an educated decision concerning the defendant's guilt nearly impossible) that they would kill those they love if there was the slightest chance of his presence.Arthur Miller's writing, firstly, is drama in the purest form. There was not one point in the film that I was not immersed in the plot. The cinematography pleasantly surprised me. I was expecting a much more, well, play-like attempt in the film. But I guess the surprise was only mine in my film ignorance.Daniel Day Lewis was perfect. He displayed Proctor's loyal yet skeptical personality, and, without the audience noticing, moved from being stress-free and resolved of his adultery sin with his wife, in the beginning of the film, to a man ready to do anything to save his wife's life, including kill. I also have to mention the actor who played Judge Danforth (Paul Scofield), for he was my favorite character. An image of justice, he did just the opposite in the play, ironically killing without remorse or hesitation in the name of God.I am still trying to pick apart this film for all its underlying themes and motifs. But I guess that's what makes a great film; that it stays on your mind for days in everything you see and every decision you make. Read the play, watch the play, watch the film, or do all of these, for you won't regret its impact. "},{"Title":"OK, nothing to write home about","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" After watching The Crucible, my feelings are mixed. This movie was an intense motion picture to watch and even more intense for me to interpret. The story itself is not hard to interpret, but trying to convey my feelings on it is difficult.The story of The Crucible is very basic a community, mad with hysteria, brings itself to its downfall. The story centers on Abigail Williams, played by Winona Ryder. She was the maid of John Proctor and his wife, Elizabeth, played by Daniel Day-Lewis and Joan Allen. Elizabeth suspects John of adultery with Abigail, so she and John agree to fire her. Abigail resorts to witchcraft to try and win John's heart, but when her uncle (the Reverend of their village's church) witnesses her dancing with other young girls of the community, she and her cousin are set into a panic. Their dancing was believed to be sinful and full of witchery. The next morning, Abigail's cousin Ruth is paralyzed in bed and this confuses the town. They think that the devil is the one to blame. This sets into motion the hysteria and suspicion of witchcraft and communication with the devil. No one in the village was safe from being condemned by Abigail and her dancing friends. The witch hysteria calls for immediate attention. Enter Judge Thomas Danforth, played by Paul Scofield. There are many trials and many innocent people getting accused of witchery, and no one is exempt, not even John or Elizabeth. The inevitable comes to pass.I thought that this movie was poorly acted. There were some standouts in lead roles, but the supporting roles seemed to have been overlooked. There are four leads in this movie John Procter, Abigail Williams, Elizabeth Proctor, and Judge Thomas Danforth. John Procter is played with lackluster enthusiasm by the great, two-time Academy Award Winning Daniel Day-Lewis. He seems to lack passion or care until the last scene, but by that time, I had lost hope and resigned myself to his weak performance. It is slightly unfair, though, that I say this, seeing as it was a pretty good performance, but I am naturally going to be biased as I have seen him in so many considerably better performances, some of the best of film (My Left Foot, There Will Be Blood, etc.). He should have thought before he set the bar so high for his work. The other bad lead role was Abigail, played horrifically by Winona Ryder. I'll admit, her performance was bad, very bad, but it didn't help that throughout the movie, I despised her character. Even so, I am one to appreciate devious and villainous characters if they are played with villainy and passion. She gave an uninspired performance, to say the least. One of the lead roles that was superbly acted was the role of Elizabeth, played by Joan Allen. She plays her with such subtlety that I couldn't help liking her performance. She was the only member in the cast to receive an Academy Award nomination. The other wonderfully played lead role was the role of Judge Danforth, played magnificently by Paul Scofield. He played Thomas Moore in A Man For All Seasons, which won him an Academy Award. He is such an implausibly underrated actor; I wish to see him in more roles. He is type-casted in this role, playing another law official, but it's for the better.The writing is nothing to complain about. It follows fairly accurate with the play, although there are some differences, as you would find with any movie based on a previously written material. This movie, though, has an advantage. It was written by Arthur Miller, the same man who wrote the original play. There weren't too many noticeable differences. One scene played out outside, rather than in the courthouse where it was originally set. The dance of the girls was shown in the film, but in the play it was only talked about, but there weren't too many differences. Naturally, the dialogue was drawn out longer, but the duration of the movie is longer then the duration of the play. I liked the satiric aspect of the movie. If one of the girls had a grudge to bear with any member in town, they would recall an instance in the past that would make officials believe that the person was a witch. I thought that it was funny in a way, but the directing made it less comedic and more pitiful and dramatic. The scenery was dreary and tired and worn down. The filming was bland and forgettable. The Crucible lends itself better as a play than a movie. This play was based on an event happening at the time that Miller wrote it.Senator Joseph McCarthy was spitting out accusations everywhere that people were Communists. If they denied that they were Communists, then they were thought guilty and were declared Communists, but if they admitted to being one, then they were let off the hook. This modern day witch-hunt known as McCarthyism mirrors Miller's play almost exactly.The movie had many flaws. It made me feel uncomfortable and eerie, which makes me not like it, but thinking over that, I realize that that is possibly the director's intention, and if so, then well done. I can only recommend it to people that are interested in the witch-hunts. It wasn't that boring, it was actually entertaining (in a strange way), but it was very predictable. It was a strange movie, the acting was OK, the story is good, but the direction was weak. There were some very tense moments on screen, which made for thrilling cinema, but its faults are greater then its perks, but I think it would be worth it to check it out. "},{"Title":"A triumph!","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The classic Arthur Miller play is given new life as it is brought to the screen. The Crucible is a nearly flawless movie. Daniel Day-Lewis gives easily the best performance of his career and has made the role of John Proctor his own(Hard to do considering how many people have played the role on stage) Miller has extended his scenes to the point where we don't even realize he's added new parts(And I have read The Crucible countless times) Nicholas Hytner gives a Spielberg/Coppola caliber direction job here, which is really hard to do because the material is so iconic yet Hynter is still able to make this film his own.The one flaw of the film is Winona Ryder who just can't keep up with her supporting cast. Not to say she is horrible, but really someone else need to take the pivotal role of Abagail Williams. You know you have done something wrong with casting when your Mary Warren is more charismatic than Abagail.The big surprise of the movie though is Rob Campbell as John Hale. He gives a great performance worthy of a Best Supporting Actor nomination in my opinion. We all most wish Miller had given more to Hale to say.The Crucible is a classic film and I recommend it to you not just as a fan of the original work but as a fan of film all together. In a decade full of great films The Crucible was sadly forgotten but it is a must rent film. I consider it to be one of the best of the 90's. "},{"Title":"cross to bear","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Arthur Miller's death last year brings to mind all his plays, including The Crucible. This one of course focuses on the Salem witch hunts in 1692. According to what I've heard, Miller based his play on McCarthyism. That was a good analogy, but it apparently led to an inaccuracy.But anyway, it's still a really good movie. The overall point is that it shows what religious fundamentalism leads to (for the record, these were probably descendants of the people who came over on the Mayflower - so much for our image of exceptionally benevolent history). Daniel Day-Lewis is intense as Puritan John Proctor. It's almost surprising to see Winona Ryder in this kind of movie, given the kind of roles with which we usually associate her, but she also does a good job as Abigail Williams, who accuses Proctor's wife Elizabeth (Joan Allen) of being a witch. Also starring Paul Scofield, Bruce Davison and Jeffrey Jones.Still, a movie about the witch hunts that's apparently more accurate is Three Sovereigns for Sarah. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I had to read the book last year in my advanced english class, and let me tell you, reading a play is one of the most boring ordeals ever! so, when she said we are going to watch the movie after we are through with the book, i didnt hold my breathe. The Scarlet letter had a terrible followup to an excellent piece of literature, which led me to believe that literature and movies shouldnt mix, or be watched. Well, that was total bull when this movie came along. the acting was amazing to watch, and winoya ryder portraying the eviliest girl in the villiage kept me on the edge of my desk, wondering what evil would lurk out of her. john proctor was a rather attractive man, and daniel day lewis also gives a heck of a performance. these two are goldmines, and they all hold the play together. (**SPOILER**) After all, if the whole adultered act never happened between ryder and lewis, then there wouldnt have been a book or a movie, would there?  a recommended must see to those not interested in reading the cliffnotes over the internet or fond of reading at all, this movie would help you even better to further your knowledge of the Crucible.  (A- B+) "}{"Title":"fine adaptation of arguably Miller's best play","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  My first acquaintance with 'The Crucible' was as a stage play in an excellent production which used large sets, mime, and heavy focus on the parallels between the Salem witchhunts and the persecution of Jews and Communists throughout the mid-20th century.Nicholas Hytner's movie opens out the play, uses an excellent range of locations, assembles a stellar cast (including Daniel Day-Lewis and Joan Allen, both of whom are impressive in this, with Paul Scofield full of menace as their persecutor) and remains true to the source play.  My only reservation is the casting of Winona Ryder as Abigail, but that may be just personal taste.  I don't feel she is right for the role somehow.This movie shows intelligent, perceptive, and engrossing movie-making at its best.  I'd certainly say it represents one of the best films of the 1990s. "},{"Title":"Gripping film","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I liked this film so much! It has a gripping story, it makes to fixed to the screen until the last minute. Ryder really gave a great performance, she was so convincing in deceiving everyone else of her unusual abilities. I thought she was just a cute doll with no acting talents before I saw this movie, but now I changed my mind about her. "},{"Title":"Effective adaptation","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Surprisingly this is the first ever big screen adaptation of Arthur Miller's play. Suprising because the script itself is so good that all you need are decent actors and so-so direction and you can't go wrong. And this has both. So it's good. So watch it.Although the play was originally written to show the madness of the McCarthy Communist witch hunts, in the current political climate it takes on a more contemporary meaning as Salem is enveloped in a web of lies and the pious religious leaders try to fight an invisible enemy on the grounds that it is 'God's will'. Particularly echoing of recent events are lines like you are either with this court or you are against it and the marks of the Devil are precise. The Crucible is an incredible piece of drama that everyone should see at least once, so you may as well watch this version.  "},{"Title":"Powerful with Excellent Performances","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I've always been interested in the salem witch trials and have read several books about it. Finally I've found a movie that concerns this topic. I really liked this movie, the acting was so strong and powerful, it's almost like your being pulled back into time to experience the awful horror and tragedy of the Salem Witch Trials. I would give The Crucible 9/10 "},{"Title":"My summary of the events of this movie.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This movie depicts how idiotic the people of that age were.  The director and writer did a good job of enraging me at the sheer stupidity of the government representatives of that time period.  They commited numerous injustices to the people that they condemned on the whim of teenagers of that time.  "},{"Title":"A students view of the greatest play ever written","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Some may say that Higher English is a bore, but when the teacher played the Crucible to the class, you could have heard a pin drop.The dramatic quality and the overall atmosphere of the scenes - particularly between Abigail and John - were astounding. I can honestly say that i was in floods of tears after the final curtain and so were many of my classmates (its hard to believe that most were 16 year old boys but thats human nature for you) all I can say is that I hope everyone gets the chance to see it, Daniel day lewis and Winona Ryder were absolutely Brilliant and perfect for the roles they played. Arthur Millar should be given a medal.  "},{"Title":"Chilling tale of paranoia","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Arthur Miller's classic play is turned into a sobering story of how mob psychology and gossip can become hysteria. The witch trial madness of 1692 is well dramatized with a strong cast and a screenplay by Miller himself.The original allegory Miller was presenting in his play had to do with the Red-scare witch hunts of McCarthyism in the 1950s, but the story transcends that setting to show how fear and bigotry can tear a society to shreds. "},{"Title":"One performance can't make-up for the flaws.","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Crucible is a erratic, chaotic, dull; simply trash with a magnificent performance from Joan Allen. Nothing works here, nothing at all. It's a horrendous adaptation of 1953 play that can't be salvaged from the endless flaws. It would be a flat-out 1/10 if it wasn't for Joan Allen.Joan Allen is one of the greatest actors of all-time and she is given a small role, but big enough to earn a Best Supporting Actress nomination. She isn't given a great deal of dialogue, but she tells the story so much with eyes and her facial expressions, and when she does speak it's simply magic. It isn't nearly one of her best performance, but that's not saying much. She is literally amazing in everything she does. Here, she wastes her great talent on an awful film. Daniel Day-Lewis isn't bad, but delivers his weakest effort yet. Such an extraordinary actor, such a shame. Winona Ryder, whom I'm never been a fan of, redefines why I despise some of her work. She needs to take some acting lessons. No depth, she just screams and is hysterical. The rest of the cast follows in disappointment. The problems here began with the direction. He just doesn't 'get' the material and makes a mess out of it. I didn't like the look of the film, or the costumes which are flat-out mediocre. It's so dull and doesn't succeed on any level besides it's supporting actress performance from Joan Allen. Like the saying goes (with the one person equaling Allen and the world equaling the film, one person can't take on the world's mistakes; 2. "},{"Title":"Letting Lucifer loose in Salem","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" To cover her sullied reputation--and to strike back at the married farmer she had a brief affair with--a young woman in 17th century Salem creates mass hysteria with stories of witchcraft. Yet another version of Arthur Miller's famous play, adapted for the screen by Miller himself, and featuring a powerhouse group of actors who work this mercurial story for all its worth. Unfortunately, the twitching, face-slapping histrionics and pinched overview of how small town gossip can topple even the most faithful parson is only intriguing for those unfamiliar with the material. For others, the florid handling may be enough to compensate for an overall feeling of staid predictability, as the plot grinds along covering every overcooked detail. The actors are good, particularly Paul Scofield as Judge Danforth and Winona Ryder in the totally unsympathetic role of Abigail Williams, but to give this piece some new cinematic life, a filmmaker like Martin Scorsese or Quentin Tarantino was needed. Director Nicholas Hytner is fond of old-guard pomp and sweep, yet he shows no spirit--he approaches Miller's text like a guilty choir boy--and he slows down all the biggest sequences for a numbing solemnity. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Best it could be","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I first saw this film in the theater in 1997.  My impression then was the same as it is now, after numerous viewings this is just about the best movie that could be made of The Crucible.  The script takes the best of Miller's original words and uses the film medium to great advantage to *show* several events that the play is constrained to tell.  I am an English teacher, and I use this film every year when my students read the play. The acting is, for the most part, great.  Most of the negative reader comments on this page dealing with themes, morals, plausibility, etc. apply equally to the play version; to me they represent fidelity to the original text rather than flaws. The Crucible will never be a feel-good work, but this is an excellent adaptation and a moving film. "}{"Title":"An Arthur Miller play adapted very nicely to a movie","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This was a famous play that was said to characterize the communist witch hunts of the '50s in the US.  It is too bad that that play is so immersed in those times, because the story is very good all by itself.It is the story of Abigail Williams (Winona Ryder) who lays waste to the community of Salem by holding a late night romp with the town's girls featuring some forbidden folk charms and then whipping the town into a murderous witch hunting frenzy when they are caught.  Naturally, the town is ripe for trouble with greedy and corrupt neighbors who are already at each other's throats. "},{"Title":"A truly superb film with great performances.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This film has such an authentic feel to it, mainly due to the amazing sets and costumes, but also the wonderfully restrained performances. Ryder is surprisingly good, she plays the confused child brilliantly. Lewis is an amazingly powerful actor, and he manages to slowly pull you into his tragedy and make you feel his pain and injustice. You find yourself raging at the short sightedness of the villagers and the frigidness of their minds. This is a superb film with fantastic performances all round, and the story, well, it's a classic. "},{"Title":"These Witches Sure Can Yell","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The world didn't really need yet one more version of the Arthur Miller parable set during the Salem witch trials. But if the world insisted on giving us another, why didn't it give us a better one? Stage director Nicholas Hytner had tried his hand at movie making before (The Madness of King George) and not done too badly, but you wouldn't know it from this film. These actors, some very good ones (Daniel Day-Lewis) and some not (Winona Ryder), act like they've never been in front of a camera before, and scream every line like they're doing a stage version in Madison Square Garden. Not a very subtle play to begin with, The Crucible is like a hammer hitting an anvil when played the way it is here.Joan Allen and Paul Scofield fare much better in quieter, much more reserved roles.Grade C "},{"Title":"The Crucible is Much Ado About Nothing *","Date":"16 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Miserable, off-the-wall film dealing with Arthur Miller's supposed masterpiece.Let's get something straight. This idea that the idea of the film is to emulate the witch hunt of the 1950s is absolutely ridiculous. It's a totally different genre, people, places and misery.Are we to believe that Daniel Day-Lewis and Joan Allen are the equivalents of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg? Are we to believe that Allen is not to be put to death for practicing witchcraft right away because she is with child and we know the church's position on abortion?With it all, there is a very good performance by Paul Scofield as the chief magistrate.Hypocrisy is shown by most of the characters here, especially Bruce Davison. He portrays a priest who is as phony as they come.I love the way the town people turn on one another. Perhaps, Elia Kazan should have directed this film.Among other things, this film is boring, Winona Ryder screams like the holy lunatic she is supposed to be. What's so magnificent about Daniel Day-Lewis here? "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Crucible Without the witch trials, Salem wouldn't be able to exploit the hanging of innocent citizens for profit.But as this drama depicts, they happened, so fridge magnets are perfectly respectful.In 1692, the single women of Salem assemble in the forest and cast love spells on their crushes.One such witch is Abigail (Winona Ryder), a former nanny to Elizabeth Proctor (Joan Allen), whose unfaithful husband John (Daniel Day-Lewis) now bares the brand of her blood-bound enchantment.Later, the girls are accused of witchery. But Abigail convinces them to feign possession, brought upon them by townsfolk who practice the dark arts.The accused, including Goody Proctor, are then tried for sorcery.Based on Arthur Miller's prominent play, this well-acted, all-star adaptation adheres to historical accuracy amid an adulterous love triangle that tests one man's newfound fidelity.As for avoiding the gallows, just get a witch doctor to declare you insane.Yellow Light vidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Who weeps for these?","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  You the audience will be weeping for Day-Lewis and company before it's all over.Daniel Day-Lewis plays farmer John Proctor, an essentially good man who made the horrible mistake of having an affair with the tramp Winona Ryder while his wife played by Joan Allen was sick. Now that Winona and company have been accused of witchcraft, the little bitch is accusing anyone and everyone who gets in her way, and depending on who they are, they'll either lie to get off or they'll let themselves be hung because they will not admit to false accusations just to save their lives on Earth when they believe that God will punish them for it later on in either Heaven or Hell.Based on the stage play by the same name that was a comment on the Communist witch hunt of the 1950s, this creepy, well crafted film holds your attention and will have you in tears by the end when it comes time to hang John Proctor not for his affair with Winona Ryder but for refusing to lie about having seen Satan just to save his own skin. Joan Allen is great match to Day-Lewis's strong and yet soft spoken portrayal of Proctor as his wife with the inferiority complex.There were a few unnecessary changes in dialogue but that's okay. One of my favorite lines - Perhaps God damns less a liar than he who throws his life away.  "},{"Title":"Surely a Crucible, All Its Own","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  A small group of teen girls in Salem, caught in an innocent conjuring of love potions to catch young men, are forced to tell lies that Satan had invaded them and made them to participate in demonic activity after they're seen in the woods by the town's minister.  Desperate to be rid of their guilt, they push the fault on innocents of the village, finding that the more people they `see' with Satan, the more they lose their own line of indiscretions. The young woman (Ryder) leading the group is infatuated with a married man (Day-Lewis) with whom she had a short affair and, determined to get rid of his wife (Allen), accuses the woman of witchcraft.  It doesn't take long for the majority of the village, and those surrounding small Salem, to be flooded with the evildoers who hang unless they `confess' to their crimes and continue the cycle of wild accusation.Released in 1996, the film is still able, for the most part, to remain historically accurate, and this is largely because of direction by Nicolas Hytner.  Many of the steps he has taken in overseeing the production of this piece are astounding, so astounding, at times, that you wonder if it was by accident only.  One of the moments resides in the sheer intensity of the mood, reached by erratic camera angles and haunting score underlying everything, sometimes going unnoticed to the conscious viewer.  In the opening scene, when the girls gather, you can already see foreshadows to the darkness ahead by one glimpse of their eager faces and wide eyes, and not long after, Hytner and Miller have hit you over the head with quick events of dire importance almost before you have time to realize what just happened minutes before.  Though the pace is somewhat irregular, the gaps are filled in by supreme direction over dialogue between the characters, and makes for an even more exciting conversation than would have been had in the original play.Still, no production is worth the effort without the cast of talent to pull it up out of the water.  A star-lined film, The Crucible supplies us with old favorites and new acquaintances side by side, allowing us to see the actual ability that's there instead of focusing on the face that we recognize so well from last summer's blockbuster (though in Daniel Day-Lewis' case, most of his face is covered by scruffy hair, so it has a lessened affect).  Speaking of Day-Lewis, he has of course offered up his well known `heart and soul' presentation with every gesture and inaudible noise he may have mustered, though some attention is drawn from him when young Ryder is in the middle of one of her insane fits of power and control. Playing an infatuated seventeen-year-old, it's hard for Miss Winona to reach higher than girlish giggles, but later on, we can see her grow into her own skin and share the same reality of character as her costar. Riding along in their own band wagons, Joan Allen and Elizabeth Lawrence (as the kind hearted Rebecca Nurse) bring to life the softer side of dreary days, allowing us to catch a glimpse of the sad sainthood acquired by many of the murdered victims through every reaction they have to those around them. The remainder of the cast seems to be pinned to the plot itself, sometimes almost as desperately as the situation permits, and you begin to wonder if they've become lost within the story.But never fear, decent acting will always balance out the mediocre; at least as long as those carrying to load are in sight.  There are times when the film becomes so melodramatic that mocking the actors becomes entertaining, and the need to bring everyone to their senses with a good smack dominates your viewing experience.  Supposedly, the lack of sense is the idea behind the film, but let's hope that it hasn't extended past the plot.  All in all, I would give this film a 7 out of 10, allowing it a generous outtake on the ability to capture the unfortunate truth of the past, but also giving future filmmakers a heads up to avoid losing sight of the type of message their sending out in their story, and of themselves.  "},{"Title":"AMAZING","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The Crucible is truly one of the most powerful movies ever made. True it is not the most visually impacting, but it is the best demonstration of what a great ensemble of actors can do. The entire cast of this film is great including the children. Each one of the characters had such intensity and such conviction and dedication to the character. It felt at times like you were watching a documentary of real events. The actors especially Frances Conroy, Joan Allen, Daniel Day Lewis, and Winona Ryder have very impacting performances that should not be missed. I do not understand comments about the film should've been written to end in this way...or she shouldnt have done this....I hate those comments because if the writer intended on it to be that way he would've........and it wouldnt be the same screenplay if it was written any other way. I'm pretty sure a genius like Arthur Miller knows what hes doing..and he sure proves it in this beautiful screenplay. Overall I'd give the movie a 10...the best ensemble acting i've seen along with Gosford Park "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  A good movie about one of the most famous witches hunt that took place during the inquisition in Salem.The actors are powerful and I especially liked (disliked?) the Winona Ryder character, a real evil girl.A must see to remember how Holy Crusades often lead to disaster. "},{"Title":"Arthur Miller the Great 9/10","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  1996's The Crucible might not be the most visually gorgeous film around -- but if you judge it by its acting -- it is equal to none.  The film is a perfect adaptation to Miller's heartbreakingly splendid play.Daniel Day-Lewis is a force to be reckoned with as the tragic hero to this tale.  Winona Ryder gives her best performance to date as the twisted maestro responsible for all the chaos that takes place in the film.A must for those who adore good acting. "}{"Title":"A well thought out movie!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie about 4 years ago and I still remind of it quite well. I thought it was pretty interesting since it was an epoch movie that told us about the witchcraft and tragedy in a town called Salem. The crucible is thoroughly well done. It's also quite faithful to the play since Arthur Miller worked on the screenplay. He really deserved the academy award nomination for best screenplay. This movie is amazing; have a look at the scenery, costumes and acting, you'll see they're completely fitted to the movie. It also gives us an atmosphere of pain, tragedy, blood, wickedness, madness, betrayal, love, hate, etc. Had any period in history been as dramatic as this one? This certainly made me follow this movie without getting bored. I read some comments on it and found out that some people thought it was pretty slow; nevertheless I don't think it was, because the powerful plot makes this movie goes on as fast as it can. Winona Ryder was amazing. I didn't really like her that much before, but after acting in this film; I think she's superb. This is truly her best performance. I don't get why she didn't even get an academy award nomination for best actress in a leading role. She was a revelation! What a superb actress! however I must stress that this is the only Winona Ryder's movie I have liked so far. I have seen Autumn in New York and Lost souls and I thought they were a shame. I never thought she could have acted in those disappointing films, anyway I think she was very appropriate to star as the complicated and heartless Abigail. Daniel Day Lewis was excellent. He was very well cast to star as John Proctor. He really envelops himself into the role quite well. He actually knows how to play a repented husband and a frustrated lover. As for Joan Allen, What can I say? I think she was perfect to play Elizabeth Proctor. She is a wonderful actress. What a tremendous actress! I just say she was perfect to star as John Proctor's wife. It was pretty interesting, as she had to decide whether or not to lie in order to ensure her husband's life.The ending was quite good and rather fascinating. I never thought it was going to end with John Proctor's death. It's unforgettable when he got hanged. It's also unforgettable when he talked to his wife Elizabeth for the last time. His words were touching. This was a very different ending, since Abigail wasn't punished for being a witch. I thought the jury trials would punish her.  Anyway I really enjoyed the whole movie. It's completely worth watching. This is one of the best movies I have ever seen. 9.5/10  "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD I've loved Arthur Miller's the Crucible in play form for years.  I've read it a number of times, and performed in it as well.  However, I was really rather disappointed by this interpretation, and even further surprised when I found out that Arthur Miller worked on the screenplay.I found that I was not swept up into the production in the right places. Joan Allen's transition from cold and distant to warm and compassionate is far too sudden.  Winnona Ryder is very good, but is such a strong Abigail that she steals the show.  Daniel Day-Lewis does put out a good performance. Mary Warren (I don't know the actress) does a wonderful job in a somewhat underrated part.  The actors who portray the other judges are also good, but not fantastic.In addition to these problems there are a number of instances that are just far too cliché to be believed.  For example, the first shot of Proctor and then Elizabeth is really reminiscent of the Sound of Music and seems too corny to belong.  Or when Elizabeth is in the courtroom and is deciding whether or not to lie, there is a beam of light across her face that ruins the entire seriousness of the piece. I have no problem with effects like this if they are subtle. The underlying ideas in the script are often very subtle until the end and the effects should match that.Overall, it is not a bad production, but I had hoped for much more. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent film-making but something's missing...","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  While watching the film I found its technique (acting, script, and direction) to be right on the mark, but just wasn't that moved by it.  I would instead recommend the 1957 version (Les Sorcières de Salem, in the original French) written by Jean-Paul Sarte.  It is THE best Crucible by far. "},{"Title":"powerful story portrayed by powerful performances","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Having studied the play at school (and scrutinising every single line of it!) I was very interested when I heard they were making the movie and especially as the original playwrite Arthur Miller was penning the screenplay. The movie stays very close to the original play, and Millers dialogue is delivered usually more than adequately throughout.  Joan Allen and the actor(whose name escapes me)  who plays Paris shine throughout, and Daniel Day Lewis is brilliant as Proctor, especially in the last half an hour of the movie, where the drama increases tenfold. This is an excellent representation of an awful period of history. "},{"Title":"powerful story portrayed by powerful performances","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Having studied the play at school (and scrutinising every single line of it!) i was very interested when i heard they were making the movie and especially as the original playwrite Arthur Miller was penning the screenplay. the movie stays very close to the original play, and Millers dialogue is delivered usually more than adequately throughout, with one exception. Winona Ryder as Abigail is particularly disappointing as the role demands a lot more than simply the ability to scream and faint. Joan Allen and the actor(whos name escapes me)  who plays Paris shine throughout, and Daniel Day Lewis is brilliant as Proctor, especially in the last half an hour of the movie, where the drama increases tenfold. This is an excellent representation of an awful period of history. "},{"Title":"This movie was very catchy, it brought you in.","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie. My favorite characters were John and Elizabeth Procter. I really admired his decision at the end when he did not want to ruin his name by confessing to a lie. I wish everything would have worked out for that couple and their children. At the end of the movie the couple was loving and they wanted to be together. The character I hated the most was Abigail. She was very immature and got caught being bad and instead of confessing and taking her punishment, she decided to bring down everyone she hated in order to keep her from being in trouble. I would definitely recommend this movie to people of all ages it is very enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"True to the written text","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Once I found out that Arthur Miller wrote the screenplay, I knew the film would be true to the original play by Miller.  The written play has so many specific stage directions that I felt it might limit the feeling of ownership for each of the actors.  But for the most part, the acting seemed genuine.  I thought Rider overacted numerous lines.  You know that slow way of talking with the squinty face, as if the words themselves are less important than the delivery?  She did that too much.  However, I recommend this film as a nice way of ending a high school English unit on The Crucible the play.  It's accurate, well done, and ends the same way as the play does. I wish I could say the same for The Scarlet Letter starring Demi Moore, perhaps the worst film adaptation of a literary classic ever made. "},{"Title":"a really good movie","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT in my english class we read the play the crucible and then we saw the movie it was really good and at the end it was sad because the main character john proctor dies. i liked the movie more because you are able to see the characters and i could understand better what was going on. the actors did a really good job and they acted as if they were living on that time. reading the story and looking at the movie i learned a lot of things that i have ever heard about like for example i didn't know that a lot of people had been killed only because of withchcraft. that is why i think is important to see or read the the play the crucible.  "},{"Title":"Excellent, gripping, and dramatic film.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I'm a junior in high school and this was required reading.  We just watched the movie today and I thought it was excellent.  It was almost completely true to the play.  Some of the settings seemed a bit off, but other than that I loved it.  I'm not a big Winona Ryder fan, but I thought her, Daniel Day-Lewis, and Joan Allen portrayed their characters really well.  For me, they made the actual events this play is based on much more real because to think that there were actual witch hunts in America is hard to come to terms with.  I thought this was a great film, I would recommend it to others, and on a scale of 1-10 I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"An amazing adaptation of the play","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  **possible spoilers**Unfortunately, there are many times when a script loses something in the transition from the stage to the screen.  However, this is definitely not the case for The Crucible.  From the first minutes of the movie, you find yourself swept up in the hysteria of Salem during the witch trials.  You can feel the terror and paranoia that the townspeople were living under.  The scenery itself was wonderful; it was a very realistic portrayal of the everyday fight these people endured to survive on the land.I am a huge Winona Ryder fan, and I have to say, I wasn't disappointed. Her portrayal of Abigail was truly amazing.  Although you hate and despise her for what she's done to Salem, there are still moments when you see her desperate love for Proctor shining through the hypocrisy and hate.  Not only that, but the sexual tension between Abby and Proctor, especially in the beginning of the movie, was fantastic.I'm not a big Daniel Day-Lewis fan, but he did well as Proctor.  As the movie went on, I found myself liking his portrayal of Proctor more and more. His final speech was heartfelt and moving, and left me in tears.Joan Allen was also very good as Elizabeth.  There have been complaints that she was too wooden or cold in the portrayal of her character, but Elizabeth was a wooden, cold woman.  Joan Allen carried out the role admirably, and when Elizabeth finally let her emotions show at the end of the movie, I saw the intensity I had been waiting for.All in all, an amazing adaptation of the play.  The acting all around was incredible, and the filming itself perfectly caught the mood of the times. P.S.  One of my all-time favorite movie moments is when Elizabeth is faced with the decision of lying or telling the truth and damning her husband. It had been raining outside, but as she's reaching her decision, the sun begins to creep into the room.  What can I say?  I can't get enough of symbolic stuff like that. "}{"Title":"Absolutely Brilliant","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This film is one of the finest films I've ever seen.  It catches your attention early, grips you and ties everything together in the middle, and leaves you with a look of awe on your face.The casting was very well done, as Wynona Rider and Daniel Day Lewis give more than memorable performances.  In my opnion, Daniel Day Lewis deserved an Oscar for this film.  Rider is also excellent.The film is taken from Arthur Miller's classic play.  Though the play was written somewhat to show the flaws of McCarthyism, it is still a great movie without the symbolism.The opening is fabulous with the dance scene, grabbing you very early in the film. Rev. Hale gives a tremendous performance also.John Proctor is what makes books worth reading and plays and movies worth seeing.  Is he 100% good?  No.  Is he a villain?  No.  But he believes in his principles, and stands up for what is right, his friends, and what he believes in... and that is why he is a hero.  "},{"Title":"Something to see even just once","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Arthur Miller's timeless play is one of my favorites ever written.  So much power and emotion, so that as you watch you gape at it.  A sorrowful plot ending and based on truths mixed with things in the middle of the play such as an affair and age changes that are false provides two and a half hours of stage entertainment.  In 1996, they released a movie.The movie version, I have to admit, falters a lot. So many unnecessary things are added, things that just take up time. Some things are changed from the play, such as the purpose of Tituba's conjurings.  The movie moves somewhat shakily, as scenes are chopped up and served to viewers over multiple days' time in the movie.  Scenes not in the book edition but in the Broadway play edition (such as the wood scene) are added, which in most cases is a good thing-- we get more out of the facts this way. However, once the hearing scenes begin, the action becomes very intense, and for those who have never seen the play before, is an exhilarating experience waiting to see what will happen.The actors in this production are mostly quite good, but in some cases, over-the-top. Mary Warren was excellent, and Winona Ryder really made you HATE her character.  Danforth, Parris, and Putnam both did very good jobs as well, and Parris really expressed greed and egomaniacal traits.  Paul Scofield as Danforth was a grest secondary antagonist.  Joan Allen was jyust fine as Elizabeth, as was the actress of Tituba.  However, Hale, and I hate to say it, but even Daniel Day Lewis as John Proctor don't seem to meet up with the rest of their fellow cast.  Hale seems to exaggerate irrelavent things.  Still, beyond that, he doesn't pose a huge problem.Now for an analysis of Proctor.  As my high school is in rehearsal for this play as I speak, I think it is easily naturally to point out things about your own part, and this is mine.  I did not find total dislike with Day-Lewis.  In certain scenes, he did great, especially directly after Elizabeth speaks to Danforth in the court.  He also displayed a good amount of remorse and angered reason with Abigail, and annoyance with Mary Warren.  Still, he seemed very calm around things that people back then in that society would gasp at, had they a clear mind as he did.  Maybe as he filmed he thought it was his character, but hanging of all of those innocent people... Rebecca Nurse's arrest... it seemed as though he didn't really care.  In the end, I find dislike with the final speech over the signature signing.  His impressive parts even out the not as impressive better than I had originally thought, but not so well as Hale's actor did.  In certain parts, I cannot help but use his influence as I read, something I try to steer away from doing, so his performance was not BAD. It just wasn't superb.Along with these, the movie provides excellent authentic visual scenery, true to the times.  It is some of the best.  Arthur Miller's adaption of his own play could have been better was it was still really good. Though a bit boring in parts, it still delivers nicely. * * * * (out of 5) "},{"Title":"A great story, Good movie, but could have been so much better.","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I've performed the part of John Proctor in a Stage Production of The Crucible So I do know the story fairly well. I do knowthey could have done so much more with many of the parts. Also I don't think anyone would buy this story as total fiction. It is way too far fetched, but the fact that similar events actually happened only makes it that much more intense.The score to this movie is incredible. If you enjoy that sort of music I highly recommend picking it up.There are trade-offs between Theatre and Movies. This movie suffers from some of the intensity that Theatre has to offer, and it doesn't pick up many of the things they can do in movies that aren't possible on stage.MOVIE ENDING INFORMATION FOLLOWS ************************************************************* This doesn't really give away much of the ending, but I wanted to be safe. The name speech bugged me, Day-Lewis slaughtered the speech entirely, and they cut out the most intense line of it, How may I live without my name. I do like the added effect at the end of the people chasing the cart, and the looks on everyone's faces. "},{"Title":"I didn't think they made Great movies anymore!","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This is a magnificent movie. I thought there was nothing but trash out there. I was wrong. Like someone else commented - Perfect. You must see this movie (or some other Great movie) before you are even qualified to talk about whether a movie is good or not. I like to nitpick and I couldn't, hell it never even occurred to me. 10 10 10! "},{"Title":"I'd rather read the book","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The movie is good, no doubt about that, but only because the story is so good.  The film had no spectacular cinematography or editing and the acting was not the best either.  I must admit that this may be Winona Ryder's best performance yet.Basically, to sum it up - I'd rather read the book.  In the book you can get the same great story and imagine the superb action and cinematography that the movie lacks. "},{"Title":"Satan goes to Salem","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  A good movie with a good story, that's what I think it is. The movie describes how the American pilgrim fathers responded to witchcraft, which was a serious crime in 1692 (that's the year of the story). Every actor, young and old, acts perfectly. A little boring sometimes, but a good movie, like I said. "},{"Title":"Good but didn't all out Rock","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This movie had a fantastic script but started to drag on after a while.  I was surprised to see Winona Ryder as such an evil villain.  As far as acting goes she demonstrated that she can really rock!  It is hard to make a beautiful innocent looking girl such a bad one, but Winona Ryder did just that, and made it look as real as it gets.  If you have not seen this movie, you should see it just for that.  It did not make the movie a total hit though.  The Crucible did not even make me giggle once.  Even though it was a drama, this one needed a few laughs befor the end.  It lacked some apples in the overall entertainment bin but still pulled through to entertain you. Even though it was a great movie, and Daniel Day-Lewis and Winona Ryder did a great job of acting, it still needed just a little somthing more here and there.  Overall, I give it a 9 because Winona Ryder, once again, ROCKED!!!! "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not great","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  A very good rendition of Mr. Miller's work, although with the exception of Messrs. Day-Lewis and Scofield, and Ms. Allen, some rather flawed and wooden performances.  Often, the actresses portraying the afflicted girls are merely reciting their lines, rather than attempting to portray their characters.  Again with the exception of the above, most of the actors have obvious difficulty with the odd sentence structure of the colonial American time period.  A strong ending, though, coupled with moving scenes between the Proctors redeems the film's flaws to an acceptable level. "},{"Title":"A very touching movie","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I saw this movie after reading its review in TIMES; I read the review before the movie was released.Based on true events this is a very moving picture especially towards the end. Daniel Day Lewis(John Proctor) and Winona Ryder(Abigail Williams) give great performances. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THIS MOVIE THEN YOU HAVE SEEN NOTHING. "},{"Title":"Good Acting but overall boring","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Okay my opinion may be much different because I played the role John Proctor in theater-form just a few months ago. I find the story to be one-tracked and boring. D-Day Lewis dominates and Joan Allen is top notch. I know the story has very solid metaphors for fearful discrimination but after awhile it's like we get it enough. It's almost to easy to pick up on character motivations in the film, play, or novel adaptations. You know where the story is pretty much headed. It's always thoughtful and mildly interesting but as a film form it's boring and tedious. I also had a problem with Ryder because she was convincing but I saw my four teenage friends play her much scarier, and portraying her for the crazy-messed, kooky, demented bitch she was not just someone like Ryder who showed she was mildly disturbed and only motivated to get Proctor in trouble not because she actually thought she was doing the right thing in her own world. I cant overlook that they seriously all out-performed a star like Ryder (in my opinion she is so over-rated and now people realize it) Like I said I had a different experience. Aside from Lewis(I learned so much watching him) and Allen I was bored to sleep. "}{"Title":"Really Chilling Movie","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I just finished watching this movie and WOW, the way the movie was created start to finish was brilliant, gritty and intense. I'm not a fan of Winona Ryder at all and only marginally of Daniel Day-Lewis (In short because of Gangs Of New York, although really good acting the rest of the film was awful) their performances were awesome.I really loved the themes of the movie and the whole mob mentality of the girls. I was really gunning for a certain female teenager being hanged. The scene where DDL and WR are forced to face the front while DDL wife is asked questions is in my opinion one of the most intense and heart breaking scenes in film history.Bottom Line is If you get the chance to see this movie DO!!! it will shock and challenge your way of thinking "},{"Title":"Less interesting than the events that inspired it","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" After the end of world war two, America had a justified fear of the Soviet Union this fear turned into a raging paranoia, stoked by politicians like Joeseph McCarthy, who drove suspected communists from public life through a brilliantly self-propagating mechanism those accused could save themselves only through denouncing others. That this episode is widely known today as a witch hunt is largely thanks to 'The Crucible', a play written by Arthur Miller who parallelled contemporary events to another black chapter in American history the literal witch-hunt that took place in Salem, Massachusets, over 300 years before. As it's name suggests, 'The Crucible' examines the effects of persecution on a community forced to turn against itself (as, in general, was the American left); and ultimately counsels defiance in the face of the enemy; but it's not actually that interested in why such things should happen, only that they should be resisted. And to me, this leads to certain weaknesses in the play. Whereas McCarthy caused misery for many according to a very deliberate agenda, and stoked his power doing so before a third party (the American public), in this story the original cause of the persecution comes from within the community of the persecuted (the spiteful jealousy of a rejected woman); and there is no external audience for whose benefit the show is staged. The merging of the three parties (persecutor, persecutors and witnesses) into a single community leads to certain obfuscation of motive. History may unfold by design or accident, and persecutions launched for a variety of reasons (honest but mistaken judgement; fraudulent opportunism; the fear of defying or abandoning a position of power); yet 'The Crucible' never really seems to nail its colours to the mast as to why the events it depicts unfolded. Similarly, the extent to which the community believes in witchcraft as a phenomenon (indepedently of whether they believe the accused are guilty) is unexplored, although surely this is crucial to the story. Also, in 'The Crucible', the paranoia (at its most intense) predates the persecutions. And while it's not so strange that the story concentrates on a single man who finds himself caught up in the drama, it is strange that everyone else in the play seems also to consider this one man more important than the others who die around him; and also disappointing that the play suggests that the persecuted are generally nobler humans than those who persecute them in all respects, not just the point at issue, which would be nice if true.Judged as a film, the most obvious comment on can make is that it's very heavy on dialogue; there's hardly a silent moment until close to the end, and when silence comes, it's moving. But as a whole, it's a simple parable; if you read Ariel Dorfman's book 'Widows', you'll be exposed to a far subtler (and ultimately more terrifying) story of how we (as a species) can come to wilfully harm those we know to be innocent. "},{"Title":"Good look at how gullible religious people can be.","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Growing up in the Bible belt, it's quite easy to see how gullible people can be when it comes to religion.  I can only imagine how during the time period that this took place, how religion was the end-all, be-all, and scientific discoveries hadn't disproven most of it, that people would easily believe that someone was powerful.  For example (spoiler!!), the scene where the wood falls and the lady is tried for being a witch because another lady saw it fall and then blames the first lady as causing it with her witch powers.  Have these people never heard of gravity or earth tremors that make things fall naturally?  Apparently, they haven't.  If you do not find religion to be all that is cracked up to be, you'll find this movie quite enjoyable because seeing how Winona Ryder's character and a few other's employ the witch factor to their advantage is quite funny. "},{"Title":"Bravo","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I've never seen the play, so I can't really say if it was a faithful adaptation or not. But from what I saw, this was an excellent film. I've read a book about the Salem Witch trials before, and this seemed to be pretty much the same thing with the exact same events and characters. It's a very interesting case, really. I give this movie a good recommendation. "},{"Title":"Star rating 3 out of 5","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The Crucible is gripping, yet it is also frightening and terrible in the inexorable march of its protagonists towards their doom.  The story is based on Arthur Miller's rendition of the infamous 1692 Salem witch trials.  In this Puritan town, a group of girls are caught dancing and love-spell casting in the woods.  To save themselves from being whipped, they claim it was the Devil's doing and furthermore that some of Salem's residents are compacted with Lucifer.  But private vengeance is also at work here.  The girls' ringleader, Abigail Williams (Winona Ryder) is obsessed with a local farmer (Daniel Day-Lewis) and will stop at nothing to get him for herself.  Then the court investigating the claims of witchery begins to proscribe hanging for those who won't 'confess'. . . . . . . . ..It is unfortunate then, that a movie such as this is marred by several flaws.  While it vividly and unnervingly portrays the transformation of a community into warring factions, and ultimately the disintegration into mob-mentality and mass hysteria, it also seems very stagey.  You can almost see the notations in the film script - crowd murmurs in agreement, and so on.  Additionally, Day-Lewis, and particularly Ryder, play the entire film at full volume.  Thus, several integral speeches get lost in the blast.  However, there are some excellent performances from those in the court scenes - the steely remorselessness of Judge Danforth and the pompous and insidious questioning of Judge Hathorne.  Fortunately director Nicholas Hytner has moved as much of the action as possible out of doors, which is just as well, for Puritan dwellings are no great objects of beauty.However, despite its shortcomings and largely unadventurous cinematography, The Crucible is a film that will remain with the viewer long after its dramatic and memorable conclusion.  Even in death there is triumph and redemption.  "},{"Title":"Provocative but Flawed &#133;..","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I found this movie provocative and intriguing, with good acting (although some obvious over-acting by the children notwithstanding) and a powerful script. Unfortunately, IMO it has a major flaw. ****Spoiler Ahead****The good people of Salem are supposedly morally uptight, honest to the point rather forfeit their lives than submit to lies and disgrace, yet at the most crucial moment, Elizabeth Proctor chose dishonesty and stupidity (she should know better), an act basically cost many people's lives. While I understand her motive, but such hypocrisy severely undermined the self-righteousness at the end of the movie. After all, what GOOD name could John Proctor have at the time of his final decision?? He had none -- he came across either a liar regarding the affair with Abigail (contradicted by his own wife) and a manipulator of Mary or an adulterer/sinner who had his wife covered for him. All the notions of honor and honesty even in the face of extreme injustice are degraded by this foolish act. And the director actually put sunlight on her face at that moment!? Maybe they deserved to be condemned, not for witchcraft but for hypocrisy.  "},{"Title":"History Rewritten The Deeper Truth of the Crucible","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The Crucible is one of the most ridiculous movies that I have ever had the pleasure to watch. The play - that is worth watching. All that Daniel Day Lewis and Wynona Rider succeed in doing is giving me a pretty good reason why you should not cheat on your wife, because an angry she-b**** from hell will turn everyone in the town into raving lunatics. The relevance of the movie falls flat in our time period, because we no longer fear communism, and witch hunts are, hopefully, reserved to a long ago past in our history. This movie bears little resemblance to actual history, and it must be remembered that Rider's character was actually about 11 at the time, a bit too young to go philandering about with good ole John Proctor, who was about 60. If you keep that in mind, the rest of this grossly inaccurate movie will reveal itself to you, hopefully making it as hard to watch as it was for me. "},{"Title":"Arthur Miller the Great 9/10","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  1996's The Crucible might not be the most visually gorgeous film around -- but if you judge it by its acting -- it is equal to none.  The film is a perfect adaptation to Miller's heartbreakingly splendid play.Daniel Day-Lewis is a force to be reckoned with as the tragic to this tale. Winona Ryder gives her best performance to date as the twisted maestro responsible for all the chaos that takes place in the film.A must for those who adore good acting. "},{"Title":"A Superb Film","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  What a good film. This was acted superbly by Daniel day lewis and winona Rider and had me on the edge of my seat. You could really feel for the Characters and what they were fighting for. This film confirms to me what i have always felt myself, that religion is full of hate and murder and is the single biggest reason why people suffer around the world. A Must see film. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Winona Ryder in her most annoying part to date","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Can you imagine a very annoying Winona Ryder ? If not, please watch The Crucible ! You see her screaming and shrieking in a way that she is getting more and more on your nerves the more you go on watching the film. While Joan Allen's performance is just great and deserves an award as best supporting actress, Ryder is getting on your nerves and destroys what the movie is trying to create. Don't take the ending too serious, it's very Hollywood-like, but be prepared to watch an acceptable movie with the most terrible and awful Winona Ryder you've ever seen on the movies ! "}{"Title":"Movie Maniac","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The Crucible is a very good movie. A must see!Winona Rider plays this role perfectly, very convincing. After I seen this movie I jumped on the internet to do some research on the Salem Witch Trials. This movie is somewhat close to what actually happened, and what happened is appalling. I suppose the Constitutional amendment protecting our freedom of religion was interpreted differently then because this could never happen in modern America.Even so, I urge everyone to watch this film. Not only for its historical value but also its entertainment value. A Great Film. "},{"Title":"Very good adaptation of play that seems so relevant today","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  For those readers less fortunate than me, who are therefore unable to see Nick Hytner's directorial work regularly on the RNT stage, this film is some compensation.Very well made, well acted throughout and true to the great play.The Crucible seems yet more relevant today than it did when I first came across it in the mid 1980's.  Some of Judge Danforth's lines of the we must rid ourselves of the evil one and either you are with us or against us variety feel too Baby Bush for comfort these days.Not a good film to watch if you are feeling low, as it reflects so badly (truthfully?) on humanity for most of the piece.Highly recommended and got a rare 8/10 from me. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Daniel Day-Lewis makes another good performance but the rest are only typecast. Jeffrey Jones plays another villain and Winona Ryder is hysterical all through the movie. "},{"Title":"not good","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This movie was terrible it was over dramatic and it omitted plot from the original screenplay by Arthur Miller. I DO NOT Recommend THIS MOVIE unless you are required to read the play in English class then i guess it will suffice, but i thought that it was good in some areas i believe that they portray, such as the characters were portrayed well. But in other aspects i think that the movie was a failure. The aspects that i believe were not up to par  I think that that there are numerous scenes with overacting and over dramatizing which leads to a certain fakeness that doesn't match up with the original screenplay by Arthur Miller. "},{"Title":"One of the saddest and most powerful films you'll ever see.","Date":"4 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Daniel Day Lewis is John Proctor in the powerful underrated film, The Crucible. The crucible deserved more awards notice than it received, because it's easily one of the greatest movies ever made. Without a doubt.During the 1700's, The film opens with a bunch of women performing witch craft in the morning outside of a village. When a priest(played by Bruce Davidson) witnesses it and finds out that his daughter and niece were involved in the ritual.The next morning, his daughter won't wake up. And him and the others blame it on witch craft. And everything falls apart when his niece Abby(played excellently by Winona Ryder, who is a Diet cokehead, as her character Veronica in Heathers once said) and the rest of the women who performed the ritual start to blame other people for it. And the judges go along with it because of the land, and hang everyone who won't confess to witch craft.Abby used to work for John Proctor(Daniel Day Lewis). But the two of them had an affair, so his wife(played fantastically by Joan Allen) fired her. Abby accuses his wife of being a witch, and this causes heartbreak,betrayal,and tragedy.The Salem witch trials were unfair. Obviously. And what little known director Nicholas Hytner did with this film is stupendous. The acting from everyone in The Crucible is powerful. No matter what Daniel Day Lewis does it's a masterpiece. Winona Ryder is very evil. Joan Allen is always great too.The Crucible is heart wrenching and powerful. This is such a tragic story. Over twenty innocent people died do to the injustice of these women. Even a girl with cancer. The ending is very sad, but it's the right one. The Crucible is gripping, and if you haven't seen it, now is the time.4/4 "},{"Title":"A Remarkable Adaption of Arthur Miller's Great Play","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I'm not sure how I missed the film the first time around. Don't know what I was doing at the time. I knew the play, of course. Anyone who had experienced the McCarthy Era knew very well that Arthur Miller's drama was about McCarthyism as refracted through the prism of the Salem witch trials of the late 17th Century. Perhaps because many of us were traumatized by what was happening in our own time, The Crucible resonated powerfully when it first appeared. We considered it one of Miller's greatest artistic achievements. So I surely would have gone to see the movie if I'd been paying attention. Now, some 13 years after it first appeared, my wife and I watched the film for the first time. With the proscenium gone and a mass of extras representing the residents of Salem, the movie is quite different from the play in important respects. But Miller himself wrote the screen play, so the thrust and spirit of the original is fully intact, and the acting in the principal roles -- by Joan Allen, Daniel Day-Lewis, Winona Ryder and Paul Scofield (in alphabetical order) -- could scarcely be improved. In fact, everything in the movie is exceptionally well done direction, photography, costuming, set design, lighting. Probably because the McCarthy Era was long gone -- and younger Americans may find it difficult to believe it could have divided the nation and terrified millions as it did -- the film may have come across as an historical drama without contemporary relevance. That's understandable but to anyone moved by the original play or to anyone who actively remembers the McCarthy Era, The Crucible is not simply an historical curiosity. It is a terrifying reminder of an impulse toward madness that can destroy reputations, snuff out the lives of innocent people and wreck a community or a nation. That impulse, unfortunately, can be manifested at any time and in any place under the wrong set of circumstances. The 20th Century was full of examples and the impulse, in ever-changing shapes, remains unchecked in the 21st Century. Look at The Crucible and see the perversion not just of Puritan New England but of human self-righteousness in its most vindictive form. "},{"Title":"Impressive and haunting","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" A powerful, modern adaptation of Arthur Miller's play about the 17th century witch trials in Salem, Massachusetts, where 19 people were hanged for witchcraft and one tortured to death. Of course, Miller took artistic liberties with the truth Most importantly, he freely invented a love story between the two main characters who were, in reality, 11 and 60 years old.Winona Ryder, Daniel Day-Lewis and Joan Allen excel in their roles as points of a triangle of forbidden love, repression and spiritual purity &#151; ultimately, what the title The Crucible is about Do you sign away your soul, the honest truth and your reputation to save your life, sacrificing others? Day-Lewis' character could be a time traveler, unwillingly dragged into the Middle Ages, where superstition was rife and the devil very real. In that respect, we never left the Stone Age &#151; we are, by our very nature, self-serving animals. The witch trials, as portrayed here, are a display of natural selection in action to purge society of the undesirable, one's unpleasant rivals and out-lived authority figures, or those who dare to tell us things we don't want to hear, even if it means the ultimate price. Given the right incentives, it could be anyone. It could have stopped with the Salem girls themselves &#151; except in reality, they were between 9 and 12 years old. From time to time, it seems human society needs sacrificial animals, mad dogs or stray lambs, complete with remorse and self-disgust soon afterwards, and shoulder-clapping a few years later how much it has moved on since. Oh Lord, deliver us from temptation &#151; but only yesterday.This film shouldn't be forced upon teens and schoolchildren just because teachers can't make up lectures that can be endured with open eyes. It's for adults, with its multi-layered characters and multi-colored social strata that movie time allows only a short glimpse at. It's simply enjoyable for all its dark beauty and romance. Only in the sense that the bad, or rather the ugly who play along or keep their heads down, ultimately win, is it a morality play. No-one is entirely evil, with maybe the exception of Judge Thomas Danforth, at whose motives one is free to guess. Again, one shouldn't confuse fiction with reality.The film deserves extra credit for its self-restraint &#151; it doesn't show off gory torture techniques or live burnings (again) à la The Name of the Rose. Fortunately, Salem used the practice of hanging. I missed some of the end titles where it says that Abigail Williams, according to legend, ended up as a harlot (and died at age 17, Wikipedia tells us). Hell hath no fury but a ((enter gender here)) scorned, is a well-worn chauvinism among ((enter gender here)), but it's the only cheap trick in the movie. Hell hath no fury but our longing for freedom, and the movie-John seems to have liberated Abi from quite a lot, but not quite enough. Even in those times, sylphing naked through the woods must have been very refreshing &#151; especially, since mini skirts hadn't been invented. "},{"Title":"Seriously Underrated","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This must be one of the most underrated films I've ever seen. A stunning story that retains the impeccable artistry of Miller's original play. The performances are exceptional. Day-Lewis is unsurprisingly mesmeric, but Joan Allen steals the show, in spite of her relatively peripheral role. I think hers is the finest female supporting performance I've seen in cinema in the last 15 years. Paul Scofield's portrayal of Judge Danforth is frighteningly believable. The story itself is a timeless parable of political and communal hysteria, underscored by Miller's conscious yet nonetheless sincere apposition of the story with the frenzy of McCarthyism in the US. But the real triumph of the story, and the film, is how beautifully it depicts the emotional ruptures which infuse the public discord. How this film has been allowed to sink into the margins, and how subscribers to IMDb can give it anything less than an 8, is wholly beyond me. A 10. Without question. "},{"Title":"genuinely disturbing","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHI have always been interested in the Salem witch trials. Though this film came out many years ago I did not see it until recently. I really thought it was very well done although if one does not have at least a slight interest in the events in Salem they may not like this because it is genuinely disturbing.There isn't a lot I can comment on regarding the historical accuracies. I'm aware that some things were changed and have no problem with that. What is fascinating to me is the look back in time and just how the movie was able to capture the atmosphere. In my opinion the movie was excellent not just at it's atmosphere but also in capturing the humanness of the wrongly accused, the hopelessness and horror of these events. This is a tremendously disturbing film to watch, in part because it is based on real events so one kind of knows how the film will end and all through, it's easy to find yourself hoping the movie will have a different ending even though logically you know it cannot.The performers were all excellent and one did not impress me more then another necessarily as all were great. The location shooting was effective and though the manner of speaking was different back then, it's amazing how natural that feels in this film.I can't say this is a fun movie but it is a very very good film and upsetting. The film touches on themes such as honor and nobility. The film includes a blurb at the end about how more and more people accused in Salem refused to make false confessions or accuse others. The story is heartbreaking, fascinating, and one will be thinking of it, and that time period after it ends. This movie will have you doing so many whatifs on how the events put into motion, could have been stopped. It is an excellent, quality film and if one is at all interested in the subject matter they should see this. 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Inquisition, The Salem Witch Trials, McCarthyism, etc!","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Arthur Miller's powerful play from 1953 became his screenplay in 1996 for this devastatingly gritty film THE CRUCIBLE. While some may make negative comparisons between the power of the theatrical piece versus the immediacy of the film, it really matters little. The story, based on fact, is terrifying and all too familiar in flavor with the Inquisition, the Holocaust, the witch hunts of McCarthy's time, the misdeeds of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo, NSA wiretapping etc. Evil is evil and it must be addressed, and if this play/film helps us to recognize the madness of lies then it has served its purpose.The story is so well known that recounting it is superfluous Abigail Williams (Winona Ryder) seethes as the discarded harlot who slept with the noble John Proctor (Daniel Day-Lewis) and gains her revenge by naming Proctor's wife Elizabeth (Joan Allen) as a witch - a person who walks and communicates with the devil! As the disease of repression and superstition mounts, the citizenry of Salem calls in Judge Danforth (Paul Scofield) to try the accusations, and needless hangings of innocent victims occur until some semblance of reason is restored by John Proctor's fight for truth at the hanging post.As directed by Nicholas Hytner and photographed by Andrew Dunn, the dark atmosphere of Salem's dance with the devil is brilliantly captured. The cast is excellent, not only the stars (Day-Lewis, Scofield, Allen, Ryder), but also the multiple well realized small roles. But towering over it all is Arthur Miller's immensely pungent script, written in the English as spoken in 1692 and all the more flavorful for the atmosphere of the work. This is as powerful as realization of a play as has been transferred to the screen. It is a must see for everyone concerned about the current state of our country's welfare. Grady Harp "}{"Title":"The Crucible","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The movie The Cucible is a very good movie. I have seen and read The Crucible. There are not that many differences between the book and the movie. If you are into witches and witchcraft then you should read or watch this movie. If you are also into people having affairs then you should see this movie.My favorite parts of the movie is when John Proctor refused to go back to Abigail.Some things that I did'not like was when the girls were going around accusing people of witchcraft. That was a very wrong thing for them to do. I think that i liked watching the movie rather than reading the book. I like to see the things that happen rather than just reading out them. The movie covered a lot more details then the book did. There was a lot of drama in this movie. For example, the lies, the affairs,and the sinners. There are also a lot of sad parts in this movie for example, John Proctor cheating on his wife Elizabeth, and at the end where John Proctor had to choose to tell the truth and die or to lie and live. Telling the truth is what made John a hero. He chose to tell the truth and he was hanged. I really did not like this part of the movie. This made is very sad because he had to leave his wife and children because of this. John Proctor died a tragic hero at the end of the story. I think that Arthur Miller did a very good job on this play. This play really made me understand what happened during the Salem Witch Trials. If you have read and liked the things that i have discussed about this movie then you should read or watch this movie. "},{"Title":"The Crucible","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" There's a new movie coming out called The Cruicble! The Crucible is about these witches in Salem and everyone was being blame for being a witch. Also in the middle there was these girls name Abgail,Betty and their friends. All of them was pretending to see the devil. If you like to read you might want to read The Crucible which is the play. But the play breaks the movie down a little more for you. Every thing that happen in the movie it happens in the play. If you're a type of person that likes to read you might want to read the play of The Crucible. If you like drama you want to watch The Crucible. The reason why you need to watch The Crucible because you can see the things that happen, like how they treated people, how the girls was acting and how John Proctor was being a hero. There was some good and bad thing that happen in The Crucible. The bad things are John Proctor was hanged for nothing. Abby was telling lies and got people condemned. Abby and Proctor was having an affairs. Some of the good things are John Proctor was being a good hero. Mary Warren was confessing about the devil and being a witch. Jhon Proctor told Abby that he don't want to have an affairs with her anymore. This is why you really need to watch the best of them all The Crucible! "},{"Title":"Great direction and style let down by a poor script and mediocre acting","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I am currently studying The Crucible as part of my English A-Level, and when I first heard a few weeks ago that the play had been transformed into a screenplay I was a little worried. In my experience plays which are adapted for the screen tend to lose something that made the particular play so brilliant in the first place. In the case of The Crucible, that something is the brilliant interaction between the characters and the rousing of sympathy that the audience (or reader) has for those under accusation of witchcraft. And unfortunately, the screen version of The Crucible loses these two vital aspects of the play which made it so successful when it was first written over 50 years ago. The main characters come across as one dimensional and rather bland, giving the audience no definitive reason to like them or feel sympathetic to their plight. These characters spend the whole time shouting, bickering and chasing after each other with threats and accusations, which in the play was done far more subtlety and with more poetic language. It's Arthur Miller who lets the film down, as his script loses the respectful nature of the play, and Winona Ryder puts in a cringe-worthy performance as accused girl Abigail Williams, spending 99.9% of her time shouting and going red in the face with rage, making Abigail seem more like a spoilt brat than a scheming bully (as she was in the play). Reverend Hale was completely the opposite to the kind, gentle man of the play, and came across as a hotheaded witch-hunter who liked nothing better than terrifying his victims into a false confession. The other characters similarly lose the subtleties they had in the play.However, the direction of the film is in places magnificent. The opening scenes are full of mystery, tension and atmosphere, and the set is very authentic and large enough to look like a village, as opposed to just a film set. The rushing through of Acts 1 and 2 of the play does not detract from the story as it allows enough of the story to come through without all the endless dialogue and standing around while characters accuse each other, go off for a bit, and come back to accuse someone else or try to clear their name. The court scenes are marvellously handled and the costumes are also superb and accurate. The music is similarly brilliant overall, especially at the beginning.Overall, a poor script and poor acting let's this film down, and the subtleties of the play are all but obsolete. The marvellous direction and outstanding quality of the set, costumes and music more than make up for this big screen version of a brilliant play. The final rating has to be 7/10. "},{"Title":"Day-Lewis makes this film","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Personally, I wasn't a big fan of the play, it was good but not the best thing I have seen or read.  But I will say this film version is well done, not skipping a single thing from the script.Also Daniel Day Lewis makes this film watchable,he does an excellent job playing Proctor and just brings him to life that I doubt any other could do.I gives this film and 8 of 10 because its 100% accurate to the play, and Day Lewis makes this good, but still I think the people back then were dumb because they could not think freely without any kind of restraint. "},{"Title":"Whoa.","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The Crucible is one of the best movies I've ever seen.  Abigail is the most evil villain ever.  See this!  "},{"Title":"Where's the exorcist when you need one?","Date":"17 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The problem with this movie is not the subject matter but how the subject matter is treated. This movie takes a tragic event in American history, perhaps one of history's most egregious and infamous miscarriages of justice, and reduces it to a melodrama. Yet there is little in this event that lends itself to melodramatics; the tragedy is too all-encompassing and overwhelming. The melodramatics are added for literary purposes. The political motivation behind the trials is so obvious that the conduct of the judges become completely transparent. In this movie there was no way that the judges were going to leave Salem without convicting somebody of something, no matter how flimsy the evidence. If the judges had actually witnessed evidence of witchcraft, then their behavior would have been plausible, which brings us to the movie's fundamental flaw - that it fails to convey the depth of the community's belief in the existence of witches. In the movie, their belief comes off as a pretense, that deep down nobody seriously really believed in the existence of witches. Moreover, the behavior of the girls was not nearly bizarre enough for anyone to reasonably believe that they were possessed. For instance, if people had witnessed the girls suspending themselves in midair or speaking dead languages or turning their heads 360 degrees like Regan did in The Excorcist, then they might have had cause to conclude that something was amiss. But to ask the audience to believe that anyone, especially the magistrates, would accept flighty, hysterical behavior as evidence of witchcraft borders is ridiculous. The scene in which the girls rush out of the courthouse and into the ocean is laughable. The dialog between Daniel Day-Lewis and Wynona Ryder is forced and stodgy. There is absolutely no chemistry between them. Indeed, the John Proctor character is so vacillating that one must ask why the magistrates would want to waste their time with him in the first place. Also, the quality of the acting is uneven. Sometimes it is cheesy; other times it's strong. The same can be said for the level of drama; some scenes are intense, others flat. Yet, despite these drawbacks, the movie is worth watching because it is about a tragic event in American history that should be studied and discussed. "},{"Title":"Starts out slow but keeps getting better from then on","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Ok,This movie starts and it's about a village in the time where people were VERY catholic and believed in witches and stuff. The first twenty minutes are not very appealing (but I must admit I hate this kind of movie) but then it gradually gets better.And it doesn't stop getting better until the end, which is very good and very emotional. By then, you understand how this happened (it's a true story) and why. You care for the characters and you're really upset by their choices.Great movie, pity it starts out a little slow. 8. "},{"Title":"A crucified example...","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The late Arthur Miller wrote lots of things; among them a play called The Crucible. On 1996, Nicholas Hynter directed the first American cinematographic version of Miller's play, and Miller himself ended up writing the screenplay of the film. The story unfolds in Salem, where the teenage girls are going crazy about witchery in some people.I've seen many films that take place in old time and have characters which give a lot of importance to God and the religion; The Crucible is like that and that's the only reason the movie lasts longer than it should, because it's obvious for the viewers that the teenagers are pretending every part of their act, but judge Danforth (Paul Scofield), Reverend Parris (Bruce Davison) and Reverend Hale (Rob Campbell) are very confident in the fact that it could be true.The teenage girls are led to their actions by Abigail Williams, played by Winona Ryder in one of those performances full of strength and moving power during a time where the world was hers and she could act alongside Daniel Day-Lewis and Joan Allen without seeming out of place. She starts with these witchery accusations because she had an affair wit John Proctor (Day-Lewis) and wants his wife Elizabeth (Allen) in jail.Ryder's character is a kid; a teenager in love who makes choices and says things always in the verge of despair; without thinking. So here the performances appear in order of growth. Ryder, with her desperation; Day-Lewis, who seems so dramatic but at the same time so real in the acceptance of the mistake he has made; and Allen, whose look is full of sadness and incomprehension of the role she has ended up playing.The rest of the cast shares the sense of drama of their partners, especially Bruce Davison, who is shouting all the time and making absurd accusations; or Rob Campbell, who suspects he might be living a lie and starts going crazy in front of people. The film's major achievement in my opinion lies in the technical work, without underestimating the work of the cast.Therefore the picture sustains its two hours because of the solid portrayals the actors do; because of the cinematography and the production design which make the film look a lot older than the time it was made in; and because of the peculiar editing that my brother disliked but gives a darker tone to the creepy environment presented.Arthur Miller has no fault in what happened, because it could be a slow and tedious screenplay that betrayed the film; but it isn't. I've seen lots of good films with slow screenplays and even more plays with tedious ones. The Crucible must be a very entertaining ride on a theater stage, but it's just that not every successful play turned into a film will be successful too; and here you have an example. "},{"Title":"Oh good times","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I have not yet seen the movie but we are reading the book in English. Its rather interesting and i am gonna perform a monologue of Mary for an audition i cant wait to see the movie i hope it is excellent We are reading it and the guys are doing the girls part it is rather interesting funny times i hope you fun the movie as good as the book or the other way round later I think everyone should read the book Either before or after they see the movie it will allow them to have a better understanding of the movie When reading this as a book did anyone else find it hard to understand? Please inform me of that. Well i was discussing this with my friend and she said that because it was originally written as a play. I then borrowed the original way it was written and enjoyed it much more as i could understand it much more. "},{"Title":"A Sad Swan Song","Date":"20 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Arthur Miller is arguably the greatest American playwright of the last century. The Crucible, AS ORIGINALLY WRITTEN, I had always looked upon as a modern masterpiece. It is therefore absolutely heartbreaking for me to watch this filmed variation of The Crucible that is such a complete and utter sell-out to the modern hot button Hollywood dreck. What is even more difficult to endure, is the knowledge that it is Arthur Miller himself who is responsible for peeing on his own work. There his vaunted name sits, the sole screen writing credit to a run of the mill if not worse than most, B movie adaptation. Yes, Yes, Mel Brooks has done this in reverse with The Producers and Young Frankenstein, and done it successfully. I know also that it is Mr. Miller's play and he can do with it whatever he chooses to, obviously. I just switched off this film (no I couldn't make it to the end) with a real sense of disappointment and a diminished assessment of Miller that bordered on disillusionment. I don't want to compare Arthur Miller to Mel Brooks but I think now I always will. To take the devils advocate approach, Miller wrote the original play to satirize McCarthyism; a topic in which most Americans today probably hold very little interest. So the lampoon HAD to be adapted to conform to the modern perceived injustices. Right? Well if this is true, then the original play for me and even more importantly for Arthur Miller, has minimal value as enduring art and as such, must be completely overrated if not, dismissed? Which brings me back to my disillusionment. "}{"Title":"Sorry, Ryder....","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I like Ryder, she is one of my fav actress, however this is the worst film i ever seen, or can recall seeing.  I don't remember much as i very nearly fell asleep in the pictures.   It had a good idea... but sorry no oscar's this time. I say wanna see Ryder? See Girl, interrupted! that's a totally great film!!! "},{"Title":"Historically Inaccurate and Unevenly Fictionalized Tale of the Salem Witch Trials.","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Having studied this period well, I was shocked to see the historical inaccuracies and fictionalized events this work attempted to tout as true. It is alarming to think that people actually attempt to learn their history from any religions or cinematic source! What happened to the age when we all read and studied for ourselves, rather than listening to the corner gossips, which is all this work amounts to.This is so over-christianized that it takes itself so seriously as to attempt to beat their ugly lies into anyone who would dare watch.This was a complete lie. The only thing they got right were the names of those involved.This was just sad.It doesn't rate a rating.the Fiend . "}]